-- Emerging Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses on China
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-17T22:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-india-reforms-china-drops.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose as
 India ’s efforts to revive economic growth offset concern that
the slowdown in  China  is deepening.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  slid 0.1 percent to
1,012.63, with 364 stocks climbing and 347 falling.  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s largest private lender, jumped the most in six
months as the BSE India Sensitive Index extended its gains to
the longest streak in five years.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index
declined, led by homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes . The Shanghai Composite Index fell 2.1 percent.  India’s central bank unexpectedly reduced lenders’  reserve 
requirements following announcements by the government last week
that it will open its retail and airline industries to foreign
investors. The Fed’s open-ended asset purchase program last week
followed the  European Central Bank ’s Sept. 6 announcement of an
unlimited bond-buying program to combat the region’s debt
crisis. Citigroup Inc. cut its economic growth forecast for
China in 2013.  “India and so many other central banks are throwing a lot
of liquidity in the markets and that’s been taken in a positive
light,” Guillaume Salomon, a strategist at Societe Generale SA,
said by phone from  London . “The developments out of the Fed and
the ECB have been received well and the overall sentiment has
been quite supportive.”  EM ETF Slides  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, decreased 1.1
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 1.4 percent.  The Bovespa fell 0.5 percent. PDG Realty slumped 6.9
percent, the most since July 31.  The MSCI gauge  fluctuated  between gains and losses after a
3.3 percent advance on Sept. 14 that sent the index to the
highest level since May 3. Last week’s rally was fueled by
speculation that a third round of asset purchases from the U.S.
Federal Reserve will buoy the global economy and spur investors
to buy riskier assets in emerging markets.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX) , which surged 4.8 percent last week,
retreated 0.8 percent, the same as the Czech PX Index. European
Union finance ministers failed to agree on a timetable for a
more unified banking sector and clashed over terms of bailout
requests and the role of the European Central Bank at a meeting
Sept. 14 in Cyprus.  Nations in the MSCI index send about 13 percent of their
exports to the U.S. and 30 percent to the EU on average,
according to the  World Trade Organization .  Sensex Rally  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries climbed 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 285, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  India’s Sensex index advanced for a ninth day, climbing 0.4
percent to the highest level since July 2011. ICICI Bank
advanced 5.2 percent. The rupee strengthened 0.6 percent against
the dollar.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the  cash reserve
ratio  to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent, effective Sept. 22,
adding about 170 billion rupees ($3.1 billion) to the banking
system. Three of 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the reduction to the lowest level since 2004. The rest
forecast no change after two cuts earlier in 2012.  Retailers, Airlines  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest operator of
supermarkets, surged 19 percent for its biggest gain since May
2009.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  jumped 7.8 percent.  Kingfisher Airlines
Ltd. (KAIR)  rallied 20 percent and  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  gained 12 percent. The
changes in foreign ownership rules were announced after local
markets closed on Sept. 14.  “Any change that stimulates the inflow of foreign direct
investment is a type of development that can stabilize the
currency and that’s important to us as U.S.-based investors,”
said Lewis Kaufman, the  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based money manager
whose Thornburg Developing World Fund has climbed 13 percent
during the past year, beating 97 percent of peers.  The EGX 30 index climbed 1.3 percent in  Egypt , extending
this year’s gain to 63 percent.  Hundreds were hurt during clashes between protesters and
authorities in Egypt, Tunisia and  Sudan  against a film
denigrating Islam, before protests diminished over the weekend.
Clashes in Cairo’s Tahrir Square stopped Sept. 15 after Egypt’s
main Islamist groups called for calm.  Libya  arrested about 50
people in connection with the attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi that left the U.S. ambassador and three others dead.  Protests  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell the most since July
9. Citigroup lowered its 2013 growth forecast for China to 7.6
percent from 8 percent, citing weak external demand, according
to a report dated Sept. 14.  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) , which produces cars with Nissan
Motor Co. in China, slumped 7 percent. Guangzhou Automobile
Group Co., a partner of Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co.,
tumbled 4.5 percent.  Demonstrators took to the streets in a dozen cities across
China including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, calling for
Chinese sovereignty over disputed islands and the boycott of
Japanese goods. Toyota Motor Corp. and Panasonic Corp. reported
damage to their operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  