-- Lowest U.S. Gas Price Since 1999 Attracts GAIL: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-09-18T10:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/lowest-u-s-gas-price-since-1999-attracts-gail-corporate-india.html
GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the first Asian
company to buy liquefied natural gas from the U.S., plans to
take advantage of the lowest prices in 13 years to boost imports
from America and revive sales growth at home.  India ’s biggest natural gas distributor is in talks with
U.S. exporters to make up for falling production at domestic
fields, P.K. Jain, finance director at GAIL, said in a phone
interview yesterday. The company aims to meet demand in  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy through overseas purchases, he said.  “We’re in discussions with various companies for long-term
contracts because there will be demand in India and domestic
output volumes are limited,” Jain said. “We’re looking to get
LNG from the U.S. because prices there are cheap. And its
affordable enough to transport it all the way to India.”  GAIL needs to boost sales and revive net income growth that
almost stalled in the year ended March 31 after earnings from
transporting gas slumped, said  Alok Deshpande , a Mumbai-based
analyst with Elara Securities Ltd. An 81 percent plunge in U.S.
gas prices from a record high touched in 2005 may help the
company bolster sales in India, Jain said.  Energy demand in India is forecast to more than double by
2035 to 49.2 quadrillion British thermal units from 21.1
quadrillion Btu in 2008, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. The share of gas in India’s power
generation mix will expand from 11 percent in 2008 to 16 percent
in 2035, according to the EIA.  GAIL  rose  2.9 percent to 388 rupees at the close in Mumbai
today, making it the biggest gainer on the BSE India Oil & Gas
Index. The benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.3 percent. The
shares have dropped 8.4 percent in the past year, compared with
a 9.2 percent advance in the Sensex.  Gas Production  The company transported an average 110 million cubic meters
of gas a day in the quarter ended June 30, less than the 117
million cubic meters a day in the year ended March 31, Jain
said. Production of the fuel from fields in India fell for the
19th consecutive month in June, dropping 11.1 percent, compared
with a year earlier to 3.53 billion cubic meters, according to
oil ministry data.  “The biggest trigger for GAIL is the gas volumes they
transport, which have been falling,” Deshpande said. “Current
imports will not help make up the entire volume of lower
domestic supply, and they need to get more contracts.”  The lack of supply is forcing the company and  Petronet LNG
Ltd. (PLNG) , in which GAIL has a 12.5 percent stake, to buy a larger
volume of gas from overseas and increase capacity and terminals
used to import the fuel.  Sabine Pass  In December, GAIL agreed to buy 3.5 million tons of LNG a
year for two decades from Houston-based  Cheniere Energy Partners
LP (CQP) ’s Sabine Pass terminal in western  Cameron Parish ,  Louisiana .
The terminal is the only one with approval to export the fuel to
nations that don’t have a free-trade agreement with the U.S. The
New Delhi-based company followed that deal with a supply
agreement with  France ’s GDF Suez SA in August and a three-year
contract to purchase the fuel from Barcelona-based Gas Natural
Fenosa earlier this month.  The contracts, which start as early as January next year,
will increase GAIL’s transportation volumes to about 116 million
cubic meters a day in the year ending March 31 and as much as
121 million cubic meters a day next year, Ballabh Modani and
Nitin Tiwari, Mumbai-based analysts with Religare Institutional
Research, wrote in a Sept. 3 report.  Natural gas prices in  New York  trading, a benchmark used to
set U.S. LNG prices, have averaged $2.57 per million Btu this
year, the lowest since 1999. Prices reached a record high of
$15.378 per million Btu in December 2005.  Shale Gas Output  Prices fell 2.7 percent to $2.87 per million Btu in New
York trading yesterday. Rates may rise to $3.45 per million Btu
by June 2013 and $3.95 per million Btu by the end of next year,
according to a median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  A surge in shale gas output in the U.S. has driven down
prices in the U.S. and prompted companies to convert LNG import
facilities for export. Companies including  BG Group Plc (BG/) , Korea
Gas Corp. and Gas Natural have also tied up to buy LNG from
Cheniere’s terminal.  Cheniere is using  Henry Hub , the main U.S. gas benchmark
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , as the pricing
index, while  Australia ’s Gorgon project is using oil to set the
price for the 1.5 million tons a year to be shipped to Petronet.  U.S. exports to Asia would cost $9.45 per million Btu,
based on a benchmark Henry Hub price of $3, according to a Sept.
11  presentation  on Cheniere’s website.  Japan , the biggest LNG
importer, paid an average of $18.07 per million Btu in July, up
4.5 percent from June, according to the country’s finance
ministry data.  Eagle Ford  GAIL has set aside $1 billion for shale-gas acquisitions
and is looking at assets in the U.S. and  Canada , Chairman B.C.
Tripathi said on Nov. 2. The company bought a 20 percent stake
in shale areas of the Eagle Ford region in  Texas  from Carizzo
Oil & Gas Inc. for $95 million in September.  GAIL is in talks to buy gas from Freeport LNG Development
LP’s proposed plant in the U.S., a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said Jan. 16. Finance Director Jain declined to
comment on the deal.  The gas distributor plans to start an LNG import terminal
at Dabhol in India’s west coast by November, when the monsoon
season ends and tankers can come in to the port to offload the
fuel, Jain said. The terminal will have the capacity to import 5
million metric tons a year and will initially operate at half
that rate, he said.  Floating Terminal  The company also plans to build a floating LNG storage
terminal off India’s east coast with GDF Suez, according to an
April 17 statement. Petronet LNG and  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  are also
building new terminals and expanding older ones.  “Right now there’s a capacity shortage, and once our
Dabhol terminal starts, we’ll announce more contracts,” Jain
said. “We need to compensate for the drop in domestic
volumes.”  GAIL’s  net income  rose 2.6 percent to 36.54 billion rupees
($678 million) in the year ended March 31, the slowest increase
since the 12 months ended March 31, 2000. Sales rose 24 percent
to 402.8 billion rupees, lower than the 37 percent increase the
previous year.  “Concerns on gas volumes have been dragging GAIL’s stock
down,” said Sujit Lodha, a Mumbai-based analyst with Asian
Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Reasonably priced LNG
imports will be the driver and help boost the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  