-- Toyota Leads Firms Selling $2.89 Billion of Asset-Backed Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-17T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/toyota-leads-firms-selling-2-89-billion-of-asset-backed-debt.html
Toyota Motor Corp. is leading
companies selling $2.89 billion in asset-backed bonds amid a
surge in issuance.  The automaker is marketing $1 billion of bonds tied to auto
loans, according to a person familiar with the transaction who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t public. The
securities may be sold as soon as tomorrow, the person said.  Automobile debt accounts for about $67 billion of the $159
billion of asset-backed bonds linked to consumer and business
lending issued this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. boosted its 2012 asset-backed
forecast to $190 billion, according to a Sept. 14 report. The
bank predicted $145 billion in sales in December.  “Demand remains insatiable,” wrote New York-based
analysts Amy Sze and Kaustub Samant. “With the market rallying
around QE3, the consumer ABS sector should continue its strong
performance.”  The  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 13 it will expand its
holdings of long-term securities with monthly purchases of $40
billion of mortgage debt in a third round of quantitative easing
as it seeks to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  Asset-backed issuance is growing as car sales rise.
Industrywide vehicle deliveries this year through August climbed
15 percent to 9.71 million, according to researcher Autodata
Corp. in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Sales are on pace for the
best year since 2007.  Other companies marketing asset-backed bonds include  CNH
Global NV (CNH) , the Amsterdam-based agricultural and construction
equipment maker, and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General
Electric Co. (GE) , people familiar with the sales said. Both deals
are linked to equipment loans. Enterprise Fleet Management Inc.
is issuing $600 million of debt tied to vehicle lease contracts,
one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shannon D. Harrington at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net  