-- Pandit’s Censured Bonus Unhurt by Smith Barney Writedown
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-09-17T14:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/pandit-s-censured-bonus-unhurt-by-smith-barney-writedown.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s $4.7 billion
pretax writedown of its Morgan Stanley  Smith Barney  stake
probably won’t reduce a profit-sharing plan’s award for Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  that could total $24 million.  That’s because the plan doesn’t count losses at  Citi
Holdings , the division of unwanted assets that includes the
Smith Barney brokerage, a regulatory filing shows. The exclusion
may mean more pay for Pandit this year even as the board
considers cuts in his 2011 compensation package, which
shareholders rejected in April amid criticism that he collected
millions of dollars in rewards too easily.  “I can’t see any good reason to exclude that from an
assessment of the group’s performance except to ring-fence his
bonus,” said  Paul Hodgson , a researcher at GMI Ratings, a
corporate governance consulting firm based in  New York . “It
seems somewhat disingenuous to exclude potential catastrophic
 losses  from anything Smith Barney might have done from the
cumulative net income that he was being judged on.”  Citigroup’s board, led by Chairman  Michael O’Neill ,
promised to discuss Pandit’s 2011 pay with top shareholders
after 55 percent of the votes cast rejected the package. The
CEO’s profit-sharing award, which is tied to 2011 and 2012
results, would add to more than $10 million in multiyear stock
awards and the $15 million pay package he received for 2011,
when the New York-based bank’s  shares   tumbled  44 percent.  Joint Venture  If no changes are made, Citigroup will have paid Pandit
about $261 million in the five years since he became CEO,
including his personal compensation and about $165 million for
buying his Old Lane Partners LP hedge fund in 2007 in a deal
that led to his becoming CEO. The bank shut Old Lane soon after
Pandit took the post, causing a $202 million writedown.  The latest charge was triggered last week after Citigroup,
the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, agreed to sell its 49
percent stake in the brokerage joint venture to its partner, New
York-based  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The two owners, which had disputed
the unit’s worth, finally valued the venture at $13.5 billion --
about 40 percent less than Citigroup’s estimate two months ago.
The agreement forced Citigroup to write down its stake by $4.7
billion, or $2.9 billion after taxes.  The decline won’t affect Pandit’s profit-sharing payout,
according to terms of a package offered last year to dissuade
Pandit from leaving, a May 2011 filing shows. The plan gives
Pandit 0.05543 percent of pretax profit for 2011 and 2012
excluding results at Citi Holdings, whose assets such as overdue
U.S. mortgages and toxic securities are more prone to losses.  Profit-Sharing  Moshe Orenbuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, has
estimated that Citi Holdings could lose $12.4 billion before
taxes for the two years, not including the writedown on Smith
Barney. The $4.7 billion Smith Barney charge would bring pretax
losses to about $17 billion.  Since those costs aren’t counted in the profit-sharing
formula, Pandit could get about $24 million from the plan,
according to calculations by Bloomberg based on the company’s
profit for the past six quarters and Orenbuch’s earnings
 estimates  for the rest of 2012.  The Smith Barney writedown alone would shave about $2.5
million from the payout if it was counted, while total Citi
Holdings losses, including the writedown, would reduce the
payout by more than $9 million, the calculations show.  Pandit said in a June interview that directors are
discussing his pay with shareholders and that he expects some
resolution by year-end. The board’s personnel and compensation
committee members are meeting with shareholders to “fully
understand their concerns,”  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the
bank, said in a Sept. 13 e-mail.  Shares Advance  “They could go back and change this and not exclude the
potential loss on the Smith Barney sale,” Hodgson said.
“However, it’s been my experience that changes to compensation
plans as a result of negative say-on-pay votes are typically to
future plans, rather than past.”  Citigroup shares jumped about 9 percent since the sale of
the stake was announced through Sept. 14,  more than triple  the
advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The bank  surged  32
percent this year. Pandit took a $1 annual salary for 2010 and
much of 2009.  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney was created on Jan. 13, 2009,
when Morgan Stanley paid Citigroup $2.75 billion for 51 percent
of the brokerage and the right to buy the rest over time. Pandit
described the resulting venture as a “peerless” business that
provided “tremendous value” for his bank, according to a
statement. The deal enabled Citigroup to keep a stake in a
company that had “real growth opportunities,” Pandit said.  Unwanted Investments  Three days later, the Smith Barney stake was among more
than $600 billion of unwanted investments that Pandit shunted
into Citi Holdings as part of plan to help the bank recover from
its $45 billion U.S. bailout in 2008.  Pandit and other Citigroup executives who oversaw the Smith
Barney deal had wagered in 2009 that the value of the brokerage
would increase before they had to sell their stake, according to
David Knutson, a credit analyst with Legal & General Investment
Management America. The bank said in a filing this year that it
didn’t plan to sell if the brokerage was carrying an
“impairment.”  The global economy,  capital markets  and  interest rates 
rebounded slower than Citigroup anticipated at the time of the
deal, Moody’s Investors Service said today in a report. This
undermined the bank’s valuation of the brokerage as revenue and
assets under management suffered, the ratings company said.  ‘Grand Plan’  While the gambit didn’t work out, Smith Barney’s
disposition “shouldn’t be excluded from management’s reward or
punishment,” Knutson said. “Citi Holdings is part of Pandit’s
grand plan. He designed it. He promised to wind it down in a
timely and cost-efficient manner and he has responsibility for
it, good or bad.”  Pandit’s retention package included the profit-sharing, $10
million in deferred stock and options worth more than $6
million, a person familiar with the matter said at the time the
compensation plan was announced.  Other Citigroup executives already were part of the same
profit-sharing plan, including Chief Operating Officer  John Havens , 56, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach , 59, and
consumer banking head Manuel Medina-Mora, 62. The board may have
developed the plan for managers who weren’t responsible for Citi
Holdings before adding Pandit “as an afterthought,” said
Hodgson, the GMI Ratings analyst.  ‘Direct Responsibility’  “If they created the plan for executives that didn’t have
direct responsibility for what was going on at Citi Holdings,
then that’s fine,” Hodgson said. “But Pandit’s the CEO. You
can’t make that claim about him.”  O’Neill, 65, who became chairman in April, is a member of
the compensation committee and was among those who approved
Pandit’s compensation package. Other members at the time
included Parsons, Diana Taylor and Alain Belda. Taylor is the
companion of New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  The board probably will review the profit-sharing plan
before making any payments linked to it, Frank Glassner, a
partner in  San Francisco  with executive compensation consulting
firm Meridian Compensation Partners LLC, said in a phone
interview.  “The compensation committee, especially under the new
chair Michael O’Neill, will likely exercise board discretion,”
Glassner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  