-- Panetta Extends China Trip to Meet Xi Jinping and Visit Port
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-17T09:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/panetta-extends-china-trip-to-meet-xi-jinping-and-visit-port.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
will extend his trip to  China  by a day to meet Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping  and tour the country’s fleet at the Qingdao
port, a senior U.S. defense official said.  Panetta is scheduled to meet Xi Sept. 19 at the Great Hall
of the People, the U.S. official told reporters on condition of
anonymity because the meetings weren’t yet public. Xi’s almost
two-week absence from the public eye, which ended when he spoke
at an agricultural event Sept. 15, sparked speculation about his
health.  The meeting with Xi, forecast to become China’s next
president in a once-a-decade leadership transition this year,
comes as China has questioned the motives behind the so-called
rebalancing strategy in the Asia-Pacific that the Pentagon
unveiled in January. Chinese military officials writing in state
media have said the U.S. wants to contain China by positioning
more military assets in the region.  Panetta’s meeting with Xi comes after the vice president
canceled an event with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on
Sept. 5. The meeting and port visit will be an opportunity for
U.S. and Chinese officials to be more transparent with each
other, the senior U.S. defense official said.  Panetta’s visit to Qingdao will be the first by a U.S.
defense secretary. He will meet Vice Admiral Tian Zhong,
commander of China’s North Fleet, and tour China’s newest
frigate, the Type 054A, and a Type 039 diesel-electric
submarine, the official said.  Panetta will meet with other top Chinese officials during
his trip and plans to visit the Armored Force Engineering
Academy, a training school for the  People’s Liberation Army ’s
armor force, and speak to about 250 cadets, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  