-- Paramount to Fly Africa’s Latest Military Plane Next Year
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-09-17T11:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/paramount-to-fly-africa-s-latest-military-plane-next-year.html
Paramount Group (Pty) Ltd. , a
closely held arms manufacturer, plans to unveil a new light
aircraft for military reconnaissance early next year as the
plane nears commercial production.  The company plans to fly the first AHRLAC plane “from
early next year and immediately market it for commercial
production,” Executive Chairman Ivor Ichikowitz said in an
interview in  Pretoria ,  South Africa ’s capital, on Sept. 14.
“The aircraft will be sold for about $10 million apiece at the
minimum.”  The first deliveries will be two years after the inaugural
flight in 2013, Chief Executive Officer John Craig said in a
separate interview. “We’re busy marketing the aircraft to
statutory forces around the world as we speak,” he said.  Paramount produces armored fighting vehicles, including the
Marauder mine-protected personnel carrier, and supplies parts
for the Mirage jet fighter. The Johannesburg-based company has
spent about 1 billion rand ($121 million) developing the new
multipurpose aircraft over the last three years, Craig said.  The aircraft can be used for reconnaissance and
surveillance, said Ichikowitz. “It does 80 percent of the job
of a helicopter,” he said. The aircraft is being built by
mostly South African engineers, the majority of whom previously
worked on state-owned arms manufacturer Denel Ltd.’s Rooivalk
attack helicopter, which is operated by the South African  air
force , Ichikowitz said.  “This is a reconnaissance aircraft that our developing
market peacekeeping forces will be able to afford with ease,”
Ichikowitz said.  The company, which sells to peacekeeping forces in
developing markets, has been operating at full capacity in
armored ground vehicles, producing as many as 50 a year for the
last four years, said Ichikowitz. “We’re growing at 25 percent
to 30 percent year-on-year,” he said, declining to provide
further details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  