-- Pemex CEO Says Venture With Mexichem Ready for Next Week
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-09-17T19:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/pemex-ceo-says-venture-with-mexichem-ready-to-start-next-week.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, is poised to begin a petrochemical
joint venture with  Mexichem SAB (MEXCHEM*)  after receiving final board
approval this week, its chief executive officer said.  The venture will start “immediately” after Pemex board
approval expected Sept. 21, CEO  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said
today in an interview after participating in a Bloomberg CEO
Roundtable in  Mexico  City. Growth will come after a “few months
with the necessary investments,” he said.  Mexichem, the Latin American chemical producer that has
bought more than 15 companies since 2007, will contribute about
60 percent of the $556 million investment required to create the
new company. Pemex, based in Mexico City, expects to boost vinyl
chloride production to more than 400,000 tons annually, which
represents a 138 percent increase from this year’s output. The
deal, announced in June 2011, has been waiting for Pemex board
backing since it got antitrust approval in October.  “This a model that we can use from now on in other
petrochemical projects,” Suarez Coppel said. “We’d like to,
and we need to, grow in the petrochemical sector.”  Mexichem erased earlier losses after Suarez Coppel’s
comments to trade at 60.87 pesos in Mexico City at 2:13 p.m. The
stock has gained 41 percent this year.  ‘Equal Footing’  Mexichem, based in Tlalnepantla, Mexico, wants to reduce
its dependence on third-party vinyl chloride producers such as
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Vinyl chloride, or VCM, is a raw material used
to make plastic pipes.  “This kind of integration with Pemex will allow us to
compete on more equal footing with foreign chemical makers,”
said Enrique Ortega, Mexichem’s director of strategic planning
and investor relations. The companies will invest about $200
million to increase the capacity of facilities in the eastern
state of Veracruz, he said today in a telephone interview.  Mexichem, the largest plastic pipe manufacturer in  Latin
America , is lowering costs after acquiring suppliers or joining
them to create lower-cost projects. The company paid about 470
million euros ($581 million) in May to buy 92 percent of Wavin
NV, its largest purchase as it expands overseas to diversify
revenue sources. Mexichem said last month that is in talks with
a unit of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  to build a $1 billion
ethylene facility to fulfill the Mexican chemical maker goal for
its own guaranteed supply of polyvinyl chloride.  Mexichem also is considering making two  more acquisitions ,
said Rafael Davalos on Aug. 16, who headed part of the
negotiations with Pemex and Oxychem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  