-- Penn Project Shamed by London’s King’s Cross Concourse
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-09-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/penn-project-shamed-by-london-s-king-s-cross-concourse.html
While New York’s Pennsylvania
Station remains the depressing mess it has been for half a
century, Londoners travel with comparative ease beneath the
white-painted steel tubes rising in a half-dome at King’s Cross
Station.  The new roof is a contemporary engineering spectacle, yet
very much in the spirit of London’s great Victorian iron-and-
glass rail extravaganzas. It is the inspired solution to
expanding King’s Cross when a tangle of crisscrossing Tube lines
seemed to leave no place to grow.  In New York, dithering over what to do about  Penn Station ’s
dim, filthy maze has gone on for 15 years. The plan was to
revamp the depot and a post office across the street into a new
complex called Moynihan Station, after the late U.S. Senator
Daniel Moynihan, who championed the project before his death in
2003.  New York State is sinking $83 million into widening some
corridors and making new entrances -- barely a Band-Aid for an
area mobbed by 500,000 passengers every weekday.  It’s worth having a look at how the elegant $880 million
Western Concourse of the 1852 King’s Cross depot addresses so
many challenges for its 150,000 daily passengers.  Architect  John McAslan & Partners , working with the
engineering firm  Arup , faced two problems. To simplify
connections between the train and six Tube lines, the new
Western Concourse had to be built on the west side of the old
station. That meant placing it above a new  London  Underground
Ltd. ticketing concourse, which had been built without room to
place supports for the latest addition.  Elegant Solution  McAslan and Arup found an elegant solution for the support
problem, placing 17 massive piers outside the box of the London
Underground concourse. Atop them they set the semicircle of
crisscrossing steel tubes that rises 66 feet in a tall funnel
shape with a 230-foot radius.  The diagonal-grid construction looks lightweight and seems
to settle gently upon the piers. It triples passenger
accommodation, according to information provided by the project.
Under the spreading roof, McAslan tucked a mezzanine where cafes
offer nice views of the pulsing flow of passengers below.  The location of the new concourse, well away from the
frontage on busy Euston Road, struck me as odd until I
understood that it puts passengers a short walk to connections
at the adjacent  St. Pancras  station.  Foster & Partners built an elegantly functional light-
filled shed behind St. Pancras in 2007, to cover platforms
extended to accommodate Eurotunnel trains, regional-rail lines
and long-distance trains operated by Network Rail.  Massive Machine  The additions, along with shared taxi and auto drop-offs,
join the two stations at the hip into a single massive machine
for mobility.  The delays that hit King’s Cross included a disastrous
privatization of national rail operations and the repurchase of
derelict railyards between Kings Cross and St. Pancras that had
long ago been sold off.  Rejuvenating the two stations has spurred rapid development
of a wedge-shaped parcel of former railyards that runs north
from them. It will become 743,000 square meters (8 million
square feet) of commercial and institutional space.  In  New York , 40 million square feet of commercial and
residential development could rise to the north and west of
Moynihan station, including the massive Hudson Yards
redevelopment that is just getting under way. That buildout
looks iffy if Penn can’t grow.  Civic Egos  There’s little urgency about the Moynihan project because
critics have successfully dismissed it as a palace useful only
to stroke civic egos. A design as insightful as King’s Cross
could create a dignified station that treats passengers better
than animals and helps them find their way. Today the two-block
station is clogged with more users than most airports handle,
double the number it was built for.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  made things worse by
unilaterally canceling a new trans-Hudson tunnel in 2009 that
would have added substantial rail capacity to feed Moynihan.  Christie said that local transportation agencies can’t
build without massive cost overruns and delays -- while
following the local political pattern of doing nothing about it.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 