-- Perelman’s ‘Popeye’ Spurs Accusations of Secret Deals at Gallery
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-09-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/perelman-s-popeye-spurs-accusations-of-secret-deals-at-gallery.html
Gallery owner Larry Gagosian is
accused in two lawsuits, including one brought by billionaire
Ron Perelman over a $4 million sculpture named “Popeye,” of
using his position in the art world to negotiate secret deals,
push clients around and manipulate prices for contemporary works.  Gagosian “took advantage of his position of trust” to
force his longtime friend Perelman to buy “Popeye,” a granite
sculpture of the cartoon character by  Jeff Koons  for $4 million,
Perelman said in his Sept. 12 suit in  New York  State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan .  Collector Jan Cowles filed a suit in January in the same
court claiming Gagosian sold a 1964 Roy Lichtenstein painting
“Girl in Mirror” without her consent. Gagosian is accused in
the suits of fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and unjust
enrichment. Perelman’s suit includes a breach-of-contract
allegation.  Both collectors claim that Gagosian, whom Perelman
describes in his suit as “the most powerful dealer in the
contemporary art world,” withheld important information about
the sales to enrich himself. The suits also spotlight the
behind-the-scenes sales negotiations at galleries, particularly
Gagosian Gallery Inc., which represents artists including  Damien Hirst , John Currin,  Takashi Murakami  and  Pablo Picasso  at 11
galleries in  Europe ,  Asia  and the U.S. Gagosian will open its
12th location next month in Le Bourget, a northeastern suburb of
Paris.  Trading Lawsuits  Both  Gagosian Gallery  and Larry Gagosian declined to
comment on the plaintiffs’ accusations. The gallery filed its
own case -- its first suit against a client, it said -- against
Perelman the same day in the same court, alleging he failed to
pay an agreed-upon price after delivery of a sculpture and a
painting and refused to meet a payment schedule for an
unfinished sculpture.  “There’s a certain level of informality in the art market
that is not helpful to any of the parties. It allows confusion
and breeds disputes,” said Thomas Kline, an attorney at Andrews
Kurth LLP in  Washington  who specializes in art law and isn’t
involved in the cases.  “Dealers have to be very careful about making sure that
their clients understand who they represent and what their
responsibilities are. All of this should be spelled out in the
contract,” Kline said.  No Permission  In October 2008, Gagosian accepted the Lichtenstein on
consignment from Charles Cowles, Cowles’s son and an  art dealer 
whose gallery was located on the same block as Gagosian on
Manhattan’s West 24th Street, according to Cowles’s suit.  A contract between Gagosian and Charles Cowles on Oct. 10,
2008, stated that Cowles would receive “not less than
$2,500,000 net, if the piece sold,” according to the suit.
Lawyers for Jan Cowles contend that she hadn’t given her son
permission to sell the painting, which depicts a blond woman
laughing as she gazes at her reflection in a handheld mirror.  Gagosian showed the work at  Frieze Art Fair  in  London  in
October 2008 and at  Art Basel  in  Switzerland  in June 2009,
according to the complaint.  In January 2009, Deborah McLeod, senior director of
Gagosian in  Los Angeles , offered the painting for $3.5 million
to Thompson Dean, co-chief executive officer of Avista Capital
Partners, a New York-based private equity firm, according to
court documents, with the asking price pegged to a $4 million
auction sale in 2007 of another work in the “Girl in Mirror”
edition of eight.  ‘Cruel’ Offer  In June 2009, Charles Cowles announced he was closing his
gallery. The following month McLeod e-mailed Dean, stating
“seller now in terrible straits and needs cash. Are you
interested in making a cruel and offensive offer? Come on, want
to try?” according to the suit.  When Dean offered $2 million, McLeod responded “that’s
approximately half price, so I like it!” according to a
transcript of her July deposition as part of Cowles’s lawsuit.
The transcripts of the depositions of McLeod and John Good, who
left the  Gagosian gallery  this spring after 13 years, were
attached to a letter Cowles’s attorney sent to state Supreme
Court Justice Charles Ramos, who is overseeing the case.  McLeod explained in the deposition that she meant the price
was fair, considering the weak market of 2009. “I like it,
market is off about half, this is about half price, I like it,”
she said, according to the transcript.  On another occasion, she e-mailed Dean, “You paid full
prices for a number of things, and I would love to see you work
a bargain like this into the aggregate!” according to the
transcript.  Buyer, Seller  Both Good and McLeod said it was appropriate for the
gallery to represent both the seller and the buyer in the same
transaction without telling either party, according to
transcripts of the depositions.  When asked at her deposition if she worked on behalf of the
seller, McLeod responded, “I am representing the seller and the
buyer and my gallery and the brand and myself and everybody,”
according to the transcript.  When asked if she believed there was anything wrong with
acting as an agent for both the buyer and the seller without
disclosing it to either side, she responded “No,” according to
the transcript.  Gagosian’s “practice of representing buyers and sellers on
the same transaction is particularly troublesome as it presents
a clear conflict of interest for the gallery which owes a
fiduciary duty to the consignor as a selling agent,” David Baum,
a partner at SNR Denton LLP who represents Cowles, wrote in the
letter to the judge. “Countless sellers are consigning works to
Gagosian without any knowledge that the gallery may be secretly
acting against their interests.”  Industry ‘Standard’  Good, who was a director at Gagosian in New York and is now
senior vice president, private sales, at  Christie’s  auction
house, said in his deposition that it’s common for dealers to
represent both sides of a transaction.  “I think it’s a standard in the industry to do that at any
time,” he said, according to the transcript. “That’s what
dealers do.”  “I stand by what I said,” Good said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 14. McLeod didn’t respond to several
telephone messages or e-mails on Sept. 14 seeking comment on her
deposition testimony.  Lawyers for Gagosian asked Ramos to strike Baum’s letter
and the two depositions from the file.  While Baum “selectively paraphrases from the deposition
transcripts he gratuitously attaches to his letter to allege
that other witnesses admitted to improper conduct, any full
reading of those transcripts clearly demonstrates that they did
no such thing,” Brian Dunefsky, a lawyer at Withers Bergman in
New York who represents Gagosian, wrote in a letter to the judge.  Dealer’s Contract  The gallery convinced Charles Cowles to accept $1 million
for the Lichtenstein while earning a $1 million commission on
the sale from Dean, who paid the $2 million he offered,
according to court papers.  Dean, through a spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Cowles’s lawsuit.  In the Perelman case, Gagosian failed to tell the chief
executive officer of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. that the
dealer’s contract with Koons entitled the artist to 70 percent
of any amount over the original sale price of $4 million if the
gallery resold the work -- and 80 percent of any sale if
Gagosian bought the sculpture back before it was finished,
delivered and fully paid for, according to Perelman’s suit.  Private Viewings  “Such information would have materially and substantially
altered plaintiffs’ view of the transaction, as these secret
contract provisions detrimentally affected Gagosian’s ability
and willingness to repurchase or resell Popeye above the price
paid by plaintiffs,” Perelman said in his suit. “Given
Gagosian’s role as Koons’ representative and the foremost dealer
in Koons’ work, such restrictions effectively crippled
plaintiffs’ ability to resell Popeye at its fair market value.”  Buying and selling through a dealer has practical
advantages because the gallery typically prepares an artwork’s
provenance and handles its shipping to art fairs and private
viewings around the world, said  Wendy Cromwell , a New York-based
art adviser.  Well-known dealers have contacts beyond an individual’s
list of colleagues and friends; the dealer’s name adds cachet
and legitimacy to a sale and offers the client privacy, she said.  “It’s odd for a private collector to resell something and
let the world and his contacts know that he’s doing it,” said
Cromwell. “When it comes from the dealer, it’s anonymous.”  Christine Taylor , a spokeswoman for Perelman, said in a
Sept. 12 statement that “Gagosian has used his dominance of the
market for contemporary art to enrich himself at the expense of
his customers.” Perelman declined to comment further on the
lawsuit, she said.  Lower Sum  The gallery said in its complaint against Perelman that on
Jan. 6, it entered into a contract with him for a sculpture by
an unidentified artist for $12.6 million that was delivered June
8 to Perelman’s home in  East Hampton , New York. Perelman offered
a “much lower sum” than was agreed upon in addition to pieces
of art from his collection, the gallery said in the complaint.  Perelman also refused to pay for a $10.5 million painting
by another contemporary artist that he had asked the gallery to
acquire and that was delivered to his home, according to the
gallery’s complaint. He also refused to return the artwork,
again offering pieces from his collection in exchange, according
to the complaint.  “The gallery offered to take the painting back and
Perelman refused, taunting the gallery to sue him,” Gagosian
said in the filing.  Better Price  Perelman agreed to trade some artworks including the Koons
sculpture, the completion of which was delayed and wouldn’t be
delivered on the agreed-upon date of Dec. 15, 2011, in exchange
for the unspecified painting, according to Perelman’s suit.  Perelman said in his suit that he “had no ability at that
time to obtain a better price for “Popeye” from another dealer
due to Gagosian’s position as the premier dealer” in Koons’s
work. He also said he wasn’t allowed to sell or obtain the title
to the work until it was delivered by the gallery.  Gagosian, in turn, said Perelman’s actions have cost the
gallery millions of dollars, forced it to pay the artists out of
its own capital and forgo commissions, according to its
complaint. Gagosian is seeking the original purchase price of
the sculpture and the painting, minus the net sales price of any
of the bartered pieces from Perelman’s collection that were sold,
and to return the works that haven’t been sold.  Advisor, Mentor  Larry Gagosian  has been a friend and a “constant and
trusted art adviser and mentor” for more than 20 years to
Perelman, according to Perelman’s complaint.  The two are business partners outside the art world, having
invested in the  Blue Parrot  restaurant in East Hampton, Perelman
said in his complaint.  Perelman is ranked 63rd in the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
with a net worth of $13.1 billion.  “The gallery prides itself on its relationships and has
never sued a client in its over 30 years of business,” Gagosian
said in the complaint. “Such suits are damaging to clients, to
artists and to the artworks themselves, often causing negative
publicity.”  The cases are Gagosian v. Perelman, 653181/2012; MAFG Art
Fund LLC v. Gagosian, 653189/2012; Cowles v. Gagosian,
650152/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 