-- Peruvian Capital Picked for IMF and World Bank Meetings in 2015
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-09-17T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/peruvian-capital-picked-for-imf-and-world-bank-meetings-in-2015.html
Peru will host the  International
Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  annual meetings in Lima in October
2015, the first time the talks have been held in Latin America
since Rio de Janeiro in 1967.  The World Bank announced the decision in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 14. This year’s meetings are set for Tokyo
next month. In 2013 and 2014, the summits will be held in
Washington, where the groups are based. The meetings normally
move to a different global city every third year.  The IMF has received criticism from governments in Latin
America for imposing conditions on financial rescues that
leaders said crimped growth in later years. In Argentina,
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  blames the lender for
pushing policies that she says led to the nation’s $95 billion
bond default in 2001.  For World Bank President Jim Yong Kim, 52, who in July
succeeded  Robert Zoellick  at the end of his five-year term, the
summit will mark a return to a nation where the doctor and
HIV/AIDS specialist helped develop a treatment program for multi
drug-resistant tuberculosis. In 1987, while at  Harvard
University , Kim co-founded Partners in Health, a nonprofit
organization that has opened clinics in countries including Peru
and Haiti.  Kim, the former president of Dartmouth College, leads a
poverty-fighting institution that distributed about $53 billion
worth of loans last year. The World Bank was created at the end
of World War II to help rebuild ravaged Europe. Now focused on
 developing countries , it targets its lending for projects from
road-building to education programs. The bank has also expanded
its scope to include taking stakes in companies and guaranteeing
investments.  Emerging-market nations including Brazil and Mexico, Latin
America’s largest economies, have lobbied for a bigger voice in
the IMF and World Bank. Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens campaigned to become managing director of the IMF last
year, losing to French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .
African nations supported Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala over Kim for the World Bank’s top post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  