-- Polish Rate-Cut Case Is Building, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-09-17T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/polish-rate-cut-case-is-building-morgan-stanley-says.html
Poland ’s weakening economy is
putting pressure on policy makers to reverse the only interest-
rate increase by a central bank in the European Union this year,
Morgan Stanley economist Pasquale Diana said.  Poland’s central bank will reduce its benchmark interest
rate by 100 basis points through next year to 3.75 percent,
London-based Diana wrote in an e-mailed note dated Sept. 14.
Still, a rate cut by the Monetary Policy Council at its next
meeting on Oct. 2-3 is “not a done deal,” Diana said.  “While MPC hawks may well try to stand in the way of
monetary easing in the near term, the case for rate cuts is
building fast,” he wrote. “Doves will ultimately take over.”  The council kept its main rate at 4.75 percent on Sept. 5,
saying a cut would require more proof the economy and inflation
are slowing. The MPC will consider an “adjustment” in rates
should upcoming data confirm a further weakening of the economy,
Governor  Marek Belka  said after the meeting.  Some members of the 10-strong policy-making council will
argue that reducing rates is ineffective in spurring new lending
and there are lingering risks from high  inflation  expectations
and food and energy prices, he said. These members will prefer
to wait until November when the central bank publishes its
latest inflation forecasts, Diana wrote.  Still, the case for a rate cut will strengthen this month
with the release of industrial-output and  retail-sales  data,
according to Diana. Inflation will also slow to 3 percent by
year-end, leaving inflation-adjusted  interest rates  almost a
percentage point higher than currently. Consumer price-growth
eased to 3.8 percent in August, the lowest in three months.  Poland’s economy may expand between 1 percent and 1.5
percent next year, Diana wrote, compared with Morgan Stanley’s
current forecast of 2.1 percent.  “We found locals more negative on the economy than they
have been for quite some time, and now see increased risks about
the growth outlook,” said Diana, who met officials and
economists in Warsaw last week. “We found little conviction on
the prospects for an improvement during the course of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  