-- Protests to Hurt Japan Car Sales in China, Dealer Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-17T08:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/protests-to-hurt-japanese-car-sales-in-china-dealer-group-says.html
Violent anti- Japan  protests that
erupted in China over the weekend may cause more damage to
Japanese automakers in the world’s largest vehicle market than
natural disasters last year, according to the state-backed
dealership group.  Many dealerships in China that sell Japanese cars have shut
for now after some outlets were attacked and vandalized,
according to Luo Lei, deputy secretary general of the China
Automobile Dealers Association. Besides those boycotting
Japanese goods, most Chinese citizens won’t dare to buy
Japanese-brand cars due to concerns over safety, Luo said.  “The impact caused by natural disasters can be fixed
quickly, while it takes a longer time and efforts to make
hostile sentiment against Japanese cars go away,” Luo said in a
phone interview today, declining to quantify the damage as
losses are still being tallied. “I have worked at the
association for 10 years and this round of losses suffered by
Japanese car dealers is the worst I’ve seen.”  A territorial dispute between China and Japan worsened as
thousands protested in Chinese cities over the weekend in the
worst flare-up of tensions between  Asia ’s two largest economies
since 2005.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. each reported
damage to a dealership in Qingdao from fire, a Honda Civic sedan
was set ablaze in front of a Shanghai distributor, while
demonstrators handed out flyers listing names of Japanese brands
to boycott.  Bilateral Tensions  “The longer the conflict between China and Japan lasts,
the more this anti-Japanese sentiment will spread among ordinary
consumers,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-based global head of
automotive at researcher Ipsos. “In this politically sensitive
situation, Japanese manufacturers have to reduce marketing as
well as communication activities, which in turn, significantly
weakens their brands and leaves the field for competitors.”  Still, a solution to the bilateral tensions may be found
soon as neither Japan nor China are really interested in a
serious conflict, which means Japanese brands in China can avoid
long-term damage, he said.  Joint Ventures  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) , the Chinese partner of Nissan and
Honda, dropped 7 percent in  Hong Kong , the biggest decline in 11
months.  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , which has joint ventures
making cars with Toyota and Honda, sank 4.6 percent.  Natsuno Asanuma, general manager of Honda’s China unit,
said a dealership in the city of Qingdao was set ablaze by
protestors on Sept. 15. No injuries resulted from the fire.
Joichi Tachikawa, a Toyota spokesman, said today there were no
other reports of major damage in China to its operations besides
the fire over the weekend at a dealership, also in Qingdao.  In southern Guangzhou city, seven suspects were detained
for vandalizing a Japanese brand car on Sept. 16, according to a
statement posted on the local public security bureau’s website.
Police also detained three others for smashing an unidentified
store front and another person for destroying two billboards,
according to the statement.  Over the weekend, Japanese cars were overturned and window
shields smashed by demonstrators in some cities, according to
Phoenix Television.  Toyota and Honda spokespeople in China said today they were
unaware of any plans to halt production or close operations
tomorrow. A  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  spokesperson in Beijing said the
company is discussing whether to give employees in the capital a
day off tomorrow or allow them to work from home.  Mukden Incident  September 18 is the anniversary of the Mukden Incident,
also known as the Manchurian Incident, which took place in 1931
near what is now the Chinese city of Shenyang and led to the
Japanese invasion of the northeastern portions of China.  In Beijing, there were few shoppers at the Oriental
Foundation International Automobile City today. At the Toyota
dealership, a Chinese national flag hung above the front
entrance.  Sales have slowed “quite a bit” since the tensions flared
up, said Wu Bo, 33, a car salesman who worked at the auto city.
There were no protests at the distributors over the weekend, he
said.  At the strip of Japanese-brand dealerships along Longwu
Road in  Shanghai , there were no protesters and the only visible
sign of the China-Japan row were red banners in Chinese saying
“Protect our land, give us back the Diaoyus.”  Car Sales  Sales of Japanese-branded passenger cars fell last month in
China, compared with gains of more than 10 percent for German,
American and South Korean vehicles, according to China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Nissan, the biggest
Japanese automaker by sales in China, said on Sept. 6 that
deliveries in the country have been affected as it cut back on
marketing events in the wake of anti-Japan demonstrations that
first started last month.  Last May, Honda’s sales in China fell 32 percent in the
aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami that struck northeastern
Japan two months earlier. Toyota’s deliveries in  China  plunged
35 percent in May 2011 as a shortage of parts caused by the
record earthquake halted production in the country.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  