-- Rand Weakens as Yields Rise to September High on Mining Unrest
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-17T09:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/rand-weakens-as-yields-rise-to-september-high-on-mining-unrest.html
The rand declined for the first
time in three days and bond yields rose to the highest this
month as unrest in  South Africa ’s mining industry undermined
investor confidence in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The rand retreated 0.7 percent to 8.2667 per dollar as of
10:36 a.m. in Johannesburg, the worst performance out of more
than 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.82 percent, the highest on a
closing basis since Aug. 28.  Production at mines owned by Lonmin Plc, Golds Fields Ltd.
and Anglo American Platinum Ltd. has been halted last week by a
series of illegal strikes over pay. At least 45 people have been
killed since Aug. 10 at Lonmin’s Marikana mine in the North West
Province. The spreading unrest comes as South Africa posts its
biggest current-account deficit in almost four years. Foreign
investors sold a net 5.3 billion rand of South African  stocks 
and  bonds  last week, according to JSE Ltd. data.  “Between our current account and the political backdrop
and ensuing mining crisis, South Africa is not high on
investors’ radar, hampering portfolio inflows,”  Brigid Taylor ,
head of institutional flow sales at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Group Ltd., said in e-mailed comments today. “The mining
disruption will negatively impact gross domestic product as well
as tax revenues, which bodes ill for continued bond support from
foreigners.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the violence could
curb growth, production and exports, widen the current account
deficit and deter investment, which would be “extremely
damaging” to Africa’s largest economy.  The gap in South Africa’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, grew to 6.4 percent of
GDP in the second quarter, the widest shortfall since the third
quarter of 2008, from 4.9 percent in the first quarter, the
 Reserve Bank  said Sept. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  