-- Transocean Brazil Ban Said to Hinder Petrobras Output Growth
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-09-17T21:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/transocean-brazil-ban-said-to-hinder-petrobras-output-growth-1-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s plan to
boost oil production is being threatened by a court ruling that
bans drilling contractor  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  from operating in
Brazil, said a government official with knowledge of the matter.  State-run Petrobras, which runs fields producing more than
90 percent of Brazil’s oil and gas, is affected because it hired
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean to drill 24 wells that
would boost output by 240,000 barrels a day, said the official,
who declined to be named because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the matter. Petrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro ,
produced 1.95 million barrels a day last month, down from 1.97
million a year earlier, according to its website.  Transocean was banned from operating in Brazil after an  oil
spill  at  Chevron Corp.’s (CVX)  Frade field off the coast of Rio in
November. The ban, issued by a lower court, was upheld by the
Superior Justice Court in Brasilia last week and can be appealed
at the  Supreme Court . The rulings also affect Chevron, which
operates Frade using a Transocean rig.  The court dispute is threatening Petrobras’s attempt to
increase domestic production after posting a second-quarter loss
of 1.35 billion reais ($665 million), the first in more than a
decade. Petrobras is investing about $236 billion in the five
years through 2016 to more than double oil output by 2020 and
expand gasoline production.  Petrobras is closely following the legal case and awaits a
final ruling to make further comments on the matter, the company
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Petrobras ‘Risk’  “There is indeed a risk for Petrobras,” said Nataniel Cezimbra, equity analyst at Banco do Brasil SA. “But we’re not
reviewing our target price right now because the company hasn’t
been formally notified yet and it is going to appeal the
decision,” he said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Petrobras was little changed with a 0.2 percent drop to
23.25 reais in Sao Paulo trading today.  “There are still many ways for Transocean to contest the
injunction decision, and we will use all available resources to
prevent a shutdown,”  Guy Cantwell , a Houston-based Transocean
spokesman, said in an e-mailed response. “We remain confident
that the facts of this event clearly demonstrate that
Transocean’s crew did exactly what they were trained to do,
acting responsibly, appropriately and quickly, and putting
safety first.”  Brazil’s oil regulator, known as the ANP, will appeal the
ruling at the Superior Tribunal, the agency said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Officials at Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s press
office didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Transocean has a total of 10 rigs in Brazil, eight of which
are being used at Petrobras fields. One of them was being used
by Chevron’s Frade, and another rig is under maintenance.  Transocean fell 1.7 percent to close at $45.79 in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  