-- RBA Says Up to 23 Countries Hold Australian Dollar Reserves
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-17T06:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/rba-says-up-to-23-central-banks-hold-australian-dollar-reserves.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
the country’s currency is held by as many as 23 national central
banks from Brasilia to Moscow whose purchases have helped
sustain the Aussie dollar’s gains,  internal documents  showed.  The central banks of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  Germany , Hong Kong,
 South Korea ,  Poland ,  Sweden , and  Switzerland  are among 15 that
hold the Australian currency, according to a spreadsheet created
in July and other papers released today under a Freedom of
Information Act request by  Bloomberg News . Among eight possible
holders are Iceland, Indonesia, Jordan, Malaysia and Singapore,
they showed.  The Aussie is up 3.2 percent this year against the  U.S.
dollar  even as the nation’s No. 1 export customer,  China , sees a
deepening slowdown and as falling prices for  iron ore  and coking
coal erode the nation’s terms of trade -- a measure of windfall
gains from exports that reached a 140-year high last year. RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  last month called the currency’s level
“a bit on the high side.”  “The apparent preference shift and resulting portfolio
shift of foreign investors towards Australian dollar government
securities has increased Australian dollar demand,” Chris
Potter of the RBA’s international department wrote in an April 5
document that was among those released today. “The increase in
demand associated with this shift appears large by historical
standards.”  Record Lows  Demand from abroad for Australian  government bonds  helped
drive yields on all the securities to record lows in June.
Benchmark 10-year rates touched 2.698 percent June 1 after
foreign holdings of federal securities reached a record 76.5
percent in the first quarter of 2012.  “There is reason to believe, and theory that agrees, that
non-resident purchases of Commonwealth Government Securities
have supported the Australian dollar,” Potter wrote. “This
increased demand for Australian dollar assets has been
associated with a shift in investor preference to increasing
exposures to Australian dollar assets, probably associated with
a reappraisal of the relative risks of such investments.”  The central bank included notes that referred to Potter as
a junior officer and said his paper was a draft that shouldn’t
be seen as representing the RBA’s views. Even so, in
parliamentary testimony Aug. 24, Stevens echoed Potter’s
assessment.  ‘High Quality’  “There is more tendency now for some official flows
seeking the high quality assets,” he said. “I’d have to say
that it’s most likely that the official investors, they’re not
usually the most adventurous, they’re usually the ones that come
along after others have been coming for a while, so I think all
those things are at work.”  The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England  don’t have
the currency in their reserves and the U.S. Federal Reserve
recorded an “apparently not” under the column on whether it
keeps the Australian dollar, the RBA spreadsheet showed. As to
the central bank of China the document recorded “???” on
whether it held the Aussie.  The net inflow of capital to Australia increased to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product in the first quarter, which
“in net terms was directed entirely to the public sector,” the
documents showed.  Dollar’s Strength  The local dollar’s strength has propelled it to the widest
divergence in more than a decade from Australia’s terms of
trade, and also left it out of step with a drop in government
bond yields.  “The RBA’s repeated reference to the disparity between the
fall in the terms of trade in the first half and the elevated
level of the Australian dollar does suggest some concern,” said
Callum Henderson, Singapore-based global head of currency
research at Standard Chartered Plc. “The fact that so many
central banks have added the Aussie to their FX reserves may go
a long way to explaining this disparity from a flow
perspective.”  Among the documents was a May 21 private parliamentary
briefing titled “Recent Developments in the Australian Dollar”
that was almost entirely redacted. The one paragraph remaining
said: “The high level of the Australian dollar continues to be
supported by the still high level of the terms of trade. Strong
foreign demand for CGS has also been a supporting factor for
some time.”  AAA Rating  Overseas investors seeking a haven for their funds have
directed them at the highest rating countries.  Australia ,
Canada, Denmark, Norway, Singapore, Sweden and Switzerland are
the only nations with stable AAA scores from all three main
ratings companies.  The increased demand for Australian government debt may
have helped drive down the perceived risk of holding the
currency because investors such as central banks are less likely
to suddenly sell their assets, Potter wrote. Such buyers also
wouldn’t be seeking to hedge their investments, increasing the
impact of their purchases on demand for Australian dollars, he
wrote.  Even after the RBA reduced its key  interest-rate  by 1.25
percentage points since November to 3.5 percent, it retains the
highest benchmark borrowing cost among major developed nations.
Policy rates are near zero in the U.S. and Japan, 1 percent in
the euro area and Canada, and a record- low 2.5 percent in
neighboring New Zealand.  Traders are pricing in a 51 percent chance that the central
bank will cut borrowing costs by another 50 basis points by year
end to 3 percent, matching the 50-year low the benchmark reached
at the height of the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  