-- Treasury Bonds End Slump as Factory Data Boost Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-09-17T21:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/treasury-bonds-snap-drop-as-yields-at-4-month-high-lure-buyers.html
Treasury 30-year bonds snapped a
four-day decline as a  New York  area factory gauge fell more than
forecast, underscoring the  Federal Reserve ’s concern that more
stimulus is needed to keep the economic recovery from slowing.  Benchmark  10-year notes  halted last week’s drop as European
governments remained divided on how to overcome the region’s
debt crisis. Relative yields on mortgage securities slid to the
lowest level on record after the Fed said Sept. 13 it would
expand its holdings with monthly purchases of $40 billion of the
debt in a third round of quantitative easing until the jobs
market shows “sustained improvement.” Stocks fell.  “There’s plenty of uncertainty overseas, there’s plenty of
uncertainty about whether this QE process will be able to do
anything for the real economy anyway,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “You’ve got a little bit of risk-off with equities
under pressure.”  The 30-year  bond yield  dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.04 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.75 percent
security due in August 2042 climbed 31/32, or $9.69 per $1,000
face amount, to 94 13/32. The yield earlier rose to 3.12
percent, the highest level since May 4. It increased 26 basis
points last week, the most since August 2009.  The 10-year yield declined two basis points to 1.84 percent
after rising 20 basis points last week.  Market Volume  About $196 billion in Treasuries  changed hands  today as of
5:03 p.m. in New York through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker. Full-day volume reached $464 billion on
Sept. 13, the most since August 2011, and averaged $262 billion
over the past five years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent, and
S&P’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials slid 2.2 percent.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value dropped about 10
basis points to 84 basis points higher than an average of five-
and 10-year Treasury rates. It was the narrowest spread since at
least 1984.  The U.S. central bank bought $4.7 billion of Treasuries
today due from November 2020 to August 2020, according to the
Fed Bank of New York’s website. It sold $7.8 billion of  U.S.
debt  due from December 2014 to May 2015. The Fed is in the
process of swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with
those due in six to 30 years in a program to put downward
pressure on long-term  interest rates .  The Federal Open Market Committee’s stimulus decision last
week followed a European Central Bank announcement Sept. 6 that
it will purchase euro-area debt to help curb the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, now in its third year.  Factory Gauge  The New York Fed’s general economic  index  dropped to minus
10.41 this month, the lowest since April 2009, from minus 5.85
in August. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called
for minus 2. Readings less than zero signal contraction in the
gauge, known as the Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  “The U.S. data continues to play to the Fed’s opinion that
QE3 is warranted, as the economy is still very weak,”  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “And despite the ECB’s
positive announcements of late, there are still many structural
and political headwinds that face the European Union, all of
which is keeping a bid in Treasuries.”  Treasury 10-year yields are little changed this year as
reports signaled the economic recovery will be slow. A Bloomberg
survey of economists projected the benchmark yields will decline
to 1.8 percent by year-end. The most recent projections in the
poll are given the heaviest weightings.  Treasury Returns  U.S. government securities lost 0.6 percent over the past
month as of Sept. 14, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
showed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 4.6 percent,
including reinvested dividends.  Thirty-year bond yields fell today after a technical
indicator signaled they may have risen too far, too fast. The
14-day  relative strength indicator  for the bond rose to 75 on
Sept. 14 before slipping to 69 today. A level above 70 suggests
yields may change direction.  The long-bond yield closed Sept. 14 above its 200-day
moving average, 2.94 percent, for the first time since April.  European Union finance ministers meeting in Cyprus last
week were deadlocked over the timetable for a more unified EU
banking sector, with a German-led coalition pushing back against
a more ambitious plan sought by France, Spain and  Italy . The
ministers also disagreed over the terms of bailout requests and
the role of the ECB.  ‘Some Steam’  “The European situation is still giving some steam to the
Treasury market, as there is still a lot of uncertainty,” said
 Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in New York, one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Gains by U.S. bonds were tempered as investors bet the
Fed’s monetary policy will fuel inflation and boost demand for
higher-yielding asset such as stocks.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and
comparable-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, reached the widest in six years today. The spread
expanded as much as nine basis points to 2.73 percentage points,
the most since May 2006  “TIPS have rallied quite a bit since the FOMC as the Fed
is willing to let inflation heat up again to try to boost jobs
and the economy,”  Societe Generale ’s Murphy said.  U.S. government securities traded at least expensive level
in more than three weeks, according to the 10-year term premium,
a model created by economists at the Fed that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation. The gauge
was at negative 0.81 percent, the least costly since Aug. 21. A
negative reading shows investors are willing to accept yields
below what’s considered fair value. The average this year is
negative 0.73 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  