-- Reckitt Benckiser’s New Finance Chief Signals Strategic Shift
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-09-17T11:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/reckitt-benckiser-s-new-finance-chief-signals-strategic-shift.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  said
finance chief Liz Doherty will be replaced by a veteran of the
health care industry, signaling Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor’s increasing emphasis on more profitable consumer-health
and pharmaceutical products over traditional household goods.  Adrian Hennah, the 54-year-old chief financial officer of
 Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  who earlier spent nearly two decades at
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, will join Slough, England-based Reckitt
Benckiser from the end of December. Doherty, whose management
style was not “well matched” to that of the Nurofen maker,
will stay on until March 2013, the company said today.  The choice of Hennah boosted Reckitt Benckiser shares and
embodies the new strategy Kapoor unveiled to analysts in
February. Kapoor expects 72 percent of  sales  in its main units
to come from so-called health and hygiene brands such as Durex
condoms and Veet hair-removers by 2016, up from 67 percent
today. Slower-growing brands like Vanish laundry detergents,
under pressure from competitors like  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , will
account for a smaller share of total sales in the years ahead.  “His experience in the health care industry seems to be
crucial to the appointment,” Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at Exane
BNP Paribas, said in a note to clients today.  Reckitt Benckiser was unchanged at 3,572 pence at 12:56
p.m. in London. The shares have gained 12 percent this year.  Powerbrands  Among the company’s so-called Powerbrands, which generate
the highest profit margins and fastest sales growth, only four
are in the home-care segment, which had sales of 2 billion
pounds last year. The similarly-sized health unit has six,
including Strepsils and Mucinex cold remedies, while the 3.6
billion-pound hygiene business has eight, such as Dettol and
Lysol cleansers and Finish dishwashing products.  The company’s hygiene brands should post like-for-like
sales growth of 7.1 percent this year, nearly double last year’s
clip, while sales at the health unit will increase 5.2 percent,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein analysts. That’s faster than
the 0.9 percent growth estimated for the home-care business.  Reckitt Benckiser’s laundry-care brands in southern  Europe 
have faced a “competitive onslaught” as rival products from
P&G and Unilever have grabbed market share over the past several
years, according to Pedro Gil, an analyst at Grupo Santander. In
July, Kapoor said the company’s market-share losses in southern
Europe continued in the first half of this year.  ‘Global Experience’  In contrast, RB’s health-focused brands such as Gaviscon
and Mucinex match up against brands owned by pharmaceutical
companies and face less competition from consumer-product giants
like Unilever and P&G. Hennah spent 18 years at  GlaxoSmithKline, (GSK) 
the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, whose products include the Avandia
diabetes drug. He’s also a non-executive director of Reed
Elsevier Plc, the publisher of the “Gray’s Anatomy” textbook.  “His global experience, especially in the  health care
industry , will be very valuable as we execute our strategy of
extending our health and hygiene Powerbrands internationally,
with a particular focus on  emerging markets ,” Kapoor said.  Hennah’s experience will also benefit Reckitt Benckiser’s
pharmaceutical business, which consists mainly of the Suboxone
opioid-dependency drug and now generates nearly 10 percent of
total sales and more than a fifth of operating profit, according
to Bernstein. In February, Kapoor said the pharmaceutical unit
was not “core” to the company, raising speculation among
analysts such as Morgan Stanley’s Erik Sjogren that it might be
sold once a generic competitor to Suboxone tablets emerges.  “We hold a positive view on Adrian Hennah and expect
Reckitt to be more effectively and cohesively led as a result,”
Investec Securities analyst Martin Deboo said in a note.  Doherty, who joined in February 2011, less than a year
before Kapoor succeeded Bart Becht as CEO, had “struggled to
win acceptance in the investor community,” Deboo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  