-- Republicans Help Senate’s Democrats by Delaying Farm Help
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-17T19:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/republicans-help-senate-s-democrats-by-delaying-farm-help.html
Democratic U.S. Senate candidate
Heidi Heitkamp is  walking  through neat rows of soybeans in blue
jeans and a fleece jacket, with a silo and grain bins visible in
the background, talking about the need to put  North Dakota 
farmers ahead of partisanship.  That TV ad, which debuted Sept. 13, is the latest in a
series of appeals to the state’s rural voters. She often reminds
them that the Republican-led House has failed to even vote on
the every-five-year agriculture-policy bill that funds subsidies
for farmers. She credits that pitch with helping nudge the North
Dakota Senate race from a probable Republican pick up to a
tossup.  “Agriculture is still king in this state,” Heitkamp, who
is challenging Republican Representative Rick Berg in the race
to succeed retiring Democratic Senator Kent Conrad, said in an
e-mail. “You can’t represent North Dakota in the United States
Senate without fully representing our farmers and ranchers.”  With Democrats holding a slim majority in the Senate, both
national parties have shifted resources to North Dakota, a state
with a booming economy and lowest-in-the-nation unemployment
rate of 3 percent. It is among a handful of rural states where
Democrats see opportunity in the stalled farm bill, a version of
which passed the Senate.  Tossup States  “If you had asked Republicans a year ago, they would have
told you North Dakota would be over by Labor Day, and it’s
not,”  Jennifer Duffy , who monitors Senate races for Cook
Political Report, said in an interview. Democrats “are still in
it, and they’re still fighting.”  The failure of the House to pass a farm bill is not the
only reason, she said. It has contributed to a narrative of
 Washington ’s failure, something Heitkamp is using to her
advantage in her campaign against a House member, Duffy said.  Other Senate campaigns where farm issues could become a
factor include in  Indiana , where Democratic Representative Joe
Donnelly is running against  Richard Mourdock , the Tea Party
favorite who knocked off incumbent  Richard Lugar  in a Republican
primary, and in  Wisconsin , where former Republican Governor
 Tommy Thompson  is running against Democratic Representative
Tammy Baldwin for the seat vacated by  Herb Kohl .  Stalled Bill  The stalled farm bill could influence some House races,
though polls show that chamber will probably remain under
Republican control. It is in the Senate, where Democrats hold 51
seats, that a handful of races could tip the balance of power.
Republicans have 47 and need three more in order to control the
chamber. Two senators are independents who caucus with
Democrats.  Inaction on the farm bill may weaken the GOP Senate effort
in rural, conservative states such as North Dakota and  Montana 
that are out of reach for Democrats at the presidential level
yet still attainable in congressional races, said Steffen
Schmidt, a political science professor at  Iowa State University 
in Ames.  “In some states it will be a big issue,” Schmidt said in
an interview, noting that divisions in the House between rural
lawmakers who support subsidies and budget hawks within the
Republican caucus may make it difficult for that chamber to pass
a bill. “The Democrats could make a lot of hay because it’s the
Republicans that are blocking passage.”  Republicans have shifted campaign spending to North Dakota,
some of it from  Missouri  where they’ve canceled money earmarked
for the Senate campaign of Representative Todd Akin, whose
comments on rape have cost him support, Duffy said.  Montana Race  Agriculture issues are prominent in campaign ads in the
Montana race, where polls show Republican Representative Denny Rehberg leading incumbent Democratic Senator Jon Tester by 4
percentage points. That is down from 10 points in May.  “Jon Tester’s ads all have combines in them,” Duffy said.  Lack of a farm bill has “become a very salient issue in a
lot of key battleground races, and it’s highlighted the
intransigence and ineffectiveness of  House Republicans  like
Denny Rehberg and Rick Berg and put their misplaced priorities
front and center,” said Matt Canter, communications director
for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.  In Senate campaigns, particularly in rural states,
candidates can localize their races around issues such as
agriculture, Canter said. That enables Democrats like Heitkamp
and Tester to woo voters who might vote Republican in the
presidential race, he said.  Mitt Romney  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  may easily
win North Dakota and Montana, “but that’s not providing a lot
of solace to Rick Berg and Danny Rehberg right now,” Canter
said.  E-mails and calls to the  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  were not returned.  The farm bill’s delay “makes a huge difference to farm-
state Republicans. Just look at the members who’ve been speaking
publicly,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, in an interview.  A version of the bill, which would reauthorize subsidies
for growers of corn, cotton and other crops, has been approved
by the Senate. It has not been scheduled for a House vote by
Republican leadership, making passage unlikely before current
law expires Sept. 30, lawmakers say.  Petition Effort  Republican leadership aides in both chambers said today
Congress won’t move this week to pass a new farm bill or any
extension of current law. Lawmakers plan to adjourn at the end
of the week to campagn for the November election.  A Democratic-led petition effort to bring the bill to the
floor, signed by some rural Republicans including Berg and
Rehberg failed to get sufficient backers. The anti-tax group
Club for Growth today said it would note lawmakers’ signatures
as support for wasteful spending, discouraging bipartisan
support.  “I am disappointed that they haven’t scheduled this for a
vote,” said Representative Kristi Noem, a freshman Republican
from  South Dakota , who said she’d sign the petition. “Frankly,
I take my direction from the people of South Dakota.”  “Agriculture is not a partisan issue, nor is it an issue
to be used for scoring political points,” said Chris Van
Guilder, a spokesman for Berg, in an e-mail. “There is no
stronger advocate for a long-term farm bill in the U.S. House
than Rick Berg, who has pursued every possible avenue to bring
the bill to the floor for a vote.”  Rehberg E-Mail  Democrats are also to blame for the impasse by opposing  an
extension and refusing to consider a $383 million disaster-
relief package the House passed in August, said Rehberg in an e-
mail. “There’s no reason the Senate can’t pass the drought
assistance the House passed on August 2,” the congressman and
candidate said in an e-mail.  When “Washington” becomes identified with House
Republican inaction, Democrats will benefit, even among more
conservative farmers who still vote with their pocketbooks, said
Nicholas Bauroth, a political science professor at North Dakota
State University in Fargo.  “Ideology is a lot less important when you’re talking
about your livelihood,” said Bauroth.  The five-year farm legislation funds federal nutrition
programs including  food stamps , the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s biggest expense, as well as subsidies to farmers
that lower raw-materials costs for companies including  Archer
Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  Both the Senate and House
committee versions cost about $1 trillion over 10 years.  The failure of both parties to get a bill through the House
makes voters skeptical of Washington, said Bing Van Bergen, who
grows wheat outside Moccasin, Montana.  “For us sitting out her in limbo-land,” waiting for a
bill to pass, he said, “there’s a feeling that we’ve elected
them to do a job, and that job hasn’t been done. It’s pretty
much equal blame” between parties, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  