-- Rickets Spending Millions to Urge Obama Voters to Switch
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-17T22:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/rickets-spending-millions-to-urge-obama-voters-to-switch.html
Chicago Cubs owner  Joe Ricketts 
will spend $10 million on television ads and voter-outreach
efforts to help Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  defeat
President  Barack Obama , aides to Ricketts said today.  The former  TD Ameritrade (AMTD)  executive’s return to the
presidential race comes four months after Romney repudiated an
ad pitch made to Ricketts’ group that resurrected questions
about Obama’s ties to Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., a Chicago
preacher known for racially charged sermons.  Ricketts rejected that proposal and Ending Spending Action
Fund, a super-political action committee funded almost entirely
by him, has been focusing on other federal elections, including
that of  Ted Cruz , a Texas Republican running for Senate.
Ricketts will spend another $2 million on congressional races
before Election Day, his aides said.  Brian Baker , president of Ending Spending, said Ricketts
always intended to stay involved in the presidential race and
that with just a few weeks to go until Nov. 6, this is the ideal
time to release new ads. The first run will begin this week on
national cable stations, Baker said.  “We’ve been working on this for months,” he said.  The super-PAC’s new presidential ad campaign, reported
earlier by the Wall Street Journal, focuses on voters who
switched to Romney after backing Obama in 2008. The $10 million
pays for television and online ads, direct mail and door-to-door
voter contact, said Danielle Hagen, a spokeswoman for Ending
Spending. Baker called it a “surround-sound approach.”  Targeted Voters  “We want to reach people wherever we can,” he said. Sarah
Taylor Fagen, who worked with  Karl Rove , former President  George W. Bush ’s chief political strategist, is leading Ending
Spending’s efforts to target undecided voters, Baker said.  Federal Election Commission records show the Ricketts
super-PAC is no longer working with Fred Davis, the Hollywood ad
producer who wrote the Wright-themed proposal, in favor of
Victory Film Group, the Santa Monica, California-based company
behind “The Hope and the Change.” That 60-minute movie
production includes interviews with people identifying
themselves as disaffected Obama voters and was paid for by
Citizens United, a super-PAC that supports Republicans.  Ricketts’ super-PAC paid Victory Film Group $141,300 last
month, FEC records show. Baker said his relationship with
Victory Film and its head, Stephen K. Bannon, dates back several
years. Victory produced an ad campaign for Ending Spending’s
interviews with Republican presidential primary contenders
earlier this election cycle.  Ricketts’ involvement in the presidential race comes at a
time when his baseball club is seeking political and financial
support for renovations to Chicago’s Wrigley Field -- where
Mayor Rahm Emanuel is a close ally of Obama’s. His Ending
Spending super-PAC, and companion nonprofit, are aimed at
cutting what they call wasteful  government spending ,
particularly on congressional earmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  