-- Romney Seeks to Blunt Obama Edge With Swing-State Latinos
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-17T20:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/romney-seeks-to-blunt-obama-edge-with-swing-state-latinos.html
Mitt Romney  pledged to help small
businesses grow as well as pursue “permanent immigration
reform” as he tries to cut into President  Barack Obama ’s
support among Hispanic voters with 50 days left before Election
Day.  “Candidate Obama promised us a world of limitless hope,”
the Republican presidential nominee said today to the U.S.
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce convention in  Los Angeles . “What
we got instead is a world where hope has painful limits --
limits that make it harder to start a business, to grow a
business, or to find a job.”  Romney is seeking to reset his campaign as he’s lost ground
in polls following the political conventions in late August and
early September and after the debate -- at least temporarily --
shifted to foreign policy following the death last week of a
U.S. ambassador in  Libya .  “We do think the timing is right at this moment to
reinforce the specifics, more specifics, of the Romney plan for
a stronger middle class,” senior Romney adviser  Ed Gillespie 
told reporters on a conference call today.  Gillespie called the change a “natural progression” after
voters learned more about Romney’s biography during the Aug. 27-
30  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida . He said the
effort wouldn’t outline new policies and instead would seek to
help voters better understand Romney’s plans via speeches,
appearances by surrogates and paid advertising.  Tactical Shift  The shift in tactics comes as the Romney campaign is
dealing with a  report  in Politico yesterday that said his aides
are divided over the leadership role and style of his chief
strategist Stuart Stevens.  Romney, in an interview today with Telemundo television
network, said he has a “terrific campaign,” and there will be
“no changes” to his team.  A nationwide poll released Sept. 14 by  CBS News  and the  New
York  Times showed Obama with a 3-percentage-point edge among
likely voters, and surveys in battleground states have shown him
with larger margins.  In his speech today, Romney sought to turn the campaign
conversation back to the national deficit, small businesses and
jobs -- topics that may work to the strengths of the former Bain
Capital LLC private-equity executive. Still, he remarks didn’t
include many specifics.  ‘Hard Hit’  “No one is exempt from the pain of this economy,” he
said. “The Hispanic community has been particularly hard hit.”  Obama’s campaign derided Romney’s speech.  “On Issue after issue -- from energy to spending, health
care and immigration -- he did not propose a single new idea,”
Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  In a recorded message to the convention, Obama told those
at the convention that the choice they face in the election
“couldn’t be bigger,” as he suggested that an  Arizona  law
cracking down on illegal immigrants could become a “model for
the nation” with a federal government under Republican control.  Obama’s campaign also put up an Internet video today that
mocked Romney for seeking an “extreme makeover” when it comes
to appealing to Hispanic voters.  Romney’s pitch to Hispanic voters aims to blunt the support
Obama enjoys especially in battleground states with large
Hispanic populations such as Florida,  Colorado ,  Nevada  and
 Virginia .  ‘Fire Up’  “He doesn’t have much Latino support, especially compared
to Obama, but the support he does have he needs to fire up and
make  sure he has with him,” said  Victoria M. DeFrancesco Soto ,
a fellow at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at
the  University of Texas  in Austin.  Hispanics helped propel Obama to the White House in the
2008 election. He won 67 percent of their vote, compared with 31
percent for Republican  John McCain , according to exit polls.
Obama led Romney 66 percent to 29 percent in a  survey  of
registered Hispanic voters by the polling firm Latino Decisions
and impreMedia that was taken Aug. 31 through Sept. 6.  Romney must secure a larger proportion of the Hispanic vote
than McCain to have a chance at winning the White House,
DeFrancesco Soto said. As part of that, she said, he’ll also try
to convince Obama’s Hispanic supporters to “stay home” on
Election Day because of disappointment with his failure to
deliver the overhaul of immigration law he promised in 2008.  “For years, Republicans and Democrats seem to have been
more interested in playing politics with immigration than with
actually fixing it,” Romney said in his speech. “Candidate
Obama said that one of his highest priorities would be to fix
immigration in his first year in office.”  Self-Deport Plan  Romney, 65, started the general-election season with an
uphill climb with Hispanics. During the Republican primary
contest, he used tougher rhetoric than some of his adversaries
when discussing illegal immigration, stressing his opposition to
any proposal that gives legal status to undocumented immigrants
without first requiring that they leave the U.S., and advocating
a program that he said would lead to “self-deportation.”  He made no distinction at that time for young illegal
immigrants brought to the country as children -- a group Obama
targeted with an executive order paving the way to citizenship
for some of them.  Unemployment Issue  Since securing the nomination, Romney has tried to moderate
his position by stressing the difficulties Hispanics have
experienced in the economic downturn. The jobless  rate  among
Hispanics was 10.2 percent last month.  In a move that pleased many Hispanics, Obama on June 15
announced implementation of key parts of the so-called “Dream
Act,” including exemption from deportation for some illegal
immigrants under the age of 30 brought to the U.S. before they
turned 16 and who have been in the country for at least five
straight years. Those exempted must have no criminal history and
are attending school or have earned a high school diploma, or
have served in the military.  Romney has said he favors awarding permanent residency to
foreign students who obtain advanced degrees in math, science or
engineering at universities, saying they should have green cards
stapled to their diplomas.  “Instead of playing immigration politics with these
children, I will pursue permanent immigration reform, and I will
start by ensuring that those who serve in our military have the
opportunity to become legal permanent residents of the country
they fought to defend,” he said in his speech.  Obama is campaigning today in the  Ohio . An NBC News/Wall
Street Journal/Marist poll released Sept. 13 showed him leading
Romney there, 50 percent to 43 percent. Romney also trailed the
president by 5 percentage points in Florida and Virginia, two
additional states Obama won in 2008, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Los Angeles, California at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  