-- Romney’s Tax Plan Could Get the Rich to Pay More
-- B y   H a r v e y   S .   R o s e n
-- 2012-09-17T22:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/romney-s-tax-plan-could-get-the-rich-to-pay-more.html
Mitt Romney  is calling for income-
tax reform as part of his program to increase U.S. economic
growth.  The Republican presidential candidate proposes to reduce
all marginal tax rates by 20 percent; repeal the alternative
minimum tax; limit the  tax rate  on dividends and  capital gains 
to 15 percent; eliminate taxes on interest, dividends and
capital gains for families whose incomes are less than $200,000;
and broaden the tax base by reducing or eliminating various tax
preferences. The Romney campaign has asserted that all this can
be done in a way that raises the same amount of revenue as under
the status quo -- and without increasing the tax burden on
people whose incomes are low or moderate.  The  Tax Policy Center , a project of the  Brookings
Institution  and the  Urban Institute , has  challenged  this
assertion, arguing in a recent paper that it is mathematically
impossible. The center contends that the Romney proposal would
give a tax break to high-income families, requiring other
families to pay more to make up for the lost revenue. This has
set off a spirited debate, much of which has focused on the
feasibility of eliminating various tax preferences.  One essential issue has been mostly absent in the debate,
however, and that is the effect the Romney proposal could have
on economic growth. This is an odd omission, because the primary
motivation behind the proposal is to promote growth.  (Disclosure: I have signed a statement in support of
Romney’s candidacy and have been contacted by his advisers from
time to time but have no affiliation with the campaign.)  The  Tax Policy  Center model assumes that, regardless of
their tax rates, people will work the same amount of time and
will save and invest the same amount of money. It is important
to note that this is the center’s usual approach; it hasn’t
changed its standard operating procedure in order to make the
Romney proposal look bad.  Questionable Assumption  That doesn’t necessarily make their assumption a good one.
When concerned citizens look at tables that purport to show the
taxes that would be paid under someone’s tax proposal, they
might reasonably expect to see, well, the taxes that would be
paid under that proposal. By assuming that a change in the  tax
code  would make no difference in the way people work or save,
the  Tax Policy Center ’s analysis doesn’t tell concerned citizens
what they want to know.  According to my own highly unscientific survey, even
professional economists who aren’t aficionados of tax policy are
surprised to learn that the numbers discussed in the news media
are based on calculations that explicitly rule out any changes
in labor supply or investment behavior. In the academic
literature on tax policy, it is routine to include such
behavioral effects.  The basic question that arises here is, how much would the
Romney proposal increase growth? Both economic theory and
historical experience suggest that, in any income tax system,
lowering marginal rates and broadening the base enhance growth.
However, no one knows for sure the precise magnitude of the
effect. Economic behavior is very complicated, and let’s face
it, economic forecasters haven’t exactly covered themselves in
glory during the past few years. But it by no means follows that
a zero response is the right answer.  In light of the uncertainty, it makes sense to consider
several possibilities. In a recent study, I took this tack,
including estimates for zero, three, five and seven percentage-
point increases in income levels.  Revenue Increases  Here’s what I found: Assuming that current tax policy is
the starting point, a modest 3 percent increase in incomes
generated by the more efficient tax system would lead to about
$14.7 billion in additional taxes from people whose incomes are
$200,000 and above. Revenue is also increased by reducing the
incentive to engage in various tax-avoidance activities (for
example, buying municipal bonds, the interest on which isn’t
taxed). Taking into account the effects of both growth and
reduced tax avoidance, members of this income group would pay
about $29 billion more in taxes.  In short, a proposal along the lines of the one Romney has
suggested wouldn’t necessarily lower the tax burden on high
earners. So moderate- and lower-income families wouldn’t need to
pay more to keep total revenue from falling.  The crucial lesson is that higher rates of economic growth
under Romney’s plan would be big enough to matter. To be sure,
the actual extent to which a program of  tax reform  (and
regulatory reform) would increase growth is controversial. But
this should be debated, not ignored. The potential for economic
growth should take center stage in the national conversation
over tax policy.  (Harvey S. Rosen is a professor of economics at  Princeton
University . He served on President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of
Economic Advisers . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress has let
companies  shortchange pension funds  and on the Obama
administration’s  trade dispute with China ;  Edward Glaeser  on
Obama’s missed chances for  long-term economic reform ;
Adam Minter on  China’s anti-Japanese riots ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
the  makers versus takers election ; Shikha Dalmia on why
 immigrants can’t save U.S. cities  by themselves.  To contact the writer of this article:
Harvey S. Rosen at  HSR@Princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 