-- Russia’s Sberbank Said to Begin Share Sale Tomorrow
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-09-17T16:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/russia-s-sberbank-said-to-begin-share-sale-tomorrow.html
Russia ’s central bank is selling
7.6 percent of OAO Sberbank, the country’s largest lender, as
the government seeks to reduce its role in the economy.  Bank Rossii is offering the equivalent of 1.71 billion
shares in ordinary and global depositary stock at a range of 91
rubles to the market price at the time the order book closes,
the central bank and Sberbank said in a statement today. A sale
at the low end of the range would raise 156 billion rubles ($5.1
billion).  Russia’s government is seeking the sale as part of its plan
to raise about 1.5 trillion rubles through 2015, according to
the  Finance Ministry . Bank Rossii’s stake in Moscow-based
Sberbank will fall to 50 percent plus one share. The state asset
sale program has stalled since the $3.3 billion offering of a 10
percent stake in VTB Group 19 months ago. Economy Minister
Andrei Belousov said some privatizations planned for this year
may be moved to 2013, news wire RIA Novosti reported Sept. 14.  “We think the deal will become the hottest offering of the
year and not just in the Russian space,” Renaissance Capital
analysts led by Milena Ivanova-Venturini wrote in a report e-
mailed today. “The timing for a secondary public offering could
not possibly get any better with the unleashing” of a third
round of quantitative easing.  Shares Decline  Sberbank  rose  4.6 percent to 96.99 rubles in Moscow trading
on Sept. 14, valuing the company at about $69 billion. The
shares were among the leading decliners on the Micex today,
slumping 1.4 percent to 95.68 rubles by the close in Moscow.  Banks managing the sale have received orders for all the
stock being offered, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter. Bankers managing the sale are set to
stop taking orders tomorrow, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the process is private.  Comments in January by First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  that the central bank may sell “closer to 100
rubles” were of “no relevance,” according to the lender’s
chief financial officer, Anton Karamzin. “That was quite a
while ago, and they were private opinions,” Karmazin said by
phone today.  The sale will be priced in rubles and dollars, with as much
as 15 percent of the stock being sold through the Micex Stock
Exchange and the rest going to institutional investors. The
placement will be in Moscow and  London , the lender’s deputy
chairman, Bella Zlatkis, told investors today.  ‘Last Ruble’  “There should be some sort of discount,” said Mattias Westman, a founder of Prosperity Capital, which manages about $4
billion in assets, including Sberbank shares. “If the state has
other things to sell, they shouldn’t push for the last ruble.
Other assets have been priced too richly in the past and they
are trying to re-establish Russia as a credible  capital market 
for investors.” Westman declined to say whether Prosperity will
take part in the sale.  Sberbank said it may acquire the equivalent of 20 billion
rubles of ordinary shares in the offering on the same terms as
other investors. No new capital will be raised as part of the
offering, according to the statement.  Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said by phone today the
book building will last as long as three days, with pricing
decisions made as the book is built.  “We’re lucky, we waited a long time,” Gref said. “Our
shareholders set a goal of selling the stake at the maximum
price. Now is the most favorable time both to sell the whole
stake and to get the maximum price.”  ‘Reasonable’ Guidance  Sberbank has already spent the past two weeks talking to
investors, Zlatkis said. A price of 91 rubles would represent a
discount to the average price last week, she said.  “The initial guidance at the bottom of the range seems
reasonable,” Kirill Bagachenko, who manages about $3 billion in
Russian equities, including Sberbank shares, at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by e-mail comments.
“We will look closely at the deal and haven’t decided yet to
take part because a 4 percent discount is not a game changer.”  The former Soviet savings bank has been transformed under Gref, a former economy minister for President  Vladimir Putin .
The bank, which holds about 46 percent of the nation’s deposits,
has diversified into  investment banking  and asset management and
expanded overseas. Sberbank’s deals this year include  Turkey ’s
Denizbank, acquired in June for $3.5 billion, and most of
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s eastern European business for
505 million euros ($633 million) in February. Sberbank this
month also agreed to buy 70 percent of BNP Paribas SA’s consumer
finance unit in Russia.  ‘Critical Step’  “We view this as a critical step in our broader plan to
reinforce Sberbank’s position as the leading Russian financial
institution and transform it into one of the world’s top-
performing banks,” Gref said in the statement. Sberbank is the
third-largest bank in  Europe  by market capitalization after HSBC
Holdings Plc and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Troika Dialog, a unit of
Sberbank, are managing the sale, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  