-- Sberbank Biggest Micex Decliner on Stake Sale: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-09-17T15:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/sberbank-biggest-micex-decliner-on-stake-sale-moscow-mover.html
OAO Sberbank fell the most in seven
weeks as  Russia ’s central bank started selling a stake in the
country’s largest lender, fulfilling the government’s pledge to
reduce its role in the economy.  Sberbank sank 1.4 percent to 95.68 rubles by the close in
Moscow, the biggest retreat since July 31. The shares lost as
much as 2.6 percent earlier. Sberbank’s preferred shares slumped
the most of the 30 stocks on the Micex, losing 3.9 percent.  Bank Rossii is offering the equivalent of 1.71 billion
shares in ordinary and global depositary stock at a range of 91
rubles to the market price at the time the order book closes,
the central bank and Sberbank said in a statement today. A sale
at the low end of the range would raise 156 billion rubles ($5.1
billion). Sberbank’s shares closed at 96.99 rubles on Sept. 14.  “There’s an overhang effect from a large volume of shares
being sold in the market,” Natalia Berezina, an analyst at
Uralsib Financial Corp., said by phone from Moscow.  Sberbank has the  third-largest weighting  in the Micex at 14
percent, Bloomberg data show. Russia aims to close the book on
the sale today or tomorrow, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  The sale will be priced in rubles and dollars, with as much
as 15 percent of the stock being sold through the Micex Stock
Exchange and the rest going to institutional investors. Sberbank
said it may acquire the equivalent of 20 billion rubles of
ordinary shares in the offering at the same terms as other
investors.  ‘Powerful Catalyst’  Russia’s government is seeking the sale as part of its plan
to raise 1.5 trillion rubles through 2015, according to the
 Finance Ministry . Bank Rossii’s stake in Sberbank will fall to
50 percent plus one share after the share sale.  “From an emotional point of view, this is a powerful
catalyst for the whole market,” Mikhail Shlemov, an analyst at
VTB Capital, said by phone. “This is a strong signal that the
government is serious about its intentions to liberalize the
market.”  The Micex has rallied 9.1 percent this year, rising more
than 20 percent from this year’s low on May 23 to enter a so-
called  bull market  on Sept. 14.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Troika Dialog, a unit of
Sberbank, are managing the sale, according to the statement.  ‘Lucky’ Sberbank  Sberbank expects the shares to fetch a “maximum price”
after the U.S. and European central banks announced measures to
spur economic growth, Chief Executive Officer  German Gref  said
by phone.  “We’re lucky, we waited a long time,” Gref said today.
“Our shareholders set a goal of selling the stake at the
maximum price. Now is the most favorable time both to sell the
whole stake.”  Decisions by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European
Central Bank  “raised investor optimism,” Gref said.  Bids for Sberbank shares may be accepted for as long as
three days, including today, Gref said. It’s too early to say
when pricing will be set, he said.  “We’ve been working on the sale for 15 months,” Gref
said. “Today is the best time.”  Banks managing Sberbank’s share sale have received orders
for all stock being offered, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the matter. Banks managing the offering are set to
stop taking orders tomorrow, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the process is private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  