-- Shell Suffers Alaska Oil Drilling Setback After Dome Damage
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-09-17T15:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/shell-won-t-drill-for-oil-in-alaska-this-year-after-dome-damaged.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, was forced to scrap plans to drill for oil
off Alaska this year after a containment dome designed to cap a
spill was damaged.  The need for repairs won’t leave enough time to drill deep
enough to find oil this year, The Hague-based Shell said today
in a statement. It will instead drill a number of so-called top
holes, preparing the way for a renewed exploration campaign next
year. Shell had planned to invest $1 billion in exploration off
Alaska this year.  “We are disappointed that the dome has not yet met our
stringent acceptance standards, but as we have said all along,
we will not conduct any operation until we are satisfied that we
are fully prepared to do it safely,” the company said.  Following six years of preparation, Shell began drilling
this month in  Alaska ’s Chukchi Sea after obtaining a permit from
the U.S. Interior Department. It has invested $4.5 billion in
offshore leases and equipment and fought at least 50 lawsuits
from environmental groups opposing the first wells in the Arctic
waters in about 20 years.  “Investors must now be asking whether investing such vast
sums of money trying to exploit the fragile Arctic is really
worth it,” Ben Ayliffe, a Greenpeace campaigner, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Sea Ice  The company was only able to drill for about a day and had
to suspend operations to move the rig to avoid encroaching sea
ice. In July, the U.S. Coast Guard had to inspect the Noble
Discoverer drillship when it slipped its mooring and drifted
toward shore in the Aleutian Islands. The rig crew didn’t report
any damage.  The drillship will resume drilling operations at the Burger
A prospect in the  Chukchi Sea  in the coming days, Shell said.
The company also plans to start exploratory drilling in the
 Beaufort Sea .  Shell had planned to start exploration in July. It had to
modify the Arctic Challenger barge, brought in to help collect
any oil spilled in case of a well blowout, to satisfy U.S. Coast
Guard requirements.  Shell fell 0.3 percent to 2,254.5 pence in  London .  Shell is revisiting Burger, which was discovered in the
1990s and may hold about 1.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent
resources, Theepan Jothilingam, an oil analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in London, said in a Sept. 10 report citing Wood
Mackenzie estimates. Possible discoveries in the Beaufort and
Chukchi Seas could generate $10 billion in value for Shell,
Jothilingam said.  “We understand the original well was drilled at the crest
and found gas condensate,” he wrote. “Shell intends to drill
this time around the flanks and to target oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  