-- Singapore Exports Drop More Than Estimated on Electronics
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-09-17T09:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/singapore-s-exports-decline-more-than-estimated-on-electronics.html
Singapore ’s exports fell more than
economists estimated in August as shipments of electronics
dropped and companies sold fewer goods to  Europe . The country’s
currency weakened.  Non-oil domestic  exports  slid 10.6 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 5.7 percent increase in July, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement today. The decline, the
first since March, exceeded all 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey , where the median was for a 4 percent drop.  Europe’s protracted debt crisis, a U.S. jobless rate stuck
above 8 percent and a slowdown in  China  are damping demand for
Asian goods and commodities, prompting  Hong Kong ’s Trade
Development Council to cut the island’s export forecast today.
The weakening global outlook has prompted Singapore’s government
to trim its 2012 economic growth forecast and may put pressure
on the central bank to ease its monetary policy stance.  “Underlying demand for electronic exports is still
struggling,” Michael Wan, a Singapore-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a note today. “With this weak print, we
suspect gross domestic product will contract for a second
consecutive quarter in the third quarter, pushing Singapore into
technical recession.”  Credit Suisse predicts the central bank will allow slower
gains in the local dollar at the next policy review in October.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the  exchange rate  to
manage inflation.  The  Singapore dollar  fell 0.3 percent to S$1.2233 against
the U.S. currency as of 5:23 p.m. local time, paring its gain
for the year to about 6 percent. It is the best performing among
11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year.  Lower Forecasts  Singapore’s overseas sales may rise 4.2 percent in 2012, a
central bank survey of economists released last week showed,
compared with a 5.6 percent gain predicted in the June survey.
The Hong Kong Trade Development Council cut its full-year export
forecast to a contraction of 1 percent, according to a release
on its website today.  “I don’t think there is a sharp turnaround shortly in
sight,”  Selena Ling , a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., said before the report. Exports may only
recover in 2013, she said.  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
Venture Corp. fell 11 percent in August from a year earlier,
after climbing 2 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, decreased 10.4 percent. Petrochemicals exports
gained 1.3 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments slid 3.2
percent after rising 1.3 percent in July.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  fell a seasonally adjusted 9.1
percent last month from July, when they dropped 3.6 percent,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Sarina Yoo in Seoul at 
 kyoo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  