-- Sirius Minerals Rises on Plan for U.K. Potash Mine: London Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-17T15:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/sirius-minerals-rises-on-plan-for-u-k-potash-mine-london-mover.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX)  rose for a
fourth day, the longest winning streak in eight months, as
investors warmed to its plan for a potash mine that may hold the
largest deposit of a mineral used to make the fertilizer.  Sirius  gained  9.4 percent to 23.25 pence at the close of
trading in  London , extending its advance to more than 30 percent
since it announced details Sept. 3 of a proposed underground
development in the North York Moors National Park in the U.K.  The design “should significantly allay fears of visual
impact/environmental concerns,” Ash Lazenby, an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote in a note to investors as London-
based Sirius revealed changes to the mine proposal.  The project, near the coastal town of Whitby in the north
of  England , would be the second potash mine in the U.K. Its
store of polyhalite, used to make sulfate of potash, may be the
largest in the world, Chief Executive Officer Chris Fraser said
in February.  Sirius altered plans in order to reach the ore through less
intrusive vertical shafts from land now used for farming and
forestry. The design will “minimize the impact on the local
community and the environment,” it said.  Sirius, which was listed on London’s AIM stock market in
2005, has also evaluated land in  North Dakota  and  Australia  for
mining and doesn’t plan to perform further work there “in the
near future,” according to its annual report for the year ended
March 31.  Production at the Whitby mine is intended to begin in 2017,
according to Fraser, the former head of metals and mining
investment banking at Citigroup Inc. in Australia.  The company’s stock, which rose 10 percent on Sept. 14, has
more than doubled in 12 months. Liberum’s Lazenby, as well as
the two other  analysts  who report findings on Sirius to
Bloomberg, recommend buying the shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Heather Harris  at   hharris5@bloomberg.net .
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  