-- Slowdown Seen in U.S. Manufacturing With Parker Hannifin
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-09-17T14:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/slowdown-seen-in-u-s-manufacturing-with-parker-hannifin.html
Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  and  Parker
Hannifin Corp. (PH) , which will be releasing their quarterly results
next month, are showing why the  U.S. economy  is maintaining a
slow expansion.  Both could see their total revenue fall “slightly,”
primarily because of “adverse currency translation” and also
because of disappointing sales in Europe and  Asia , according to
Robert McCarthy, a senior analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in
 Chicago . While it’s “incrementally more difficult” to forecast
order growth in  North America , it probably didn’t contract for
either company in the three months ending Sept. 30, as this
business segment continues to expand, he said.  Data from these manufacturers are useful for investors such
as Steven Roukis, managing director at Matrix Asset Advisors
Inc. in New York. Illinois Tool Works’ North American
industrial-packaging revenue and  Parker Hannifin ’s North
American industrial orders are “early barometers” of
production because both are exposed to a “broad swath” of
customers, he said.  “To get a sense of the direction of the economy” in the
first few weeks of the quarter starting Oct. 1, investors also
should listen closely to company executives on the earnings
conference calls, said Roukis, who helps oversee about $900
million in assets. These calls are “important for a qualitative
read” on the state of their operating environments, he said.  Manufacturing Contracts  Manufacturing in the New York region contracted more than
forecast this month amid declining orders, as the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic index dropped to
minus 10.41, the lowest since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in
August, the bank said today. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers
 New York , northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Industrial output for the U.S., excluding high-tech and
vehicles, rose 2 percent to an index value of 95.3 in August
from a year earlier, the  slowest pace  since March 2010,
according to data from the Fed, which is scheduled to report
September results Oct. 16.  Parker Hannifin, which manufactures motion-control products
including pumps and valves, is slated to announce fiscal first-
quarter  earnings  on Oct. 18, followed by Illinois Tool Works,
maker of fasteners and components, on Oct. 25 with its third-
quarter  results . The companies declined to comment.  ‘Good Gauge’  The industrial-packaging business of Glenview-based
Illinois Tool Works is a “good gauge” of U.S. industrial
production because its wrapping products are used “once goods
roll off the conveyor belt” in a wide variety of end markets,
said Jeff Windau, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis . Meanwhile, Parker Hannifin is a proxy for capital-goods
orders because the Cleveland-based company makes components for
“big and heavy” items such as airplanes, tractors,  machine
tools  and automobiles, McCarthy said.  While these segments at both manufacturers have grown,
gains have slowed to mid-single digit rates, “representative of
the sluggishness we’re seeing more broadly in the U.S.,” Windau
said.  Employers added 96,000 workers to payrolls in August,
missing the median forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News , while the jobless rate has been stuck  above 8 percent 
since February 2009. U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a
1.7 percent annual rate in the second quarter, up from an
initial estimate of 1.5 percent, but less than the first
quarter’s 2 percent, according to revised data from the Commerce
Department.  Slower Growth  Illinois Tool Works’ North American industrial-packaging
revenue grew 4 percent in the second quarter compared with a
year earlier, the slowest since 2009 when revenue was
contracting, company data show. Similarly, Parker Hannifin’s
North American industrial orders also marked the slowest gain
since 2009, rising 4 percent in the three months ended June 30
from a year earlier, based on data from the manufacturer.  Even so, attractive valuations for Parker Hannifin and an
“ongoing transformation process” under way at Illinois Tool
Works make their stocks appealing to investors, McCarthy said,
citing these as reasons for his “outperform” recommendations.
In addition, these manufacturers “have solid, long-term track
records of increasing dividends,” said Windau, who maintains
“buy” recommendations on both.  Illinois Tool Works has risen almost  31 percent  this year,
while Parker Hannifin is up about  13 percent . That compares with
an almost  17 percent  rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Early Cue’  If either company pre-announces negative quarterly results,
this would send “an early cue” of weakness several weeks
before government figures are released, Roukis said. He
forecasts that Illinois Tool Works probably will fare better
because of Parker Hannifin’s “almost pure industrial
exposure.”  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft and
parts fell 6.2 percent in July from the year-ago period to
almost  $61.2 billion , the lowest since February 2011, according
to the Census Bureau, which will release August figures on Sept.
27 and September data Oct. 25.  Still, North American orders at these companies haven’t
fallen below zero, as they did during the 18-month recession
that ended in June 2009. If they did, this could confirm the
weakness seen in the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
manufacturing index, which was  below 50  -- a sign of contraction
-- for a third consecutive month in August, the longest such
stretch since 2009.  Through their quarterly results and conference calls, these
companies provide the “forward outlook” that’s especially
important to investors now, as the health of the economic
expansion has come into doubt, Roukis said. They “are going to
give you the flavor that’s not in the government data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  