-- South Korea’s Shin Wins Women’s British Open by Record 9 Strokes
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-17T02:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/south-korea-s-shin-wins-women-s-british-open-by-record-9-strokes.html
Jiyai Shin of  South Korea  won the
Women’s British Open by a record nine strokes for her second
straight victory on the LPGA Tour.  Shin overcame wind and rain to shoot rounds of 1-under par
71 and 1-over 73 yesterday to finish 9-under par 279 over four
rounds at Royal Liverpool Golf Club in Hoylake, England. Inbee Park finished second at even-par, while Paula Creamer was third
at 1 over. The tournament finished with 36 holes after high
winds wiped out a day’s play on Sept. 14.  The 24-year-old Shin, who also won the 2008 Women’s British
Open, last week captured the LPGA’s Kingsmill Championship by
outlasting Creamer in a nine-hole playoff that delayed her
arrival in  England  by one day.  “My first win in 2008 changed my life,” Shin said in
comments on the tournament’s  website . “This win, I think it
will change it too. I said at the start of the week I wanted to
play every round in one under par so to get to nine under in
this weather on a course as tough as this is incredible.”  Shin’s margin of victory is the largest at the Women’s
British Open since the tournament became a major in 2001,
surpassing Karen Stupples’s five-shot win in 2004. Louise Suggs
holds the record for the largest margin of victory in an LPGA
major, with a 14-shot win at the 1949 U.S. Women’s Open.  Shin’s win marks the first time that all four women’s major
golf tournaments have been won by Asian players in the same
season, the LPGA Tour said. Fellow South Koreans Sun Young Yoo
and Na Yeon Choi won the Kraft Nabisco Championship and U.S.
Women’s Open, respectively, while  China ’s Shanshan Feng captured
the LPGA Championship.  Asian golfers have won nine of the past 12 majors on the
LPGA Tour.  “I can’t tell you why so many Asian players are winning
majors at the moment,” Shin said. “Maybe it’s down to hard
work. Maybe it’s luck, or a bit of both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  