-- Spanish Banks Bleeding Cash Cloud Bailout Debate: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-17T09:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/spanish-banks-bleeding-cash-cloud-bailout-debate-euro-credit.html
Spanish banks, already hooked on
cheap European Central Bank loans, are hemorrhaging  deposits  as
the government debates whether to seek a bailout.  Households and companies  drained 26 billion euros ($34
billion) from Spanish bank accounts in July, driving the ratio
of loans to deposits among lenders to 187 percent from 183
percent in December and 182 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by the Bank of  Spain . Shrinking deposits undermine
the ability of banks to support economic growth by  lending  to
companies and consumers.  “There are significant outflows of deposits now in Spain
and they won’t start coming back until people are sure they’re
safe and that Spain is secure,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial
strategist at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in  London .  Spain’s financial industry is already backstopped by  Europe 
to the tune of 100 billion euros, and is reliant on 412 billion
euros of gross borrowings from the ECB. Investors demand 423
basis points more to own CaixaBank SA bonds maturing in 2015
than German bunds of similar maturity, up from a premium of
about 384 when the bonds were sold in January.  Bond markets have reopened for Spanish banks after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to help bring down government
borrowing costs.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  led a return to wholesale
debt markets last month when it sold 2 billion euros of senior
unsecured bonds in the first sale by a Spanish bank in more than
five months. Santander paid 390 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, compared with a 250 basis-point premium on
five-year bonds that the bank sold in March.  Ratio Requirements  Governments must first seek wider help from Europe’s rescue
mechanism before the ECB will buy bonds. Moreover, the terms of
 Portugal ’s May 2011 bailout require its banks to achieve a loan-
to-deposit ratio of 120 percent by the end of 2014, while
Ireland’s deal demands a ratio of 122.5 percent by 2013. No such
provision was included in the July memorandum of understanding
for Spain’s bank bailout.  “The first consequence of a lower loan-to-deposit ratio
being set is that you have to identify chunks of assets to sell
and that inevitably leads to haircuts and capital
implications,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst at Dublin-based
Goodbody Securities. “It also forces you to pay up for
deposits, as we have seen in the Irish case.”  Imposing a loan-to-deposit target for Spanish lenders may
mean they would have to reduce lending by 14 percent to 24
percent, Daragh Quinn and Duncan Farr, analysts Nomura
International, wrote in a report published today. “The need to
strengthen customer funding could also see the emergence of a
deposit war, putting additional pressure on revenues, which are
already likely to suffer from the low interest rate
environment,” they said.  Record Outflow  Scrutiny of customer fund outflows at Spanish banks has
intensified since the ECB said Aug. 28 that so-called private
sector deposits shrank by 74 billion euros, or 4.7 percent, in
July, the biggest drop on record. The ECB data include items
such as deposits by securitization funds that banks say they
don’t rely on for financing their business.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  said in a Sept. 4 report
that a decline in securitization funds deposits helped explain
the drop as banks substituted them by issuing covered bonds to
discount at the ECB. Household and company deposits are stable
once the practice of banks using instruments such as commercial
paper to raise funds is taken into account. The loans-to-deposit
ratio for BBVA’s Spanish business is 167 percent, according to
the bank’s own data.  Accelerated Decline  Figures from Spain’s banking association showed  deposits 
for Santander’s Spanish business dropped 6.3 percent in July
from June, while BBVA’s slumped 7.1 percent, said the
association, known as AEB.  Santander said the decline in July was partly due to a drop
in  repurchase agreements . BBVA spokesman  Paul Tobin  also
attributed the bank’s deposit slide to repos, saying the data
cited by AEB was for its operations in Spain, Portugal and the
wholesale business elsewhere in Europe and  New York .  There is “a clear underlying trend of accelerating deposit
decline,” Nomura’s Quinn wrote in a Sept. 4 report. Term
deposits by households fell 6.9 percent in July from a year
earlier, while those of companies fell 24 percent, which
“points to continued deposit declines in the future,” he said.  Replacing cheap ECB funding with cash raised on the  bond
market  may mean lower profit margins for banks, said Alvaro Serrano and Sara Minelli, London-based analysts at Morgan
Stanley, in a Sept. 12 report.  Growth Implications  About 86 percent of  Bankinter SA (BKT) ’s estimated 2013 profits
derive from its ability to borrow cheaply from the ECB, the
analysts said, with Banco Popular Espanol SA dependent on
central bank funds for about 79 percent of earnings. Meanwhile,
 Bank of Spain  data shows lenders are offering higher deposit
rates to attract cash, with  interest rates  on account for as
long as one year climbing to 2.5 percent in July, the highest
level since March.  Declining deposits may inflict more damage on the Spanish
economy if the seepage of the most reliable source of funding
further dries up credit, said Maughan at Olivetree. The
 International Monetary Fund  predicts Spain’s economy will
contract 1.7 percent this year and 1.2 percent in 2013.  “If deposits are falling, then the only option for Spanish
banks to bring down their loans to deposit ratio is to cut back
on the loans side,” Maughan said. “Does that sound like a good
idea?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  