-- Standard Bank Argentina Stake Sale to China’s ICBC Delayed
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-09-17T16:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/standard-bank-argentina-stake-sale-to-china-s-icbc-delayed-1-.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd., which
expected to close the sale of a stake in its Argentine unit to
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  by June, said the
deal may not conclude before year-end on regulatory hurdles.  “We’re disappointed it didn’t close in the first half and
we’ll do it as fast as we can,” David Munro, chief executive
officer for corporate and investment banking at Standard, said
in a telephone interview from Johannesburg on Sept. 14.  Standard last year reversed its expansion strategy in
 emerging markets , selling assets in  Russia ,  Turkey  and Argentina
to raise cash for  Africa  investment. It agreed in 2011 to sell
80 percent of its stake in the Argentine unit to ICBC for about
$400 million. The price was in part dependent on the net asset
value of  Standard Bank (SBK)   Argentina  in pesos converted to dollars.  “The Argentine bank has been doing so well that it has
been doing better than the peso, so we don’t expect a
significantly different amount,” Finance Director Simon Ridley
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 14. The peso has fallen
12 percent against the dollar since Standard Bank announced its
agreement with ICBC, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Bank gained 1.5 percent to 103.95 rand in
Johannesburg trading.  Balance Sheet Capital  In the past year, to lure customers and gain market share,
Standard Bank has focused on offering services to low-income
customers in South Africa. It has also increased mortgage
lending to become the country’s biggest provider of home loans,
according to data submitted to the  central bank .  The delay is not affecting Standard Bank’s ability to
invest in business in Africa, Munro said, adding that ICBC and
Standard Bank still agree on the terms of the transaction.  “Standard Bank will be very shy on balance sheet capital
in  South Africa ,” if the deal doesn’t happen, said Greg Saffy,
a banking analyst at RMB Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg. “Where
capital is needed is where the loan growth is, and Standard Bank
is aggressively writing loans in South Africa.”  The transaction requires approval from regulators including
the Chinese Banking Regulatory Commission, the State
Administration of Foreign Exchange of  China  and Argentine
authorities. In Africa, Standard Bank has operations in 18
countries and is seeking to boost profit on a continent with 1
billion people where the growth rates of many countries are
higher than those in developed nations.  “We would hope that in the next three years the African
franchise can deliver a return on equity in excess of cost of
equity,” said Neville Chester, a shareholder and fund manager
at Cape Town-based Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. “As long as
the strategy will still bear fruit, we are happy for them to
continue investing in the big opportunity areas as this
entrenches their competitive position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  