-- Suntech Jumps After Cutting Solar Manufacturing Capacity
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-17T20:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/suntech-jumps-after-cutting-solar-manufacturing-capacity.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world’s largest solar-panel manufacturer, rose the most in
almost a week after temporarily reducing production capacity to
lower costs amid a global oversupply.  Suntech gained 6.6 percent to 93 cents an American
depositary receipt at the close in  New York , the most since
Sept. 11. Each ADR represents one ordinary share.  Suntech will cut production capacity for solar cells to 1.8
gigawatts, the Wuxi, China-based company said today in a
statement. The company said it had 2.4 gigawatts of annual
capacity in May when it released its first-quarter results. It
didn’t say when output would increase.  The company isn’t reducing its 2.4 gigawatts of solar-panel
production capacity. The majority of the approximately 1,500
employees affected will be offered other jobs and the rest will
be fired, according to the statement.  Prices for solar cells dropped 45 percent in the past year
as governments in the U.S. and  Europe  pared back incentives and
demand slowed. Suntech faces possible tariffs in Europe, which
was the largest market for the products last year, in addition
to anti-dumping duties imposed in the U.S.  The cutback isn’t a surprise and more solar manufacturers
will probably follow suit, said Alex Morris, a research
associate at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.
“Oversupply has sent prices cratering and margins as well.
Right now this is just scratching the surface of that
overcapacity.”  Reducing capacity will lower costs, Suntech’s Chief
Executive Officer  David King  said in the statement.  “With these and other initiatives we target to create a
sustainable business model and return to positive operating cash
flow in 2013,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  