-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Ophir Energy Retreats
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-09-17T15:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/u-k-stocks-pare-decline-as-unilever-advances.html
U.K. stocks  declined, following a
two-day rally, on deepening concern that the economic slowdown
in China will worsen.  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  tumbled 5.2 percent after newspapers
reported that the board of Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp.
has to review its agreements with foreign energy companies.
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  surged 8.6 percent after saying mining
resumed at its Kroondal facility.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 0.4 percent to 5,893.52 at the
close in London. The equity benchmark has still  rallied 12
percent from this year’s low  on June 1 as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do everything to protect the
euro. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also slipped 0.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.6 percent.  U.K. stocks jumped last week as the  Federal Reserve 
committed itself to buy bonds until the  U.S. unemployment rate 
drops and Germany’s highest constitutional court permitted the
government to approve the euro area’s permanent bailout fund.  “The rally is being supported purely by central bank
intervention, making it completely unsustainable,” Craig Erlam,
a market analyst at Alpari Research in London, wrote in a note.
“This week is likely to be much quieter, so we could see stocks
continue to make small losses.”  Citigroup Inc. cut its growth forecast for the Chinese
economy to 7.6 percent in 2013 from 8 percent because of
weakening external demand. Separately, the official Xinhua News
Agency cited Lu Zhengwei, chief economist at Industrial Bank
Co., as saying that  China  must exercise caution with its
monetary policy. Zhengwei said the Fed’s third round of
quantitative easing increases pressure to control inflation.  Review Agreements  Ophir Energy, an oil and gas explorer, tumbled 5.2 percent
to 608 pence. Minister of Energy and Mines Sospeter Muhongo
ordered the board of Tanzania Petroleum to review all of its
agreements with energy companies, Tanzania’s Daily News and the
Guardian on Sunday reported.  In a statement, Ophir said it “is fully compliant from an
operational and regulatory perspective in all of its Tanzanian
licenses. Ophir welcomes the review process and, with the
recommencement of drilling in early October, looks forward to
another high-impact drilling program.”  Aquarius Platinum, a platinum producer in  South Africa ,
surged 8.6 percent to 53 pence. The company said mining resumed
this morning at its Kroondal facility. Aquarius suspended
production on Sept. 14 following protests.  Vodafone, BT  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , which has resisted setting aside money
for a $2.2 billion tax bill in  India , fell 1.3 percent to 173.7
pence after saying it may make a provision to cover legal risks.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  slid 2.1 percent to 228.2 pence. Exane BNP
Paribas cut its recommendation on the shares to neutral from
outperform. The brokerage said that the  U.K.’s largest fixed-
line phone provider  will need 3.7 million customers to pay 10
pounds a month to cover the 280 million-pound ($455 million)
charge for televising football plus production costs.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  lost 3.6 percent to
568.5 pence. UBS cut the shares to sell from neutral.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG)  increased 3.1 percent to 447.4 pence
after Citigroup Inc. raised the gold mining company to buy from
neutral. The Fed’s quantitative-easing program will probably
support gold and silver prices, the analysts wrote in a note.  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  added 1 percent to 2,268 pence. UBS AG raised
its recommendation on the maker of Bertolli olive oil to buy
from neutral. The company’s portfolio may become more focused,
increasing growth in food sales to 5 percent a year by 2015,
analysts wrote in a report.  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 was 2.7
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  