-- U.K. Royals Ask French Court to Stop Duchess Photo Sales
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-17T23:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/u-k-royals-ask-french-court-to-stop-duchess-photo-sales.html
The French magazine Closer, which
published topless photos of the Duchess of Cambridge, should be
barred from selling them to other publications, a lawyer
representing the British royal family said.  A judge is scheduled to issue a ruling today at 12 p.m. in
Paris time on the family’s request for an injunction.  The magazine, owned by the Berlusconi family’s  Arnoldo
Mondadori Editore Spa (MN) , should also be blocked from printing more
copies of the current issue and should hand over digital
versions of the pictures of the duchess, Kate, and her husband
 Prince William , sunbathing on a private estate, said Aurelien
Hamelle, the royal family’s lawyer, at a court hearing yesterday
in Nanterre,  France .  “Chasing stars and intimate photos have nothing to do with
doing the job of journalism,” Hamelle said. “It has nothing to
do with a need to inform.”  Closer published the images last week, prompting responses
from the royal family and the U.K. government. Parliament called
for legal action and British Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
through his spokesman, said he believed the royal couple “are
entitled to their privacy.”  Hamelle also asked for 5,000 euros ($6,560) in expenses,
10,000 euros for each day the publisher doesn’t respect the
injunction and 100,000 euros if the photos are sold.  Delphine Pando, the lawyer representing Mondadori at the
hearing, said the magazine doesn’t have staff photographers and
didn’t own the photos.  ‘Out There’  “The photos are out there,” she said. “If a TV show
wants to show an image of this edition, it’s got nothing to do
with us.”  She also argued the villa where the couple were was visible
from a nearby road and not as private and secluded as had been
described. Hamelle said the nearest public road was about 600
meters (1,968 feet) away and telephoto lens was needed to get
the pictures.  The dispute comes three weeks after  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun
tabloid in Britain broke with traditional practice by publishing
images of Prince Harry naked at a party in  Las Vegas . Those
photos, initially published online by the U.S. website TMZ.com,
may have inspired Closer, lawyers including Caroline Jan, a
media lawyer at  Kingsley Napley  in London, have said.  The princes’ mother, Diana Princess of  Wales , died in a
Paris car crash 15 years ago while being pursued by French
tabloid paparazzi on motorbikes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  