-- U.S. Asks Appeals Court for Stay of Detention Ruling
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-17T23:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/u-s-asks-appeals-court-for-stay-of-detention-ruling.html
The U.S. government asked an
appeals court for an emergency stay of a lower court ruling
striking down a military detention law, claiming the decision
threatens to harm national security.  Justice Department lawyers today asked the federal appeals
court in  Manhattan  to delay implementation of a Sept. 12 ruling
that invalidated provisions of the National Defense
Authorization Act of 2012 while the court considers an appeal in
the case. A group of journalists and activists challenging the
law claim it may be used to imprison U.S. citizens for conduct
that is protected by the U.S. Constitution.  In the ruling, U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest
extended a preliminary injunction against the law that she had
entered in May. Forrest ruled the law violates rights guaranteed
by the First, Fifth and 14th amendments to the U.S.
Constitution.  “The district court order threatens irreparable harm to
national security and the public interest by injecting added
burdens and dangerous confusion into the conduct of military
operations abroad during an active armed conflict,” the
government said in papers filed with the court today.  Section 1021 of the NDAA affirmed the president’s authority
to detain people under an earlier law, the Authorization for Use
of Military Force, passed in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks. Those who may be held include people who
“substantially supported” al-Qaeda and the Taliban.  January Lawsuit  A group including former New York Times reporter
Christopher Hedges sued President  Barack Obama  and  Leon Panetta ,
the secretary of defense, on Jan. 13, challenging the provision.
The plaintiffs claim it could subject them to detention for acts
including writing and advocacy that are protected by the First
Amendment.  “They’re going to go to the mat to protect the right to
put even U.S. citizens in military custody,” said Carl Mayer, a
lawyer for Hedges and six others, responding today to the
government’s request for an emergency stay. He called the case a
“constitutional standoff” between the president and the
judiciary.  The government denies that the plaintiffs face any danger
of being captured and held by the military.  The case is Hedges v. Obama, 12-cv-00331, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  