-- U.S. Should Have Left Libyan Consulate, Islamist Militants Say
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-17T16:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/u-s-should-have-left-libyan-consulate-islamist-militants-say.html
The armed Islamist group linked by
Libyan officials to the killing last week of Ambassador Chris Stevens denied involvement today, even as it blamed the U.S. for
allowing the release of an anti-Islamic film and failing to
evacuate its consulate.  “We completely and categorically deny involvement,” said
Youseff El Gehani, spokesman for the Ansar al-Sharia brigade,
said in an interview at a Benghazi hotel. “The embassy knew how
sensitive it was to allow that film, they should have evacuated.
If America wants respect in the Arab world, it should avoid
spilling blood in places such as Syria and  Afghanistan , and
avoid insulting the prophet.”  Stevens and three other diplomats died during an assault
with machine guns and rockets on the U.S. consulate and nearby
accommodation in Benghazi on Sept. 11, as Muslim groups
protested over the U.S.-produced anti-Islamic film. At the
weekend, Libya’s de-facto head of state, the parliament speaker,
Mohammed Magariaf, said in an interview that elements of the al-
Sharia brigade were involved in the consulate attack. Magariaf
cited communication intercepts shown to him by U.S. officials.  Magariaf characterized the attack on the consulate as part
of a wider struggle between Libya’s parliament and anti-
democratic forces.  “The confrontation is necessary and inevitable with these
elements,” he said in the Sept. 15 interview. “Today it is the
Americans, tomorrow it is going to be Libyans.”  ‘Innocent People’  El Gehani said al-Sharia has 300 soldiers and would resist
any action aimed against it. The group has stationed pick-up
trucks mounting anti-aircraft guns at the entrance to its base,
the former Fadil Katiba barracks of forces loyal to Libya’s
ousted leader,  Muammar Qaddafi .  Even so, he said he did not anticipate a U.S. assault. “We
are innocent. Why would the Americans attack innocent people?”  Speculation that military action might be imminent was
heightened by a report in the English-language Libya Herald and
other local newspapers of the capture yesterday of a Tripoli-
based Islamist unit, the Abu Miliana Martyr’s Brigade, by forces
loyal to the government’s Supreme Security Council.  El Gehani, 33, said al-Sharia’s soldiers were part of a
larger organization and said it has the support of Benghazi’s
local council, which is led by parties sympathetic to the Muslim
Brotherhood.  El Gehani said his group sought a state founded on Islamic
principles. “We did not fight the revolution just to remove
Qaddafi, we fought to have a state based on Sharia law.”  His comments came as  Libya ’s Interior Minister Fawzi Abdul
Al appeared on state television today to deny a report yesterday
by his deputy, Wanis El Sharef, that police investigating the
consulate attack had arrested 50 suspects. Abdul Al said the
true number was four.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  