-- U.S. September Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-09-17T12:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/u-s-september-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The September Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates
that conditions for  New York  manufacturers continued to weaken.
The general business conditions index slipped another five
points to -10.4, its second consecutive negative reading. The
new orders index fell nine points to -14.0, its third straight
negative reading. Both of these measures reached their lowest
levels in almost two years. The shipments index was little
changed at 2.8. The prices paid index edged up to 19.2,
suggesting moderate increases in input prices, while the prices
received index hovered a little above zero for a fourth
consecutive month. The index for number of employees fell
noticeably but remained just above zero at 4.3, suggesting a
slower pace of hiring activity than in recent months. The
average workweek index remained near zero. By contrast, indexes
for the six-month outlook were mostly steady to somewhat higher
than in August, suggesting modestly greater optimism about
business conditions in the months ahead.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were
asked about recent and expected changes in their selling prices.
Firms, on average, indicated that the prices they charged had
risen by about 1 percent over the past year and were expected to
rise by just under 2 percent in the year ahead. Last September’s
survey pointed to similarly modest price increases.  Business Conditions Weaken Further  In a sign that activity had declined for New York
manufacturers over the month, the general business conditions
index fell five points to -10.4 -- its lowest level since
November 2010. Eighteen percent of respondents reported that
conditions had improved, while 29 percent indicated that
conditions had worsened. The new orders index fell nine points
to -14.0, its third consecutive negative reading and its lowest
reading since late 2010. The shipments index was down marginally
for the month at 2.8, and the unfilled orders index slipped to -
14.9. The delivery time index, however, rose more than nine
points to 2.1 -- its first positive reading since April --
indicating that delivery times lengthened slightly. The
inventories index rose to zero, suggesting no change in
inventory levels.  Selling Prices Hold Steady, Hiring Activity Slows  The prices paid index rose by slightly less than three
points in September, to 19.2, suggesting continued modest price
pressures. The prices received index edged up to 5.3--a rise of
almost three points for the month, signaling little change in
selling prices. The index for number of employees fell more than
twelve points to 4.3, its lowest level of the year, pointing to
some pullback in hiring activity. The average workweek index
edged down, remaining close to a neutral reading of zero.  Optimism Picks Up Somewhat  Indexes for the six-month outlook were generally steady or
higher in September than in August, suggesting some recovery in
the level of optimism. After falling for seven consecutive
months, the future general business activity index climbed
twelve points to 27.2. The expected new orders index rebounded
nearly fifteen points to 17.0, and the future shipments index
rose by a little less than five points to 12.8. The expected
prices paid index rose to 40.4 but remained near the lower end
of its recent range, and the future prices received index
climbed to 23.4. Both of these measures were up roughly nine
points for the month. The index for expected number of employees
rose five points to 8.5, suggesting that employment levels were
expected to be only slightly higher in the months ahead, and the
future average workweek index rebounded to 2.1--its first
positive reading in three months. Finally, the capital
expenditures index was virtually unchanged at 12.8, and the
technology spending index edged up to 7.5. 