-- UNC-Chapel Hill Chancellor to Step Down at End of June
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-09-17T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/unc-chapel-hill-chancellor-to-step-down-at-end-of-june.html
Holden Thorp, chancellor of the
University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , will step down in
June after college athletes and faculty were implicated in an
academic cheating scandal.  Thorp, who became chancellor in 2008, notified UNC
President Tom Ross yesterday of his intent to resign on June 30,
saying it was in the best interests of the university, the
school said today in a statement on its website.  The resignation follows the results of  investigations  that
found academic misconduct and unauthorized grade-changing in the
college’s Department of African and Afro-American Studies. In
March, the school’s football program was put on three year’s
probation and banned from 2012 postseason play by the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  for rules violations including
academic fraud.  “I have pledged that we will be a better university, and I
am 100 percent confident in that,” Thorp said in the  statement .
“We still have work to do, and I intend to be fully engaged in
that until the day I walk out of this office.”  The NCAA imposed the sanctions after finding a number of
rules violations. The college sports governing body found that a
former UNC assistant coach was paid by a former sports agent for
access to athletes, and a former tutor wrote parts of class
assignments for three football players. The tutor also paid for
athletes’ airplane tickets and parking fines, the NCAA said.  Three Reviews  Ineligible football players were allowed to compete during
three seasons and athletes received impermissible benefits worth
more than $31,000 in total, the NCAA said.  UNC produced a report May 2 after conducting its own
investigation of the allegations. Thorp has commissioned three
more reviews, the school said in its statement. Those will look
at the new academic procedures and controls implemented at the
school; whether academic misconduct occurred before 2007; and
the future relationship of academics and athletics at the
university.  UNC’s board has also questioned Thorp about the
resignations of fundraisers Matt Kupec and Tami Hansbrough, the
mother of former UNC basketball star Tyler Hansbrough, according
to the  Charlotte  Observer. The two school officers, who were
known to be dating, stepped down after they were found to have
questionable travel expenses, the  newspaper  reported last week.  Thorp will return to the faculty of UNC’s chemistry
department, where he was a longtime professor, researcher and a
former chairman, the school said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  