-- Hungarian Court Annuls Mobile Frequency Tender Results
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-09-17T15:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/hungarian-court-annuls-mobile-frequency-tender-results-1-.html
A Hungarian court annulled the
results of a tender for the country’s fourth mobile frequency,
which was awarded to a consortium of state-owned companies.  Under the ruling of the Budapest Metropolitan Court, the
court abolished the results, including the granting of extra
frequency capacities to the three other mobile operators.  “Based on existing regulations at the time of the tender,
state-owned companies couldn’t have taken part as bidders in the
tender,” Gyorgy Mohay, the ruling judge in the case told
reporters in Budapest today after presenting the ruling.    “We
have discovered serious procedural law infringements.”  The ruling was binding and couldn’t be appealed, he said.
 Hungary ’s state media regulator, known as  NMHH , in January
awarded 5 megahertz of the 900 MHz frequency to a group
including postal service Magyar Posta Zrt., power company Magyar
Villamos Muvek Zrt., and development bank Magyar Fejlesztesi
Bank Zrt. The three service providers, Magyar Telekom Nyrt., and
the local units of Vodafone Plc and  Telenor ASA (TEL)  appealed the
result of the tender.  Under the tender, the state-owned group offered 10 billion
forint ($46.5 million) for the frequency. Vodafone offered  15.7
billion forint, Magyar Telekom Nyrt. offered 10.9 billion forint
and Telenor offered 7.3 billion forint for the extra capacity
they were awarded.  Magyar Telekom  shares  rose as much as 3.8 percent today and
traded 2.4 percent higher at 429 forint at 3:12 p.m. in
Budapest.  The court’s ruling raises the risk that Hungary’s mobile
market will “remain in a state of immobility” due to lack of
price competition and “customers will be the biggest losers,”
MPVI Zrt., the new mobile company set up by the tender-winning
consortium, said in an e-mailed statement today.  NMHH didn’t respond to questions e-mailed by Bloomberg
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  