-- Utilities Pain Is Alcoa Gain in Rousseff’s Power Plan
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-09-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/utilities-pain-is-alcoa-gain-in-rousseff-s-power-plan.html
Brazil’s drive to make electricity
less expensive wiped out $6.4 billion in  market value  for
utilities, while making winners of metals and mining companies
from  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to ArcelorMittal.  Electricity is their biggest expense, totaling 40 percent
of costs for aluminum producers, according to Rio de Janeiro
state industry group Firjan. Alcoa Chief Executive Officer  Klaus
Kleinfeld  qualified Brazilian energy costs as “unbelievably
high” in a May 4 speech, after the New York-based aluminum
producer said in a March statement it was considering cutting
output in the country.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is forcing utilities in Brazil,
where companies pay more than double U.S. and Chinese
electricity prices, to cut rates by as much as 28 percent in a
bid to stoke economic growth and make companies more
competitive. The reductions will be a requirement for utilities
renewing operating licenses through 2017.  “This is a historic decision by the government and the
right step at an important time for the Brazilian industry,”
Augusto Espeschit de Almeida, chief executive officer for
Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s long steel businesses in South
America, said in e-mailed comments. The government “has taken
important decisions to improve the competitiveness of the
industry,” he said.  Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s
largest mining companies, and ArcelorMittal, the top steelmaker,
are among the  biggest clients  of utilities such as  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , the
country’s No. 1 power company by market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Encouraged’  A 28 percent cut in electricity rates would reduce average
fixed costs for Brazilian materials makers and manufacturers by
4 percent, according to the Brasilia-based national industry
confederation.  “Alcoa is encouraged by the measures adopted by the
Brazilian government for reducing electricity costs to help
industries remain competitive,” spokeswoman Libby Archell said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Brazilian utility shares dropped an average 6.8 percent
last week, the industry’s second-biggest loss in 82 countries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cia. Energetica de Sao
Paulo , Brazil’s second-largest power generator by capacity,  sank 
28 percent the day after the announcement, its biggest drop
since its initial public offering in August 2006.  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , the Rio de Janeiro-based state-run
utility, was also among utilities that led losses on Brazil’s
benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index on the same day.  ‘Competitiveness Problem’  “The government’s attitude acknowledging there is a
competitiveness problem is highly positive,” said Adjarma
Azevedo, president of the  Brazilian Aluminum Association , an
industry group that represents companies including Alcoa and
Oslo-based  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) , Europe’s third-largest aluminum
maker.  The group will meet next week to discuss the benefits of
the measures after energy costs discouraged investments in past
years, Azevedo said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . The
metal used in airplanes and consumer appliances is among the
most energy-intensive industries in the world.  Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro ,  has bought  energy assets in
past years to reduce costs and has nine Brazilian hydroelectric
plants to support its mining operations. Last year it agreed to
buy a 9 percent stake in Norte Energia SA, the group that is
building the Belo Monte hydroelectric dam in the Amazon. It has
also turned to palm-tree oil and wind turbines to insulate
earnings from surging energy rates that represented 13 percent
of its costs last year.  ‘Stupefied Faces’  For utilities, Rousseff’s measures announced at an event
with industry leaders in Brasilia on Sept. 11 mean profits will
likely decline, Banco Itau SA analysts led by Marcos Severine
said in a note to clients the day after.  The event was “marked by the speechless, stupefied faces
of sector specialists and company executives,” the analysts
said. “We see relevant downside potential to our earnings”
estimates, the analysts said.  Brazilian companies pay on average about 329 reais ($163)
per megawatt-hour, Firjan said in its report. Even with a 28
percent discount, the costs would still be higher than in  India ,
China and  Russia , the biggest emerging-market economies along
with  Brazil , according to Firjan data.  “This measure is a first step,” Tatiana Lauria, an
industrial competitiveness specialist at Firjan, said in a phone
interview from Rio. “There is still a lot of uncertainty about
how it will be done and exactly what charges will be reduced in
some cases. We imagine the impact will start to be felt next
year and will be fully felt by 2015.”  Other Costs  Companies operating in Brazil are also less competitive
than emerging-market peers because of other costs such as
transportation infrastructure and taxes, Chris Garman, head of
Latin American research at the Eurasia Group, said in a phone
interview from New York.  “The cost of energy in Brazil is high by any standard
among  emerging markets ,” Garman said. “This is a measure that
does increase the competitiveness of the Brazilian industry.
That said, it’s not as if this is sufficient to turn the
corner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  