-- Venezuela’s Reserves Fall to Five-Year Low Before Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-09-20T17:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/venezuela-s-currency-reserves-fall-to-five-year-low-before-vote.html
(Corrects to show reserves hit five-year low May 31, not
September, in headline, first and second paragraphs of story
published Sept. 17.)  Venezuela ’s international reserves
fell to near their lowest level in five years as the government
boosts spending ahead of next month’s presidential election.  The central bank said  reserves  fell $300 million between
Sept. 13 and Sept. 14 to $25.2 billion, nearing the lowest since
July 30, 2007, according to figures released today by the
central bank. Reserves dipped to $25 billion on May 31, and were
below $25.2 billion two days in June.  Venezuela’s reserves have fallen from $42.5 billion in
January 2009 as President Hugo Chavez orders the central bank to
help fund social spending with the nation’s reserves as he seeks
to win a third term in next month’s presidential elections. The
decline in reserves are a signal that Venezuela will need to
devalue its currency and curb spending following the vote, said
 Boris Segura , Latin America economist at Nomura Securities Intl
in  New York .  “Venezuela is highly vulnerable to sustained drops in  oil
prices ,” Segura said in a phone interview. “You should expect
an adjustment soon after the gubernatorial elections on Dec.
15.”  The central bank has transferred $3.5 billion this year and
$45.7 billion since 2005 to an off-budget fund known as Fonden
that Chavez uses to finance his social programs, according to
calculations by Nomura.  ‘Take Profits’  Venezuelan bonds were cut to marketweight from overweight
today by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which said in an e-mailed report
that the securities were “adequately priced” after a four-
month rally.  Chavez, who has undergone two operations since June 2011 to
treat an undisclosed form of cancer, will probably win
presidential elections set for Oct. 7, the bank said, adding
that it could not completely rule out a victory by opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski.  “In considering the odds for the election outcome, we
believe Venezuela credit is adequately priced and are inclined
to take profits on our overweight position,” JPMorgan said in
the research note.  Polls, Election  Chavez had 46.8 percent support compared with 34.2 percent
for Capriles, according to a Datanalisis poll of 1,288 people
taken between July 16 and Aug. 9. In an August Consultores 21
survey, Capriles had 47.7 percent support against 45.9 percent
for Chavez. The survey of 1,000 people had a margin of error of
3.2 percentage points.  Barring extreme social tension and the unlikely scenario of
a constitutional break, the “likely market correction following
a Chavez victory should be muted,” JPMorgan said.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, might
issue another $3 billion in bonds before the end of the year to
fund Chavez’s social housing project and invest in oil projects,
JPMorgan said.  ‘Unsustainable’ Mix  Capriles could remain the natural opposition leader if he
loses by a small margin, remaining well positioned if Chavez’s
health forces another election in 2013 or 2014, the bank said.  “Our longstanding overweight recommendation on Venezuelan
external debt had been premised on the thesis that a competitive
Capriles candidacy combined with the unknown variable of
Chavez’s health would keep markets compelled by the upside that
would likely accompany a more market friendly government,”
JPMorgan said.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 rose 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 10.98
percent at 3:51 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The bond’s price fell 1.18 cents today to 87.45 cents on
the dollar, its largest decline since Aug. 9. Venezuela could
default on its debt as early as the second half of 2013 if
Chavez wins re-election next month and fails to shore up the
oil-producing nation’s “increasingly fragile” balance sheet,
Morgan Stanley said Sept. 14.  Chavez has damaged Venezuela’s balance sheet through the
nationalization of key sectors of the economy, endemic inflation
and a lack of fiscal discipline, Volberg said.  The policies are an “unsustainable” mix that heighten the
risk of default on Venezuela’s $110.6 billion stock of debt,
especially if oil prices tumble, Morgan Stanley analyst  Daniel Volberg  wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  