-- Wal-Mart May Win in India as Carrefour, Tesco Battle Slump
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-09-17T10:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/wal-mart-may-win-in-india-as-carrefour-tesco-battle-slump.html
India ’s opening up of foreign
investment in retail may see  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  be the first
to tap the $505 billion market as  Carrefour SA (CA)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO) 
focus on battling falling profits and consumer spending.  Global retailers may need to invest at least $500 million
over three to five years in the world’s second-most populous
nation to expand retail operations across the country, said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC
 Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  Such investment could pose a challenge
for the European retailers, which are struggling amid the
region’s debt crisis.  In the biggest policy push of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second term, India on Sept. 14 opened the gates for
overseas retailers to enter a market that  Technopak Advisors
Pvt.  estimates will expand 44 percent from this year to $725
billion in 2017. Wal-Mart stands to be the first beneficiary of
the change, helped by its position as the biggest foreign
company to offer wholesaling in partnership with local
companies, according to  CNI Research Ltd. (CNIR)   “Even when Tesco and Carrefour come into play, Wal-Mart
will grow further,” said Kishor Ostwal, managing director at
CNI Research in Mumbai. “It will take a decade’s time before
you can see all other multinational brands come in and fight in
India.”  Ownership Rule  Overseas companies will be allowed to take a stake of as
much as 51 percent in retail stores in a local partnership,
selling more than one brand of products after India’s government
reversed that decision in December because of political
opposition. Companies must put half of their investment in
infrastructure such as processing, manufacturing, storage,
warehouses and packaging.  Pantaloon Retail Ltd. (PF) , the country’s largest operator of
supermarkets, led gains among local retailers today on
expectations they may become targets for cooperation.  “We are willing and able to invest in back-end
infrastructure that will help reduce wastage of farm produce,
improve the livelihood of farmers, lower prices of products and
ease supply-side inflation,”  Raj Jain , president of Wal-Mart
India, said in e-mailed statement shortly after the government
announcement.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , will add three to
five wholesale outlets in India this year,  Kevin Gardner , a
spokesman for the world’s largest retailer, said in an e-mail.
He didn’t provide details of the company’s plans for retail
outlets.  India offers great potential to Wal-Mart as the country is
“three times the population, one third the land mass” of the
U.S.,  Scott Price , head of the retailer’s Asia operations, said
in an interview on Sept. 6. “With that density of population,
these sorts of properly regulated openings will only benefit.”  International Versus Domestic  Wal-Mart’s net sales for the company’s international
business rose 16 percent in the three months ended July 31,
compared with a 0.4 percent increase in the U.S. The company
boosted its profit forecast for the year in August after the
Sam’s Club chain and changes in merchandising helped halt a
decline in its U.S. store sales.  “Logistics has always been one of Wal-Mart’s great
strengths and logistics is one of the great challenges in
India,” said Bernie Sosnick, an analyst at Gilford Securities
in Melville, New York. He recommends buying Wal-Mart shares.  A push into India isn’t likely to affect results for
several years because Wal-Mart will probably do a lot of testing
before a large expansion, Sosnick said.  Foreign companies are currently permitted to invest in
supply chains and wholesale stores, which sell to local
retailers and businesses. In January, India allowed overseas
companies full ownership of stores selling a single brand.  Head Start  Wal-Mart began setting up wholesale operations through a
joint venture with India’s Bharti Enterprises Pvt in 2007 and
now runs 17 outlets that sell to retailers and businesses.  Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer, has two
wholesale stores in  India ; Tesco, the third-largest, helps
manage wholesale operations for Star Bazaar, a hypermarket for
Trent Ltd., a unit of India’s  Tata Group .  “Foreign market expansion is very expensive,” said Boris Planer, Frankfurt-based chief economist at Planet Retail
Holdings Ltd. “You have to expect to make losses for several
years and perhaps a decade. Not all retailers can afford that.”  Too Much Debt  Carrefour, which has cut its profit outlook five times in
the past two years, has too much debt and costs that are too
high, Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat said in June. The
executive said he needs at least three years to revive the
ailing retailer as Europe’s debt crisis weighs on  consumer
spending  and it struggles to attract shoppers to its largest
stores.  Plassat, who announced job cuts in  France  in August, has
said he will evaluate operations in markets where local
competition is better placed, after agreeing to sell Carrefour’s
Greek business to its local franchise partner. The retailer
plans to exit Singapore, where it has two stores. A Carrefour
spokesman declined to comment on its plan for India.  Tesco saw four straight quarters of sales declines while
its U.S. business has yet to make a profit five years after
entering the West Coast. There will be “minimal” growth in
earnings this fiscal year, it said in January.  The U.K.’s largest retailer will wait to see details, such
as sourcing and investment requirements, before commenting on
its plans in India, Sameer Barde, Tesco’s Mumbai-based
spokesman, said in a phone interview.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the third-largest U.K. grocery chain which
was considering entering the India market, has no plans for
international expansion in the short term, said Tom Parker, a
spokesman.  High Inflation  India has been battling  inflation  of almost 7 percent and
an economy that’s growing at close to its slowest pace in three
years.  Singh’s government said it will be up to state governments
to decide whether they want to adopt the new retail regulation,
to ease discontent among regional leaders who have said they
plan to protest the new policy on concern it will put millions
of small shopkeepers out of work.  Shares Surge  Pantaloon Retail surged 19 percent at close in Mumbai
trading, the most since May 2009.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP) , the
country’s second-largest retailer, gained 7.8 percent and  Trent
Ltd. (TRENT)  jumped 4.7 percent. The looser rules may encourage Indian
retailers to partner with international businesses for funding
and expansion.  Shoppers Stop will consider teaming up with a foreign
partner to expand its hypermarkets as it needs global
technology, sourcing and a large amount of funding, said
Managing Director Govind Shrikhande.  “Capital deployment will take a cautious route” for
foreign retailers such as Carrefour and Tesco that are
struggling for growth in domestic markets, said Ankur Bisen,
associate vice president at Technopak Advisors.  Still, “growth exists for the next decade,” he said.
“They cannot afford to lose out on the Indian market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  