-- Wasendorf Will Remain in Jail After Plea, U.S. Judge Rules
-- B y   T o m   W i t o s k y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-17T18:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/wasendorf-should-remain-in-jail-after-plea-u-s-prosecutors-say.html
Russell Wasendorf Sr., founder of
the bankrupt commodities firm Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
will remain in custody after his planned guilty plea to stealing
more than $100 million from customers, a federal judge said in
postponing another judge’s order.  U.S. District Judge Linda Reade today postponed Wasendorf’s
release following the government’s opposition.  Wasendorf, 64, is set to appear in federal court this
afternoon in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , to enter his plea.  “Defendant shall remain detained pending further order of
the court,” Reade said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles last week ruled that
Wasendorf could remain free on bail after his plea and live with
his friend and pastor, Linda Livingston, who volunteered to
supervise him while he awaits sentencing. Wasendorf would also
be required to wear an electronic monitoring device.  “There is at least a ‘serious risk’ defendant might choose
to flee rather than face the consequences of his offenses,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan wrote in his motion.
“Anytime a defendant is facing a substantial likelihood of
spending the rest of their life in jail, that risk should be
regarded as serious. This is especially so where a person has
stolen more than $100 million and nearly all of the money is
unaccounted for.”  50 Years  Wasendorf’s plea agreement calls for a prison sentence of
as long as 50 years. While he consented to entry of the plea
before Scoles, the accord needs Reade’s approval.  Wasendorf’s crimes came to light on July 9 when the
 National Futures Association , an industry self-regulator,
announced that about $200 million in customer funds the firm
reported was on deposit at its bank was unaccounted for.  The case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2012, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
 Illinois  ( Chicago ). The regulatory case is Commodity Futures
Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-
5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Witosky in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at  twitosky@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 