-- Yandex Maps to Be Integrated Into Apple Software in Russia
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-09-17T15:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/yandex-map-search-to-be-integrated-into-apple-software-in-russia.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s largest Web
search engine, will have its location-search service integrated
in the latest version of  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  software used in the
iPhone and iPad sold in the country, according to vendors.  Apple has developed its own maps tools for users of the new
iOS 6 operating system, which powers the iPhone 5 unveiled last
week, replacing a service offered by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Alexander
Patsay, director of program management at Moscow-based software
maker  Parallels Holding Ltd. , said he has tested the developer
version of iOS 6 and noticed that its Maps application is
integrated with Yandex’s geographical search.  “When you search for  Vladimir Lenin ’s Mausoleum, it offers
you to get more details on Yandex.Maps application or offers to
download Yandex.Maps from App Store if the user doesn’t have it
installed,” Patsay said by phone today.  Ochir Mandzhikov, a Yandex spokesman in Moscow, declined to
comment, as did Irina Efremova, an Apple spokeswoman in Moscow.  The iOS 6 system will be available for download on Sept.
19. Cupertino, California-based Apple said today orders for the
iPhone 5 topped two million units in the first 24 hours.  The company dropped using Google’s applications including
 Google Maps  and YouTube because Google’s Android software helps
other smartphone producers to compete with Apple.  TomTom, Yelp  Other partners Apple is working with on maps include  Yelp
Inc. (YELP) ,  TomTom NV (TOM2) , as well as China’s AutoNavi Holdings Ltd.  “In summer, Apple showed how third-party services like
Yelp on the U.S. can be integrated into its Maps application,”
said Vladislav Zavyalov, a marketing manager at  re:Store Retail
Group , an official seller of Apple gadgets with 94 stores in
Russia and Europe. “The same in Russia: if Maps doesn’t show
you enough information, you may use Yandex.Maps.”  Yandex had a 60.5 percent share in Russia’s Internet-search
market last month, compared with Google’s 26.6 percent,
according to LiveInternet.ru statistics. Yandex’s share was down
from 65.1 percent in February 2011.  “To hold its market share, it’s essential for Yandex to
expand its position in ecosystems created by Apple and Google,”
said Konstantin Belov, an analyst at UralSib Capital.
“Inclusion of Yandex.Maps into Apple’s new software is
important from this standpoint.”  Yandex climbed 0.4 percent to $24.82 at 11:02 a.m. in  New
York . The company raised $1.3 billion in May last year selling
shares at $25 apiece in an initial public offering on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  