-- Myanmar Targets Independent Monetary Policy Next Year: Economy
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-09-17T06:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/myanmar-targets-independent-monetary-policy-next-year-economy.html
Myanmar’s  central bank  plans to
implement an independent monetary policy in the first half of
next year to keep prices and banks stable as investors prepare
to inject money into the former military regime.  Parliament will consider a law as early as next month that
will expand the  Central Bank of Myanmar ’s authority and
independence, Deputy Governor Maung Maung Win said in an
interview on Sept. 14. The  International Monetary Fund  and Bank
of Thailand will also soon complete training programs for
Myanmar officials, he said.  “We are late so we have to do hard work,”  Maung Maung Win 
said in the bank’s Yangon office. “When our training programs
finish, we can target our inflation, we can target our foreign-
exchange market.”  Myanmar officials are preparing to take control of a
financial system largely run on informal cash transactions as
companies such as  Western Union Co. (WU)  and Coca-Cola Co. announce
plans to operate in the country. Foreign-exchange transactions
have started to shift from informal markets to banks after a
managed float of the currency in April and the easing of
restrictions on importers and exporters last month, Maung Maung
Win said.  Authorized banks now handle about $2 million per day in
foreign-exchange transactions, compared with about $5 million in
informal markets, he said. The central bank wants to eliminate
unofficial trades before Myanmar hosts the  Southeast Asian Games 
in December 2013, giving authorities more control as foreign
companies prepare millions of dollars in investments.  Capital Surge  “I do worry about that,” Maung Maung Win said, referring
to the impact of an expected surge of capital into Myanmar. “At
that time, if the inflows are much, our currency will appreciate
much. We have to do our best and negotiate with other ministries,
other institutions to overcome that challenge.”  The kyat has weakened 5.7 percent since the April float to
864.95 per dollar today, the worst performer among Southeast
Asian countries in that period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The central bank and government need to work together
to keep the currency stable, and one way is by saving natural-
resource proceeds to provide a reserve cushion, Meral Karasulu,
an IMF official advising Myanmar, told an investment seminar in
the capital Naypyidaw last week.  “There is a lot of structural and fiscal reform that
awaits to be done so all of these inflows ensure the economy
benefits from it without significant negative implications for
the  exchange rate ,” she said. “The role is beyond the central
bank.”  India Reforms  Neighboring  India  is also pursuing economic reforms by
opening up retail and aviation industries. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  is embarking on the biggest gamble of his second
term, pushing through policy changes opposed by members of his
own coalition as he seeks to revive the economy.  Myanmar’s opening is boosting its growth prospects even as
the weakening global economy damps expansion across  Asia .
 Singapore ’s  exports  fell more than economists estimated in
August as shipments of electronics dropped and companies sold
fewer goods to  Europe , a report showed today. India held
 benchmark interest rates  today, while unexpectedly reducing the
amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves.  The European Union’s statistics office may say labor costs
rose at a slower pace last quarter from a year earlier, while
the euro zone’s trade surplus probably narrowed in July, surveys
showed.  Manufacturing in the  New York  area probably contracted in
September at a slower pace, with the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York’s  general economic index  forecast at minus 2 this month
from minus 5.9 in August. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Democracy Shift  President  Thein Sein  has shifted Myanmar toward democracy
since he took office last year to end about five decades of
direct military rule. He is seeking to create jobs ahead of an
election in 2015 that will include former political prisoner
 Aung San Suu Kyi ’s National League for Democracy party.  Government policies such as a move last year to import more
cars also play a role in managing the currency, Maung Maung Win
said. While exporters are pushing for a dollar to fetch between
900 and 1,000 kyat to keep their goods competitive, the central
bank will also take into consideration the views of importers
and the rural population, he said.  Monetary policy and financial stability committees will be
established once the new law is passed, Maung Maung Win said.
International reserves can cover 10.5 months of imports, he said,
compared with an IMF estimate of $9.9 billion for the fiscal
year ending April 2013, or 9.7 months of imports.  Annual Growth  Myanmar’s economy may grow as much as 8 percent annually if
policy makers keep prices under control, increase trade and
attract investment, the  Asian Development Bank  said last month.
About a quarter of the country’s 64 million people have access
to electricity, while mobile-phone and Internet usage is among
the lowest in  Southeast Asia , the ADB said.  The central bank is a department under the  Finance Ministry ,
and its main function is printing money to fund fiscal deficits.
While bond sales financed about 46 percent of the  budget deficit 
in the fiscal year that ended in April, the rest was monetized,
 according to the IMF .  The IMF expects the fiscal deficit to narrow as authorities
expand one of the lowest tax bases in Asia, eventually reaching
a balanced budget in 2031. The inflation rate, forecast to
average 5.8 percent this fiscal year, is projected to stabilize
at 3.5 percent over the long term, it said in a May report.  Foreign Banks  The government will allow foreign banks to enter joint
ventures with local lenders next year, Maung Maung Win said,
followed eventually by incorporated subsidiaries and full
branches. The ownership percentage will depend on the new
foreign investment bill that has been passed by parliament and
is awaiting the president’s approval, he said.  Myanmar has made it easier for its citizens to move money
this year, introducing debit cards to pay for local goods and
authorizing several private banks to accept remittances from
migrant workers in  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and Singapore. Foreign
companies can transfer funds to Myanmar through four state-run
banks, and that privilege may soon be extended to private
lenders, Maung Maung Win said.  “We try our best with the systems of international
organizations and neighboring countries,” he said. “Myanmar
will grow because of the new government’s opening-up policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  