-- Yen Weakens Versus Euro Amid Bank of Japan Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-17T21:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/yen-weakens-versus-euro-before-bank-of-japan-considers-stimulus.html
The yen weakened to four-month low
versus the euro as investors speculated the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will
expand monetary easing at its meeting this week.  The Japanese currency fell to its lowest level in a week
versus the dollar. Taiwan’s dollar and South Korea’s won rallied
as international investors increased holdings of Asian stocks
after the  Federal Reserve  announced last week it would undertake
an asset purchase program. Brazil’s real dropped the most since
July after the central bank intervened to help exporters.  “The Fed’s actions last week have turned the spotlight on
the BOJ’s much more limited balance-sheet policy response,”
said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . Positive risk
sentiment from the U.S. central bank’s announcement has also
weighed on the yen, he said.  The yen fell 0.3 percent to 103.24 per euro at 5 p.m. New
York time, after touching 103.86, the lowest level since May 9.
 Japan ’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to 78.71 per dollar,
reaching 78.93, the weakest since Sept. 7. The euro weakened 0.1
percent to $1.3117.  Ruskin said he expects the euro may rally to $1.3480.  Bank Meeting  Japan’s central bank may follow the Fed and the ECB in
expanding its balance sheet. The meeting starts tomorrow and
results will be announced Sept. 19.  The yen has weakened 2.2 percent last week, the biggest
decline among the 10 developed-nation currencies on the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 0.9
percent and the euro strengthened 1.4 percent.  “There’s speculation that the BOJ will do something to
increase quantitative easing through their asset purchase
program,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “It’s primarily on the euro-
yen. That’s the big driver of the euro going higher.”  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on Sept. 6 that the
yen’s appreciation causes a decline in Japan’s exports and that
its negative effect is “dominant.” Japan’s markets are closed
today for a national holiday.  Demand for the yen was also damped as  China  and Japan’s
worst diplomatic crisis since 2005 is putting at risk a trade
relationship that’s tripled in the past decade to more than $340
billion.  Trade Tensions  “If the tensions between China and Japan get worse, that
reduces trade prospects for Japan, which should soften the yen a
little more,” Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based chief
international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with  Adam Johnson . “We see the euro coming back down to the $1.20, $1.25
area. We think it’s overdone.”  The euro’s 14-day relative strength index versus the dollar
and the yen remained above 70 today. A reading above 70
indicates an asset may have rallied too far, too quickly and is
due for a correction.  Gains in the shared currency were tempered as Spanish 10-
year bonds extended a decline, pushing the yield up 19 basis
points to 5.97 percent.  “Spanish yields may push higher until it is clear that
 Spain  is officially asking for aid,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a
currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “ The ECB has
acted but there’s more to come down the road. This will continue
to keep any euro gains muted. We prefer to sell the dollar
versus riskier currencies rather than the euro.”  Spain’s Debt  The euro declined against the dollar as Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  considered whether to request economic
assistance for the indebted nation. Rajoy’s government will
unveil additional austerity measures by the end of the month
based on recommendations made in July, including a possible
increase in the  retirement age , shifting from labor to
consumption taxes and deregulating closed professions, according
to European officials. Demonstrations two days ago in  Madrid 
against fiscal cuts underpinned the political balancing act
Rajoy faces.  Since July 26, when ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he
would do “whatever it takes” to save the 17-nation euro, the
currency has appreciated versus each of its 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s real was the biggest loser among the dollar’s 16
most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after the central
bank sold reverse currency swaps for the fourth time in four
days. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated in a newspaper
interview that the government won’t let the real strengthen.  The real fell 1 percent to 2.0320 per dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  gained 0.1 percent to 78.941, after
weakening to the lowest since February last week.  The index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against those of six U.S. trading partners,
may pause its decline this week as it’s entering an
“important” support zone,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based
technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co, wrote yesterday in a
research note to clients. This area includes the 78.398 level
that is the 50 percent retracement of its rise from 72.696 on
May 4, 2011, to 84.100 on July 24, according to O’Connor. It
also includes the May 1 low of 78.603.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  