-- Typhoon Sanba Grounds Flights, Disrupts Power in South Korea
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-09-17T09:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/typhoon-sanba-grounds-flights-disrupts-power-supplies-in-korea.html
Typhoon Sanba lashed  South Korea 
with heavy rain and wind, grounding aircraft, disrupting
electricity to some homes and pushing insurance stocks lower.  As many as 332 flights, 73 of them international, and more
than 170 ferry services were suspended, the transport ministry
said in e-mailed statement.  One person died and another was injured in separate
landslides in North Gyeongsang Province, the National Disaster
Information Center in  Seoul  said in a statement on its website.
Electricity was restored to about 93 percent of about 450,000
households, mostly on Jeju Island and southern areas of the
peninsula, which experienced temporary power failures, according
to the statement.  Sanba made landfall at the southern region of Namhae at
11:30 a.m. local time and was moving northward at 37 kilometers
(23 miles) per hour, according to a statement on the website of
the Korea Meteorological Administration. The storm, which
follows typhoons Bolaven and Tembin last month, will continue to
unleash heavy rain and strong wind across the nation today
before moving offshore tonight, the weather agency said.  Domestic insurers fell in Seoul trading, with  Samsung Fire
& Marine Insurance Co. (000810)  dropping 3.5 percent, its biggest loss
since July 12, while Dongbu Insurance Co. lost 1.6 percent and
Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co. declined 3.4 percent. The
benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index slid 0.3 percent.  “Concerns over heavy rain weighed on non-life insurers
today,” Sean Shin, an analyst at Hana Daetoo Securities Co.,
said by phone. “Growing interest in banks and brokerages led
some investors to take profits in insurers within the financial
sector.”  Gangwon Province was expected to receive as much as 200
millimeters of rain from 11 a.m. today to midnight, with some
parts of  North Korea  to get the same by tomorrow, the weather
agency said.  Sanba yesterday struck Okinawa in southern  Japan , forcing
flight cancellations and power outages at households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  