-- Zynga Is Said to Pay Over $20 Million for A Bit Lucky
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-09-18T20:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-17/zynga-said-to-acquire-small-game-developer-a-bit-lucky.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the largest maker of
games played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network, has agreed to
acquire  San Mateo , California-based game maker A Bit Lucky Inc.,
adding titles to attract more serious players.  Zynga paid $20 million to $25 million for the startup,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal, who asked
not to be named because terms weren’t disclosed. A Bit Lucky’s
more than 20 employees will join Zynga, the San Francisco-based
company said yesterday in a  blog post .  Mark Pincus, Zynga’s chief executive officer, has used
deals to reach new markets and add developers. A Bit Lucky has
focused on so-called mid-core games, which are more graphically
rich and challenging than casual online games, and may help
Zynga reach new types of players willing to pay more money, said
Atul Bagga, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets LLC.  “The acquisition could help Zynga broaden its offering
beyond casual games,” Bagga wrote yesterday in a research note.
“Our conversations with industry contacts suggest that
monetization for mid-core games could be meaningfully higher
than that for casual games.”  A Bit Lucky’s team will continue to develop “Solstice
Arena,” its planned game for PCs and tablet computers.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, declined to comment
on the terms of the deal.  Personally Involved  Pincus was personally involved in the acquisition of A Bit
Lucky, Frederic Descamps, the startup’s CEO and co-founder, said
in a letter to his employees that was posted to Zynga’s blog.  “Meeting  Mark Pincus  was a turning point for us,”
Descamps wrote. “His passion to define a new way to play and
his entrepreneurial drive are very contagious.”  A Bit Lucky is backed by venture capital firms  Accel
Partners , Rembrandt Venture Partners and Blumberg Capital, as
well as Japanese game maker  Nexon Co. (3659) , according to its website.
Earlier this year, it teamed up with Nexon to make one of its
games, “Lucky Space,” available to Korean users.  At least eight managers have left Zynga since early August
after a second-quarter earnings report missed analyst
expectations and showed slowing sales.  Zynga fell less than 1 percent to $3.08 at the close in  New
York . The company’s shares have declined 69 percent since its
December initial public offering, eroding the value of equity
used to compensate staff.  Zynga had $1.64 billion in cash and short- and long-term
investments as of June 30, according to its latest quarterly
filing. It spent a combined $147.2 million for 22 companies in
2010 and 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  