-- Adoboli Loss Could’ve Topped $12 Billion, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-09-15T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/adoboli-trades-lost-ubs-as-much-as-2-3-billion-prosecutor-says.html
Kweku Adoboli’s web of faked deals
fell apart one year ago when the  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader could no longer
hide billions of dollars in losses as the euro zone crisis moved
markets against his bets, a prosecutor said.  Adoboli left the bank’s  London  office at 1:30 p.m. on Sept.
14 of last year, claiming he had a doctor’s appointment. An hour
later he sent a “bombshell e-mail” to a UBS accountant
describing unauthorized trades in the German and U.S. futures
markets, prosecutor Sasha Wass told the 12-person jury at the
beginning of a London criminal trial yesterday. His losses could
have reached as much as $12 billion at one point, she said.  “The scale of Mr. Adoboli’s gambling was so large and so
unchecked he could have quite easily approached and even
exceeded the limits of the bank’s resources,” Wass said. “One
only has to imagine doubling the loss that he made of $2.3
billion a few more times to see that he was putting the very
existence of the bank at risk.”  Adoboli, 32, exceeded his trading limits and invented
hedges to conceal losses from his managers, Wass said, with the
aim of increasing “his bonus, his status within the bank, his
job prospects and his ego.” His pay rose from 40,500 pounds
($65,600) in 2005 to 360,000 pounds in 2010, including bonus,
she said.  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008. Prosecutors also
charged him with fraud for abusing his senior trader position.  Adoboli worked for the Zurich-based investment bank’s Delta
One desk, which handles trades for clients -- or risks the
bank’s own money -- typically by speculating on a basket of
securities. The loss, which came from trading in Standard &
Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any
client positions, according to UBS.  ’Deeply Sorry’  Adoboli described how he accrued losses during “the
aggressive sell-off in the days of July and early August” as a
result of the “escalation of the euro-zone crisis,” in his e-
mail to the accountant, William Steward. He was called back to
the bank to meet with managers and explain.  “I am deeply sorry to have left this mess for everyone and
to have put my bank and my colleagues at risk,” Adoboli wrote.  Adoboli’s team had a daily trading limit of $100 million,
the prosecutor said, however, the extent of the losses
discovered by 3:30 p.m. “was astronomical.” Adoboli admitted
he’d risked $5 billion on Standard and Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, Wass said.  Adoboli, dressed yesterday in a charcoal gray suit and
purple tie, “lost all professional caution” and “was throwing
money wildly into the market hoping to dig himself out of the
mess he had created,” Wass said.  ‘Colossal Loss’  “This colossal loss arose purely as a result of Mr.
Adoboli’s fraudulent deal-making, which amounted, as we will
see, to nothing more than gambling,” Wass said.  Adoboli created various internal accounts at UBS, which he
called his “umbrella” to protect him on a rainy day, Wass
said. He used the accounts to hide profits and losses of his
unauthorized trading, she said. The umbrella had profit of $30
million by November 2009, she said.  He first began false accounting in October 2008 to hide a
trading loss of $400,000, Wass said.  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli,
facing two counts of each, has denied the allegations.  London Scandal  The trial comes on the heels of a series of scandals for
London’s finance industry.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the country’s second-
largest lender by assets, settled with regulators in June for a
record 290 million pounds for rigging  interest rates .  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  paid $340 million last month to settle allegations
by  New York ’s banking regulator that it laundered $250 billion
for  Iran  and HSBC Holdings Plc is also being probed over
handling cash for sanctioned nations.  Held in Wandsworth prison in southwest London after his
arrest on Sept. 15, 2011, Adoboli was granted bail and released
June 13. He is staying with a friend in the British capital, his
lawyer has said. As part of his bail conditions, he has a curfew
and has surrendered his Ghanaian passport.  Adoboli was born in  Ghana  to a former United Nations
official and attended a Quaker boarding school in West
Yorkshire,  England , until 1998. He graduated with honors from
the University of Nottingham in July 2003 with a degree in e-
commerce and digital business. Photography, cycling and wine are
among his interests, according to his LinkedIn profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net 
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  