-- Magazine Luiza Restrains Acquisition to Sustain Profits
-- B y   L e o n a r d o   L a r a
-- 2012-09-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/magazine-luiza-restrains-acquisition-to-sustain-profits.html
Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3)  Chief Executive
Officer Luiza Helena Trajano is damping her desire to buy
companies after the retailer’s last two acquisitions failed to
produce the level of profit she sought.  “I don’t even look because I know I will feel like
buying,” said Trajano, 61, in an interview at her office in Sao
Paulo. “I’m an entrepreneur, but I know that right now the
moment isn’t right.”  Magazine Luiza rose 20 percent in the past 30 days in Sao
Paulo, the most among Brazilian retail stocks, after reporting
its first profit in three quarters. The second-quarter showed
Magazine Luiza, which sells consumer electronics and furniture,
started generating results from its two  acquisitions , Lojas Maia
and Bau da Felicidade, in the past two years, said  Daniela Bretthauer , a retail analyst at Raymond James in Sao Paulo.  Trajano expects sales growth to pick up in 2013 as a
decline in loan delinquencies spurs consumers to buy more
durable goods. Economic growth in  Brazil , the world’s largest
developing economy after  China , probably will quicken to 4
percent next year from an estimated 1.6 percent this year,
according to a central bank weekly survey of economists.  Magazine Luiza’s same-store  sales  growth probably will slow
to 15 percent this year from 16.5 percent in 2011, she said. The
industry will post revenue growth of about 7 percent this year,
said Trajano. Her aunt Luiza Trajano and uncle Pelegrino Jose
Donato founded the company in 1957, and Luiza Helena took over
the retailer’s management in 1991.  Government Stimulus  Retailers are benefiting from President Dilma Rousseff’s
stimulus measures. Last month the government extended tax breaks
for goods including furniture, appliances and automobiles in an
effort to revive growth. Brazilian  retail  sales increased 1.4
percent in July, the second-fastest month-on-month pace since
January, according to a government report yesterday.  The tax cuts will prevent Magazine Luiza from posting a
bigger decline in sales growth this year, Trajano said.  The 20 percent gain for Magazine Luiza in the past month
before today compares with a 17 percent increase in  B2W Cia
Global do Varejo (BTOW3) , an online retailer, and a 8.7 percent increase
in  Marisa Lojas SA (AMAR3) , an apparel retail chain. Lojas Renner SA
gained 6.7 percent and  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  rose 2.4 percent.  Magazine Luiza trades at 15 times its estimated future
earnings, the lowest among retailers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Marisa trades at 17, while Lojas Renner’s ratio is
20 and Lojas Americanas’ is 26.  Profitability  Second-quarter  net income  of 21.9 million reais ($10.8
million) beat analysts estimates, according to Bloomberg data,
driving gains in the stock. Earning before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization equaled 4.7 percent of 2011
revenue, the lowest among Brazilian peers, according to
Bloomberg data.  Cia Hering (HGTX3) ’s Ebitda margin was 29 percent, while
Marisa’s was 16 percent and Lojas Americanas’ ran at 13.  “We still don’t have what we want in terms of
profitability, but we will in terms of revenue,” said Trajano,
sporting a black silk blouse. “This year we’re paying the price
because when you make acquisitions and invest, you suffer for
the first two or three years.”  Magazine Luiza and its shareholders raised 805 million
reais last April in an initial public offering. Since then, its
shares have fallen 18 percent. This year, the stock is up 38
percent, compared with a 9 percent gain for the benchmark
Bovespa stock index.  ‘Turnaround Story’  Five of ten  analysts  that cover Magazine Luiza have a buy
recommendation, while four say hold and one says sell, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They weren’t doing well because of the macroeconomic
environment and because of the acquisitions of Maia and Bau,”
said Raymond James’s Bretthauer, who rates Magazine Luiza
equivalent to buy, in a telephone interview. “It’s a turnaround
story for 2013 but we will gradually see improvement this
year.”  Magazine Luiza plans to open 15 new stores before the end
of the year, bringing its total number to 749, Trajano said. The
company won’t make any acquisitions until the middle of 2013,
she said.  “This is the year of consolidation,” Trajano said. “We
won’t buy anything, sadly for me, but at the same time it was a
decision that I helped to make.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leonardo Lara in  Sao Paulo  at 
 llara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  