-- Hamptons of Michigan Draws New Yorkers With Bargain Homes
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/hamptons-of-michigan-draws-new-yorkers-with-bargain-homes.html
The parking lot at Bob Sutherland’s
 Cherry Republic  eatery and gift shop in Glen Arbor,  Michigan ,
has been dotted in the past several months with license plates
from  New York , Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C.  Towns such as Glen Arbor along Michigan’s northwestern
Lower Peninsula shoreline have long drawn tourists from  Chicago 
and affluent automotive-industry executives from metropolitan
 Detroit , 280 miles (450 kilometers) to the southeast. The
addition of  New Yorkers  and others from farther afield is a
noticeable change, said Sutherland, who has run cherry-themed
stores in the area for the past two decades.  “We really feel like there’s an influx of newbies,” he
said. “It is surprising, the amount of attention we’ve gotten
on the East Coast. The New York Post just did an  article  on
us.”  A surge in tourism from visitors outside of Michigan is
helping increase demand for vacation houses in the region, where
the median home price is about a quarter of that in the
Hamptons, the summer retreat on New York’s  Long Island . Local
property prices in the first half of the year rose twice as fast
as in all of the state, and real estate values are propping up
debt ratings for Glen Arbor, Harbor Springs and other nearby
cities.  Out-of-state customers at lodgings in the area rose 32
percent during this year’s warmest months, according to data
from the  Traverse City Conventions & Visitors Bureau . The number
of visitors climbed almost 60 percent from New York and 29
percent from  Texas , part of increased traffic from 34 states
over last year, the data showed. The influx is likely to show up
in second-home purchases in future years, according to local
brokers including Megan Luce, who sells real estate in the area
for Century 21.  ‘Big Factor’  “The tourism is definitely a big factor in driving second-
home sales,” Luce said. About 40 percent of her sales in the
past year were for second homes, including one bought by a  New
Yorker , she said. “Most people who buy second homes have been
vacationing up here and then decide to buy.”  Along about 200 miles of shoreline spanning from Crystal
Lake to the far southwest and around to Harbor Springs to the
northeast, where Lake Michigan heads toward Lake Huron, there
are now 333 homes for sale at more than $1 million each,
according to Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based real estate
information provider.  In the five-county area surrounding Traverse City, about
halfway between Crystal Lake and Harbor Springs, homes sold for
$187,590 on average this year through July, up more than 10
percent from a year earlier, according to data from the Michigan
Association of Realtors. That compares with a statewide average
of $106,903, a 4.8 percent increase.  The Hamptons  By contrast, the median price for a home in the Hamptons
was $850,000 at the end of the second quarter, according to a
July 26  report  by appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and broker
Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate. The luxury market in the
Hamptons area, the top 10 percent of sales by value, had an
average price of $5.1 million in the second quarter.  Buyers from outside Michigan are taking advantage of the
Traverse City area’s relative affordability, said Randy Dye, a
Realtor for Re/Max Bayshore Properties who recently sold two
second homes to Texans seeking cooler summer lodging.  “I had Californians who purchased property in Michigan for
$180,000 that was twice the size, with lower taxes and a much
better home, for what they got in  California  for $300,000,”
said the 67-year-old broker. “Overall, I’m having the best year
I’ve ever had.”  ‘Real Bargain’  The region may draw even more out-of-staters next year,
said Brad Van Dommelen, president of the Traverse City visitors
bureau, which promotes tourism in the area. The group this week
is running five-second videos once every 15 minutes on two large
electronic boards in  New York City ’s Times Square. The bureau
also took out an advertisement in a travel guide that went out
this past weekend to 112,000 New Yorkers with household incomes
of more than $350,000, he said.  “We hear about people coming from the West Coast and the
East Coast, and, for them, $1 million for lakefront property is
a real bargain,” said Van Dommelen. He thinks of Michigan as
“the third coast,” he said. “Recently, I saw license plates
from 11 different states in one row. A couple weeks later, I
counted 14 different out-of-state plates in just one line in a
parking lot.”  Visitor attendance is on pace for a record this season at
the nearby Sleeping Bear Dunes National  Lakeshore , with its 300-
foot-high (90-meter-high) sand peaks, after “Good Morning
America” viewers selected the park as the “most beautiful
place in America.” The region also made National Geographic
magazine’s “Top 10 Summer Trips for 2012” and Draft Magazine’s
“Top 3 Emerging Beer Towns in the USA.”  Capone, Hemingway  Michigan’s northwestern Lower Peninsula has a history of
prominent vacationers. It attracted early industrialists such as
the Gambles of  Procter & Gamble Co . and the Upjohn
pharmaceutical-making family. Local legend has it that gangster
 Al Capone  had a place nearby.  Ernest Hemingway ’s family also had
a summer  home  in the area, and one of his first published short
stories was titled “Up in Michigan.”  More recently, chef  Mario Batali ’s  boosterism  for the
region, including as a paid spokesman for Michigan’s tourism
campaign, has helped raise its profile as an dining destination.
Batali blogs about the region’s restaurants and spends part of
the summer in Northport, where he bought an old fishing camp
about 30 miles north of Glen Arbor on the Leelanau peninsula.  Madonna’s Family  Michigan native and pop singer Madonna’s family runs the
Ciccone Vineyard and  Winery  in Suttons Bay, and Michigan
documentary director  Michael Moore  has an annual film  festival 
in Traverse City, which this year featured an appearance by
actress Susan Sarandon.  The two-hour flight from New York’s  LaGuardia Airport  is
often less of a hassle than trying to get from the city to the
Hamptons, said Dan Searby, a New York-based executive-search
consultant whose family, since 1940, has owned an 11-bedroom
summer home in Northport, near where Batali has his fish camp.  Searby said his family’s home, bought by his grandfather,
is in an area less affected by the out-of-staters who have made
Harbor Springs, a cluster of multimillion-dollar dwellings 100
miles east, into the Hamptons of Michigan.  The influx of summer residents is helping lower municipal
borrowing costs in the region, said Tom Richards, city manager
of Harbor Springs, which is surrounded by some of the most
expensive real estate in the region. Harbor Springs has about 2
miles of prime Lake Michigan shoreline and includes a bustling
marina.  Borrowing Costs  Standard & Poor’s  cites the $468,827 average for property
holdings of city residents, including the value of second homes,
in a May 2012 report outlining its AA+ credit rating for Harbor
Springs. S&P also highlighted that the city gains more than
6,000 additional residents each summer.  The rating, the second-highest possible, gave the city
lower  interest rates  for the $7 million needed to upgrade the
local water system than if the city had a lower grade, Richards
said.  The city’s popularity also is cutting into the year-round
population, he said. Permanent residents dropped about 20
percent, to 1,194 people, as more houses are purchased as
vacation dwellings, Richards said.  “We’re seeing some people buy ‘second homes’ for their
second homes, to have places for friends and family to stay”
during summer vacations, he said.  The affluence of summer tourists or the high market value
of second homes is also reflected in the AA+ rating for Glen
Arbor and the AA ratings for the lakeside communities of
Charlevoix, Traverse City and Leelanau County.  Area Accolades  Praise for the region, which includes ranking among Midwest
Living magazine’s “Top 5 Food Towns in the Midwest” and AOL
Travel News’ “Top 10 Beach Towns in America,” may help push
Sleeping Bear Dunes attendance to a record, based on the number
of visitors so far this year.  The 1.35 million travelers in 2011 almost matched the 1999
peak of 1.36 million, and  attendance  through August of this year
was up 22 percent from a year earlier, according to park data.
Camping visits were up 20 percent from last year, and revenue
from fees was up 40 percent, according to Phil Akers, chief park
ranger.  Half a million people attended the National Cherry  Festival 
that ran from July 7 to July 14, its organizers estimate. It’s
the signature event for a region known as the “Cherry Capital
of the World.”  Michigan produces about 75 percent of the U.S. crop of tart
cherries. Sutherland’s Cherry Republic and other stores such as
the Cherry Stop hawk wares made with the fruit.  Polish Cherries  A late-winter freeze crippled the local cherry crop this
year, leading Sutherland to rely on produce from  Poland  to fill
his orders. He flies a Polish flag at Cherry Republic and
employees wear armbands with the Polish eagle emblem. Customers
apparently don’t mind, as business has increased 15 percent this
year at the Glen Arbor store, Sutherland said.  His  restaurant , which used to serve only lunch, added
dinner service and gets as many as 100 diners a night with
almost no advertising, leading the business to hire additional
workers, he said. Some nights, local restaurants fill every
table, with people waiting.  “We’re up 15 percent,” Sutherland said. “And that’s just
amazing because that’s continuous, year after year. We think
we’re going to flatten out, but then we get some good press and
we squeeze a few more people in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  