-- Arizona Immigration Law Opponents File Emergency Request
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/appeals-court-asked-to-stop-arizona-s-show-me-your-papers.html
Opponents of  Arizona ’s immigration
law asked a federal appeals court for an emergency order halting
enforcement of the “show me your papers” provision that had
been left standing by the U.S.  Supreme Court  in June.  The  American Civil Liberties Union , the National
Immigration Law Center and the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund filed an emergency request yesterday with
the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San Francisco  to block the
provision while they seek to overturn the decision by a federal
judge in Phoenix who said the state could enforce the law.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June struck down much of the 2010
law, known as SB 1070, on grounds that states must defer to the
federal government on immigration policy. The Supreme Court said
the requirement for police checks of immigration status could
take effect, while leaving open the possibility of new legal
challenges.  The provision requires local  law enforcement  to check the
immigration status of a person they stop if they have a
“reasonable suspicion” the individual is an illegal alien.  “The very high likelihood of irreparable harm from any
implementation of a law that effectively mandates improper
racial profiling by law enforcement officers, who are required
to engage in immigration enforcement for which they are not
trained, imperils the taking of all possible steps in court to
bar such implementation,” Thomas Saenz, president and general
counsel of MALDEF, said in a statement.  ‘Clear Direction’  U.S. District Judge Susan R. Bolton in Phoenix on Sept. 5
rejected a request by the civil rights groups to temporarily
prevent Arizona from enforcing the provision until the courts
have ruled whether it violates the U.S. Constitution.  The judge said she wouldn’t ignore the “clear direction”
of the U.S. Supreme Court that the provision “cannot be
challenged further on its face before the law takes effect.”  The civil rights groups said in yesterday’s filing with the
appeals court that Bolton’s decision was “plainly legally
erroneous” and that her reading of the Supreme Court’s decision
was mistaken.  “This additional legal action is unfortunate but entirely
predictable, given that the groups aligned against SB 1070 are
determined to do whatever possible to keep this duly-enacted and
publicly-supported law from taking effect,” Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for Arizona Governor Janice Brewer, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Brewer said in a Sept. 5 statement that the provision was
the “most critical” to Arizona’s immigration law and that it
would take effect “shortly.”  The appeals case is Valle de Sol v. Whiting, 12-17046,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  