-- Argentine Protesters Bang Pots to Protest Fernandez Failures
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-14T16:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/argentine-protesters-bang-pots-to-protest-fernandez-s-failures.html
Thousands of Argentines took to the
country’s streets last night in the biggest protests since 2008
against President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s ban on buying
dollars and her failure to combat crime and inflation.  Protesters banged pots and chanted anti-government slogans
in  Buenos Aires  and cities nationwide, holding Argentine flags
and banners that read “No to changes in the national
constitution” and “No more crime.” Demonstrators also
gathered in the city’s neighborhoods, outside Fernandez’s
official residence in the suburbs. Main avenues in the capital
were closed to transit due to the protests.  “People are fed up with the government’s aggressive
policies, the authoritarianism and the fact that it’s ignoring
people’s problems, such as inflation,” opposition lawmaker
Eduardo Amadeo, who invited people to join the demonstration on
his twitter, said in a Sept. 12 telephone interview.  Fernandez’s approval rating has plummeted since her re-
election last year as she tightened foreign exchange
restrictions and broadened federal tax agency powers to
investigate how people obtain and spend their money, according
to Buenos Aires-based polling company Management & Fit. At the
same time, citizens are angered by price rises that are among
the fastest in the world and crime that continues unabated.  Government Concerns  “People are in an extremely bad mood,” said the
pollster’s manager, Mariel Fornoni in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires. “Inflation, unemployment, foreign exchange
restrictions are all fueling pessimism.”  Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina told C5N television
today that the protests “weren’t significant” and that the
government seeks to foster economic growth and employment.  “I don’t think it was a significant rally, I couldn’t
really understand what they were asking,” Abal Medina said.
“It’s not something that the government is worried about.”  Fernandez’s popularity fell to 30 percent in August from 64
percent in September 2011, the month before she was re-elected
to a second term, according to a Aug. 11-21 Management & Fit
survey.  Fernando Yarade, a lawmaker from Fernandez’s Victory Front
coalition, said that those who are unhappy with the government
are a minority who oppose policies to improve the distribution
of wealth. Restrictions on dollar purchases affect 2.5 percent
of the population, Yarade said in a telephone interview.  ‘Enough’  “We are generating policies that ensure growth for the
benefit of the poor,” Yarade said. “Some sectors, which are a
minority, may not be happy with those policies, but we try to
govern for the majority.”  South America ’s second-largest economy will  expand  2.2
percent this year, according to the  World Bank , down from 8.9
percent in 2011.  “This is the people saying ‘enough,’” said 37-year-old
lawyer Pablo Gianzone, who joined in the protests in the Plaza
de Mayo where the crowd chanted ‘liar, liar” and sang the
national anthem. “The president has lost her connection with
reality -- she lives in a parallel world.”  Gianzone said the main problems facing  Argentina  are crime,
corruption and the high inflation that generates poverty.  On Sept. 10, opposition lawmakers released a report
prepared by independent economists who calculated prices rose 24
percent in August from a year earlier. Two days later, the
national statistics agency, whose data is questioned by the
 International Monetary Fund , said annual inflation was 10
percent last month.  Credibility, Currency  Congressmen began to release economists’ estimates for
inflation last year, after the government fined researchers who
published consumer price information that conflicted with
official statistics.  Since her re-election, Fernandez has banned most purchases
of foreign currency. The tax agency, known as AFIP, which she
placed in charge of authorizing all acquisitions, allows some
dollar purchases for foreign travel but doesn’t permit them for
savings or property purchases, which are traditionally made in
the U.S. currency.  Credit card companies must now add a 15 percent tax to all
purchases made abroad and report such purchases to the
authorities to check against cardholders’ annual income and
personal wealth statements.  “AFIP wants to ensure that those who have the highest
purchasing power pay their taxes,” the agency’s head, Ricardo Echegaray, said Aug. 30. The government also wants to encourage
Argentines to spend in their own country instead of abroad, he
said.  Capital Outflows  Fernandez’s measures are aimed at stemming capital outflows
that almost doubled last year to $21.5 billion and shoring up
central bank reserves that she uses to pay debt. Argentina has
been locked out of global credit markets since defaulting on a
record $95 billion in debt in late 2001.  She further extended her control of the economy on April
16, when she expropriated control of  YPF SA (YPFD) , the country’s
biggest oil producer, from  Spain ’s Repsol SA. During her first
term, she seized about $24 billion in private pension funds.  Fernandez stirred fresh criticism in a Sept. 6 speech in
which she said that people should “be scared of God, and of me
a little bit.”  “It’s unacceptable that in a democracy, a president calls
people to be scared of her,” Amadeo said.  While crime and inflation are the main concerns in
Argentina, voters are also concerned that Fernandez’s supporters
in Congress will change the Constitution to allow her to run for
a third term in 2015, Fornoni said.  “The politicians agenda is moving in a totally different
direction from the people’s agenda,” Fornoni said. “That
generates frustration.”  Last night’s protest was the biggest since 2008, when
people went to the streets during four months to protest
Fernandez’s plan to raise agriculture export taxes. Her proposal
was defeated in Congress, when then Vice President Julio Cobos
as head of the Senate, voted against it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  