-- Harper Says Canada Recovery Higher Priority Than Budget
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/harper-says-boosting-canada-recovery-beats-budget-balance.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said uncertainty in the global economy has become the
“new norm” and the government’s primary objective is to
sustain the recovery, not balance the budget.  Speaking in an interview with Sun News Network, Harper said
he won’t accelerate efforts to balance the budget, even though
he still plans to eliminate the deficit before the next
elections due in 2015.  “I want the budget to be balanced and that is the goal”
before the next vote, Harper said in an interview on Sun News’
Byline with Brian Lilley program. “But our first objective is
not balancing the budget, our first objective is to make sure
the Canadian economy keeps growing,”  “In my judgment a gradual reduction in the deficit is the
way to go if that can be managed,” he said. “I think it can be
managed.”  Last month, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he may need
to revise his deficit targets given the risks posed by the
faltering global recovery.  The Conservative Party government’s 2013 budget will keep
“taxes low and deficits coming down,” Harper said.  While he said he always expected the recovery to be slow,
Harper said he hadn’t anticipated the global economy would
suffer from such a prolonged period of uncertainty, which right
now is primarily emanating from Europe.  He said there are risks fiscal strains could also undermine
the  U.S. economy , and cited a broad consensus that policy makers
in the world’s biggest economy “must take a series of difficult
measures across a range of policy actions.”  Diversify Relations  There is “not a lot of certainty south of the border
either,” Harper said. That’s why  Canada  needs to diversify its
economic relations to countries such as  China , he said.  Harper said he raised concerns about imbalances between the
two countries in a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  last
week in Russia, adding there is some evidence Canadian exports
and investment into the Asian country is rising.  “We see great opportunity in this relationship and great
opportunity given the expected growth of China but first and
foremost we have to make sure we are protecting the interests of
the country and that the Canadian side is getting our share of
that opportunity,” Harper said.  Harper wasn’t asked in the interview about  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s
$15.1 billion proposed takeover of Calgary-based oil and gas
producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  