-- Asia Bond Risk Falls to 14-Month Low; CapitaLand Markets Debt
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-09-14T04:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Bond risk in Asia slid to the
lowest in almost 14 months after the  Federal Reserve  announced
asset purchases to boost growth.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and Nan Fung
Group started marketing sales of dollar-denominated bonds.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index fell 10 basis points to 115.5
basis points as of 9:23 a.m. in Hong Kong, poised for its lowest
close since July 26 last year, according to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and CMA prices. CapitaLand is marketing 10-
year bonds to yield about 250 basis points more than similar
maturity Treasuries, while Nan Fung is offering 10-year debt at
a spread of about 300 basis points to 310 basis points.  The Fed will buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month to
help tackle unemployment that has remained above 8 percent since
February 2009, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday. The
central bank will probably hold the federal-funds rate near zero
until at least mid-2015, according to a statement yesterday.
 Mario Draghi , president of the  European Central Bank , unveiled
his own bond-purchase program last week to help contain the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Bernanke and Draghi have both delivered as expected,”
said Owen Gallimore, the Singapore-based head of Asia credit
strategy at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “I see
sentiment staying strong, but the Chinese slowdown, negative
European economic data and, locally, a gangbusters new-issue
market for dollar bonds should now cap significant further
spread tightening.”  Issuance Expands  China has “ample” room to use fiscal and monetary means
to boost growth, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week, signaling
that the government may step in to prevent growth slipping below
a 7.5 percent target. Europe’s economy contracted in the second
quarter, falling 0.2 percent.  The average premium that investors demand to buy Asian
dollar bonds rather than government debt tumbled 25 basis points
this month to 350 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  and  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) 
helped push weekly issuance in the Asia-Pacific region to $8.8
billion, the most in nine weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That brings total sales to $17.2 billion since Aug.
31, the data show. New issuance may reach $100 billion this
year, ANZ’s Gallimore said.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased 8.5 basis points to
175.5 basis points as of 9:38 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc.
prices show. The benchmark is on course for its lowest close
since July 10, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index declined 8 to 138 as of
10:24 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices show. The
gauge is set for its lowest close since March 21, according to
data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  