-- Asmussen Says Crisis Lull Shouldn’t Invite Complacency
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-14T16:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/asmussen-says-crisis-lull-shouldn-t-invite-complacency.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board Member Joerg Asmussen said that a lull in financial-market
tensions after the ECB unveiled its bond-purchase program
doesn’t mean countries should put off reform measures.  “The market reaction to our announcement has been
positive,” Asmussen told reporters in Nicosia today after a
meeting of European Union finance ministers. “This is obviously
welcome but this is no reason for complacency.”  President  Mario Draghi  said earlier that there’s cause for
optimism in Europe after the rally in financial markets. ECB
policy makers on Sept. 6 agreed on an unlimited bond-buying
program aimed at regaining control of  interest rates  in
countries such as Spain and  Italy .  “One should not unduly wait with any action just simply
because one thinks waiting is an option because markets have
been relatively benign in the past week,” Asmussen said. “One
should not wait before taking the necessary steps, this is true
for all governments concerned in order to improve fiscal
discipline, improve competitiveness and where necessary, to
clean up banks’ balance sheets.”  Under the ECB plan, dubbed Outright Monetary Transactions,
the central bank may buy bonds with a maturity of up to three
years on the secondary market of countries that ask  Europe ’s
bailout fund to purchase their debt on the primary market.  “We have recognized that government yields in countries
under pressure have declined quite substantially and in
addition, we have seen a flattening of the yield curve in the
countries possibly concerned with OMTs,” Asmussen said.  Draghi also noted the improvement in financial market
conditions, when asked earlier on how much time the ECB has
created through its crisis response.  “Financial conditions have been better recently, but we
have to continue working on that,” Draghi said. “If we
continue going this way, one has to be optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Nicosia at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  