-- Aussie Dollar Climbs to One-Month High on Fed Easing
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-14T06:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/aussie-dollar-climbs-to-one-month-high-on-fed-easing.html
The Australian dollar advanced to
the highest level in a month versus its U.S. peer on prospects
the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to expand asset purchases will weaken
demand for the greenback.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed to a six-
month high as global stocks rallied and commodity prices
advanced, buoying demand for riskier currencies. The U.S.
central bank said yesterday it will increase its holdings of
long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month.  “What the Fed has done is sufficient to keep the  U.S.
dollar  weak and probably trending weaker in the near term,”
said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of foreign-
exchange strategy at National  Australia  Bank Ltd. “While that
is the case, then obviously you would expect that the Aussie and
kiwi dollar will both remain very well supported near or even
above these current levels.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0588, the strongest since
Aug. 9, before trading at $1.0580 as of 4:15 p.m. in Sydney,
heading for a 1.9 percent weekly advance. It added 0.4 percent
today to 82.06 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed 0.4 percent to 83.43 U.S.
cents after earlier reaching as high as 83.54, the most since
March 2. It rose 0.5 percent to 64.74 yen.  Australian  government bonds  declined for a third day, with
the yield on 10-year notes increasing five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.27 percent. It earlier touched 3.3
percent, the most since Aug. 24.  Stocks Gain  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 2.5 percent
following yesterday’s 1.6 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of U.S. shares. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index of raw materials gained 0.6 percent yesterday.  In addition to announcing asset purchases, the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said it would probably hold the federal funds
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.” The Fed had
previously said the rate was likely to stay low at least through
late 2014.  “The message from the Fed is they are going to keep
pushing hard in terms of their easing efforts even if and when
the economic news improves,” said NAB’s Attrill. “That’s been
the particular element of what the Fed has done that has
impressed those involved in risk assets.”  Lower Volatility  While key rates remain near zero in the U.S. and also
 Japan , central banks in Australia and New Zealand have kept
their benchmarks higher, at 3.5 percent and 2.5 percent
respectively. The extra yield helps attract investors to assets
in the South Pacific nations, although the risk in such trades
is that currency market moves will erase profit.  The prospect of sudden changes in the Australian dollar
dropped to the least in five years. Three-month implied
volatility on the Aussie against the U.S. currency, derived from
option premiums, slid to 9.075 percent today, the lowest since
August 2007.  The Australian dollar has advanced 0.8 percent this week,
the second-best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s
dollar is the best-performing currency with a 1.7 percent gain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  