-- Australian Boom to Endure After Commodity Price Peak, Swan Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/australian-boom-to-endure-after-commodity-price-peak-swan-says.html
Australia’s resource boom will
endure even after commodity prices peaked, as greater capacity
and increased shipments support economic growth, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Investment in mining and energy projects “still have some
way to run,” Swan told the Australia in China’s Century
conference in Sydney today, according to a text of his speech.
“We are also beginning to see its lasting benefits -- greater
economic capacity that will continue to boost our export volumes
in coming years.”  Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first half
of 2012 from a year earlier on the strength of resource-industry
investment and  consumer spending . Still, a plunge in the price
of  iron ore , the nation’s biggest export, and a rising currency
prompted mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  to put off projects and cut jobs in
the past month.  “It now seems likely that 2011 marked the peak of
Australia’s commodity price boom,” Swan said. “I say this
because demand from  China  was never going to sustain rapidly
rising commodity prices forever, or supply an ever-lasting
source of income growth.”  China, Australia’s biggest trading partner, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in three years, as exports faltered and after the
government moved to counter inflation and surging property
prices fueled by the 2008 stimulus.  China’s ‘Pre-eminence’  “China’s return to pre-eminence in the global economy is
the most momentous development since the industrial revolution
re-shaped the Western world over 200 years ago,” Swan said.  In his speech, Swan referred to a policy blueprint the
government is preparing on the country’s relationship with  Asia 
through 2025.  “Within our lifetimes, for the first time in our modern
economic history, Australia will not share a political system, a
cultural heritage, or language, nor a similar level of
development to the world’s largest economy,” he said.  Swan said last year’s census showed Mandarin has overtaken
Italian since 2006 as the most common non-English language
spoken at home in Australia, and Cantonese has passed Greek.  “Our success will be in part shaped by our capacity as a
nation to eschew and denounce the types of xenophobic claptrap
we’ve heard from various very prominent public figures lately,”
Swan said, referring to criticism from some lawmakers over
Chinese investment in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  