-- Bank Regulators Should Toss Basel, Use Leverage, Hoenig Says
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-09-14T17:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bank-regulators-should-toss-basel-use-leverage-hoenig-says-1-.html
Global bank regulators should scrap
Basel capital rules and go back to using a straight-forward
leverage ratio to reduce risk in the financial system, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. board member  Thomas Hoenig  said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which brings
together regulators from 27 countries including the FDIC and
three other U.S. agencies, revised global capital rules in 2010.
The new regulations, which go into effect next year, will
tighten the definition of what counts as capital, increase
banks’ minimum ratios and tighten how risk is defined in
calculating those ratios.  The Basel rules have come under attack for increased
complexity and allowing banks to game the system by playing with
their risk models. Since 2004, the framework has allowed the
largest banks to rely on proprietary models to determine how
risky their assets are and how much capital they need. The 2010
revisions didn’t change that risk-weighting method. A simple
leverage ratio would measure equity versus total assets,
ignoring whether they’re risky or safe.  “The committee should agree to delay implementation and
revisit the proposal,” Hoenig said in a speech prepared for
delivery today in Arlington, Virginia. “Absent that, the  United
States  should not implement Basel III, but reject the Basel
approach to capital and go back to the basics.”  Tangible Equity  Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  has been critical of
Basel’s reliance on bank risk models and was instrumental in
introducing a simple leverage ratio in 2010. European
regulators, who agreed to add that benchmark during Basel
negotiations, have since balked at implementation since doing so
would require their banks to raise additional capital at a time
when they’re struggling with a sovereign-debt crisis.  Basel III raised the minimum capital requirement to almost
9 percent for the largest institutions on a risk-weighted basis.
Using that measure,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s capital ratio was
11.2 percent at June 30, according to its regulatory filings.
Ignoring risk levels, the ratio dropped to 7.8 percent.  A simple rule based on the ratio of tangible equity to
tangible assets would be the best way to ensure safety and
soundness as it would further narrow the definition of capital,
Hoenig said. As of June 30, tangible equity for the 10 largest
U.S. banks was only 60 percent of what counted as common equity
capital under Basel rules, Hoenig said. Depending on the bank, a
tangible leverage ratio of 10 percent might be reasonable, he
said.  ‘Startling’ Complexity  “Where the markets assess, demand and adjust intrinsic
risk weights on a daily basis, regulators using Basel look
backward and never catch up,” Hoenig said. “People knew well
in advance of the recent financial crisis that the risk on home
mortgages had increased during the period between 2005 and 2007,
yet no changes were made to the risk weights.”  Andy Haldane, Bank of England’s executive director for
financial stability, said last month the rules may be too
complicated to provide the oversight needed to prevent another
crisis.  The push for risk-sensitivity in Basel III has “spawned
startling degrees of complexity and an over-reliance on probably
unreliable models,” said Haldane, who also advocated use of
simple leverage ratios instead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  