-- Basel Rifts, Overseas Swaps, Tax-Shelter Plea: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-14T14:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/basel-rifts-overseas-swaps-tax-shelter-guilty-plea-compliance.html
Global banking regulators need
further talks to overhaul a liquidity rule for lenders after
failing to overcome divisions on the standard during three days
of meetings in Istanbul, according to two people familiar with
the discussions.  The split centers on how far to expand the range of assets
that banks can use to meet the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is racing to
meet its end-of-the-year deadline for reviewing the LCR, as
lenders and some regulators, including the  European Central
Bank , warn that the measure risks curtailing loans to
businesses. Central bank chiefs set the deadline earlier this
year to provide certainty to markets.  Basel Committee Chairman  Stefan Ingves  said in a post-
meeting speech that while the global standard is “much
debated,” a review of the draft is “on track” to be completed
in time.  The LCR standard, which is scheduled to take effect in
2015, is designed to force lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell
assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Must Respect Overseas Swaps Rules, CFTC’s Wetjen Says  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , facing
concerns from European and Asian regulators about the scope of
new swaps rules, should rely on overseas authorities when
possible, Commissioner Mark P. Wetjen said, citing the
commission’s “limited resources.”  Wetjen, one of three Democrats on the five-member CFTC,
made the comments yesterday in remarks prepared for delivery at
an  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
 conference  in New York.  The CFTC’s proposal for the international reach of its
Dodd-Frank Act rules needs more clarity, and it is “critically
important” that the agency rely on a process of letting firms
comply with new rules by substituting adherence to regulations
enacted abroad, he said.  Along with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the CFTC
has been crafting swaps market rules imposed by Dodd-Frank after
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
rules’ scope has prompted opposition from overseas regulators
and companies such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  urged support for a June
proposal, citing the need to protect taxpayers from rescuing
companies whose overseas trades lead to their downfall.  The CFTC’s interpretive guidance allowed for so-called
substituted compliance for branches, subsidiaries and other
overseas affiliates of U.S. banks when foreign jurisdictions
have comparable rules.  For more, click here.  U.S. Financial Rules Panel Should Improve Transparency, GAO Says  A panel of U.S. regulators created to monitor financial
stability faces challenges in achieving its mission of
identifying risks and should improve its transparency, according
to a  report  by the Government Accountability Office.  The Dodd-Frank law created the Financial Stability
Oversight Council to highlight systemic risk to the economy and
enhance cooperation among its 10 voting regulatory members. The
law also created the Office of Financial Research to aid the
panel, known as FSOC, with data to carry out its risk
monitoring.  The government audit group said cooperation among FSOC’s
members remains challenging with each representing independent
agencies. The GAO recommended that FSOC and the research arm
strengthen transparency and accountability by collecting and
sharing financial risk indicators, keeping detailed records of
closed-door sessions, and developing forward-looking plans to
help “prioritize the threats.”  Agency and congressional members responded to the report by
letters pledging cooperation.  Compliance Action  ASIC, CBA Reach Storm Financial Settlement, Regulator Says  The  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  agreed with the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission to make
available as much as A$136 million ($144 million) as
compensation for losses suffered on investments made through
Storm Financial, the agency said in e-mailed statement.  The sum of A$136 million is in addition to payments of
about A$132 million and other benefits that Commonwealth Bank
already provided to Storm Financial investors, ASIC said in the
statement.  Subject to the court dismissing ASIC’s claim against
Commonwealth Bank, the agreement will bring to a close the legal
action against the bank concerning claims of an unregistered
managed investment scheme. The proceedings were brought in
Federal Court of Australia in Brisbane in December 2010.  ASIC will continue the proceedings against Storm Financial,
Bank of Queensland and Macquarie, which are scheduled to start
on Sept. 17.  Cordray Says Credit Cards Yield Fewer Complaints Than Expected  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau hasn’t
fielded as many complaints about credit cards as it anticipated
when it began operating last year, its director said.  The CFPB’s director,  Richard Cordray , made the remarks
yesterday at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee, where he
presented the bureau’s semi-annual report to Congress.  The CFPB started a consumer response system on July 21,
2011, and began by taking complaints on credit cards. It
subsequently expanded the system to include mortgages on Dec. 1,
then bank accounts and services, private student loans, and
consumer loans on March 1.  Cordray attributed the lower-than-expected volume of
complaints on credit cards to the Credit Card Accountability,
Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, which banned a number
of practices that Congress deemed abusive, and to the industry’s
efforts to improve customer service.  Turkey to Set Standards for Bank Fees, Regulator Chief Says  Turkey’s banking regulator will set standards for the fees
banks in the country charge, Mukim Oztekin, chief of the
regulator, said in Istanbul yesterday.  Oztekin, who is chairman of the Banking Regulation &
Supervision Agency, earlier pledged to work with the industry to
introduce a standard for credit card fees as part of efforts to
protect consumer rights.  Fees charged on credit cards and bank accounts shouldn’t be
“inflated” and customers should be informed about it, Oztekin
told reporters in Ankara July 18.  Courts  Ex-Lawyer Donna Guerin Pleads Guilty in Tax-Shelter Case  Donna Guerin, a former partner in the defunct law firm
Jenkens & Gilchrist, pleaded guilty in what the trial judge has
called the biggest U.S. tax-fraud prosecution in history.  Guerin was initially convicted by a jury in May 2011 with
three other defendants of running a 10-year tax shelter scheme
that created more than $1 billion in phony losses. Three of the
convictions, including Guerin’s, were overturned in June after
U.S. District Judge William Pauley found that a juror in the
case lied about her past, including that she was an alcoholic
and a suspended attorney.  Guerin, 52, pleaded guilty yesterday in Manhattan federal
court to one count of conspiracy and one count of tax evasion.
Her plea comes as prosecutors are preparing to retry the
defendants whose convictions were overturned based on the
misconduct of the juror.  “I came to believe that many clients engaged in the
transactions solely because they wanted to eliminate or reduce
tax liability,” Guerin said yesterday in court. She admitted to
helping advise clients on how to conduct complex transactions
that allowed them to wipe out financial gains. Guerin said she
also provided opinion letters to her clients helping them assert
that the deals were legitimate.  Guerin faces a maximum of 10 years in prison on both
counts, the judge said during the hearing. Sentencing is
scheduled for Jan. 11. She has agreed to pay $1.6 million in
penalties.  Her defense lawyer, Mark Rotert, declined to comment after
the proceeding.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Stanford’s Ex-Investment Chief Pendergest Holt Gets Three Years  Laura Pendergest Holt, the former chief investment officer
for Stanford Financial Group Co., was sentenced to three years
in prison for obstructing a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission probe of a $7 billion Ponzi scheme at the company.  Pendergest Holt, 39, was sentenced yesterday by U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston. She was the third-
highest-ranking executive in the financial services firm that
Texas financier R. Allen Stanford built on what the U.S. said
was a fraud based on bogus offshore bank certificates.  Jury selection in the trial of two more defendants in the
case, Stanford ex-Chief Accounting Officer Gilbert Lopez and ex-
Comptroller  Mark Kuhrt , is scheduled for Sept. 28.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-0342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Adoboli’s Losses Could Have Reached $12 Billion, Prosecutor Says  Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader, could have lost
the bank as much as $12 billion in unauthorized, “unhedged
investments,” prosecutor Sasha Wass said.  “The scale of Mr. Adoboli’s gambling was so large and so
unchecked he could have quite easily approached and even
exceeded the limits of the bank’s resources,” Wass told the 12-
person jury at the beginning of a London criminal trial today.  Adoboli, 32, exceeded his trading limits and invented
“fictitious deals,” to conceal losses of $2.3 billion from his
managers, Wass said. Adoboli’s “motive was to increase his
bonus, his status within the bank, his job prospects and his
ego.” His total pay rose from 40,500 pounds to 360,000 pounds
between 2005 and 2010, Wass said.  The former trader is charged with falsifying records on
exchange-traded fund transactions and other documents needed for
accounting purposes as early as October 2008, according to his
indictment. Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing
his senior trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to
losses intending thereby to make a gain for himself.” Adoboli
has denied the charges.  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli is
facing two counts of each.  The loss, which came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500,
DAX and EuroStoxx index futures, didn’t affect any client
positions, according to UBS.  Held in Wandsworth prison in southwest London after his
arrest on Sept. 15, Adoboli was granted bail and released June
13. He is staying with a friend in the British capital and
observes a curfew, his lawyer has said.  Siemens Is Sued by Argentine in U.S. for Rights Violations  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, was sued
by an ex-investigator for Argentina’s government who claimed the
company had a former employee beat him after he uncovered
corruption in a government contract.  Carlos Moran filed his lawsuit Sept. 12 in federal court in
Miami. Moran, who worked as an investigator for an Argentine
government agency, claimed the Munich-based company and its
Argentine unit were responsible for attacks he suffered after
discovering alleged bribes and kickbacks in a $1 billion
contract Siemens won to produce a national identity card.  Alexander Becker, a spokesman for Siemens, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail after business hours seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Another Siemens spokesman, Philipp Encz,
didn’t return a telephone call after business hours seeking
comment.  The suit was brought under the U.S. Alien Tort Claims Act
and seeks $100 million in damages.  The civil lawsuit is Moran v. Siemens, 12-cv-23334, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Interviews/Panels  Bharara Sees Schemes Grow as White-Collar Unit Marks 50 Years  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office has
charged 72 people in a nationwide crackdown on insider trading,
said he anticipates more work for his securities-fraud unit, the
oldest in the country.  At the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York yesterday,
Bharara said the securities-fraud cases his prosecutors and
federal agents are now seeing are more complex than in the past.  The unit recently marked 50 years fighting white-collar
crime. Insider-trading schemes have grown in scope, said
Bharara, 43.  The new breed of securities-fraud defendants “engage in
insider trading on the kind of scale that I don’t think we’ve
seen in public prosecutions that have been brought,” said
Bharara, speaking with Bloomberg News Editor-in-Chief Matt
Winkler before a gathering of fund managers and members of the
financial community in New York.  For more, click here.  Bove, Breeden, Dorgan, Krawcheck on Banking Industry  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities; Richard
Breeden, chief executive officer at Breeden Capital Management
LLC;  Byron Dorgan , senior policy adviser for Arent Fox LLP; and
Sallie Krawcheck, former head of  Bank of America Corp. ’s wealth-
management division, participated in a panel discussion about
the state of the banking industry and outlook for regulation.  Bloomberg’s Robert Friedman moderated the panel at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York.  For the video, click here.  SocGen’s Oudea Sees ‘Perhaps’ Volcker-Type Rule in Europe  Societe Generale SA Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea 
said that “perhaps a Volcker rule” could be applied to the
European universal banking model, which is “the right one” for
the region.  Splitting retail-banking and capital-market activities
might create “specialized banks” probably unable to act as
counterparts for corporate needs “in the current environment in
Europe,” Oudea said at the Bloomberg Markets conference in New
York yesterday.  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
law, is intended to limit transactions that put deposits insured
by the U.S. government at risk.  Comings and Goings  Tucker Favorite to Succeed King at BOE, William Hill Odds Show  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  is the favorite
to succeed Mervyn King at the helm of the central bank,
according to odds published by  William Hill Plc (WMH)  as the
government begins its formal search.  Tucker’s odds are at 7/4, meaning a successful 4-pound
($6.50) bet would win a 7-pound profit, the London-based
bookmaker said today.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  began the search
for a successor today, promising a fair and open process. The
Treasury placed an advertisement in the Economist magazine
beginning a three-month recruitment process. Applicants have
until Oct. 8 to apply.  Osborne’s task to replace King when he retires at the end
of June has been complicated after the Libor scandal embroiled
several potential candidates, including Tucker. King, 64, is
retiring after completing the maximum tenure of two five-year
terms. His successor will serve a single eight-year term.  Wheatley, Gensler to Head IOSCO Task Force on Benchmark Rates  The International Organization of Securities Commissions,
which represents regulators in more than 100 countries, started
a task force to investigate benchmarks such as Libor after
allegations banks rigged the rate.  Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin
Wheatley and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman
Gary Gensler will oversee the group, which will develop global
policy guidance and principles for the setting of such rates,
Madrid-based IOSCO said in an e-mailed statement today.  U.S. and European regulators are probing more than a dozen
banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated the London
interbank offered rate as well as its European and Japanese
counterparts. Investigators are examining whether traders
colluded to rig the rates for profit and whether banks
understated their borrowing costs to appear healthier than they
were.  Schaeuble Signals He’s Open to Another Term as Finance Minister  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  signaled he’s
willing to serve another term if voters re-elect  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government in next year’s federal election.  Schaeuble said in an interview in Berlin yesterday that
while he was ill two years ago he feels well enough to serve. He
added that he enjoys a particularly “close relationship of
trust” with Merkel after three years of their joint battle to
save the 17-nation euro. Such personal ties are “a necessity in
these difficult times,” he said.  Schaeuble, who will be 70 on Sept. 18, said he’s prepared
to stand again in elections due in the fall of 2013 for the
Bundestag, the lower house of parliament, where he has served as
a member of the Christian Democratic Union party since 1972.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  