-- Bernanke Will Meet Senators in Private on Sept. 19
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-09-14T21:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bernanke-will-meet-senate-finance-panel-privately-on-sept-19.html
Ben S. Bernanke , the chairman of
the  Federal Reserve , will meet with the Senate Finance Committee
privately on Sept. 19 to discuss the economy and the so-called
fiscal cliff set for the end of the year, the panel said.  If Congress doesn’t act, more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts will take effect
starting in January. That is one of the “main sources of risk”
facing the  U.S. economy , Bernanke has said.  Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  described the meeting
as an extension of discussions he has been holding with
lawmakers and people in the private sector about the fiscal
cliff.  “This is a continuation of those conversations and my
efforts to bring Republicans and Democrats together,” said
Baucus, a Montana Democrat, in a statement today. “We’ll need
good ideas from everyone to overcome the many fiscal challenges
we face. We need to work together to ensure the economic future
of our nation.”  Lawmakers are deadlocked over how to avert the fiscal
cliff, particularly on  tax policy . Democrats propose letting tax
cuts expire for top earners while Republicans want to extend
expiring tax reductions for all income levels.  Tax Jurisdiction  The Finance Committee has jurisdiction over taxes and
entitlement programs, meaning that it will have a central role
in the discussions about the fiscal cliff that will occur after
the Nov. 6 election.  Bernanke and the Federal Open Market Committee yesterday
announced they would begin an open-ended program to buy $40
billion a month of mortgage debt in a bid to support the housing
market and improve the pace of job growth.  “This is a Main Street policy, because what we’re about
here is trying to get jobs going,” Bernanke said at a news
conference yesterday. “We’re trying to create more  employment .
We’re trying to meet our maximum employment mandate, so that’s
the objective,” he said, referring to the Fed’s mandate from
Congress for full employment and stable prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  