-- Bernanke’s Stimulus Sends Debt-Market Stress Back to 2010 Levels
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-14T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bernanke-s-stimulus-sends-debt-market-stress-back-to-2010-levels.html
Measures of stress are at the
lowest in more than two years following  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s unveiling of additional stimulus measures.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap  spread , a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 1.12 basis points to 12.63 basis
points, the lowest since March 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk dropped for
the fourth day to the least since March 2011, the data show.  Debt buyers are fueling a rally, signaling that U.S. and
European government plans to repurchase bonds have alleviated
concerns that a slowing global economy will eat into corporate
profits. The Fed’s pledge yesterday to expand holdings of long-
term securities has intensified investors’ search for
alternatives to government debt paying record low yields, even
with  corporate debentures  also offering the lowest rates ever.  “Investors need yield,” said Sharon Stark, chief market
strategist at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in Birmingham,  Alabama ,
said in a telephone interview. “They’re going to continue to
pour into the highest-yielding asset class.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, fell 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 83
basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Third Round  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has declined
about 19 basis points this month. The contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The interest-rate swap gauge narrows when investors favor
assets such as company debentures and widens when they seek the
perceived safety of  government securities .  The Federal Reserve’s third round of quantitative easing to
stimulate the  U.S. economy  is leading junk-bond buyers to accept
the lowest yields ever as they seek a reprieve from a fourth
year of near-zero  interest rates .  Yields on speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. fell to a
record 7.07 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Distressed bonds, that yield at least
10 percentage points more than comparably dated Treasuries, have
returned 3.34 percent this month, 1.8 percentage points more
than junk notes on average, the data show.  High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s  and below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Risk Markets’  “The risk markets are rallying even though there’s a round
of some pretty negative economic data,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “I think the
primary move here is that the Fed is increasing the market’s
expectation for inflation.”  A report from the Labor Department today showed average
hourly earnings adjusted for inflation decreased 0.7 percent in
August from the previous month, the biggest drop since June
2009. Real wages were unchanged from August 2011.  Consumer prices climbed 0.6 percent in August, the most
since June 2009, as Americans paid more at filling stations, the
Labor Department also said.  “We still have risk in the recovery of demand,” said
Dorian Garay, a  money manager  for a global investment-grade debt
fund at ING Investment Management, which oversaw 322 billion
euros ($423 billion) as of year-end. “My main concern is that
inflation is picking up at a faster pace than  consumer spending 
is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  