-- Bloomberg Asks NYC Agencies to Find $2 Billion in Budget Savings
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-14T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bloomberg-asks-nyc-agencies-to-find-2-billion-in-budget-savings.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
called on agency heads to find $2 billion in savings in the next
18 months to help close projected budget deficits of more than
$3 billion.  “The gaps we are facing must be addressed,” Budget
Director Mark Page said in a letter to commisioners today. “We
will once again need to curtail planned spending, and do so in a
way that prioritizes and preserves necessary city services and
quality of life.”  The Bloomberg administration in June  planned a $68.7
billion budget  for the 2013 fiscal year, which began July 1,
forecasting $1 billion in the next two years from sale of 2,000
taxi medallions. That plan was thwarted when a court last month
ruled the state law authorizing the medallion sale
unconstitutional, adding $1 billion to what had already been a
$2.5 billion gap in the $69.3 billion budget for the following
year. The city has appealed the court decision.  “Since the budget gaps we face are likely to persist for
multiple years, spending reductions that are recurring are
obviously most valuable,” Page wrote.  Cuts for agencies except uniformed services and schools
must equal 5.4 percent of this year’s budget and 8 percent next
year, Page said in the letter. Police, fire and corrections
departments must trim 2.7 percent of their spending through June
30, and 4 percent next year. Schools must cut 1.6 percent this
year and 4 percent in 2014.  Cuts or Revenue  The proposal can include staff reductions and other cost-
cutting measures, or plans to find outside sources of revenue,
Page’s letter said.  The cuts are due Oct. 4, a month before the mayor presents
his annual budget-modification plan to the City Council, Page
said.  “Depending on the economic circumstances we face, and
federal and state actions, the size of city-wide cuts may also
need to increase or decrease, and implementation may need to be
accelerated or other changes implemented,” Page wrote.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  