-- BNY Mellon Helps Clients Pull Cash From Denmark, Switzerland
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s
-- 2012-09-14T11:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bny-mellon-helps-clients-sweep-cash-from-denmark-switzerland.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , with
$27.1 trillion of assets under custody and administration, said
it’s helping clients pull cash from  Denmark  and  Switzerland  as
the central banks take measures to stem appreciating currencies.  “We’ve been working with our clients on how to sweep their
money out of Denmark so they don’t get subjected to a charging
environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell  said in an
interview in Doha, Qatar. In Switzerland “we’ve been able to
work with our clients to not have cash trapped there.”  Denmark’s Nationalbanken cut its deposit rate to minus 0.2
percent in July, stepping up a battle to prevent the krone from
strengthening beyond its currency band as the nation’s haven
status attracts investors and effectively charging depositors 
to take their money. Swiss National Bank Vice President
Jean-Pierre Danthine said in June that installing similar fees
“is a measure we could consider if circumstances warrant it.”  Denmark has an accord with the  European Central Bank  to let
the krone swing no more than 2.25 percent from a rate of
7.46038, though it maintains a tighter band in practice. The
Copenhagen-based central bank only adjusts rates to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro. The SNB imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro a year ago, a measure last used in the 1970s, as
the currency rose as much as 37 percent in the prior 12 months.  ‘Position Cash’  “We’re very actively working with our clients to help them
position their cash to avoid that issue” of charges on
deposits, Hassell said, during a client trip in the  Middle East ,
where the bank has some of its largest customers.  BNY Mellon , the world’s largest custody bank, also had $1.3
trillion of assets under management at the end of June.  The bank on July 18 reported a 37 percent decline in
second-quarter profit as low interest rates and declining stock
markets cut into revenue and BNY Mellon settled a lawsuit. The
net interest margin, the difference between what a bank pays on
deposits and receives on loans and investments, was 1.25 percent
in the quarter, an all-time low, Chief Financial Officer Todd Gibbons said in a telephone interview at the time.  “Low interest rates for everyone are a challenge,”
Hassell said. “If rates were even 50, 100 basis points higher
than what they are today we would earn several hundred million
dollars per year.”  BNY Mellon, along with other managers, closed its European
money fund to new investments because “we can’t find new
investments that earn any yield,” said Hassell. “At the moment
its naturally redeeming itself as time goes on.”  Funds Close  More than half of  Europe ’s money market funds by assets
have closed because securities they invest in pay negative
returns after the ECB cut  interest rates ,  Standard & Poor’s  said
in July. Funds with assets totaling 79 billion euros ($97
billion) have closed, out of a pool of 133 billion euros rated
by the New York-based firm, S&P said in a report.  The U.S. Federal Reserve, which yesterday announced its
third round of large-scale asset purchases since 2008, also
extended the prospect of near-zero interest rates until mid-2015
and said policy will stay accommodative “for a considerable
time” even after the economy strengthens.  BNY Mellon is cutting about $750 million of costs over a
three-year period and working on new initiatives to mitigate the
impact of lower interest rates. These include its so-called
global collateral service, which is intended to help
institutions find collateral that can be posted for trades.  “We can’t wait for interest rates to rise to get the
returns our shareholders are looking for,” Hassell said. “We
have to control what we can control as much as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  