-- Bo Xilai’s Former Police Chief Goes on Trial Next Week
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-14T04:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bo-xilai-s-former-police-chief-wang-lijun-goes-on-trial-sept-18.html
The former police chief of
Chongqing, whose flight to a U.S. consulate in February sparked
a crisis that shook  China ’s Communist Party, will face trial
next week on charges including abuse of power and taking bribes.  Wang Lijun will go on trial Sept. 18, an official at the
Intermediate People’s Court in Chengdu who would only give his
surname, He, said today. Chengdu is the location of the U.S.
diplomatic outpost where Wang brought evidence implicating the
family of his former boss, ousted Chongqing party secretary  Bo Xilai , in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood.  The decision about Wang’s trial date comes as Communist
Party leaders grapple with a once-in-a-decade leadership
transition that’s been complicated by Bo’s ouster in March and
the recent public absence of Vice President  Xi Jinping . The
party still hasn’t announced the date of the congress where Xi
has been expected to be anointed China’s next president.  Wang allegedly “neglected his duty and bent the law for
personal gain” to shield Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, from charges
that she plotted Heywood’s murder in November, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said earlier this month. Gu was convicted in
August of poisoning Heywood.  Wang headed Chongqing’s police force from 2009 until early
February. He oversaw a crackdown on gangs that raised the
profile of Bo’s “Chongqing model,” with its focus on getting
tough on crime and fighting social inequality.  ‘Serious Violations’  After he was removed as police chief, Wang told diplomats
in Chengdu that Gu murdered Heywood, according to U.S. officials
briefed on the matter. After a night with American officials,
Wang turned himself over to government authorities.  Bo, 63, committed “serious violations of discipline” in
the case, Xinhua reported in April. He has not been publicly
charged with any crime and hasn’t been seen in public since the
end of the National People’s Congress in Beijing in March.  Wang’s trial will be conducted “in accordance with the
law,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a
briefing in Beijing last week.  Xi, meanwhile, has not appeared in public since Sept. 1,
leading to speculation that he may be ill. Citing unidentified
people from China, the  Hong Kong Economic Times  reported today
that he has only a minor injury and speculation that he has
cancer or was in a car accident isn’t true.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  