-- Bovespa Approaches Bull Market Amid Recovery Optimism
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-09-14T14:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/bovespa-approaches-bull-market-amid-global-recovery-optimism.html
The Bovespa  index  approached a  bull
market  as record-low  interest rates  boosted Brazil’s economic
outlook and stimulus measures from central banks around the
world eased concern the global slowdown will deepen.  The  benchmark  added 2.2 percent to 63,348.53 at 10:55 a.m.
in  Sao Paulo , extending its advance to 21 percent from a bear-
market low on June 5. Russia’s Micex index also approached a
bull market today after rising more than 20 percent from a May
23 low.  India  entered a bull market in February, the first among
the so-called BRIC countries to do so this year.  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis faded after the  European
Central Bank  laid out a plan to purchase an unlimited amount of
sovereign bonds to regain control of interest rates and fight
speculation of a currency breakup. In the U.S., the  Federal
Reserve  said yesterday it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  “Interest rates at a record low in Brazil and the recently
announced Fed measures to help revive the economy in the U.S.
are encouraging investors to take more risk and go back to the
Bovespa,” Pedro Paulo Silveira, chief analyst at brokerage Tov
Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “As confidence
strengthens, the Brazilian stock market seems poised to advance
again.”  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
has cut the benchmark Selic lending rate by 5 percentage points
since August 2011 to 7.5 percent to spur growth in Latin
America’s largest economy.  Real estate companies and commodities producers have been
among the best performers on the Bovespa since the bear market
low. Gafisa SA, Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
gained the most, surging 116 percent. The voting stock of
steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA was the third-
best, rising 71 percent. Petrochemicals producer Braskem SA
jumped 56 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Richtmyer in  New York  at 
 rrichtmyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Richard Richtmyer at 
 rrichtmyer@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  