-- Brazil’s Economic Activity Grew at Fastest Rate in 11 Months
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-09-14T13:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/brazil-activity-grew-at-fastest-annual-rate-in-11-months-1-.html
Brazil ’s economic activity rose
more than forecast in July, posting the biggest expansion in
almost a year, as growth in the world’s second-biggest emerging
market gains momentum.  The non-seasonally adjusted  economic activity index  rose
2.34 percent from a year earlier after rising 0.99 percent in
June, the central bank said today in a report. The forecast was
for a 2.1 percent expansion, according to the median estimate of
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Activity rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.42 percent in July, more than the 0.3 percent median
forecast by 28 economists.  Today’s report is the latest sign that Brazil’s economy is
turning the corner and is unlikely to need any further monetary
stimulus. Since August 2011, the administration of President
 Dilma Rousseff  has lowered  interest rates  more than any other
Group of 20 nation to record 7.5 percent, cut taxes on company
payrolls and  consumer goods  and encouraged banks to lower
lending costs.  “It is practically guaranteed that the cycle of Selic rate
cuts is finished,” Jose Francisco De Lima Goncalves, chief
economist at Banco Fator SA, said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo .  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini on Sept. 12 told a
Senate hearing that economic growth is set to accelerate in the
remainder of this year and through 2013.  While Brazil expanded an annualized 1.64 percent in the
second quarter, less than  Japan  and the U.S., recent indicators
point to a pick-up in activity. Retail sales beat economists’
forecasts in July, rising at the second-fastest pace since
January, and automobile sales in August soared to a record high,
spurred by tax breaks. Traders have pared bets that policy
makers in  Latin America ’s largest economy will lower interest
rates for a 10th straight time next month.  Still, Brazil’s industrial production in July fell 2.9
percent from a year ago as manufacturers struggle with high
costs of doing business and uncertainty in the global economy.
Consumer loan defaults matched a 30-month high in the same
month, even as government officials have said that figure will
fall. Yesterday, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  cut his 2012
growth forecast to 2 percent from 3 percent.  Rising wages and a spike in food and beverage costs also
led the pace of  consumer price  increases to quicken for the
second straight month in August, to 5.24 percent. Inflation will
slow to the central bank’s 4.5 percent target in a “non-
linear” way during the rest of the year, Tombini said.  Growth in July was the fastest since 3.04 percent in August
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  