-- Brazil Utility Measures Respect All Contracts, Minister Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-09-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/brazil-utility-measures-respect-all-contracts-minister-says.html
Brazil ’s government isn’t breaking
any contracts in its plan to demand energy rate cuts as the main
condition to renew power utilities’ expiring licenses, Mining
and Energy Minister Edison Lobao said.  President  Dilma Rousseff  and Lobao on Sept. 11 announced
measures to force power utilities to cut rates by as much as 28
percent to stoke economic growth while taming inflation. The
measures include revised conditions for the renewal of licenses
due from 2015 to 2017.  “We are giving them an option, while reinvigorating their
business for 30 more years,” the minister said during an
interview yesterday in Brasilia. “But we’re not imposing
anything. Those who are not satisfied can comply with the
current law and return the asset to the federal government.”  Expiring concessions are mostly part of the state-run power
utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or Eletrobras, and
won’t affect the private initiative, according to Lobao.  “I honestly don’t understand all the crying,” Lobao said.
“We are not taking anything from anyone.”  The government will compensate companies that haven’t paid
off required investments under existing licenses. The 21 billion
reais ($10.4 billion) set aside for such a purpose is more than
enough, the minister said.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , Brazil’s largest power
company by market value, declined 20 percent to close at 25.29
reais in  Sao Paulo  on Sept. 12 after earlier falling as much as
23 percent, the biggest intraday drop since September 1998.  Cia.
Energetica de Sao Paulo , or Cesp, plummeted 28 percent the same
day, the most since it started trading in August 2006.  Lower utility rates for households and businesses will
shave 0.5 percentage point to 1 percentage point off inflation
starting next year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters in Brasilia on Sept 11.  -- Editors: Charles Siler, Iain Wilson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  