-- Brazil’s Arabica Coffee Discount Widens as New York Futures Rise
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-14T09:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/brazil-s-arabica-coffee-discount-widens-as-new-york-futures-rise.html
Buyers of coffee from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, were getting a bigger discount for
arabica beans this week, with futures in  New York  rallying,
according to Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.  Fine-cup beans were trading at a discount of 10 cents a
pound to the price of the December contract on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York, compared with 6 cents a pound last week, data from
Rio de Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee showed. Good-cup
quality beans were at a discount of 20 cents a pound up from 16
cents a pound last week, it said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Arabica coffee futures rallied 11 percent this week as some
investors bought the futures after betting on a price drop for
six weeks, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data 
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The price dropped 20 percent this
year as  certified stockpiles  surpassed 2 million bags, the
highest since August 2010. Fine-cup quality beans are usually
more expensive than good-cup ones because of the taste profile.  “Funds are still short covering and better news on the
macro scenario started the happy mood in coffee, other
commodities and  stock exchanges ,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at
Cazarini Trading Co. in Varginha, Brazil, said in a separate
report e-mailed yesterday. “Even though prices rallied that
much, differentials only softened 2 cents to 3 cents.”  Short covering denotes purchases to close bets on lower
prices. Differentials refer to a discount or a premium paid to
obtain physical coffee in relation to the futures prices. The
discount for fine-cup beans did not widen enough to attract more
demand, Flavour Coffee said in the report.  In the domestic market, sales volume was “big,” Flavour
Coffee said, adding that producers didn’t miss “the opportunity
to sell coffees at more attractive prices in Brazilian reais.”  Robusta Premium  Buyers of conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known,
are paying a premium of 15 cents a pound ($330 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , up from 14 cents
a pound last week, according to Flavour Coffee data.  “With the huge premium against Liffe, the market is
neglected to a very sporadic short-coverage,” Flavour Coffee
said. Robusta futures rose 2.4 percent this week.  Robusta coffee for November delivery rose 0.8 percent to
$2,098 a metric ton by 10:37 a.m. on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee
for December delivery was up 1.4 percent to $1.814 a pound on
ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 