-- Brazil Cuts Reserve Requirements as Rousseff Urges Banks to Lend
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-09-17T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/brazil-cuts-reserve-requirements-to-free-up-30-billion-reais.html
Brazil ’s central bank reduced
 reserve requirements  to free up 30 billion reais ($14.9 billion)
in credit as President  Dilma Rousseff  pushes banks to lower
borrowing costs in the world’s second-biggest emerging market.  The  measure  came a week after Rousseff criticized Brazilian
banks for overcharging for loans. Over the past year, the
central bank has cut its benchmark rate by 500 basis points,
more than all Group of 20 nations, though borrowing costs are
still among the highest in the world. The average interest rate
charged for personal loans stood at 36 percent in July.  “It was necessary for the reserve requirements to
accompany structural changes” in the Brazilian economy, Aldo Mendes, the central bank director in charge of monetary policy,
said in a phone interview after the measure was announced Sept.
14. “If the supply of credit increases, everything indicates
that interest rates will fall.”  As part of the new rules, the monetary authority eliminated
the so-called additional reserve requirement rate for cash
deposits, which had been at 6 percent, and also reduced one for
 time deposits  to 11 percent from 12 percent starting Oct. 29.  Banks can meet half of the reserve requirements on time
deposits by acquiring loan portfolios and local bonds issued by
competitors, a move that will improve financing conditions for
smaller financial institutions, said  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief
strategist of  Credit Agricole (ACA)  Brasil SA. The central bank said
that reserve requirements deposited by local banks at the
monetary authority will fall to 350 billion reais from a current
380 billion reais over the coming months.  ‘Civilized’ Earnings  Rousseff said Sept. 6 that while she’s satisfied with
policy makers having taken the benchmark rate to an
“unprecedented” 2 percent in real terms, banks can do more to
reduce borrowing costs. Since last August the central bank led
by Alexandre Tombini has reduced the Selic rate to a record low
7.5 percent.  “I confess that I’m not satisfied,” Rousseff said in a
nationally televised address to commemorate Brazil’s
Independence Day. “Because banks, financial institutions and
especially credit cards can reduce still further the  interest
rates  they charge final consumers, lowering to civilized levels
their earnings.”  Mendes said that it’s a medium-term aim of the central bank
to align Brazil’s reserve requirements with those seen abroad.
Still, he said reserve levels of around 1 percent to 2 percent
of gross domestic product in the U.S. and  Europe  would be too
low for Brazil’s financial system in times of stress. With the
new measure, reserve requirements will fall to about 8.5 percent
of GDP from 9 percent, he said.  Last week the bank announced it would liquidate  Banco
Cruzeiro do Sul  after officials appointed to run the Sao Paulo-
based company found a “serious violation” and unfunded
liabilities that made it impossible to resume normal operations.
Regulators also liquidated Banco Prosper SA, the lender Cruzeiro
do Sul said it would acquire in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  