-- British Columbia Seeks to Spur LNG With Haisla Agreement
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-14T20:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/british-columbia-seeks-to-spur-lng-sales-with-haisla-land-deal.html
The British Columbia government
agreed to lease or sell 700 hectares (1,730 acres) of land to
the Haisla First Nation to help speed development of a liquefied
 natural gas  terminal.  The agreement gives the Haisla, an indigenous Canadian
group, access to waterfront land in an area where other LNG
export terminals have been proposed, the government said in
statement today. The Haisla are partners in one of the
province’s LNG export projects and have rented out some of their
land for another terminal.  The deal “has the potential to fast-track a major LNG
facility in the Kitimat area,” Ida Chong, the province’s
minister of aboriginal relations and reconciliation, said at a
press conference in  Vancouver . It also encourages the
participation of the Haisla in LNG development.  The government sees as many as seven LNG export projects in
British Columbia, with the first built as soon as 2015, said
Rich Coleman, the provincial Minister of Energy, Mines and
Natural Gas. British Columbia is seeking ways to liquefy and
export its gas via tankers to Asian markets, where prices are
higher than in  North America .  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are
among the companies that have proposed gas export terminals in
British Columbia, which holds an estimated 200 trillion cubic
feet of the fuel in shale formations.  ‘Market Value’  The Haisla will pay the provincial government “market
value” rent for the land, near their reserve, Chong said. A
purchase price would be negotiated later, she said.  The group currently has a 50 percent stake in the proposed
 Douglas Channel Energy Partnership  with LNG Partners LLC, a
closely held Houston-based company. The Douglas Channel project
includes a barge-based liquefaction plant near Kitimat, British
Columbia, that would convert about 125 million standard cubic
feet of gas a day.  The Haisla already have an agreement to lease land to
Apache, which is considering building the Kitimat LNG project
with its partners Encana and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  Under today’s
agreement, the group may offer access to the additional land to
Apache, Shell or other LNG developers, said Ellis Ross, Haisla
Chief Councilor.  Apache’s project may beat rivals including Shell to become
the first to export LNG from Canada’s Pacific Coast by 2016,
British Columbia Premier Christy Clark said on Sept. 12. The
company said in June first production from Kitimat may be in
2017.  Asian gas consumers are paying at least  five times  as much
as buyers in North America for gas, Coleman said.  “Right now, Japan is most interested in receiving more
exports of liquefied natural gas,” Chong said. “ South Korea  is
also interested and we’ve also heard China and India are two
large  emerging markets .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  