-- Brookfield Channels Buffett in General Growth Investment
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-14T20:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/brookfield-channels-buffett-in-general-growth-investment.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  is
keeping a tight grip on its stake in  General Growth Properties
Inc. (GGP)  in a bet the second-largest U.S. mall owner is better off
as an independent company that will jump in value.  General Growth (BBREMALL)  this week rejected a call by minority
investor  Bill Ackman  to explore a deal with larger rival  Simon (SPG) 
Property Group Inc. Brookfield owns 42 percent of General Growth
after teaming with Ackman to bring it out of bankruptcy in 2010,
and the Toronto-based asset manager opposes a sale as it seeks
to capitalize on the mall company’s recovery and prepares to
form a new entity for its own real estate holdings.  Brookfield’s investment is “impossible to replicate,”
because of General Growth’s high-quality group of properties,
which include Ala Moana Center in Honolulu and Grand Canal
Shoppes and Fashion Show in Las Vegas, according to Mark Rothschild, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. It also is a
wager that  rental  revenue and real estate values will keep
rising amid increased demand from retailers.  “The BAM philosophy is largely to invest for the very long
term,” Cedrik Lachance, an analyst at Green Street Advisors
Inc. in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. “It is a portfolio of very good quality real estate
and they like to control platforms.”  Brookfield has three seats on the  board  of Chicago-based
General Growth, including one held by Chairman J. Bruce Flatt,
the chief executive officer of Brookfield. Flatt, in a Sept. 10
letter to General Growth shareholders, likened Brookfield’s
investment strategy to that of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , buying stakes in businesses that have franchises
that can’t be replaced and holding on for the returns.  New Company  Brookfield  shares  have a total return of 18 percent in the
past five years, compared with 11 percent for Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire Hathaway.  Brookfield, whose other real estate investments range from
 office towers  to apartment company Fairfield Residential Co.,
plans to spin off its commercial property holdings into a new
public company that it will control, according to plans filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission in May. The asset
manager’s General Growth ownership will be included in the new
company, Brookfield Property Partners LP.  “They think over decades,” Rothschild, based in Toronto,
said of Brookfield in a telephone interview. “It’s not about
making an extra 5 percent today.”  Not Over  Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management LP is
General Growth’s No. 2 shareholder, with a 10 percent stake,
indicated yesterday that he isn’t giving up on his efforts for
the company to explore a merger.  “You can expect you will hear more from us on this
topic,” he said in a telephone interview.  General Growth, led by former Vornado Realty Trust
executive  Sandeep Mathrani , has jumped about 50 percent since
the company exited  bankruptcy  in November 2010, including an 8
percent gain from Aug. 22, the day before Ackman first proposed
exploring a sale, through yesterday. The shares advanced 7 cents
today to $20.07.  Since the restructuring, the real estate investment trust
has spun off two companies,  Howard Hughes Corp. (HHC)  and Rouse
Properties Inc., in an effort to focus on the highest-quality
real estate. It has paid down and refinanced debt to reduce
costs. It also is keeping up with Simon in some areas of retail
real estate performance, including tenant sales and occupancy.  “Since the company’s come out of bankruptcy, it has
focused on rationalizing its portfolio,”  David Harris , a real
estate investment trust analyst at Imperial Capital LLC in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “They have a sensible
business strategy.”  ‘Superior Growth’  General Growth “is positioned for superior growth over the
next five years versus any comparable retail mall investment,”
Flatt wrote in the Sept. 10 letter. The landlord, in its letter
rejecting Ackman’s proposal, said the best value for
shareholders can be achieved if it continues with its business
plan.  Ackman said in a letter to General Growth’s board that he
discussed a takeover of the company with Indianapolis-based
Simon through an all-stock deal. Brookfield didn’t support the
plan and ultimately said it would try to pursue an acquisition
on its own, he wrote. Brookfield, in response, said it isn’t
taking any steps to buy the company.  A proposed takeover by Simon should be viewed as a merger
since General Growth shareholders would keep their investment in
the combined company, Ackman said.  Better Off  “The correct analysis is to compare where GGP shareholders
would be if it remained an independent company versus a merger
with Simon today over the next five to 10 years because
shareholders in the merger begin with a substantial premium and
because the combined company gets the benefits from the revenue
and cost synergies that are unavailable to standalone GGP,”
Ackman said yesterday in the telephone interview. “Shareholders
are vastly better off in a merger today than if the company were
to remain independent.”  Simon’s market value is about $50 billion, compared with
$18.8 billion for General Growth. Simon isn’t interested in
buying General Growth, Stephen Sterrett, Simon’s chief financial
officer, said Sept. 11 at a Barclays Plc investment-banking unit
conference.  “There’s been a fair bit of speculation and inquiry lately
about General Growth and our rumored interest in that company
and I think it’s important to respond and set the record
straight,” Sterrett said. “We have no interest in General
Growth.”  Andy Willis, a spokesman for Brookfield,  David Keating , a
spokesman for General Growth, and Les Morris, a spokesman for
Simon, all declined to comment.  Sales, Occupancy  General Growth owns or has stakes in 149 regional malls
with about 141 million square feet (13 million square meters) of
leasable space in the U.S. and Brazil. The company’s tenant
sales rose 9 percent to $533 per square foot on a trailing 12-
month basis in the second quarter, compared with a gain of 10
percent to $554 for Simon. Occupancy at General Growth’s
regional malls was 94.3 percent, compared with 94.2 percent for
Simon’s U.S. shopping centers and outlet malls.  “GGP’s board believes, and we agree, that its high-quality
mall portfolio contains significant embedded growth as the
management team executes on its long road back from
bankruptcy,” Nathan Isbee, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
in Baltimore, wrote in a note to investors Sept. 11.  General Growth will benefit from increased occupancy and
converting short-term leases to long-term leases at
“significantly higher rents,” Isbee wrote.  Acquiring Assets  The company is focused on internal growth through
increasing occupancy and redevelopment of properties. It may be
an acquirer of assets in three to five years, Chief Financial
Officer Michael Berman said at the Barclays conference Sept. 12.  “The regional mall business is a very, very healthy
business,”  Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Solon,  Ohio , said in a telephone interview. “You could make the
argument that left on their own, GGP will probably do just
fine.”  Mall owners are the best performing group in the Bloomberg
REIT  Index (BBREIT)  this year, advancing 29 percent compared with the
broader index’s 18 percent increase. General Growth has climbed
38 percent in 2012, compared with a gain of 26 percent for
Simon. General Growth is the third-best performing mall REIT,
after  Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust (PEI)  and  CBL &
Associates Properties Inc. (CBL)   Prior Offer  Simon would pay 0.1765 of a Simon share for each General
Growth share, according to one of Ackman’s letters. That would
value General Growth at $28.72 a share, based on Simon’s closing
price today.  That would have given General Growth a higher per-share
value than Simon’s proposed takeover from more than two years
ago. Simon said in May 2010 that it offered $20 a share for its
competitor, which was under  bankruptcy protection  at the time.  “What was attractive to Simon and BAM two years ago is the
quality of the asset base of GGP,” said Lachance of Green
Street. “The mall business in the U.S. is largely concentrated
in the hands of a limited number of owners and the good quality
malls, I’d say even more so.”  Outlet Malls  A Simon and General Growth combination would be even more
diversified in the Class A mall business and would have the
largest outlet-mall operation. General Growth doesn’t own outlet
malls, which have been “a significant contributor to Simon’s
long-term” growth in funds from operations, Ackman wrote in his
letter. A combined company also would have lower leverage.  Ackman will probably keep pushing for change at General
Growth and could nominate his own slate of  directors  at the
company’s next annual meeting, according to Moore.  General Growth and Simon properties tend to be top-tier
malls in areas with little space for development, making it
harder to build competing properties. The lack of new regional-
mall supply and rising demand from retailers for space will help
boost rents for landlords, Moore said.  “The supply of new regional malls is essentially zero,”
he said. “The population of the country continues to grow and,
hence, you have these wonderful destination shopping centers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  