-- Burmese Democracy Idol Will Face Critics in Return to UN
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-09-14T03:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/burmese-democracy-idol-will-face-critics-in-return-to-un.html
When Aung San Suu Kyi was last in
 New York  she was single, sharing a small apartment in midtown
 Manhattan  with an exiled Burmese singer and walking six minutes
each day to a bureaucratic job she hated at the  United Nations .  That was in 1969. The 24-year-old daughter of the founding
father of an independent  Burma , still unsure what to do with her
life, lived in relative anonymity for three years, until she
left with no regrets to marry an Englishman, according to Peter
Popham’s biography of her.  Next week the Burmese democracy icon, now a 67-year-old
Nobel Peace Prize winner and member of parliament, will be back
in New York for the first time in decades to attend meetings at
her former employer. During a 17-day U.S. tour, she will be
feted on both coasts and awarded the Congressional Gold Medal,
America’s highest civilian honor.  Still, as she transitions from icon to practical
politician, Suu Kyi’s silent treatment of the minority Rohingya
Muslims in Myanmar has begun to blemish her reputation as a
champion of human rights. No longer confined to house arrest,
she now must gauge whether to compromise some principles in
order to retain popular support.  “She could have been Gandhi, but she sacrificed her moral
authority,” said Robert Lieberman, a physics professor at
 Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, who spent two years
making an undercover documentary on Myanmar. “The Burmese are
very prejudiced against the Rohingya, and she is running in
2015. Politics are a dirty business.”  Reviled Rohingyas  While beloved by voters -- her image is a fixture in
Burmese shop windows and homes -- the majority of the population
reviles the stateless Rohingyas, who are deprived of citizenship
in Myanmar. The next nationwide vote in 2015 will take place a
quarter of a century after the military dictatorship refused to
recognize the victory of Suu Kyi’s party in 1990 elections.  At home and abroad, Suu Kyi remains a symbol of Myanmar’s
stoic nonviolent struggle against the five-decade rule of
generals who kept her under house arrest for 15 years. As the
former military junta allowed a political opening, she showed
her willingness to engage by entering parliament after her
party’s successful showing in April by-elections, running for a
seat in parliament that came open between regular elections.  For the first time this year, Suu Kyi has been able to
travel freely overseas without fear of being banned from re-
entry, dropping by Oslo to pick up her Nobel Peace Prize -- 21
years after it was bestowed on her.  She also visited  Great Britain , where she had studied at
Oxford University and lived in the 1980s with her husband
Michael Aris, a Tibetan scholar. In 1999, when Aris was dying,
she dared not visit him out of concern she wouldn’t be allowed
to return to Myanmar.  Democratic Icon  Wherever Suu Kyi goes, she attracts throngs of supporters
seeking a glimpse of their idol and media eager to quiz her.  Along with the adulation comes greater scrutiny.  Questions on where she stands on the persecution of the
Rohingya dogged her in a trip to  Europe  in June. Her decision to
skirt the issue elicited rare criticism.  “Aung San Suu Kyi has the moral authority to change the
terms of debate in Myanmar about the Rohingya towards a rights-
respecting, non-discriminatory path, and we certainly hope she
will seize the unique opportunity of this U.S. trip to do so,”
said Bangkok-based Phil Robertson, who oversees the work of
 Human Rights Watch  in  Asia .  “We hope she can push the government of Myanmar to
recognize that the Rohingya deserve citizenship,” he said in an
e-mail.  Extended Visit  When Thein Sein makes his first UN appearance as Myanmar’s
president at the General Assembly on Sept. 27, he, too, will be
grilled about the Rohingya. On the same day, 80 miles north of
New York in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , Suu Kyi will be addressing
Yale University students. Their paths won’t cross at the UN,
with Suu Kyi leaving New York as the president arrives.  It will be harder to duck the issue of the Rohingya at
media-packed events during her extended stay in the U.S., which
also will include a stop-off on the West Coast. On Sept. 29, she
will meet members of the Burmese community -- a mixture of
economic migrants and political dissidents -- in  San Francisco .  Nyunt Than, a 49-year-old software engineer who fled
Myanmar in 1992 and settled in the  Bay Area  in 1996, says he
hopes finally to meet his idol in person. As a young activist,
he and his friends followed her around wherever she spoke.  Nyunt Than, who went on to form the Burmese American
Democratic Alliance in the U.S., says he wants to visit his
homeland at the end of the year, but is concerned the
authorities have yet to clear his name from a travel blacklist.  Still Struggling  “My father is still alive, he’s 85, but my mother passed
away a few years ago,” Nyunt Than said in a telephone
interview. “The sad thing is that even with my financial
support my family still struggles.”  Born in a village about 70 miles east of Yangon, Nyunt Than
is among the 100,000 people of Burmese descent living in the
U.S. He’s able to send money home through unofficial channels,
and bought an apartment in the capital for his parents so they
could have access to better health care.  Known to the Burmese as the “The Lady,” Suu Kyi’s
grueling schedule may take a toll on her fragile constitution.
She’s had fainting spells and bouts of exhaustion this year.  “We are so happy to have her, but I feel sorry she is
coming such a long way because of her health,” Nyunt Than said.  Still, the Rohingya remain a delicate topic, even for
Burmese who left their homeland long ago. When asked about Suu
Kyi’s stance on the Rohingya, Nyunt Than stiffens.  ‘Quite Guarded’  “The international media and some rights groups do not
understand the circumstances and the background well enough and
got it wrong in their reporting, views and the remarks,” he
said. “There is an humanitarian situation and lack of rules of
law in the Arakan State in Myanmar, and the current government,
activists, and the communities are collectively addressing it.”  Politics aside, Myanmar’s economic potential is the point
of focus for investors. Emerging from isolation as sanctions are
loosened, Myanmar’s economy may grow as much as 8 percent a year
over the next decade, according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Getting Suu Kyi to be more forthcoming may prove difficult.  Lieberman, who interviewed Suu Kyi at length while filming
“They Call it Myanmar,” describes her as quite guarded, even
intimidating, on subjects she’s uncomfortable with, especially
her private life. When he nudged her to be a little open, she
snapped, “I can’t be someone I am not.”  “And no personal questions, by the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  