-- Business Inventories in U.S. Rose 0.8% as Sales Rebounded
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-14T14:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/business-inventories-in-u-s-increased-0-8-as-sales-rebounded.html
Inventories in the U.S. climbed in
July by the most in six months as companies kept stockpiles in
line with demand.  The 0.8 percent increase in stockpiles followed a 0.1
percent gain in the prior month, Commerce Department data showed
today in  Washington . The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 0.4 percent gain. Sales at factories, wholesalers
and retailers rose 0.9 percent after falling 1.2 percent.  Inventory replenishment, which helps to boost growth, may
cool this year as a global slowdown and looming U.S. tax and
government spending changes restrain orders. Stockpiles of
retailers increased in July as sales cooled, indicating they may
place fewer orders with factories.  “Excess stocks will have to be worked off,”  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. That means “even more
reductions in output.”  Stocks climbed as markets rallied around the world on the
 Federal Reserve ’s bond-purchase program, announced yesterday.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,469.28 at
10:04 a.m. in  New York .  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.28 months, down from 1.29 months in June.  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. Estimates ranged from no
change to an increase of 0.7 percent.  A separate Commerce Department report today showed  retail
sales  climbed in August as demand increased for automobiles and
higher gasoline prices led to a pickup in service station
receipts.  Retail Inventories  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, rose 1.1 percent as sales increased 0.7
percent.  Labor Department figures last week indicated consumers may
restrain their spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy. Payrolls slowed, rising by 96,000 workers in August
after a revised 141,000 increase in July. The  unemployment rate 
fell as more people left the  labor force , while wages stagnated.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
is among companies noting that business customers want to keep
stockpiles closely aligned with demand.  “I don’t think our customers are shedding inventory,”
 Stephen Anderson , senior vice president of the Dallas-based
company’s high-performance analog group, said in an Aug. 14
teleconference with analysts. “I just think they’re not adding
enough.”  Wholesale inventories, which account for up about 30
percent of all business stockpiles, increased 0.7 percent in
July, the most in five months, as sales declined for the third
straight month, Commerce Department data showed earlier this
week. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of
the total, rose 0.5 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  