-- Capitol Suicide-Bomb Plotter Gets 30-Year Prison Sentence
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-14T17:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/capitol-suicide-bomb-plotter-gets-30-year-prison-sentence.html
Amine Mohamed El-Khalifi, a 29-
year-old resident of  Virginia , was sentenced to 30 years in
prison for planning a suicide-bomb attack on the U.S. Capitol,
the U.S. attorney in Alexandria, Virginia, said.  U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris, who handed down the
sentence, also ordered that El-Khalifi’s prison term be followed
by 10 years of supervised release, according to a statement from
the Office of U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride .  “Amine El-Khalifi sought to bring down the U.S. Capitol,
one of our nation’s iconic symbols,” MacBride said in the
statement. “Since 9/11, our mission has been to find terrorists
intent on attacking the  United States  before they act.”  El-Khalifi, who was caught in an FBI sting operation, was
arrested in a parking garage near the Capitol on Feb. 17 after
meeting with an undercover agent posing as a member of an armed
extremist group, according to the statement.  He was taken into custody as he began walking toward the
Capitol carrying a MAC-10 automatic weapon and wearing a vest
containing what he believed to be a functioning bomb, according
to prosecutors. The weapons, both of which were provided by the
government, had been made inoperable by investigators.  El-Khalifi pleaded guilty to attempting to use a weapon of
mass destruction on June 22, 2012. A Moroccan national, El-
Khalifi entered the U.S. in June 1999 on a tourist visa that
expired later that year, according to an affidavit filed in the
case by Steven Hersem, an agent of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . He has lived in the U.S. illegally since then,
according to the affidavit.  The case is U.S. v. El Khalifi, 12-cr-00037, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  