-- Carlyle Extends Deadline for Chemring Bid as Talks Progress
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-14T07:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/carlyle-extends-deadline-for-chemring-bid-as-talks-progress-1-.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  has been granted
an extra month to consider making a bid for  Chemring Plc (CHG) ,
implying talks with the maker of munitions and aircraft
protection-equipment are progressing.  A new Oct. 12 so-called “put up or shut up” deadline has
been put in place by the U.K.’s takeover panel, Fareham,
England-based Chemring said today in a statement.  Chemring received an preliminary approach from Carlyle on
Aug. 17, boosting its  share price  as high as 414.70 pence to
value the company 801 million pounds ($1.3 billion). A cut to
this year’s profit target on Aug. 28 and concern that a bid may
not materialize has caused Chemring shares to retreat to levels
just above their trading range before the private equity firm’s
interest surfaced.  “The announcement suggests Carlyle is still seriously
interested, following the profit warning,” said Oliver Sleath,
a London-based analyst at  Credit Suisse. (CSGN)  “So far, the stock
price has reflected market doubts over the likelihood of an
offer being made.”  Chemring climbed 4.2 percent to 341.2 pence in London
trading as of 8:19 a.m., outpacing a general rise in stocks
following the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to buy mortgage-backed
securities to encourage economic growth.  The negotiations are taking place against a backdrop of
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.’s planned combination
with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , which would be the industry’s largest
to date. European defense spending cuts have set the stage for
a wave of mergers to adjust to the new reality. Carlyle’s
existing investments include aerospace software company Arinc
and Vought Aircraft Industries.  Carlyle had until today to declare a bid or seek the
extension.  “There is no certainty that, at the end of this period, an
offer for Chemring will be made, nor as to the terms of any such
offer,” the company said, adding that a further extension of
the deadline is possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  