-- CAW Leader Sees No Progress in GM, Ford, Chrysler Talks
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-09-14T23:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/caw-leader-sees-no-progress-in-gm-ford-chrysler-talks.html
The Canadian Auto Workers hasn’t
made progress in labor negotiations with Chrysler Group LLC,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  as current contracts near
expiration, union President  Ken Lewenza  said.  “The reality is, all three companies from my perspective
are overzealous,” Lewenza said in a telephone interview. “All
three companies have incredible demands on the table.”  Lewenza contradicted comments earlier today by Chrysler
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who told reporters in
 Detroit  he has seen “some progress” in the labor negotiations.
Marchionne said the two sides still have a “long road to travel
between now and conclusion.”  The CAW represents more than 20,000 employees at the three
automakers. The union’s current contracts with the companies
expire at 11:59 p.m. on Sept. 17. The negotiations have been
affected by the Canadian dollar, which has risen about 60
percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past decade, making
manufacturing more expensive in the country.  “I don’t know where Mr. Marchionne got the impression of
progress,” Lewenza said in today’s interview. “It’s very, very
tough sledding. I haven’t seen much movement from the company at
all.”  Negotiations have intensified and some “senior executives
from the three companies are now arriving in Toronto or are
already participating in the discussions,” according to an
update to members issued today by the CAW. Lewenza and  Peter
Kennedy , the union’s secretary-treasurer, confirmed in separate
interviews that company executives are taking part in the talks.  No ‘Target’  If the union can’t reach “fair agreements before the
deadline,” it will stop work “as required” at any of the
automakers, according to a union update.  GM is “optimistic that we can continue to work together to
overcome challenges, find creative solutions and improve our
competitive position,” Adria MacKenzie, a spokeswoman for the
company’s Canadian unit, said in an e-mail. She deemed the talks
“open and constructive.”  Lauren More, a spokeswoman for Ford, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment today.  In a departure from previous negotiations, the CAW hasn’t
yet announced a so-called target company in its discussions. In
the past, the union would concentrate its negotiating efforts on
the target company and seek to extend terms of an agreement to
the other automakers. This time, the CAW is negotiating
simultaneously with all three carmakers.  “Initially, not one of the three was giving us any
indication at all that we could get a deal done with them,”
Kennedy said by telephone. “The only way to force their hands
is to say that potentially we’ll all be on strike if we don’t
get a deal.”  Picket Signs  Picket signs are being shipped to all GM, Ford and Chrysler
local unions today in preparation for a strike should
discussions fail, according to a CAW  post  on Twitter.  Demands by the carmakers, according to the CAW, include
cuts in benefits, the elimination of an annual cost-of-living
adjustment and the transfer of all workers to a defined-
contribution retirement plan. GM, Ford and Chrysler are also
refusing to commit to new Canadian factory investments, the CAW
said in a Sept. 10 leaflet.  Kennedy said the union’s latest proposal calls for a new
salary scale and allows the companies to save on pension
payments, while preserving annual cost-of-living adjustments.
Under the current agreement, new employees start at 70 percent
of the top wage and take six years to reach it.  “Under the system we proposed, the start point will be
lower, and the goal posts will be further out,” Kennedy said.
“Our objective in these negotiations is to reward our members
for the sacrifices they made which, in no small part, has
resulted in the turnaround in the companies.”  The CAW accepted a pay freeze and gave up bonuses and time
off along with other concessions as part of the restructuring
that brought GM and Chrysler out of bankruptcy in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  