-- Children of Point Blank’s Brooks Contest Forfeiture Order
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-09-17T15:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/children-of-point-blank-s-brooks-contest-forfeiture-order.html
(Corrects spelling of attorney’s name in third paragraph
of story published Sept. 14.)  Three children of  Point Blank
Solutions Inc. (PBSOQ)  founder  David Brooks  are contesting a $67.8
million forfeiture order issued against their father in a case
alleging that he looted the company, and asked that the
government return jewelry and investments given to them as
gifts.  Victoria Brooks, 28; Andrew Brooks, 24, and Elizabeth
Brooks, 19, filed a petition today in Central Islip, New York,
federal court, seeking to pursue their claims to the assets. The
Brooks children say they are entitled to frozen accounts in
which tens of millions of dollars were invested as well as a 22-
karat gold ring and diamond necklace and ring, a ruby and
diamond “lips & tongue” charm necklace, and a Breitling men’s
diamond watch.  “In light of the sentimental value of the jewelry,” the
Brooks children asked that they have an opportunity to recover
the items, according to the filing, signed by attorney Martin
Perschetz.  “The Brooks children’s ownership interest in these assets
vested prior to the alleged wrongdoing by Mr. Brooks and is
superior to any right, title or interest of Mr. Brooks in the
contested properties,” according to the filing.  Brooks was found guilty in September 2010 of  securities
fraud ,  wire fraud ,  insider trading  and other charges in
connection with a $185 million scheme in which he allegedly
falsely inflated the military contractor’s value. Prosecutors
alleged that he also spent company funds “lavishly” on himself
and his family, buying items such as a Bentley and a Ferrari.  In August 2011, he further pleaded guilty to tax charges.
He is scheduled to be sentenced on Oct. 26.  Bob Nardoza, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
Brooklyn, declined to comment on the case.  The case is  U.S. v. Brooks, 2:06-cr-00550, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  New York  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  