-- Chinese Ships Enter Waters Near Islands Disputed With Japan
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-14T02:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/chinese-ships-enter-waters-close-to-islands-disputed-with-japan.html
Six Chinese government ships
entered what  Japan  sees as its territorial waters close to
islands disputed by the two nations, heightening nationalist
sentiment in a standoff that's damping trade and tourism.  Two ships have since left the area and the other four are
being urged to do so, Japan’s coast guard said in a statement.
Another two vessels were seen in nearby waters, Japanese
broadcaster NHK reported.  China ’s official Xinhua News Agency
said two Chinese surveillance fleets are patrolling around the
islands, which are in areas rich in gas and fishing grounds.  “The fact that there has been an incursion into our
territorial waters is extremely regrettable,” said Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura. “We are strongly urging the
Chinese side to withdraw immediately.”  The dispute is hurting trade between  Asia ’s two biggest
economies at a time when each is struggling to cope with a
global economic slowdown. It also comes as China’s Communist
Party prepares for a generational leadership change and has
become an issue in the race to lead Japan’s main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party .  The row over the uninhabited islands, known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, escalated this week when the
government of Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  announced it had
bought them from their private Japanese owner. China said it
didn’t accept the move.  Japan’s consulate in  Shanghai  issued a safety warning to
Japanese nationals in China, saying on its website that a number
of Japanese citizens have been attacked as the territorial
dispute simmers.  Fewer Tourists  Japan may see as much as a 20 percent drop in Chinese
visitor numbers because of the row, according to the Japan
National Tourism Organization.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) ,
owner of China’s biggest travel portal, has halted Japan
promotions ahead of a weeklong Chinese holiday starting Oct. 1.  A slump in demand from its second-biggest overseas market
would add to the difficulties facing Japan’s tourism industry as
it tries to recover from last year’s tsunami and nuclear-power
crisis.  “We are very worried,” Mamoru Kobori, the tourism
agency’s overseas marketing manager, said by phone yesterday.
“There will surely be an impact on the numbers and the only
question is how much -- 10 percent or 20 percent is possible.”  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  has pared marketing events in China
because of anti-Japanese demonstrations prompted by the islands
dispute, Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said Sept. 6.
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in an interview
yesterday there hasn’t been a significant impact on the Japanese
carmaker’s sales.  Four of five lawmakers running in the Sept. 26 election to
head Japan’s opposition Liberal Democratic Party have vowed to
build on the disputed islands. Noda has no construction plans on
the islands and has called for calm.  Both countries are also mired in territorial disputes with
other Asian neighbors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  