-- CIBC Chief Says Banks Need to Hit Higher Capital Targets Earlier
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-14T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/cibc-chief-says-banks-need-to-hit-higher-capital-targets-earlier.html
The world’s banks should strive to
be ahead of schedule in meeting the higher capital requirement
levels set by regulators,  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey said.  “Moving more rapidly in the direction of the new
regulatory requirements is something that we could improve on,”
McCaughey said yesterday in an interview in  New York . “There’s
different adoption rates throughout the global industry and I
think that sooner rather than later is the area we can
improve.”  Banks worldwide are working to comply with new capital
requirements by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  under
guidelines known as Basel III. The rules, to be phased in
between January 2013 and 2019, ask regulators globally to boost
capital requirements for banks, limit what instruments count
toward capital and force banks to rely more on equity than debt
for funding.  Canada ’s banking regulator has said Canadian lenders should
meet the Basel III  capital requirements  next year, well ahead of
the 2019 deadline. CIBC, Canada’s fifth-biggest bank by assets,
has the  highest  Tier 1 capital ratio among the country’s largest
lenders. The ratio is a measure of the bank’s financial strength
based on its equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.  “In the Canadian system, we’re moving to an early
adoption,” McCaughey, 56, said. “Having everyone moving
earlier would be a better idea, and that’s where I think the
biggest area of improvement could be.”  McCaughey, who was named one of the 50 most influential
leaders for 2012 by Bloomberg Markets magazine this month, says
the world’s banks are “doing more right than they’re doing
wrong” in a challenging environment.  More De-Leveraging  “Banks are, in general, adhering to the requirements of
the de-leveraging environment with great uncertainty and new
regulation,” McCaughey said. “Banks, by and large, are more
risk-averse than they were in the past -- a positioning that I
think is important.”  Still, banks need to “appreciate and accept” the current
environment, McCaughey said.  “This environment is dominated by uncertainty, de-
leveraging and re-regulation,” he said. “The de-leveraging
process is something that will run for quite a few years, as
will the re-regulation process.”  Banks should brace for even tougher rules by regulators as
they move closer to their targets, McCaughey said.  “I do believe that there will be more requirements that
will come in the future,” McCaughey said. “I don’t think that
the new levels that are being set are the ending point.”  “The closer you get to various jurisdictions being able to
meet the requirements, then the possibility of further
requirements will be introduced,” he said.  Toronto-based Canadian Imperial was named North America’s
strongest bank in the magazine’s second-annual ranking in its
June issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  