-- Cocoa Butter Rally Won’t Stop a 15% Drop in EU’s Grind
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-14T16:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/cocoa-butter-rally-won-t-stop-a-15-drop-in-eu-s-grind-correct-.html
A rally that drove cocoa butter to a
16-month high won’t prevent European bean processing from
falling in the third quarter as grinders are unlikely to bring
factories back on because of low prices for cocoa powder.  Cocoa butter, which accounts for as much as 20 percent of
the weight of a chocolate bar, costs 1.46 times the price of
beans on NYSE Liffe on Aug. 17, the highest since April 2011,
according to  Commodities Risk Analysis LC , a researcher in
Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . Bean processing in Europe will drop 15
percent in the third quarter, according to the mean estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 10 traders, grinders, brokers and
analysts. Companies slowed bean-grinding after prices for cocoa
powder fell, eroding their profits.  Powder prices in Europe were at 3,073 euros ($3,859) a
metric ton on Aug. 17, down 12 percent this year and from last
year’s high of about 4,100 euros a ton, CRA data showed. Euromar
Commodities GmbH slowed bean processing at its factory in
Fehrbellin,  Germany , this year. Delfi Cocoa (Europe) GmbH
started to renovate its plant in Hamburg on July 1, resulting in
slower grindings.  “In theory, grinders are close to break-even margins now,
but the reality is that it’s easy to sell butter and very
difficult to sell powder,” said Peter G. Johnson, chief
executive officer of New Jersey-based Transmar Commodity Group
Ltd., owner of Euromar and other factories. “Processing is
still slow as factories don’t want to produce just to sell
butter while in the process adding more powder stocks.”  Grinding Beans  When  cocoa beans  are ground, about 80 percent is turned
into cocoa liquor, which is then processed into powder and
butter, according to  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , the world’s largest
bulk chocolate maker. While butter is used to make chocolate,
powder is predominant in cookies, ice cream and drinks.  A grinder’s profitability is determined by the price of
cocoa powder plus the price of cocoa butter divided by the price
of cocoa beans. That forms the so-called combined ratio. Demand
for powder, which has been supported by sales to  emerging
markets , especially  Asia , dropped as economies slowed.  China 
will grow 8 percent this year, compared with 8.2 percent seen in
April, the  International Monetary Fund  said on July 16. The
country grew 9.2 percent in 2011.  “Butter ratios are rallying because processors have slowed
down bean grindings and have been reducing butter inventories as
a result of the weak combined ratio,” said Nick Donald, founder
of  Jersey , U.K.-based broker Donald Cocoa Jersey Ltd. “Powder
prices remain weak, and even though origin processors are more
or less back to a break-even margin now, it is unlikely that we
will see a significant increase in grindings soon.”  Cocoa Processing  Cocoa processing in Europe fell 18 percent to 292,551 tons
in the second quarter, according to the Brussels-based  European
Cocoa Association . In  North America , grindings dropped 9.8
percent to 112,768 tons in the same period, data from the
 National Confectioners Association  in  Washington  showed.  Cocoa butter fell to a low of about 1 times the exchange
price last year as a glut of the product emerged, while powder
rose, according to CRA data. Demand for butter fell after the
global economic recession in 2008-09, according to broker Marex
Spectron Group in London. Higher cocoa prices also prompted
manufacturers to reduce bar sizes, said London-based consumer
research company Euromonitor International Ltd.  “What we are seeing now is the reverse of the cycle that
drove butter prices to historic lows,” Transmar’s Johnson said.  European Grind  Bean processing in Europe totaled 378,068 tons in the third
quarter last year, a record for any three-month period since the
ECA started publishing processing data in 1999. Grindings gained
after the end of a cocoa bean export ban in Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest producer.  “Given the high base, grindings should post another
significant drop year-on-year,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “If grindings rise 2.5
percent versus the second quarter, they would still drop 20
percent year-on-year. This is not what I expect but just to
illustrate how high the bar is.”  Cocoa for December delivery slid 0.6 percent to 1,574
pounds (2,494) a ton by 1:23 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 