-- Commodities Set for Longest Run of Weekly Gains Since ’10
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-14T21:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/commodities-post-longest-rally-since-2010-on-fed-s-qe-correct-.html
Commodities posted the longest run
of weekly gains since 2010 as the  Federal Reserve ’s third round
of monetary measures to boost the  U.S. economy  spurred
speculation that energy and metal demand will increase.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw materials 
rose 1 percent to settle at 694.21 at 4 p.m. New York time,
capping a seven-week rally that is the longest since October
2010. Industrial metals led the gains, and crude oil in New York
topped $100 a barrel for the first time since May.  The Fed said yesterday it will expand holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and keep the benchmark  interest rate  near zero “at
least through mid-2015.” The GSCI index surged 92 percent from
the end of 2008 through June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in the first two rounds of quantitative easing
and held borrowing costs at a record low.  “The current commodity rally follows assurances by the
U.S., EU and China that policies are turning more
accommodative,” Sijin Cheng, a commodity analyst at Barclays
Plc in Singapore, said in an e-mail. “Market sentiments are
quickly shifting to a risk-on mode.”  The GSCI index earlier reached 699.13, the highest since
April 3. The gauge is up 7.6 percent this year as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of  equities  climbed 14 percent. Treasuries
returned 1.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The
dollar dropped 1.7 percent against a basket of major currencies.  Wen’s Pledge  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Sept. 11 that there’s
more room for stimulus measures to support economic growth. The
country has refrained from easing monetary policy since cutting
 interest rates  in June and July. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 that policy makers agreed to an
unlimited debt-purchase program to tame the region’s debt
crisis.  A measure of the five industrial  metals  in the GSCI index
jumped 4.4 percent, the most since November 2011. Aluminum,
traded on the London Metal Exchange, rose for the 11th straight
session, the longest rally in at least 25 years. Nickel jumped
6.1 percent and lead climbed 5 percent, marking the biggest
gains in 10 months.  Oil futures for October delivery rose 0.7 percent to settle
at $99 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 3. Earlier, the price reached $100.42, the
highest since May 4.  Mideast Tensions  Escalating unrest in the  Middle East  and North Africa,
which hold more than half of the world’s oil reserves, fueled
concern supplies may be disrupted. Iran is raising tension by
expanding its nuclear program, according to Robert Wood, the
U.S. envoy to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  “Middle East geopolitical concerns should add a premium of
about $5 to $6” to oil, said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer at Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter
in Sydney.  Raw materials  as measured by the S&P GSCI Enhanced
Commodity Index Total Return may climb an additional 10 percent,
led by oil-supply concerns,  Jeffrey Currie , the head of
commodity research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  