-- Crosby Says NHL Lockout Likely as Impasse Remains in Labor Talks
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/crosby-says-nhl-lockout-likely-as-impasse-remains-in-labor-talks.html
Sidney Crosby , the  National Hockey
League ’s Most Valuable Player in 2007, said a lockout will
probably delay the start of the season because players and team
owners can’t reach an agreement on a new labor contract.  NHL players and owners met independently yesterday in a
pair of  New York  hotels three blocks apart. The distance between
the sides at the negotiating table appears even wider, as league
Commissioner Gary Bettman and  Players’ Association  Executive
Director Donald Fehr agreed that no progress had been made since
both sides rejected fresh proposals two days ago.  Pittsburgh Penguins captain Crosby said that, while players
have been willing to agree to concessions, they feel as though
owners had their minds set on a lockout since talks began this
offseason. Bettman has said a lockout will begin immediately
after the current accord expires at midnight tomorrow. The
season is scheduled to begin Oct. 11.  “Right now I don’t think it’s looking like we’re going to
start on time,” Crosby, 25, said.  Bettman, who denied that the league wanted a lockout, said
after yesterday’s two-hour board of governors meeting that
owners were unanimous in their support of the group’s current
direction. He implied the players were holding up progress.  “If you are dedicated to the negotiating process, you can
move this along quickly,” Bettman told reporters. “If, for
whatever reason, you’re not interested in making a deal, you
drag it out.”  Play On?  There’s no legal requirement for a lockout in the absence
of a new agreement, because the sides can continue to operate
under the old accord while negotiations proceed. The players
have said they’re willing to compete while talks continue.  There are no formal plans to continue negotiations prior to
tomorrow’s deadline, although each side said it was open to more
dialogue.  Flanked by at least two dozen players including Crosby and
Boston Bruins captain Zdeno Chara, Fehr said that, while players
have accepted a sacrifice in the form of pay cuts, the league
hasn’t admitted that other areas require expense cuts.  “That raises the fundamental question again as to whether
the approach that is being taken is one that is fair or
equitable, or which is reasonably calculated to lead to an
agreement as opposed to a dispute,” Fehr told reporters.  The sides two days ago focused talks mainly on player
compensation and revenue sharing. Under the current agreement,
the players receive 57 percent of hockey-related revenue.  47 Percent  The NHL’s most recent proposal asked players to eventually
accept 47 percent of the league’s hockey-related revenue, with a
loss of about $256 million in player salaries next year, Fehr
said yesterday. The union’s offer, according to Fehr, tied the
players’ share to revenue growth, with the proportion decreasing
as hockey-related revenue increased.  Under that proposal, should league revenue grow at the same
rate as the past 10 years, the players’ share would decrease to
54.3 percent in the first year, then 52.5 percent, 52.0 percent
and rise to 52.3 percent in the fourth year, Fehr said.  The National Basketball Association players’ union agreed
during last season’s lockout to a new labor accord that gives 50
percent of revenue to the players, down from 57 percent.
National Football League players accepted a share of no less
than 47 percent in their most recent deal, which also followed a
lockout.  NHL revenue, buoyed by a 10-year, $2 billion television
contract with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, swelled to an estimated
record $3.2 billion last season from $2.2 billion in 2006,
according to the NHL. The league hasn’t said how much of this
year’s revenue is profit.  The current collective bargaining agreement was reached
after the 2004-05 season was wiped out when team owners shut
down the league. Fehr said yesterday that players were growing
frustrated.  “They’d like this done,” he said. “No athlete likes to
lose games.”  -- Editors: Dex McLuskey, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  