-- Cruzeiro in Biggest Latin America Default in 10 Years
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-09-14T16:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/cruzeiro-do-sul-liquidated-by-brazil-central-bank.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA  will be
liquidated by Brazil’s central bank after attempts to find a
buyer failed, prompting  Latin America ’s biggest corporate-bond
default in more than 10 years.  Officials appointed to run the Sao Paulo-based company
found a “serious violation” and unfunded liabilities that made
it impossible to resume normal operations, Brazil’s central bank
said today in a statement.  Regulators took over Cruzeiro do Sul on June 4, handing
control to the deposit-insurance fund known as FGC after finding
violations of banking rules. The fund last month offered to buy
back $1.6 billion of bonds at discounted prices as part of a
recapitalization plan, and was overseeing efforts to find a
buyer for the company, which specialized in making loans backed
by paychecks.  Cruzeiro do Sul was the sixth lender to need emergency help
from regulators since 2010, prompting investors including
Precise Securities’ Carlos Legaspy to say they were becoming
skeptical of all mid-sized banks in  Brazil . In July, the
government allowed such lenders to increase sales of debt backed
by the FGC to help shore up their finances.  Takeover talks with Banco Santander Brasil SA fell apart
when negotiators couldn’t reach agreement on guarantees for
hidden problems that might arise at Cruzeiro do Sul after a deal
was struck, Valor Economico newspaper reported earlier today,
without saying where it got the information.  Buyback Fails  The FGC said today that investors representing 88.7 percent
of Cruzeiro do Sul’s bonds agreed to the buyback, just short of
the 90 percent participation the fund was requiring. The default
is the biggest in Latin America since Telefonica de Argentina SA
failed to pay on $2.9 billion of debt in 2002, according to
 Standard & Poor’s .  Regulators today also liquidated Banco Prosper SA, the
lender Cruzeiro do Sul said it would acquire in December, and
said they would continue to probe fraud allegations and punish
anyone found responsible.  “It is quite healthy to have this kind of reminder every
once in awhile that doesn’t pose a systemic threat,” said Pedro Bastos, chief executive officer of HSBC Global Asset Management
in Brazil, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “It’s an
important reminder that risk and return need to be in line with
the investor’s profile.”  Cruzeiro do Sul yesterday jumped  25 percent  in Sao Paulo
trading after the FGC extended the deadline for its bond buyback
offer through 6 p.m.  Sao Paulo  time. It said it needed more time
to assess the bids.  Banco Panamericano  Brazil took a harder line with Cruzeiro do Sul bondholders
than it did with creditors of Banco Panamericano SA in 2010,
establishing a precedent Alliance Bernstein LP says may drive up
borrowing costs for the country’s other mid-size banks.  The FGC bailed out Panamericano, with a market value of
about 2.8 billion reais, amid a fraud investigation by the
central bank. Regulators liquidated Banco Morada SA in April
2011 after finding “serious financial violations” at the Rio
de Janeiro-based firm.  Other banks bailed out or liquidated in the past two years
were Banco Schahin SA, Banco Matone SA, and Oboe Credito
Financiamento e Investimento SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  