-- Danish Benchmark Yields Rise as Haven Fades: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-14T08:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/danish-benchmark-yields-rise-as-haven-fades-copenhagen-mover.html
The yield on  Denmark ’s two-year
government note rose, resulting in the widest spread relative to
German bunds in four months, as central bank measures in the
U.S. and  Europe  ease demand for haven assets.  The yield on Denmark’s 2 percent note due November 2014
rose to 0.129 percent at 10:39 a.m. local time, the highest
since May 8. The spread, or difference in yield, versus similar-
maturity German bunds widened to five basis points, from three
basis points yesterday. The spread was negative at the beginning
of the week. Denmark’s 10-year yield rose seven basis points to
1.427 percent.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last week left
euro-zone rates at record lows while pledging unlimited bond
purchases to restore calm to the region’s debt markets. U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke yesterday vowed to buy
bonds until the world’s largest economy recovers. The measures
spurred demand for riskier assets amid speculation the global
economy may be catapulted out of its turmoil.  “With Draghi’s measures, the  European debt crisis  is in a
less acute state,” Tore Stramer, an economist at Copenhagen-
based Nykredit A/S, said today by phone. “This doesn’t mean
Denmark’s economy has become less attractive, and the safe-haven
situation has disappeared overnight, but it has diminished a
bit.”  AAA rated Denmark had enjoyed increased demand for its
bonds this year, with two-year yields dropping below zero at the
end of June, as investors gave up returns in the hope of
protecting their principal. Denmark’s appeal lay in its current
account surplus and a government debt ratio that’s half the
euro-zone average.  Krone Peg  Denmark’s central bank, which defends the krone’s peg to
the euro, in July cut its  key lending rate  to a record-low 0.2
percent and the rate on certificates of deposits to minus 0.2
percent to counter the capital influx. The bank has since
signaled pressure on the krone is abating.  On Sept. 4, the Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken said it
didn’t intervene in the foreign  currency market  in August and
that its  foreign currency reserves  were unchanged from the month
earlier at a record-high 514.4 billion kroner ($89.9 billion).  “With less pressure on the krone and steps being made
toward a euro-zone solution, we think the Danish central bank
will normalize  interest rates  soon,” Stramer said. He predicted
the bank will increase its key lending rate to 0.3 percent
within three months. “But it all depends on the ECB and the
euro-zone: we have seen many times now that it’s one step
forward, then two steps back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  