-- Dean Foods Most Underrated in S&P 500 Pre-IPO: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-14T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/dean-foods-most-underrated-in-s-p-500-pre-ipo-corporate-finance.html
No debt issuer in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index is more deserving of a credit upgrade than
dairy processor  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  cash flow , debt and market value of the largest U.S.
milk processor indicate a 0.23 percent  chance  it will miss debt
payments in the coming year, about 10 times lower than the 2.5
percent implied by credit ratings, Bloomberg data show. The
company is rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service and B+, one
level lower, at Standard & Poor’s.  The planned initial public stock offering of as much as 20
percent of WhiteWave Foods Co., which makes Silk soy milk, would
raise about $300 million that Dean Foods could use to pay down
debt, which totaled $3.6 billion on June 30. The company’s bonds
have gained 3.7 percent since the IPO announcement last month.  “It’s a very smart move because they’re able to raise cash
without increasing risk to the balance sheet,” said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at research firm Gimme Credit LLC in  New York ,
“They’ve got a long way to go to repair the balance sheet, so
the best thing they can do right now, instead of borrowing
money, is to sell stock and they’re just selling a piece.”  Dean Foods’s $500 million of 7 percent bonds due June 2016
have risen 3.75 cents since the Aug. 7 sale announcement to
107.5 cents on the dollar to yield 4.77 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Risk Declines  Credit default swaps insuring against missed debt payments
by Dean Foods have declined 161 basis points since the
announcement to 430.5, the lowest level since April 2010,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Jamaison Schuler, a Dean Foods spokesman, said the company
couldn’t comment on its finances because securities regulations
restrict it from discussing the matter prior to the IPO.  The company’s default risk implies the lowest level of
investment grade, equivalent to a Baa3 Moody’s rating and BBB-
from S&P, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bloomberg’s
default-risk analysis uses the ratio of a company’s debt to
market capitalization to calculate its odds of failure, similar
to the predictive model created by  Robert Merton , the Nobel
Prize-winning economist at MIT’s Sloan School of Management.  Debt Reduction  Dean Foods will  own  at least 80 percent of WhiteWave’s
common stock after the IPO, distributing its remaining interest
in the company to its shareholders, according to an Aug. 7
statement. Proceeds from the offering, as well as $800 million
to $925 million that will be borrowed under a new credit
facility at WhiteWave, will be used to reduce Dean Foods’s
outstanding debt.  The company reported net income of $56 million in the
second quarter from a net loss of $51 million a year earlier,
the Dallas-based company said Aug. 7. Operating profit increased
30 percent in the first half of 2012 due in part to a 20 percent
drop in raw milks costs, according to Kenneth Shea, a food and
beverage analyst at Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New
Jersey .  Dean Foods’s  leverage ratio , or debt divided by earnings
before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization, of 4.36
times in the three months ended June 30 is down from 5.35 a year
ago and at the lowest level in three years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. If the IPO closes this year, the company expects
that ratio to decline to 3.5.  ‘Liquid Asset’  Dean’s total leverage on March 31 was 4.41 times, the
company reported in a May 9 regulatory filing. Total leverage
under Dean’s current loan agreement must not exceed 5.5 times,
according to the company. The threshold steps down next year to
5.25 times at March 31 and to 4.5 times at Sept. 30.  The planned IPO may bring in as much as $500 million, more
than the company’s $300 million estimate, Amit Sharma, a New
York-based analyst for BMO Capital Markets who has a hold rating
on the shares, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Dean may
sell more of its stake in WhiteWave to raise more cash, he said.  “If there is a hiccup on the dairy side, they have this
highly liquid asset that can be used to repay debt,” he said.  Almond Milk  The company has benefited from the growth in higher-margin
products such as coffee creamers and almond milk from WhiteWave,
Gimme Credit’s Bryan said. The Fresh Dairy Direct unit that
includes the company’s main fluid milk business  made up  74
percent of sales in 2011, and 54 percent of operating income.
While WhiteWave made up 16 percent of sales, it accounted for 31
percent of operating income, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’ve got the worst drought in 70 years affecting soy,
plus affecting the dairy markets with higher feed costs and
lower supplies,” Bryan said in a telephone interview, “And
they’re actually holding their own.”  Most-active futures of corn, one of the main feed crops for
dairy cows, rose to a record $8.49 a bushel in  Chicago  on Aug.
10 as a drought in the Midwest reduced grain and pasture yields.
Most active milk futures declined in the first half of 2012. The
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast on Sept. 12 that milk
prices will rise in 2012 after cutting its production forecast
from a month earlier.  The immediate gains of paying down debt may not compensate
for losing the profit stability that WhiteWave had provided,
said Wen Li, an analyst at debt researcher CreditSights Inc.
Dean’s earnings will become more volatile as it becomes more
tied to commodity prices.  ‘Successful Test’  “It’s a very challenging industry once you take away
WhiteWave. Their portfolio is going to be much, much weaker
going forward after the spinoff,” Li said in a telephone
interview from New York.  The earliest the two companies will separate is in the
middle of 2013, Li said. The two biggest rating companies have
not revised the company gradings since the IPO announcement.
Moody’s put the company on review for downgrade on Aug. 8, while
S&P changed its outlook to positive on Aug. 10.  “Your strategy is best tested when it’s under stress, and
they’ve certainly had a successful test this year,” Bryan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  