-- Deccan Lenders Said to Consider Hiring Managers for Cricket Team
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-14T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/deccan-lenders-said-to-consider-hiring-managers-for-cricket-team.html
Creditors of  Deccan Chronicle
Holdings Ltd. (DECH) , the Indian newspaper publisher struggling to
repay $919 million of debt, may appoint managers to run the
firm’s cricket team after failing to find a buyer.  The lenders are likely to meet the Board of Control for
Cricket in  India  today to discuss the strategy to allow Deccan
to keep the team, said three people familiar with the matter,
asking not to be identified as talks are confidential. The
company, which has pledged at least 60 percent of its  shares  to
lenders, on Sept. 13 rejected the sole bid it got at an auction
for the Deccan Chargers team.  The creditors are speculating that the publisher of the
Financial Chronicle, Asian Age and the Deccan Chronicle
newspapers may get higher bids for the Indian Premier League
cricket team at a later date, the people said. Deccan Chronicle
is looking to  sell  assets to repay 50 billion rupees ($919
million) of debt after saying last month that it’s facing a
“liquidity crisis.”  The team representing Hyderabad city in the league makes a
profit of about 80 million rupees a year, one of the people
said. Should the lenders decide to support the team, they will
have to finance its operations of about 1 billion rupees a year
and oversee the team, the person said.  Deccan Chronicle gained 0.5 percent to 10.85 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday. The stock has dropped 70 percent this year.  At the auction, the unidentified bidder offered to buy the
team and pay the amount over five years, the person said. The
terms of the offer were not “agreeable” to the company, N. Srinivasan, president of the Board of Control for Cricket in
India, said in Chennai on Sept. 13.  Shares Pledged  Three calls made to team co-owner Gayatri Reddy weren’t
answered. Deccan Chronicle’s Vice Chairman Vinayak Ravi Reddy
didn’t answer a call made to his mobile phone.  Deccan Chronicle in 2008 agreed to pay 4.3 billion rupees
for Deccan Chargers. Sahara Adventure Sports Ltd. bought Pune
Warriors for $370 million in March 2010, according to the team’s
website.  The owners of Deccan Chronicle have pledged 45 percent of
their stake in the company to  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , according to
stock exchange filings. Religare Finvest Ltd. in a filing said
it controls 14.5 percent of the publisher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  