-- Deepwater Horizon Gear Failed Pre-Spill Test, Lawyers Say
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/deepwater-horizon-gear-failed-pre-spill-test-lawyers-say.html
  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  employees talked
about blaming the failure of the Deepwater Horizon’s blowout
preventer on a bad cement job, after the device ‘blew up’ casing
during a test two months before the rig exploded, according to
an e-mail cited by lawyers suing the company.  An employee identified as Jess Richards “states that
during a test of the lower annular, Transocean blew up their 22
casing,” lawyers suing Transocean and  BP Plc (BP/)  said of an e-mail
that the rig owner turned over as part of the litigation. “She
then remarks, ‘I’m sure we will find some way to blame it on the
cementer,’” the attorneys said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in  New Orleans .  BP and Transocean face thousands of claims for damages
caused by the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history, which
began when the Deepwater Horizon exploded and sank off the
 Louisiana  coast in April 2010. BP is awaiting court approval of
a partial settlement of many of these economic-injury claims,
which the company says could be worth $7.8 billion.  Transocean has publicly said blame for the blowout is
shared by BP and other contractors on the Macondo well –-
including  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services
intended to seal the well against leaks. The contract drilling
company hasn’t settled any spill-damage claims.  “The precipitating cause of the Macondo incident was the
failure of the downhole cement to isolate the reservoir,”
Transocean said, based on an internal investigation issued 14
months after the Deepwater Horizon sank. In its report, the rig
owner blamed Macondo’s bad cement job on faulty decisions and
improper well design by BP and Halliburton.  ‘Minimal Quantity’  “The resulting cement program was of minimal quantity,
left little margin for error, and was not tested adequately
before or after the cementing operation,” the company said in a
statement in June 2011.  Lou Colasuonno, Transocean’s litigation spokesman, said
yesterday he hadn’t seen the e-mail referenced in the court
filing and had no immediate comment it.  Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, also had no
immediate comment on the filing.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman,
declined to comment.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan ruled Sept. 4 that
spill-victims’ lawyers may question Transocean Chief Executive
Officer Steve Newman about that particular e-mail as well as
other documents the company belatedly turned over in the
litigation. She said the victims’ lawyers were disadvantaged by
not having seen the memo before they questioned Newman the first
time.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  