-- Dish Blames Programming Firms for Delay of Online Service
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-09-14T20:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/dish-blames-programming-firms-for-delay-of-online-service.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  would release an
Internet-streaming product that includes live programming if it
could convince TV networks that the service makes financial
sense, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said.  “We have the technology -- we’re intimately involved in it
-- but the long pole on the tent on this is the programmers,”
Clayton said in an interview yesterday.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, has
been exploring the idea of offering a separate streaming
product, known as an over-the-top service. That would give
consumers a way to pay a lower price for a smaller bundle of
channels, which they could watch on a computer or mobile device.  The challenge is getting a “critical mass” of companies
to give online rights to live shows, Clayton said. Negotiations
bog down because programmers aren’t willing to sell Dish the
rights for a low enough price to make a service viable, he said.  There’s a market -- especially among younger viewers -- for
an alternative to traditional pay-TV services, Clayton said.  “There’s no question there’s a group of consumers, mostly
around age 18 to 28, that aren’t going to watch 250 channels of
TV, pay $100 a month and watch it on a 60-inch flat-panel
display,” he said. “Maybe they’ll spend $20 -- maybe less,
maybe a little more -- for a lot less channels and watch them on
their iPhone, their tablet and their PC.”  Current Subscribers  Still, it would have to be done in a way that doesn’t
cannibalize the current service offered by Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, Clayton said.  Programming companies have similar concerns, said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New York. If pay-TV customers
cancel their service, it would lower the networks’ subscription
fees and advertising revenue.  Content companies are also reluctant to unbundle networks
for an online service, Jayant said. Programmers typically make
cable and satellite providers pay for a certain number of
channels if they want access to the most popular stations.  “Programmers want to maximize the value of their
copyrighted content,” Jayant said. “The economics are
generally unattractive to sell first-run, fresh content to
fledgling digital over-the-top platforms.”  The largest providers of content to cable and satellite
services include  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  Time Warner
CEO  Jeff Bewkes , speaking in a conference call last month, said
over-the-top Internet streaming services, also known as virtual
MSOs, don’t “improve the consumer experience.”  Viacom, DirecTV  Viacom, meanwhile, clashed with Dish rival  DirecTV (DTV)  earlier
this year over the terms of their contract. During the
negotiations, DirecTV CEO Mike White said his customers would
prefer to break up the bundle of channels that Viacom offers,
though he didn’t plan to push the company to do that. DirecTV,
the largest satellite-TV company, reached an agreement in July
after a 10-day blackout of Viacom shows.  Mark Jafar, a Viacom spokesman, declined to comment on an
over-the-top service.  Dish already has an Internet-streaming service with live
programming in countries outside the U.S. called Dish World. The
company also owns the Blockbuster video chain, which it acquired
last year, and could add digital movies to a potential streaming
service, Clayton said.  “We need to be assured a product will resonate with the
buying public,” Clayton said. “I could go out there and put up
a channel that just watches the Earth. We have one of those.
That’s not going to be compelling enough for people to sign up
for an over-the-top service. It’s got to be a combination of
entertainment, movies and information.”  Dish shares fell 0.2 percent to $33.07 at the close in  New
York . The  stock  has gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  