-- Draghi Sees Reason for Optimism in Europe as Markets Rally
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-14T12:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/draghi-sees-reason-for-optimism-in-europe-as-markets-rally-1-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said there’s reason for optimism in Europe after
financial markets rallied on the bank’s bond-purchase plan.  “Financial conditions have been better recently, but
we have to continue working on that,” Draghi said after a
meeting of euro-area finance ministers in Nicosia, Cyprus,
today. “If we continue going this way, one has to be
optimistic.”  European Central Bank policy makers on Sept. 6 agreed on an
unlimited bond-purchase program aimed at regaining control of
 interest rates  in countries such as  Spain  and  Italy . Under the
plan, dubbed Outright Monetary Transactions, the ECB may buy
bonds with a maturity of up to three years on the secondary
market of countries that ask  Europe ’s bailout fund to purchase
their debt on the primary market.  Draghi said the bond-purchase plan provides a “fully
effective backstop mechanism that is meant to remove the tail
risk for the euro area.” Combined with other recent
developments, “that has produced the positive effects that
we’ve seen in the financial markets,” he said.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield was at 5.63 percent today, down
from 6.41 percent on Sept. 5 and 7.62 percent in July. The euro
rose above $1.30 yesterday for the first time in more than four
months.  ‘Many Things’  “Perhaps there is too much emphasis on what we have done,”
Draghi said. “Many things seem to fall into the right place.
There’s the recent progress on the euro-area governance” and
“on pursuing the right economic policies in all euro area
countries.”  Asked how much time the ECB has bought for indebted
governments to implement reforms, Draghi said “it’s a very
difficult question to answer. You have to ask the markets.”  Draghi stressed that the ECB’s bond program requires
governments to seek aid from the rescue fund and sign up to
“strict and effective” conditions.  The ECB’s aim is to “repair the monetary policy
transmission mechanism, which in the financially fragmented area
were not functioning,” he said. “What we see now are the first
signs of a more normal working, but we still have a long way to
go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Nicosia at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  