-- Dumas’s Black Dad Inspired ’Monte Cristo’: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/dumas-s-black-dad-inspired-monte-cristo-lewis-lapham.html
In writing action-packed novels
like “The Count of Monte Cristo” and “The Three Musketeers,”
Alexandre Dumas was inspired by the exploits of his father.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  Born in 1762 in Saint-Domingue, now  Haiti , to Antoine, a
renegade French nobleman, and Marie-Cessette, his black slave
mistress, Thomas-Alexandre spent a carefree childhood riding
wild horses and playing with his three mixed-race siblings on
pristine beaches.  When Antoine decided to go back to France and claim his
titles and property, he sold Marie-Cessette and three of his
children to a man from Nantes.  To pay for his passage, Antoine also sold Thomas-Alexandre
to a Captain Langlois in Port au Prince, but with the provision
that he could be bought back.  Redeemed, Thomas-Alexandre arrived at Le Havre on Aug. 30,
1776. His father dressed him in silk and brocade, and making
sure he was instructed in swordsmanship, history, classics,
science, music and dance, turned him into a fashionable young
aristocrat.  I spoke with Tom Reiss, author of “The Black Count: Glory,
Revolution, Betrayal, and the Real Count of Monte Cristo,” on
the following topics:  1. Son of Renegade Noble  2. Sold Into Slavery  3. Revolutionary Hero  4. Clashes with Napoleon  5. Search for Justice  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg on NYC  Weekend  Best
and  Greg Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 