-- Durbin Says Spending Talks in Congress Under Way to Avoid Cliff
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2012-09-14T04:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/durbin-says-spending-talks-in-congress-under-way-to-avoid-cliff.html
U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin  of
 Illinois  said bipartisan negotiations are under way in his
chamber to avoid mandatory federal spending cuts by using
recommendations of a presidential debt-reduction commission as a
framework.  “The Group of Eight, four Democrat, four Republican
senators that I’ve been part of for two years or more, still
continues to meet and talk about what we can put on the table,”
Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  on the new
program Capitol Gains.  If Congress fails to act by the end of the year, tax rates
for income, capital gains, dividends and estates would increase
for all taxpayers. The top income tax rate would rise to 39.6
percent from 35 percent, and the top rate on  capital gains  would
jump to 23.8 percent from 15 percent.  The tax increase is part of a so-called $607 billion fiscal
cliff of automatic spending cuts and revenue changes in 2013
that the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  says would
probably cause a recession if left intact.  Durbin, co-chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
campaign, said a starting point for an accord is the December
2010 plan proposed by a commission led by former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming Republican, and Erskine Bowles, a Democrat
who served as chief of staff to then-President  Bill Clinton .  Panel Recommendations  It recommended a mix of spending cuts, entitlement program
adjustments and tax changes to cut the deficit $3.9 trillion
over 10 years beyond increased revenue triggered by the assumed
expiration of tax cuts for top earners enacted when  George W. Bush  was president.  The 18-member Simpson-Bowles commission was created by
Obama. He refused to back its recommendations when they were
released, and the commission failed to provide enough support to
have the panel’s report considered by Congress.  Still, interest has persisted among some lawmakers in the
commission’s recommendations, Durbin said.  “When we call a meeting of senators who believe the
Simpson-Bowles commission model is the right starting point and
46 senators show up, equal numbers from both parties, that tells
me that we have a good starting point over in the Senate,”
Durbin said.  Lobby Effort  He urged businesses that are having trouble planning
because of fiscal uncertainty to urge members of Congress to
reach a bipartisan agreement on a 10-year deficit reduction
package before the new Congress is sworn in January. That
approach would postpone a more complicated tax overhaul until
early next year, Durbin said.  He said the Obama administration won’t announce its own
plan until after the Nov. 6 presidential election, assuming
Obama wins.  “I don’t think anything serious is going to happen
publicly before the election,” said Durbin, 67. “But the day
after, if the president’s re-elected, I think the wheels are
going to start turning.”  Durbin also expressed support for Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  and said he opposes restrictions on the Fed.  “Encouraging this economy by keeping  interest rates  low,
trying to buy up some of the mortgage debt that’s out there, is
a way to try to give more buoyancy and more lift to this
economy,” Durbin said. “We quit too soon when it came to
stimulus. I voted for the stimulus, glad I did. I think we
should be doing more to encourage this economy to get back on
its feet. But Bernanke’s doing his part.”  Asked whether the U.S. should withhold aid to Egypt in the
wake of protesters scaling U.S. Embassy walls on Sept. 11,
Durbin said, “I wouldn’t give up so quickly on Egypt. I think
we need to hold them to standards and values. But if we can
establish a good, positive working relationship with them and
other Arab nations, it’s in the best interests of the  United
States .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Walsh  in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  