-- EADS-BAE Doubles Down On Missed Confidence: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-09-14T16:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/eads-bae-doubles-down-on-missed-confidence-real-m-a.html
By merging to create the largest
aerospace company,  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  will also be trying to improve the industry’s
worst operating margin and a near record-low valuation.  The companies said this week that they are in talks,
confirming a Bloomberg News report, to combine into what would
be a European counterweight to challenge  Boeing Co. (BA)  When the
discussions became serious in early June, Britain’s BAE was
languishing at its all-time cheapest price-earnings ratio
excluding the financial crisis, while EADS was grappling with
operating margins that are less than a third of the industry
median, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new company would have a more balanced mix of sales
from civil and defense operations, as well as a more global
reach spanning  Europe , the U.S. and  Asia . For EADS, the deal
would help reduce its  reliance  on Airbus commercial jets and
gain higher-margin defense operations, while BAE would be less
vulnerable to shrinking military budgets. With the stocks
slumping yesterday on skepticism a combination would be able to
deliver anticipated savings and penetrate the U.S. defense
market, S&P Capital IQ says political complications could
prevent a deal from happening anytime soon.  “For BAE, you can see they’re trying to diversify away
from pure defense exposure,” Johnson Imode, a London-based
equity analyst at S&P Capital, said in a telephone interview.
“On the flipside, EADS is trying to build up their exposure to
defense, which generally is more of a steady business than
commercial aerospace and margins also tend to be higher.”  Deal Logic  “There is a logic for both sides of the deal, but actually
getting it done isn’t going to be easy,” he said. “It is going
to be a challenge in terms of the regulatory front.”  A spokesman for Toulouse, France-based EADS declined to
comment. A spokesman for London-based BAE declined to comment on
the company’s valuation.  EADS and BAE said on Sept. 12 that they’re in discussions
to merge, a combination that would surpass Chicago-based Boeing
to create the world’s largest aerospace company, with annual
sales of almost $100 billion. EADS, which has helicopter, space
and military operations in addition to its Airbus commercial-jet
business, would own 60 percent of the new entity and BAE,
Europe’s largest defense contractor, the rest, according to a
joint statement issued in response to a Bloomberg News report
that the companies are in talks.  A combination would create benefits including cost savings
and new business opportunities, BAE and EADS said in the
statement. The new company would have a combined market value of
about $45 billion, compared with Boeing’s $54 billion.  Boeing ‘Clone’  “By putting these two together, you’re creating a clone of
their biggest competitor,” Pete Sorrentino, a Cincinnati-based
 money manager  who helps oversee $14.7 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors, said in a phone interview.  Preliminary talks between the companies took place in
April, and by early June the two sides had engaged in more
serious discussions about the merger, people with knowledge of
the negotiations said this week.  Those more serious talks came as BAE’s stock fell to 7.3
times earnings on June 1, the company’s lowest price-earnings
ratio since 2009 and the second-cheapest among 22 aerospace and
defense firms with at least $5 billion in market value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Excluding the period of the global
financial crisis and its aftermath, BAE’s multiple was at its
lowest on record, according to the data, which date back to
1999.  Defense Shield  Merging with EADS would shield BAE’s revenue from defense
spending cuts in the U.S. after the nation ended its war in  Iraq 
and the war in Afghanistan winds down, S&P Capital’s Imode said.  Sales at EADS are projected to  climb  30 percent by the end
of fiscal 2015 from last year, according to analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. BAE’s revenue may rise 7.6 percent over
that span, the data show.  At the end of June, EADS’s order book was a record 551.7
billion euros ($716.7 billion), and the Airbus commercial
airliner division had a backlog valued at 485.7 billion euros.  “BAE would gain exposure to the one part of the sector
that’s still growing -- commercial aerospace,” Imode said.
After the  U.S. presidential election , “some decisions are going
to be made on the U.S. overall budget, and defense spending is
in the firing line.”  Low Valuation  EADS is probably looking to take advantage of BAE’s low
valuation and even out its exposure to the military and
commercial markets, said George Ferguson, a defense analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey .  Tom Enders , on his first day as the new chief executive
officer of EADS after five years of running Airbus, pledged at
the company’s May 31 annual shareholders’ meeting to raise
profitability.  EADS set a target when it was created in 2000 of eventually
reporting operating profit of 10 percent of sales. The highest
 annual operating margin  achieved since then was 8.16 percent in
2001, and the figure was 2.95 percent last year.  In the 12 months through June, EADS raised its margin to
3.61 percent, still the lowest of every aerospace and defense
company globally with a market value higher than $5 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. EADS’s profitability is reduced
by development costs at Airbus.  BAE’s margin  of 10 percent is almost three times higher,
and the industry median is 11 percent, the data show.  Less Vulnerable  Douglas Harned, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said buying BAE would also help EADS reduce its vulnerability to
swings in the commercial-aircraft cycle. EADS has said it plans
to reduce its dependence on Airbus to 50 percent of total
revenue by 2020, from about two-thirds last year.  “Combining EADS with BAE Systems’ large global defense
business would achieve that goal,” the New York-based analyst
said in a note to clients yesterday.  The rationale behind EADS’s motivation is less clear to
Societe Generale SA’s Zafar Khan. While BAE will mean EADS can
rely on Airbus less and increase U.S. sales, the analyst said
he’s not convinced EADS needs the diversification right now. As
the  airline industry  gets larger in Asia and the  Middle East ,
and as more low-cost carriers emerge, Airbus is building a
robust enough backlog that it won’t face the same business cycle
pressures as it has in the past, he said.  “If you look at their backlog now, they’re geographically
very well diversified,” Khan said in a phone interview from
 London . “The EADS shareholders will be scratching their heads,
thinking why on earth have they given away this growth
opportunity by merging with a company that is going to be low
growth?”  ‘Cheap Takeover’  After EADS shares fell 15 percent in the last  two days , the
company’s  enterprise value  is only 4.8 times its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the last 12
months. With BAE trading at 5.2 times Ebitda, the two companies
are less expensive than 90 percent of the industry, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The truth is, each of them may be looking at each other
going, ‘Wow, this is a great, cheap takeover,’” said Bloomberg
Industries’ Ferguson. “EADS is at the lower point of the
valuation for commercial-aircraft manufacturers. And BAE’s at
the bottom of the heap on the defense side.”  Both stocks dropped yesterday as investors became skeptical
that the deal will deliver the revenue growth and cost-cutting
opportunities that EADS and BAE may be envisioning. BAE slumped
7.3 percent yesterday, reducing its  two-day gain  to 2.6 percent
and leaving its market value at 10.95 billion pounds ($17.7
billion). The two-day drop in EADS reduced its value to 20.8
billion euros ($27 billion).  Dead Money  Today, shares of BAE rose 2.9 percent to 347 pence. EADS
gained 0.6 percent to 25.31 euros.  The companies forecast so-called synergies of as much as
850 million euros annually, mostly from cost savings, the Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday, citing people familiar with
the talks.  “This deal doesn’t strike the right notes with me, I don’t
like it,” Brian Barish, who oversees $7 billion, including EADS
shares, as president and chief investment officer at Denver-
based Cambiar Investors LLC, said in an e-mail. “Obviously
other investors have come to a similar conclusion, that this
would be a dead-money stock. The combined group doesn’t offer
cost or revenue synergies to offset the big-company disease in
the way that a merger of this size should.”  The synergies will be limited because BAE will have to
“ring fence” the U.S. businesses due to national security
issues,  Societe Generale ’s Khan said.  Government Hurdles  Getting clearance from the governments involved will also
be an obstacle, he said.  The French government  owns  15 percent of EADS while German
carmaker Daimler AG controls 22.5 percent, of which 7.5 percent
is owned by German federal states and some banks, and the
Spanish government owns 5.4 percent. The U.K.’s so-called golden
share in BAE gives it veto power over any  strategic moves .  The European governments’ main concern “will be ensuring
that jobs are not lost,” Khan said. “The U.S. might give a
grudging approval.”  A combination would also mean added political risk as the
new entity bids for national military contracts, Huntington’s
Sorrentino said.  “There’s an awful lot of governments involved,” S&P
Capital’s Imode said. “This is the biggest problem really with
the deal. More than the companies, I think it’s really the
governments. With both stocks down, the market is perhaps
thinking there’s an awful long way to go for this deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 