-- Mechel Said to Weigh Mining-Unit Stake Sale to Fund Project
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-09-14T15:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/mechel-said-to-weigh-sale-of-mining-unit-stake-to-fund-project.html
OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the Russian coal
producer controlled by billionaire  Igor Zyuzin , is assessing
whether to sell a stake in a mining unit to help fund its
largest project, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Mechel has had preliminary contact with Asian companies,
testing their interest in buying a minority stake in OAO Mechel-
Mining or its division running the Elga coal project, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the plans are private.
The company hasn’t held formal talks or appointed advisers.  Mechel is looking for funds after shelving an initial
public offering of Mechel-Mining last September as  Europe ’s debt
crisis deepened and global stocks declined. The IPO would have
been the largest of the year in  Russia ’s metals and mining
industry, helping to finance development of the Elga deposit in
Yakutia, for which Mechel-Mining indirectly holds a license.  Should Mechel find a partner to buy into the unit, it would
sell no more than 25 percent, the people said. The company had
planned to sell as much as 15 percent in last year’s IPO for as
much as $2 billion, people familiar with the sale said at the
time. The whole unit may now be valued at about $7.8 billion,
 George Buzhenitsa , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said today.  Maria Kolmogorova, a spokeswoman for Mechel, declined to
comment.  Stock Reaction  Mechel’s  American depositary receipts  jumped as much as 12
percent to $8.34 in  New York , the highest intraday price since
May 2. They traded at $8.06 as of 10:59 a.m. local time. The
Moscow-traded shares rose 11 percent to 246 rubles.  Japanese trader  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  is interested in the Elga
deposit, Masaaki Bito, head of the company’s coal department,
said by phone, declining to elaborate. The Tokyo-based company
said in June it plans to boost coal-trading volumes by 50
percent in three years. There has been no contact between Sojitz
and Mechel, according to the people familiar with the situation.  Igor Lebedinets, an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow,
backed the view that Japanese trading companies and Chinese
competitors may be interested in such a deal, as well as  South
Korea ’s  Posco. (005490)  A stake sale would give Mechel its best chance of
reducing debt and funding the Elga venture, he said by phone.  Zyuzin held talks with Posco Chief Executive Officer Chung Joon-Yang on plans for Elga in Vladivostok last week, Mechel
said Sept. 10. Pohang-based Posco is interested in coal deposits
in Yakutia and Magadan, Interfax reported Sept. 7, citing Chung.
Posco hasn’t had contact with the Russian company on buying a
stake in Mechel-Mining, the Asian steelmaker said in an e-mail.  Mechel’s debt totals $9.6 billion. The Moscow-based company
won’t revive an IPO for Mechel-Mining this year because of
market volatility, Chief Financial Officer Stanislav Ploschenko
said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 