-- Teenagers’ Texting Time Fails to Translate Into Sparkling Prose
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-09-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/teenagers-texting-time-fails-to-translate-into-sparkling-prose.html
U.S. teenagers’ texting, tweeting
and posting on Facebook hasn’t improved their writing, even when
students have laptops with a spell-checking program.  Nearly three-quarters of the eighth- and 12th graders
failed to achieve proficiency on a national writing test,
according to a U.S. government report released today. For the
first time, the exam let students use a computer, rather than
pencil and paper.  Most students’ writing “falls far short of the well-
organized, well-developed prose that connects with those they
are trying to reach,” Susan Pimentel, a member of the U.S.
Education Department board overseeing the test, said in a
statement. That performance will hurt them in college, damaging
their career prospects and earnings potentials.  The 2011 test, known as the  Nation’s Report Card , adds to
concern about American schoolchildren’s knowledge of math and
science relative to other countries, particularly  China ,  Japan 
and other Asian economic rivals. Lagging student performance has
bedeviled U.S. presidents from Republican  Ronald Reagan  to
Democrat  Barack Obama .  The new version of the test, officially called the National
Assessment of Educational Progress, offered students the tools
of modern writing: a laptop with a word-processing program,
including spell-checking, cutting and pasting and other editing
functions, as well as a thesaurus.  More than 24,000 eighth graders and 28,000 12th graders
took the exam. The report cards, which measure subjects such as
math, reading, science and history, are the largest nationally
representative of American student learning. Students have
fallen short of national standards in other subjects, as well.  Writing Skills  On the writing exam, 24 percent of students were considered
proficient in writing and 3 percent, advanced.  The 2011 results can’t be compared with the past pencil-
and-paper exams. In 2007, the last time the government assessed
writing, scores had increased from five years before, though
most students also had poor writing skills.  On the latest report card, students who wrote more often at
home did better on the test. So did those who made use of
computerized tools during the exam to revise their work or find
words on the thesaurus. By contrast, those who relied heavily on
spell check scored lower.  Mirroring demographic results on other tests, Asian
students outperformed other ethnic groups in eighth grade. In
12th grade, white, Asian and multiracial students performed
comparably. Whites did better than blacks and Hispanics. Poor
students lagged richer ones. Private and Catholic schools scored
higher than public schools.  Girls beat boys by a higher margin than for any other
subject. On questionnaires, girls said they wrote more and were
more likely to call it a favorite activity.  Organization, Detail  The Education Department judged writing based on
organization, level of detail and variety of sentence structure.
The students wrote for 30 minutes. The results were evaluated as
first drafts, rather than polished works. Students wrote
narratives, including fiction, and essays.  In one eighth-grade assignment, students imagined they were
stranded on an island.  A weak response featured the following sentence: “There is
five guys and five girls, the girls will get to sleep inside the
plane so they don’t get to cold or scared.”  One of the stronger passages built suspense, conjuring a
threat from dinosaurs:  “We slowly trudged through the dense sand back to our
boat, which was now in sight. But it seemed that time stopped
and the next thing I saw was a gigantic foot on top of our
ruined boat. A dinosaur’s face 20 feet above leered down at us
and growled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  