-- Lehman Brokerage Payout Call Gets Louder After Four Years
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/lehman-brokerage-payout-call-gets-louder-after-four-years.html
Defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers
Inc ., which hasn’t paid institutional creditors a dime of its
$25 billion hoard after four years in liquidation, is facing
louder demands to settle fights with affiliates and pay up.  The brokerage’s parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., made
its first payment of $22.5 billion to creditors last April,
about 3 1/2 years after filing the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in
history four years ago today on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage
went into liquidation four days later.  Elliott Management Corp., a  New York  hedge fund, demanded
in June that brokerage trustee James Giddens sell securities and
pay an initial $3.2 billion soon. Giddens responded this week,
saying Elliott is a “claims trader” and doesn’t share other
customers’ interests. On Sept. 13, two creditor groups sided
with Elliott, with an unofficial group in favor of giving
Giddens just 60 days to resolve claims with a European
affiliate. The official group didn’t set a deadline.  Elliott’s plan would benefit all creditors of the
brokerage, “and is, thus, in the best interests of these
debtors’ estates and creditors,” the official creditors
committee of the Lehman parent, once the fourth-largest
investment bank, said in a bankruptcy court filing in  Manhattan .  By March 30, Giddens had $25.4 billion of securities in
hand, Elliott said. By selling securities, he could pay almost
26 cents on the dollar of allowed claims totaling $12.2 billion,
while still reserving enough money for disputed claims, the
hedge fund said.  ‘No Basis’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  disagreed, saying customers should
get the securities in their accounts, which may be worth more
than money poured from a cash pool.  Giddens shouldn’t be treating traders differently from
other customers, said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of
claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells
distressed debt.  “There is really no basis in law,” he said. “In the long
run, this will hurt liquidity in the marketplace.”  Giddens, who also is liquidating the  MF Global Inc. (MFD) 
brokerage, is in talks to settle disputes with Lehman Brothers
International ( Europe ), according to both creditor groups. The
European affiliate said last year its clients were owed $8.3
billion by the brokerage. Adding the affiliate’s own claims, the
total may be $30 billion, the official creditor group said.  ‘Unresolved Contingency’  LBIE’s claims are “the largest unresolved contingency” in
the brokerage liquidation, Giddens has said. The official
creditor group said it was “sympathetic” to Elliott’s request,
because the delay is causing problems for creditors including
the Lehman parent company, also a claimant against the
brokerage.  Both creditor groups asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck
to postpone a ruling on Elliott’s demand, due to be heard Sept.
19, on concern that he will reject it amid the settlement talks.
The Lehman parent says its claims on the brokerage also must be
settled before Giddens hands out money.  Giddens said in December -- not for the first time -- that
he planned to start paying brokerage customers soon. In April,
he reported that the liquidation had cost about $733.5 million,
including fees for himself and his firm of $202.3 million.  Soon after the brokerage collapsed four years ago, London-
based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  took over most of its retail accounts, along
with the Lehman’s parent’s other North American businesses.  Giddens “is urgently working toward a resolution” of the
remaining claims held by Lehman affiliates, large banks and
 hedge funds , said Jake Sargent, a Giddens spokesman, in an e-
mail yesterday. A bankruptcy judge must approve “any ultimate
distribution,” he said.  Peter Truell , an Elliott spokesman, has declined to say how
much the hedge fund is claiming from Giddens.  Next Payment  The Lehman parent, overseen by a new board since its exit
from bankruptcy in March, is due to make its next payment to
creditors on Oct. 1. The target is to pay 18 cents on the dollar
on average by 2016 or so, according to filings. More than $1.7
billion has been spent by the Lehman parent on managers’ and
advisers’ fees so far.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
parent’s case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings  Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  