-- Emerging Stocks Surge Most Since June on Fed Easing Measures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-14T22:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/emerging-market-stocks-advance-most-in-11-weeks-on-u-s-stimulus.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the
most since June, currencies strengthened and borrowing costs
fell to a 17-month low as the  Federal Reserve ’s new round of
stimulus measures boosted confidence in the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 3.3 percent to
1,014.07, climbing for a seventh day in the longest winning
 streak  since October. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index gained, with
oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA buoyed by rising crude
prices. The Russian ruble and India’s rupee surged more than 2
percent. The extra yield on emerging-market debt over  U.S.
Treasuries  fell to 2.81 percentage points, the lowest since
April 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Fed announced a third round of asset purchases
yesterday, pledging for the first time that it will buy bonds
until the economy recovers and keep the benchmark interest rate
near zero until at least the middle of 2015. The stimulus may
spark a rally in emerging-market assets similar to the first
quarter, when the MSCI  index (VXEEM)  jumped more than 13 percent and
currencies strengthened, Societe Generale SA said.  “The policy announcements are great and we now know where
the Fed stands and it just reflects an improved degree of
certainty,” Seth Freeman, San Francisco-based chief executive
officer at EM Capital Management LLC, said by phone. “There’s a
realization that investors have been under-invested in  emerging
markets  through most of the year, and they are seeing some of
these markets slowly recover particularly after Bernanke’s
talk.”  EM ETF Gains  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased 1.2
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 1.4 percent.  The Bovespa increased 0.2 percent to the highest since May
2. Petrobras climbed 1.7 percent.  Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. (1818)  jumped 16 percent in Hong Kong,
the most in the MSCI index, as a weaker dollar boosted commodity
prices.  Daewoo Securities Co. (006800) , a Seoul-based broker, surged 15
percent, the most since October 2008, on speculation investor
demand for equities and fixed-income securities will increase.  The Fed’s open-ended asset purchases follow the  European
Central Bank ’s Sept. 6 announcement of an unlimited bond-buying
program to combat the region’s debt crisis and China’s approval
of proposals to build rail, roads and urban infrastructure.  Exports  The 21 countries in the  MSCI index  send about 30 percent of
their exports to the European Union and 13 percent to the U.S.
on average, according to the  World Trade Organization .  “We will have to see further down the road how effective
these measures are, but for now it’s a good signal that
authorities in the U.S., Europe and China are taking steps to
avert a slowdown,” said Allan Yu, who helps manage about $9.5
billion at Manila-based  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 3.7 percent.
The Micex climbed 4.3 percent.  Global equity funds attracted $12.1 billion in the week
ended Sept. 12, the largest inflow this year, Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing
data compiled by EPFR Global. About $390 million was invested in
emerging-stock funds amid speculation the Fed would introduce
its third round of asset purchases, according to the report.  The ruble strengthened for a ninth day, advancing 2.5
percent versus the  U.S. dollar  in the longest stretch of gains
since January. Russia’s central bank unexpectedly raised
 interest rates  yesterday after inflation exceeded its target.  India Rally  India’s rupee appreciated 2 percent and the Malaysian
ringgit rose 1.3 percent. South Korea’s won added 1 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index climbed 2.5 percent to the
highest level since July 2011 after the government raised diesel
prices for the first time in more than a year, bolstering the
outlook for state finances. Reliance Industries Ltd., owner of
the world’s largest refining complex, advanced 5.3 percent.  The government said after the close of local markets that
it will open its retail and aviation industries to foreign
investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  