-- Europe Bides Time on Spain, Relies on ECB to Soothe Markets
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-14T16:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/europe-bides-time-on-spain-as-ecb-relied-upon-to-soothe-markets.html
European governments put off
decisions on aid for  Spain  and a loosening of  Greece ’s loan
terms, counting on the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
pledges to provide interim relief from market turmoil.  Finance ministers meeting in Cyprus pressed for a fresh set
of reforms to rebuild confidence in Spain’s economic management
and said the fate of Greece’s 240 billion-euro ($315 billion)
rescue program won’t be decided until late October, possibly at
a crisis summit of leaders.  The central bank, which helped drive the euro to a four-
month high by stepping up rhetoric to fight  Europe ’s debt
turmoil, warned that it has only bought time for governments to
deliver the deficit-cutting and growth-boosting steps needed to
stabilize the economy.  “The amount of time that we have -- it’s a very difficult
question to answer,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters
today after meeting the euro-region ministers in Nicosia, the
Cypriot capital. “You have to ask the markets. If we continue
going this way, then one has to be very optimistic.”  The euro rose as much as 1.4 percent to $1.3169, the
highest since May 4. It traded at $ 1.3142 at 6:45 p.m. Cyprus
time. Spain’s extra 10-year borrowing cost over German levels
narrowed held at 408 basis points. Italy’s 10-year spread
declined by 13 basis points to 331 basis points, the lowest
since April 2.  Market Strength  “All the leaders as well as the ECB are sitting with their
hands tightly clutched to their seats hoping that they are not
actually tested, that their resolve is not tested,” Sony
Kapoor, managing director of policy advisory firm Re-Define,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Brussels. “The one
thing they don’t want to find out is whether what they have done
is enough or not.”  Financial markets continued to draw strength from the ECB’s
Sept. 6 offer -- with conditions attached -- to go on a bond-
buying mission, and a Sept. 12 ruling by  Germany ’s
constitutional court that cleared the way for the setup of a 500
billion-euro permanent bailout fund, known as the European
Stability Mechanism.  ‘Fully Operational’  Finance ministers will inaugurate the ESM on Oct. 8 and pay
in the first two equity installments of 32 billion euros by the
end of October, making the fund “fully operational,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after
chairing today’s meeting.  “There is no more room for complacency today than there
was six months ago but we are, I believe, moving into the right
direction,” European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
Olli Rehn said.  European officials said Spain will unveil new reforms by
the end of the month based on recommendations made in July that
cover areas such as a possible increase in the  retirement age , a
shift from labor to consumption taxes and the deregulation of
closed professions.  Complaining of the flu, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos took a short break from the meeting. He later returned
to confirm the new commitments, pledging a “plan of reforms to
boost growth and competitiveness” and reaffirming the goal of
cutting the deficit to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product in
2012 from 8.9 percent last year.  Spanish Banks  Spain, already drawing on 100 billion euros to repair its
banking system, wants the lightest possible conditions on a
European  credit line  or loan program that would also enable the
ECB to buy bonds to bring down its borrowing costs.  Finance ministers are also in a holding pattern on Greece,
the first victim of the crisis. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is facing hurdles within his coalition to proposed wage
and pension cuts to meet creditor demands for 11.5 billion euros
in budget savings.  Until then, the next installments of Greece’s loan package
are on hold. Juncker called on Greece to use the next month to
deliver “real game-changers” in turning around its indebted,
recession-wracked economy.  While ruling out extra funds, Austrian Finance Minister
Maria Fekter said Greece may end up getting more time to meet
deficit-cut targets as long as it makes those commitments.  “There are various ways to adjust -- time is one,”
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said. “That has to be considered an option.”  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras was asked if he
had received any indication that Greece would gain more time
from the euro area and IMF to meet budget-cutting targets.  “It is on the table,” he said.  Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said giving Greece
more time has always been the position of the Netherlands.  “But more money is not needed if they will take the
measures timely,” he said. “There is no movement whatsoever
this weekend on that topic. No more openness or so. The
situation is the same. Greece has to do everything the troika
asks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Nicosia at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Nicosia at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  