-- Europe Stocks Rally for Second Week on QE3, German Ruling
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/europe-stocks-rally-for-second-week-on-qe3-german-ruling.html
European stocks  posted a second
week of gains as the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing and Germany’s highest constitutional court
cleared the way for the euro-area’s permanent bailout fund.  Carmakers and mining companies led the rally as U.S.
officials also raised their outlook for the world’s largest
economy. Peugeot SA advanced 9.5 percent, while  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) 
jumped 18 percent.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
climbed more than 14 percent. European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. slid 15 percent after announcing talks for a potential
merger with  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/)   The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 1.3 percent to
275.95 this week, reaching the highest daily close since June 1,
2011. The gauge has surged  18 percent  from this year’s low on
June 4 amid speculation central banks around the world would
take further measures to support an economic recovery.  “The latest news from Germany and the U.S. has reduced
uncertainty, positively impacting risk assets,” said Stefan Angele, head of  investment management  at Swiss & Global Asset
Management in Zurich. “The game changer, referring to QE3, is
the unlimited intervention and the fact that they link the
action to the future economic developments.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 13 that the
central bank will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
a month, without a limit on the total or duration. The Fed also
extended its near-zero interest rate policy until 2015 and said
it will stay accommodative “for a considerable time” even
after the economy strengthens.  Rescue Fund  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe ruled
on Sept. 12 that the country can ratify the 500 billion-euro
European Stability Mechanism, dismissing motions filed by groups
including a conservative lawmaker and an opposition political
party that sought to block the fund. It stipulated that
Germany’s 190 billion-euro contribution not be increased without
legislative approval.  The  International Monetary Fund  is working with the Greek
government to help the country get the deficit-reducing program
attached to its bailout back on track, IMF spokesman Gerry Rice
told reporters in Washington. Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras failed to obtain an agreement from his coalition
partners on the spending cuts.  National benchmark indexes this week increased in all of
the 18 western European markets except Denmark. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 rose 2.1 percent, France’s CAC 40 added 1.8 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index climbed 2.7 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB
rallied 3.2 percent, while Spain’s IBEX 35 jumped 3.5 percent.  Chinese Imports  In China, imports declined 2.6 percent in August from a
year earlier, the customs bureau said in Beijing on Sept. 10.
That missed the median estimate of a 3.5 percent gain, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A measure of the region’s auto companies was the best-
performing industry on the Stoxx 600 this week. French carmakers
Peugeot SA and Renault SA gained 9.5 percent and 7.9 percent
respectively. In Germany, preferred shares of Volkswagen AG
advanced 7.9 percent, while Porsche SE rallied 6.9 percent.  A gauge of mining stocks jumped 5.4 percent, pacing copper
that capped its biggest weekly increase in eight months on the
London Metal Exchange. Kazakhmys surged 18 percent.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BLT) , the world’s largest mining group, rose 7.5 percent, while
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-biggest, added 8.6 percent.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  advanced 3.1 percent after the third-largest
platinum producer by volume resumed talks in South Africa to end
a strike that has shut mines tapping the world’s richest
reserves of the metal. Forty five people have died in the
violence at Lonmin’s Marikana mine since Aug. 10.  Bank Shares  An  index of banking shares  advanced 4.4 percent this week.
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  soared 28 percent in Athens.
Germany’s Commerzbank jumped 15 percent, while France’s  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  gained 11 percent. Among British lenders, RBS
climbed 14 percent,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  gained 8.1 percent
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  rallied 11 percent.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  jumped 13 percent, the biggest weekly
increase since November 2008. The specialty-chemicals maker said
on Sept. 13 it sold 305 million Swiss francs ($330 million) of
bonds to refinance bridge loans used for its acquisition of Arch
Chemicals Inc. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the refinancing removed
much of the “near-term financing overhang.”  EADS slumped 15 percent after saying on Sept. 12 it is in
talks with BAE about a combination that would create a European
counterweight to the likes of Boeing Co. BAE added 4.4 percent.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  tumbled 20 percent after the company
said on Sept. 11 that full-year profit will “disappoint”
analysts after sales growth slowed globally.  Adjusted pretax profit in the year through March will be at
the lower end of analyst estimates, which range from 407 million
pounds ($652 million) to 454 million pounds, the company said.
The average estimate of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg is
about 429 million pounds.  Hugo Boss AG fell 9.1 percent, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA lost 4.6 percent, while Christian Dior SA declined
4.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  