-- Euro-Area August Inflation Accelerates on Steeper Energy Costs
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-14T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/euro-area-august-inflation-accelerates-on-steeper-energy-costs.html
Euro-area inflation  accelerated for
the first time in 11 months in August as rising energy costs
threatened to exacerbate the economic slump.  Consumer prices  in the 17-nation currency bloc increased
2.6 percent from a year earlier, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today, matching an initial estimate on
Aug. 31.  Core inflation , excluding energy costs, slowed to 1.5
percent from 1.7 percent. Employment was unchanged in the second
quarter after a 0.3 percent drop in the previous three months, a
separate report showed.  Crude-oil prices rose to the highest in four months today,
approaching $100 a barrel, and the surge in recent months has
pushed up costs for consumers and companies. While the  European
Central Bank  raised its inflation forecasts this month, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  unveiled a plan to buy unlimited
quantities of short-dated government bonds of nations receiving
emergency bailouts to tame the region’s debt turmoil.  “Energy prices are the only thing responsible for the
temporary stop in a trend of decreasing inflation rates,” Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover,  Germany , said before
the data were released. “The euro-zone economy is very weak and
from that point of view we will have no danger that demand-
triggered inflation risks will occur.”  Energy Prices  Consumer prices in the currency bloc rose 0.4 percent in
August from the previous month, today’s report showed. The
biggest upward impact on the annual inflation rate was from
transport fuels, followed by heating oil and gas. While  oil
prices  have increased about 26 percent from their 2012 low on
June 28, a deepening economic slump has left companies with less
room to pass on higher costs. Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
held at a 2 1/2-year low in July.  The ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.75 percent on Sept. 6 as it forecast a deeper economic
contraction for 2012 than it did three months earlier. Euro-area
gross domestic product will drop 0.4 percent this year instead
of 0.1 percent forecast previously, it said. At the same time,
the ECB raised its projection for inflation next year to 1.9
percent from 1.6 percent. The central bank aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent.  Draghi, who called inflation risks “broadly balanced” in
the medium term, said the ECB’s bond-buying plan would involve
purchasing short-dated government debt on the secondary market
of countries that ask  Europe ’s bailout fund to buy their debt on
the primary market. Neither  Spain  nor  Italy  has made such a
request.  Euro-area finance ministers are discussing aprogram for
Spain at a meeting today in Nicosia, Cyprus. They will be joined
by their colleagues from the 10 non-euro EU countries as well as
the region’s central bankers this afternoon.  In the 27-nation EU, inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent
in August from 2.5 percent in July. Consumer-price growth slowed
in four  member states , remained stable in two and quickened in
20, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  