-- Ex-UBS Trader Kweku Adoboli’s E-Mail to Accountant: Full Text
-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-14T15:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/ex-ubs-trader-kweku-adoboli-s-e-mail-to-accountant-full-text.html
Below is the text of an e-mail
former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli sent to bank accountant
William Steward on Sept. 14, 2011, describing how he accrued
trading losses.  The e-mail was read out by prosecutor Sasha Wass at
Adoboli’s fraud trial in London today.  The subject line for the e-mail, sent from Adoboli’s home
e-mail account, was: “An explanation of my trades.”  Dear Will,  It is with great stress that I write this mail. First of
all the ETF ( Exchange Traded Funds ) trades that you see on the
ledger are not trades that I have done with a counterparty as I
previously described.  I used the bookings as a way to suppress the PnL losses
that I have accrued through off-book trades that I made. Those
trades were previously profit making, became loss making as the
market sold off aggressively though the aggressive sell-off
days of July and early August.  Initially, I had been short futures through June and
those lost money when the first Greek confidence vote went
through in mid-June. In order to try and make the money back I
flipped the trade long through the rally.  Although I had a couple of opportunities to unwind the
long trade for a negligible loss, I did not move quickly enough
for the market weakness on the back of the first back macro
data and then an escalation Eurozone crisis cost me the losses
you will see when the ETF bookings are cancelled. The aim had
been to try and make the money back before the September expiry
date came through but I clearly failed.  These are still live trades on the book that will need to
be unwound. Namely a short position in DAX futures [which had
been rolled to December expiry] and a short position in S and P
500 futures that are due to expire on Friday.  I have now left the office for the sake of discretion. I
will need to come back in to discuss the positions and explain
face to face, but for reasons that are obvious, I did not think
it wise to stay on the desk this afternoon.  I will expect that questions will be asked as to why
nobody else was aware of these trades. The reality is that I
have always maintained that these were EFP trades to the member
of my team, BUC, trade support and John Di Bacco (Adoboli’s
manager).  I take full responsibility for my actions and the stilt
storm that will now ensue. I am deeply sorry to have left this
mess for everyone and to have put my bank and my colleagues at
risk.  Thanks, Kweku.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in  London .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  