-- Texas Schools Borrow to Build Stadiums for Friday Heroes
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/texas-schools-borrow-to-build-stadiums-for-friday-heroes.html
Carthage High School’s Bulldogs
lost their Aug. 31 home opener to the Jacksonville Indians, 34-
30, yet the Dawgs’ $750,000 scoreboard eased the sting.  With a display big enough to give 1.6 square feet of video
screen to each of Carthage High’s 750 students, it’s the largest
Jumbotron at a  Texas  secondary school, delivering instant
replays and crowd shots during games.  In the land that inspired television’s “Friday Night
Lights” series, high-school football takes on an outsize role.
Players in some rural counties use fields with artificial turf
and high-technology scoreboards. More than 100 stadiums have
been built in Texas, financed by voter-approved bonds, in a
five-year facilities arms race that preceded more than $5
billion in state cuts to education by Republicans in Austin.  “In poor districts, the stadium may be the only thing in
the community they can be proud of,” said Joe Smith, a retired
school superintendent in Lufkin.  As the Bulldogs lost, the Allen Eagles opened their $60
million stadium a half-hour drive north of  Dallas  with a 24-0
win over the defending conference champions. Almost 22,000 fans
came to the state’s most costly high-school stadium to watch.  “If you don’t get the latest and greatest scoreboard or
technology or whatever, in two or three years, you’re going to
have the worst one,” said Smith, who runs TexasISD.com, a
website devoted to educational finance and administration. While
state aid subsidizes school operations, bonds can help build
classrooms, buy buses and pay for football stadiums and gyms.  Not Shared  Under the state’s education-financing system, for some
districts, using bonds to pay for bigger and better sports
facilities provides a way to keep “local money at home,”
according to Dee Hartt, the Tatum Independent School District’s
superintendent. State law requires communities with tax bases
above a certain level to share their property revenue with
poorer districts.  In Tatum, Luminant’s Martin Lake coal-fired power plant is
valued at almost $1 billion and accounts for about 70 percent of
the tax base, making the 1,640-student district property-rich
under the state system. So Tatum has to give up 55 percent of
its real-estate levies. Bond money stays put, Hartt said.  The Tatum area isn’t affluent, with income levels and home
values below the statewide average, U.S. Census Bureau data
show. Almost 60 percent of the district’s students are
considered economically disadvantaged under federal standards.  Borrowing $73 Million  District voters have authorized six bond issues, totaling
$73 million, in the past decade to pay for buses, school
buildings and athletic facilities.  “In the life of a school, academics is always the first
thing,” Hartt said. With football, “that becomes the
community. It’s the band, the cheerleaders, the drill team.”  Hartt’s East Texas district has spent almost $1,000 per
student -- $16 million -- in the past four years on sports
facilities such as a new Eagles football stadium. It has a
three-story press box and a multisport indoor-training building
with a 70-yard-long practice field.  Tatum’s high school has 464 students and a record of
sending players on to major college teams and the  National
Football League . Jalen Overstreet, a 2012 graduate, is now a
freshman quarterback for the  University of Texas  Longhorns.
Former Eagles Denarius Moore and Travian Smith both went on to
the NFL’s Oakland Raiders in  California .  Carthage Bonds  The  Carthage district , 16 miles (26 kilometers) southeast
of Tatum near the Louisiana state line, has used a similar
fiscal strategy, with voters passing three bond issues totaling
$50.5 million in four years, Superintendent Glenn Hambrick said.  Carthage sits atop the Haynesville shale formation, which
is rich in natural gas and gives the district a property-tax
value of more than $1 million for each student. This year,
Carthage, with a budget of $23 million, had to give $11 million
in real-estate revenue to poorer districts, Hambrick said. That
math makes bond issues easy to sell, he said.  Bulldog Stadium’s scoreboard, with a 1,200 square-foot (111
square-meter) video display, drew $35,000 in advertising from
local businesses, with sponsors for instant replays and video of
the marching band’s halftime shows.  “We had to turn people away -- there’s not enough room”
for more advertisers, Hambrick said. He said he hopes the video
display will help Carthage attract playoff games and more
potential customers for local businesses.  No Complaints  “You don’t hear many people in our community complaining
about it,” the superintendent said of the scoreboard’s cost.  Bond sales also have paid for a new elementary school with
high-tech smartboards in every classroom, said Dustin Burns,
president of the school’s 150-member booster club.  “If you don’t pass a bond and spend it for your kids here,
it goes to the state,” Burns said of the tax dollars used to
repay the debt. His club has raised more money for sports
programs thanks to the nicer concession area at the 6,500-seat
stadium and through scoreboard advertising sales.  Stadiums with 16,000 seats or more adorn 10 Texas high
schools. More than 100 have video scoreboards and more than 500
have fields with artificial turf, according to Robert McSpadden
of Katy, author of the “Texas Football Stadium Guide.” His
TexasBob.com website holds a database of almost 1,200 gridirons.  “I guess I can understand spending money on something that
gives pleasure on a Friday night 10 weeks a year -- but what
does that mean to the overall values and the good of society?”
said Thomas Palaima, a University of Texas at Austin classics
professor and a critic of Texans’ college football fixation. He
says the focus on the sport has trickled down to high schools
and even middle schools in the state.  Robbing Peter  “The emphasis is so skewed that people don’t think about
the fact that every bond issue is a choice -- you’re going to
spend your money on this rather than something else,” he said.  Led by Governor  Rick Perry , Republicans in Austin last year
pared more than $5 billion from funding for public schools below
the college level in Texas in the 24-month budget that began in
September 2011, prompting job and program cuts. There’s no sign
that lawmakers will undo the cuts, even with  tax revenue  topping
state forecasts.  Residents served by some schools have balked at stadium-
bond proposals. In 2010, voters in the coastal Galveston
district rejected by a 2-to-1 margin a proposed $35 million
stadium to replace one that was 60 years old.  What Recession  A year earlier, as the nation limped out of the longest
recession since the Great Depression, Allen voters passed a $119
million  bond issue  to pay for the school’s new stadium as well
as a performing arts center and a transportation facility.  The stadium to be replaced was “horrible,” with portable
toilets and rented bleacher seats, said Tim Carroll, a district
spokesman. He deflected reports in national news media
questioning the priorities of spending so much on a high-
definition video scoreboard, free wireless Internet service in
the stands and facilities for the golf and wrestling teams.  “Clearly, people outside of Allen are resentful,” Carroll
said. One of Texas’s most affluent districts had focused on
adding schools ahead of sports facilities as enrollment grew to
more than 19,000 from about 6,000 in 1999, including 5,300 in
the ninth through 12th grades. Allen High School’s 800-member
marching band is the nation’s biggest, Carroll said.  The scoreboard has attracted $230,000 in advertising,
money that goes into the district’s general fund, Allen Superintendent Ken Helvey said. On Aug. 31, fans filled all
18,000 seats and 4,000 more stood to watch the game against the
Southlake Carroll Dragons. The team merchandise store sold out,
Carroll said, evidence of the community’s support for football.  As for critics, Helvey said, “We really don’t consider
outsiders. They’re not our voters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 