-- Mexican Bourse Plans to Resolve Data Delays Before Market Opens
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/mexican-bourse-plans-to-resolve-data-delays-before-market-opens.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB , the
operator of  Mexico ’s securities exchange, said the market data
platform that caused delays in stock pricing yesterday should be
fixed before trading resumes.  The bourse plans to have the slowdown resolved before the
stock market opens today at 8:30 a.m. Mexico City time, Enrique Ibarra, the exchange operator’s head of technology, said in a
telephone interview yesterday from Mexico City. Bolsa Mexicana
will implement broad updates to its system for market data by
Sept. 24 as part of a previously scheduled optimization,
according to Ibarra.  “We had a technical problem with a component of the
platform,” Ibarra said.  A surge in trading, marked by a record number of orders,
exacerbated the delays, Ibarra said. Trading volume on the
benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican stocks has climbed 22 percent
in the past week after the bourse implemented a new trading
engine on Sept. 3, luring more so-called high-frequency traders
to the market. High frequency traders use computers programs to
automatically execute fast-paced trading strategies.  The new trading engine itself, known as MoNet, operated
without incident yesterday, Ibarra said.  MoNet is about 300-times faster than its predecessor, with
the capacity to handle handle about 100,000 transactions per
second, according to a presentation distributed to journalists
on Sept. 11. It’s also equipped with filters that track unusual
prices and volumes to prevent erroneous trades from entering the
system, according to the bourse.  “If we had the previous trading platform and we’d received
the number of transactions we received today, the system
wouldn’t have held up,” Ibarra said. “In fact, there would
have been a recess,” he said, referring to a temporary stoppage
of trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  