-- Facebook Gains on Promise of New Advertising Platforms
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-09-14T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/facebook-gains-on-new-advertising-formats-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  rose to the highest
price in more than a month on optimism that new advertising
platforms may help the world’s largest social network boost
revenue.  Shares of  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook rose 6.2
percent to $22 at the close in  New York , for the highest closing
price since July 30. Facebook has lost 42 percent since selling
shares at $38 apiece in a May initial public offering as
investors questioned whether the company could make money from
users who increasingly access the site via mobile phones.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  may have helped
allay concerns about the company’s ability to profit from its
more than 955 million users with remarks earlier this week about
efforts to expand mobile advertising, according to  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. Reports this
week touting the effectiveness of the new Facebook Exchange ad
platform also bolstered confidence in the company’s mobile
strategy, Kessler said.  “It could be a combination of all of that,” boosting
Facebook’s stock today, Kessler said in an interview.  Facebook Exchange, a real-time bidding platform for
advertisers unveiled in June, is among ’’promising’’ new options
for placing ads, Kessler said in a research report today.  Facebook is doing a better job than  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in getting
Web surfers to click on advertising based on browsing history,
according to some partners using Facebook Exchange.  Facebook Exchange  Facebook Exchange, or FBX, generates as much as four times
the return on ad dollars than other real-time bidding systems,
said Triggit Inc., which makes software tools to help Facebook
deliver the ads. Another partner, AdRoll, said advertisers used
to getting $10 for every $1 they spend are making $16 for every
dollar spent on FBX.  An increasing portion of display advertising sales is
driven by this real-time bidding. Of the $18.9 billion projected
to be spent on online display ads in the U.S. in 2015, about
$5.08 billion, or 27 percent, will come from real-time bidding,
according to researcher IDC. This year, real-time bidding will
represent about 16 percent of the $12.6 billion U.S. market for
display ads, IDC said.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for Facebook, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  