-- Fiat’s Marchionne Says German Peers ‘Deaf’ to Call for EU Help
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-09-14T14:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/fiat-s-marchionne-says-german-peers-deaf-to-call-for-eu-help.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said German carmakers are sticking to their
opposition to his efforts to form a  united front  to push the
European Union to address overcapacity in the region.  Calls for coordinated efforts have “fallen on deaf ears,
certainly from my German colleagues, who do not see the need,”
Marchionne, who is also head of Chrysler Group LLC, told
reporters today in Detroit.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
are resisting a proposal by Marchionne, who currently serves as
president of the European auto association ACEA, to seek support
from the EU to reduce surplus assembly lines in the region.
Overcapacity in western Europe may more than double to about 2
million vehicles in 2012 with sales on pace to fall for a fifth
straight year, according to data from IHS Automotive.  German carmakers have been less exposed to Europe’s woes
because they produce vehicles in the region that are in demand
in the U.S. and China, while  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault SA (RNO) 
of France and Italy’s Fiat are more reliant on the local market.
UBS estimates that the cost of excess capacity in Europe totals
7.4 billion euros ($9.7 billion) a year.  With national authorities in Europe prone to protect local
jobs, the lack of a coordinated plan is “like asking people to
argue against self-interest,” Marchionne said. “It’s almost an
impossible situation.”  Fiat shut a factory in Sicily at the end of 2011 and may
close a second plant in Italy as Marchionne expects the auto
market to remain at the current level for two to three years.
Fiat reiterated yesterday that it will present a plan, including
new models and plant utilization, to stem losses in Europe at
the end of October.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker after Volkswagen,
announced in July plans to close a French factory and eliminate
a total of 8,000 jobs.  General Motors Co. (GM)  has said it has no
plans to produce new models at a plant in Bochum,  Germany .  Volkswagen threatened to leave ACEA in July after
Marchionne suggested in a report in the  New York  Times that
discounting by the German carmaker was creating a “bloodbath.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  