-- Fortescue Says It’s Making Progress in Talks With Lenders
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-09-14T05:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/fortescue-says-it-s-making-progress-in-talks-with-lenders-1-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FSUGY) ,
Australia’s third-biggest  iron ore  producer, said it’s made
progress in talks with lenders to restructure bank loans after
commodity prices declined.  “Discussions with its banks have progressed
significantly,” Perth-based Fortescue said today in a statement
that requested a trading halt before it updates the market on
the talks by Sept. 18. Yesterday, its U.S.-traded securities
fell by a record.  Fortescue, which has $9.1 billion of  debt  and a market
value of A$9.3 billion ($9.8 billion), held a call last week to
reassure bankers in  Asia  about its finances as it seeks to
syndicate a $1.5 billion facility, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Iron ore has fallen 31 percent this
year, prompting the company this month to cut its annual
spending forecast by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  “Our cash-flow analysis shows they’re operating just above
break even on a per ton basis so we do have concerns on their
sustainability,” Adrian Prendergast, an analyst at E.L. & C.
Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd., said by phone today from  Melbourne .
“So long as they can maintain their access to the undrawn debt
facilities then they’ll be fine in the medium term.”  Forrest’s Wealth  Fortescue’s  American depositary receipts  fell 12 percent
overnight to $6.45, after its Sydney-traded shares yesterday
fell the most since Dec. 22, 2008, slicing A$488 million off
Chairman  Andrew Forrest ’s wealth.  His net worth dropped to $3.4 billion yesterday as of 5:30
p.m.  New York  time, according to  data  compiled and calculated
through the Bloomberg Billionaire Index. His wealth has slid
$1.1 billion, or 25.3 percent, this year.  More than 97 percent of Forrest’s wealth is linked to
shares of Fortescue. He bought $137 million worth of shares in
June and another $38.6 million in August.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest money manager, invested almost $97 million on
July 6 to raise its stake in Fortescue to 2.1 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Compliant  Fortescue reiterated today the company remains fully
compliant with its financial covenants and has full access to
all its funding facilities.  The company may be trying to sell a 15 percent equity stake
to its biggest customer, Baosteel Group Corp., the Australian
Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column today,
without citing anyone. Meng Haibiao, a media official at
Baosteel, denied the reported plan.  Forrest is in talks with billionaire  Kerry Stokes ’ WesTrac
division for a sale and leaseback agreement of rolling stock and
heavy machinery to raise cash for Fortescue, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported today. Forrest was looking to sell his equipment
for A$4 billion, according to the newspaper, which cited
unidentified people. Any sale would require approval from the
company’s lenders, the report said.  Fortescue spokeswoman Yvonne Ball and spokesman Nathan Vass
couldn’t be reached for comment when called on their office and
mobile phones. Calls made to Forrest’s office weren’t answered.  Fortescue lender Bank of America Corp. extended the
syndication deadline until the end of the month, a person
familiar with the matter said this week. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch agreed to underwrite the debt facility, according to a
stock exchange filing from Fortescue last month.  About 20 lenders have been approached to join the loan and
a range of international banks, including Chinese and Japanese,
are processing credit approvals, other people said Aug. 30.  “The company lacks flexibility to operate in a way it
would like to because it’s being constrained by the fall in the
iron ore price,” said  David Lennox , a resources analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney. This “has impacted the balance sheet and
the debt ratio,” he said yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Fortescue’s $2.04
billion of 7 percent bonds due in November 2015, instead of
Treasuries, surged 57 basis points yesterday to 757 basis points,
BNP Paribas SA prices showed.  Ratings Review  Moody’s said Sept. 4 that Fortescue, rated Ba3, remained
under review for a debt-rating cut as a result of the drop in
iron ore prices. A rebound in iron ore to about $115 to $125 a
ton will “substantially reduce concerns around liquidity and
covenant pressure,” it said.  The company may face a $1.7 billion expansion funding
shortfall on lower cash-flow estimates, Citigroup Inc. said in a
Sept. 5 report.  “We are uncertain how close Fortescue currently is to
breaching covenants,” National  Australia  Bank Ltd. said in a
report today. “Clearly though, the covenant issue will be a
major overhang over the credit profile until it is cleared -
either through a waiver or a clearing through one or more of a
major recovery in the iron ore price, an equity raising or asset
sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  