-- Sharp Unable to Find Tablet-Panel Buyers, Executive Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-09-14T05:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/foxconn-sharp-need-to-tackle-high-tax-labor-gou-says.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s sales of display
panels for tablet computers are less than the company expected,
according to a senior executive at the Japanese company trying
to negotiate a tie-up with Foxconn Technology Group.  Finding customers for the IGZO panels is Sharp’s biggest
focus, the  executive  told reporters today in  Osaka ,  Japan , where
the company is based. Sharp hasn’t found enough orders to boost
the operating rate at the plant in Kameyama, central Japan, the
executive said.  “We need to get enough orders to keep the factory
running,” the executive said in a briefing given on condition
that the speaker not be identified. “That is our biggest
mission.”  Sharp, a  supplier  to Apple Inc., has invested at least 350
billion yen ($4.5 billion) in the factory, which was converted
from making TV panels and started producing  IGZO panels  in
March. The company, headed for a second straight full-year loss,
hopes an alliance with Taiwan’s Foxconn may help it find
customers for the displays, the executive said.  “If demand for this technology is lower than expected, it
will be difficult for the company to achieve its operating
profit target,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. “The company may be forced to lower its earnings
estimates when it submits revival plans to banks this month.”  Foxconn Stake  The Sharp executive declined to specify the current
operating rate at the plant, known as Kameyama No. 2. There
aren’t issues with the production process or yields at the
plant, the executive said. Sharp and Foxconn are in talks about
collaborating to find buyers for IGZO panels, though no
agreement has been reached, the executive said.  Sharp fell 0.5 percent to 207 yen as of 2:26 p.m. in Tokyo
trading. The stock has  plunged  69 percent this year, making it
the biggest percentage loser among more than 1,600 companies in
the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   IGZO panels offer high resolution while consuming less
energy than conventional models, according to Sharp. The company
had expected an industry transition toward the new technology to
happen sooner, the executive said.  Sharp is working on a contingency plan to present to banks
as the company faces a deadline for repaying debt, it said Sept.
7. The maker of Aquos TVs is trying to raise cash after widening
its loss forecast eightfold last month, and it put up some
plants and its headquarters as debt collateral after  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service cut its  credit ratings  to
junk.  Bank Loans  Sharp is providing banks with continuous updates on its
revival plan, the official said. It has no current plans to
revise earnings forecasts, the executive said.  There hasn’t been any significant progress in discussions
with Foxconn on their proposed capital tie-up, while the
Japanese company still hopes to finalize investment terms by the
end of this month, the executive said. Sharp doesn’t have a plan
to seek investment from any other company, the official said.  Sharp may consider boosting capital by offering shares
after regaining investors’ confidence by reviving earnings, the
executive said.  Foxconn, whose  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  unit makes
Apple iPads, agreed with Sharp in March to invest 67 billion yen
for a 9.9 percent stake in the TV maker at 550 yen a share. The
companies are renegotiating the deal after Sharp widened its
full-year net loss forecast to 250 billion yen, causing its
shares to plunge as low as 164 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  