-- Frieden Warns of Crisis Return If Europe Reform Drive Relaxed
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-09-14T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/frieden-warns-of-crisis-return-if-europe-reform-drive-relaxed.html
Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden urged euro-area governments not to put off the steps
needed to spur their economies and rebuild trust with investors.  Market turmoil could quickly return unless countries such
as Spain and  Greece  maintain the pressure for reform, Frieden
said in an interview in Nicosia, Cyprus yesterday after talks
with European finance chiefs.  “It’s clear that a new element can come at any
moment that will ignite the crisis again,” Frieden said.
“That’s why it’s important to know as soon as possible, and the
sooner the better, in all the individual cases, Greece, Spain,
what the next steps are and there has to be intensive work on
this.”  The comments underscored concerns that the calm in
financial markets since the  European Central Bank  unveiled its
bond-buying program could lull political leaders into a false
sense of security that dilutes efforts to cut budget deficits
and boost growth.  Markets have rallied in the wake of the ECB’s Sept. 6
pledge to bring down borrowing costs by buying bonds and a
German court ruling this week that cleared the way for a
permanent bailout fund for the 17-nation euro region.  The euro yesterday rose to $1.3137, the highest since May
4. Spanish  10-year government bond s yielded 408 basis points
more than equivalent German debt, down from 552 basis points at
the end of August.  At yesterday’s talks, finance ministers put off
decisions on aid for  Spain  and a loosening of Greece’s loan
terms. “In a crisis, time is always relative,” Frieden said.
“That’s why I think one should try to progress as fast as
possible.”  Frieden said it was too early to say whether Greece should
get more time to meet deficit-reduction targets demanded by
creditors in return for further installments of aid.  “We have a program, now we have to see the implementation
of that program and the consequences if part of it is not fully
implemented,” he said. “We will only be able to say that in a
few weeks from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Nicosia at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ,
Craig Stirling  at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  