-- Gazprom Plans $1.8 Million Bash After 2008 Deep Purple Concert
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-09-14T13:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/gazprom-plans-1-8-million-bash-after-2008-deep-purple-concert.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, plans to spend 55.7 million rubles ($1.8
million) on festivities in the Kremlin to mark its 20th
anniversary early next year.  Gazprom’s celebrations will include a concert that will be
broadcast on national television and a formal reception,
according to a  statement  on the Moscow-based company’s website.
Tina Turner and Deep Purple played at the company’s 15th
anniversary party in February 2008, and President  Vladimir Putin 
congratulated the state-run gas export monopoly with a   speech .  Russia’s biggest company by market value was created in
February 1993 out of a state-run gas concern that had its roots
in the Soviet-era ministry for the gas industry. Gazprom’s value
has increased to $130 billion from about $5 billion in 1994,
according to data from the company and compiled by Bloomberg.  Gazprom selected a 39 million-ruble bid from OOO Spektr to
organize the concert and broadcast and decorate the stage,
according to the statement. OOO Afisha was picked to decorate
reception and concert halls, organize the photography and
filming of the celebrations as well as make printed products.  The musicians weren’t announced. Gazprom Chief Executive
Officer Alexey Miller, in an interview with the Itogi magazine
in June 2008, said he was a fan of Deep Purple, like Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , a former Russian president and Gazprom
board chairman.  Along with gas extraction, transportation and sales,
Gazprom also runs a  satellite communications unit  and its own
airline and sponsors Russia’s Zenith and  Germany ’s FC Schalke 04
soccer clubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  