-- GE Jet-Engine Failures Spur FAA Directive for Inspections
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/ge-jet-engine-failures-spur-faa-directive-for-inspections.html
U.S. airlines using  General
Electric Co. (GE)  GEnx  jet engines  will be required to inspect their
planes for signs of the type of flaws that led to a July
explosion, the  Federal Aviation Administration  said.  Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings Inc. (AAWW) , the only carrier flying
the  Boeing Co. (BA)  jets with those engines, found nothing wrong on
one of its 747-8 freighters yesterday and will inspect the other
aircraft over the weekend, the FAA said in an e-mailed
statement. A formal directive is being prepared, the FAA said.  The FAA plan heightened the scrutiny on the GEnx since a
Boeing 787 Dreamliner spewed hot metal engine parts during a
July 28 test in Charleston,  South Carolina . There have now been
three instances of damage to GEnx engines, which are used only
on Boeing’s two newest planes, the 787 and the 747-8 jumbo jet.  “This now has entered the phase where it’s incumbent on GE
and Boeing to come up very quickly with a very clear answer as
to what the fix is, or they’re going to be hurting very badly,”
 Hans Weber , chief executive officer of aviation consultant Tecop
International Inc., said in a telephone interview. “They’re now
under real pressure.”  The FAA’s inspection directive followed a recommendation
for the check from the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board, which investigates aviation accidents. Regulators
worldwide typically follow the FAA’s lead in such cases.  Immediate Threat  “Because of the immediate threat of multiple engine
failures on a single aircraft and the availability of an
appropriate inspection procedure, there is an urgent need for
the FAA to act immediately,” the NTSB wrote in a letter to the
agency.  Hours later, the FAA said it “will continue to review the
recommendations and coordinate closely with the NTSB and GE as
part of the investigation.”  A similar GEnx engine crack was found last month on a twin-
engine Dreamliner that hadn’t flown yet, according to the NTSB.
A four-engine 747-8 flown by a Russian cargo carrier suffered an
engine failure on Sept. 11 in  China , and preliminary evidence
shows it may have failed the same way as in Charleston,
according to the NTSB.  Atlas is reviewing the notice from the NTSB, said Dan Loh,
a spokesman for the Purchase, New York-based cargo carrier.
Other airlines operating GEnx-equipped planes include Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, the first airline to fly the 747-8 in passenger
service. Most of the 747-8s in use are the freighter variant.  Ultrasound Inspections  GE, the world’s largest maker of jet engines, said
ultrasound inspections were almost complete on the engine part
known as a fan mid-shaft that was blamed for the Charleston
failure. The checks should be completed by early next week, said
 Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE.  Boeing 787s and 747-8 passenger planes that use the engines
have all been inspected, leaving only nine 747-8 freighters
still to be reviewed,  Jim Proulx , a spokesman for the Chicago-
based planemaker, said in an e-mailed statement.  “There is some type of serious problem in either the
design or the handling of this part,” Jim Wildey, the retired
chief of the NTSB’s laboratory, said in an interview.  Unlike stress fractures, which grow gradually over time,
the crack detected in the GEnx engine occurred much more quickly
in the steel shaft’s microscopic crystals, Wildey said. It began
where threads were cut into the shaft, making it weaker than the
rest of the part, he said.  Lucky Break  Investigators were lucky to have discovered a crack on an
intact engine, which will let them examine it closely for
potential problems, Wildey said. Evidence is frequently
destroyed when an engine explodes, he said.  The GEnx-2B engine involved in the China incident, in
 Shanghai , will be sent to the U.S. to be taken apart “in a
matter of days,” Kennedy said on Sept. 13. Visual checks after
the incident found damage to the low-pressure turbine, with no
breach of the casing, he said.  That episode involved a 747-8 freighter flown by
AirBridgeCargo Airlines, a unit of  Russia ’s Volga-Dnepr Group
and the country’s largest cargo carrier. The incident occurred
before takeoff.  Boeing’s Dreamliner, the world’s first jetliner made
chiefly of composite materials instead of traditional aluminum,
uses either the GEnx-1B or engines from  Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc. (RR/)  The GEnx is the only option on the 747-8, the latest
variant of Boeing’s iconic hump-backed jumbo jet.  GE has delivered 10 GEnx-1B engines for the twin-engine
Dreamliner and 108 GEnx-2B engines for the 747-8.  GE’s Kennedy said the NTSB inquiry in the initial
Dreamliner incident has made significant progress. GE has
introduced a new coating process to the affected part of new
engines, he said.  “That would most likely indicate that there’s a corrosion
problem, and the coating would mitigate against that,” said
consultant Weber, a physicist and aviation-industry veteran who
helped develop better part-testing techniques in the 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  