-- Gere’s Risky ‘Arbitrage’; College Class Warfare: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/gere-s-risky-arbitrage-college-class-warfare-movies.html
Nothing is risk-free in Nicholas Jarecki’s Wall Street amorality tale “Arbitrage,” a slick
financial thriller that pivots on bad decisions and ethical
bankruptcy.  Richard Gere  plays  Robert Miller , a respected billionaire
hedge-fund oracle whose family-run firm is a step or two from a
lucrative sale. Miller is sweating out the days, terrified that
$400 million in cooked books will surface, souring the company-
saving deal.  The last thing he needs is scrutiny. Well, that along with
a late-night car crash on a sleepy upstate New York road that
kills the mistress in his passenger seat.  Panicked at the thought of financial and extramarital
exposure, Miller bolts. He enlists aid and a car ride from Jimmy
(Nate Parker), the son of Miller’s late, longtime chauffeur.  Young, black, broke and with a criminal record, Jimmy is
easy bait for the working stiff detective (Tim Roth) determined
to snare fat cat Miller.  With the law closing in, his wife (Susan Sarandon) getting
wise and his doting, business-savvy daughter (Brit Marling)
unwittingly tangled in the looming scandal, Miller’s Brioni
necktie might as well be a noose.  Woefully Unconvincing  How (and whether) Miller gets out of the jam, and at what
cost to the people and pawns around him, makes up the bulk of
“Arbitrage.”  First-time director Jarecki does some unfancy maneuvering
to get us from here to there, including a woefully unconvincing
last-minute introduction of trial evidence.  “ Arbitrage ” is on firmer ground in the cultural details
that mark and separate classes and races of  New York  in the 21st
century. Two brief, remarkable scenes make the point: Jimmy is
swept up by cops like litter from the street, while Sarandon’s
regal society matron firmly, if politely, dismisses the
inquisitive detective by insisting he make an appointment.  Sarandon, in fact, is so good as the not-so-blind
billionaire’s wife that we can only lament her relative lack of
screen time. Parker suggests a bite to Jimmy that the script
won’t acknowledge, and Marling, as the Ivanka-like daughter, is
cool if a bit stiff. The only real dud in the cast is Laetitia
Casta as the Soho gallery mistress, a cocaine-snorting whiner
whose claim on Miller’s heart must be taken on faith.  Gere, though, is marvelous in his meatiest role in years.
Much will be made of whether his tycoon is sufficiently
punished, but no prosecutor in his right mind would risk putting
such a brilliant conniver in front of a jury.  “ Arbitrage ,” from Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **** (Evans)  ‘Liberal Arts’  Jesse (Josh Radnor), the boy-man at the center of “ Liberal
Arts ,” is a 35-year-old book lover with fluffy hair and sad-
puppy eyes who hasn’t been happy since he left his Ohio college.  He goes back for a party -- his favorite professor, Peter
Hoberg ( Richard Jenkins ), is retiring -- and falls for Zibby
(Elizabeth Olsen), a 19-year-old student. Then he agonizes over
whether she’s age appropriate.  Though Jesse doesn’t feel like a grown-up, he’s terrified
of getting older. Given the movie’s other adults, you can see
why.  His old teacher Peter is undone by the prospect of
retirement. In the movie’s most disquieting scene, he begs his
department head to take him back, alternately groveling and
lashing out.  Mrs. Robinson  Another of Jesse’s former professors, Judith Fairfield
(Allison Janney), picks him up at a bar.  She turns out to be a frosty Mrs. Robinson who kicks him
out after having sex with him, snapping, “Put some armor around
that gooey little heart of yours.”  Women just seem to want Jesse, confused and disconsolate as
he is. A pretty clerk (Elizabeth Reaser) in his Brooklyn
bookstore is also trying to catch his eye.  I would have enjoyed Radnor’s adorable zhlub more if I
hadn’t been so aware that he also wrote and directed the movie.
It feels like a love letter to himself.  “Liberal Arts,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: ** (Seligman)  ‘10 Years’  “ 10 Years ” proves what we already know: Other people’s
reunions aren’t much fun.  Filled to capacity with Young Hollywood (though not young
enough; “15 Years” would have been more accurate), “10
Years” tags along with a large group of pals attending their
high school reunion.  Dialogue, much of it seemingly improvised, tells the
backstories: Jake ( Channing Tatum ) is trying to work up the
nerve to propose to his girlfriend (Jenna Dewan-Tatum,
Channing’s real life wife), though he seems hung up on a school
sweetheart (Rosario Dawson).  Cully (Chris Pratt) is a not-so-reformed bully with a
drinking problem, Reeves (Oscar Isaac) is a rock star who just
wants to be loved, and Marty ( Justin Long ) isn’t the big city
success he pretends to be.  That’s barely a third of the cast, which also includes,
among others, Max Minghella, Kate Mara, Anthony Mackie and Brian
Geraghty.  Writer/director Jamie Linden fosters an easy rapport among
the actors, but a heavy wistfulness for lost youth is more than
a little hard to take from this collection of fit and unlined
lookers.  “10 Years,” from Anchor Bay Films and Boss Media, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  and New York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 