-- Italian Bonds Rise on Central Bank Plans
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-14T12:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/german-bunds-extend-weekly-decline-before-eu-inflation-report.html
Italian 10-year bonds advanced for
a fourth day, pushing the yield to less than 5 percent for the
 first time  since March, after the  Federal Reserve  said it will
take further steps to underpin the  U.S. economy .  Germany’s 10-year bunds headed for their biggest two-week
drop since November on reduced demand for haven assets after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday stimulus will be
expanded until the Fed sees “sustained improvement” in the
labor market. They underperformed all their euro-area peers as
the region’s finance ministers met in Cyprus, a week after the
 European Central Bank  said it would buy nations’ debt if they
seek financial aid.  “The market is getting the impression that central banks
across the globe are taking a whatever-it-takes approach” to
resolve the debt crisis and boost growth, said  Michael Leister ,
a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “This
is, of course, a very benign environment for risky assets.
Yields have come down, spreads have come in and demand has been
very strong at auctions in  Spain  and Italy.”  Italy’s 10-year yield slid five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.96 percent at 12:55 a.m. London time,
after dropping to 4.95 percent, the lowest level since March 21.
The 5.5 percent bond due in September 2022 rose 0.38, or 3.80
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,310) face amount, to 104.675.  The euro strengthened for a fourth day against the dollar,
rising 1 percent to $1.3121, the highest level since May 4. Ten-
year Treasury yields jumped 10 basis points to 1.82 percent.  Greek Gains  Germany’s 10-year yield added as much as 14 basis points to
1.70 percent, the highest since May 2, before slipping to 1.68
percent. The yield is set for a 16 basis-point increase on the
week, and has climbed from 1.33 percent on Aug. 31, set for the
biggest two-week increase since Nov. 25.  The rate advanced through its 200-day moving average today
for the second time since July 2011. It may climb to the highest
since April if it closes above that level because it would “add
to bearish  market sentiment ” toward the securities,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, wrote in a client
note dated yesterday.  The ECB’s plan to buy unlimited amounts of bonds pushed the
yield above a key long-term trendline at 1.53 percent, he wrote.  Ministers Meet  Spanish notes slipped European finance ministers squared
off over a possible aid program for Spain as they met in
Nicosia, Cyprus, with creditors unwilling to commit until the
government takes additional steps to boost competitiveness and
rid the economy of debt. The two-year note yield rose five basis
points to 2.99 percent, up from 2.74 percent on Sept. 7.  Greek 10-year debt headed for a fourth weekly gain, even
after dropping yesterday, when Dow Jones reported that
International Monetary Fund official Thanos Catsambas said the
nation will need a third bailout. Catsambas denied the comments.
The yield was little changed today at 20.79 percent.  “For at least three, six months I think everything will be
stable and calm, and positive and bullish,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $160 million at Glendevon King Asset
Management in London. “The only thorny issue that I see still
in  Europe  is Greece, because it’s not yet clear if they need a
third bailout. If they go out of the euro then some kind of
negative situation can develop.”  Marinelli spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move”
with  Francine Lacqua .  Bond Volatility  A report today showed euro-area  inflation  accelerated for
the first time in 11 months in August as rising energy costs
threatened to exacerbate the economic slump. Consumer prices
increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today, matching an initial
estimate on Aug. 31.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by the Netherlands and  France , according
to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two-year and 10-year securities and credit-default
swaps.  Italian bonds returned 15 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities advanced 1.7 percent, while German debt made 2.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  