-- German Embassy in Sudan Ablaze After Storming by Protestors
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-09-14T17:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/german-embassy-in-khartoum-under-attack-foreign-minister-says.html
Germany ’s embassy in the Sudanese
capital Khartoum was set on fire after it was stormed by
protestors outraged by an internet video mocking Islam, Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said.  No one at the embassy was injured and all staffers “are
safe,” Westerwelle said at a news conference in Berlin today.
He demanded the Sudanese government restore security at the
embassy as required by international treaties, while declining
to give details of the attack.  Demonstrations against the film about the Prophet Muhammad
have rippled across several Islamic countries to  Sudan .  Egypt ’s
main Islamist groups appealed for calm today after the U.S.
ambassador to  Libya  and three embassy staff were killed in an
attack in Benghazi.  “I understand the outrage in the Islamic world about this
anti-Islamic hate video,” Westerwelle said. “I condemn this
shameful video” which “hurts the feelings of millions of
believers. But it isn’t a justification for violence,”
including killings. “This violence must stop immediately.”  The crowd did not try to break into the British embassy,
which shares a compound with the German mission, and U.K. staff
were able to take in the Germans, British Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Offer Shelter’  “We remained in close contact with the Germans throughout
the incident and were able to offer shelter to German
diplomats,” Hague said. “I am very grateful for the close
coordination with our German colleagues throughout this
incident.”  Crowds also protested outside the U.S. embassy compound,
with tear gas used against demonstrators, according to a U.S.
official.  Thousands of protesters chanted anti-U.S. and pro-Islamic
slogans before storming the German embassy and trying to enter
the British embassy, said Abdullah Muhanad, a 19-year-old
student who lives on Baladeya Street where the embassies are
situated. They attacked the facade of the German representation,
tore down the German flag and replaced it with an Islamist one,
Muhanad said in a telephone interview.  “This is the first time I’ve ever seen these large numbers
of angry people in Sudan,” he said.  Envoys Summoned  Sudan’s Foreign Ministry earlier summoned the U.S. charge
d’affaires and the German ambassador for talks about the film,
the state-run Sudan News Agency reported. The ministry rejected
the film and its portrayal of the  Prophet Muhammad , SUNA said.  Police dispersed protesters trying to storm the U.S.
embassy in the Sudanese capital, two eyewitnesses, Hussein Rahmi
and Shamel Mohamed, said in phone interviews from the city.  All U.S. embassy personnel are safe and there was no damage
to the building, spokesman Ron Hawkins said by phone. Most of
the personnel were not in the embassy because it’s a weekend, he
said.  “There are demonstrations outside the U.S. embassy
compound,” Hawkins said. “Local police are using tear gas to
help keep things down.”  The Sudanese ambassador in Berlin was summoned to the
Foreign Ministry and reminded “in no uncertain terms” of his
government’s responsibility to protect German diplomatic sites,
the Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.K. has raised “serious concerns” with the
Sudanese ambassador in  London  and reminded the Sudanese
government of its obligation to protect diplomatic premises,
Hague said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  