-- Gundlach Sees No Lost Decade as Biggest Bears Flirt With Stocks
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/gundlach-sees-no-lost-decade-as-biggest-bears-flirt-with-stocks.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the top-ranked
bond manager who two years ago said stocks may have to fall
further to be attractive, is now betting on a revival of the
asset class.  The manager of the $32 billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond
Fund said equities probably won’t repeat the poor performance
they had from 2000 to 2010, when the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, the benchmark for U.S. stocks, fell 14 percent.
DoubleLine Capital LP, the $40 billion Los Angeles-based firm he
founded in 2009 after being ousted from TCW Group Inc., may add
stock funds to its lineup of bond offerings.  “Equities may be challenged in the near term,” Gundlach
said yesterday at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York.
“But I doubt you’re going to have this lost decade or lost 15
years of equities again.”  Gundlach, 52, is following  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, in flirting with stocks as the
biggest bears wager that markets won’t fall back to their March
2009 lows. Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co. three years
ago started an expansion into equities in anticipation that
their returns will beat those of bonds over coming years.
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest money manager, has been urging investors to get
out of cash and bond securities and put money into equities.  Missing Out  Mutual-fund investors have sat out the 116 percent rally in
the  S&P 500 index  since the March 9, 2009, bottom for the U.S.
benchmark, removing $313 billion from U.S. stock funds since
then, according to data from the  Investment Company Institute .
They’ve added $889 billion to fixed-income funds during the same
period.  Gundlach, in an interview in September 2010, said he didn’t
deem equities cheap enough to be attractive investments,
especially shares of investment banks such as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  He compared bank stocks to those of airlines, as they
haven’t made money for investors over the long term.  Since his comments two years ago, shares of Goldman Sachs
have  declined 16 percent , while the S&P 500 Index has surged 28
percent.  DoubleLine may bring in teams within a few months that
could manage a mutual fund to invest in U.S. stocks and a long-
short equity hedge fund, Gundlach said in an interview Sept. 11.
Equities are a “superior” investment to fixed-income as an
inflation hedge, he said, adding he likes the fact that stocks
have been unpopular with investors.  Buying Cheap  “I look for investments that are cheap, I look for things
that are down,” Gundlach said yesterday. “I’m not interested
in buying things that are on generational highs.” The  S&P 500 
isn’t cheap, Gundlach said, and the Chinese stock market is a
better value for investors.  Gross, founder and co-chief investment officer of Pimco in
 Newport Beach , California, said in his August investment outlook
that the cult of equity was dying and returns of 6.6 percent
above inflation, known as the Siegel Constant, wouldn’t be seen
again. In his September outlook he said stocks would still
outperform bonds, even as the returns of both stocks and bonds
would be stunted.  Fink, a former bond trader who built BlackRock from a fixed
income boutique into a $3.56 trillion asset manager, has said
investors could put as much as 100 percent of their money
invested in equities.  Gundlach has been a bond investor for his entire career as
a  fund manager . After graduating from  Dartmouth College  in  New
Hampshire  with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy and
mathematics, he enrolled in  Yale University ’s Ph.D. program in
theoretical mathematics before joining Los Angeles-based TCW as
a junior analyst in 1985. He developed an expertise in mortgage-
backed securities and rose through the ranks, becoming chief
investment officer at TCW before being dismissed in 2009 over a
dispute.  Gundlach’s  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX)  returned 7.3
percent this year through Sept. 12, beating 96 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  