-- Libya Attack ‘Calculated Act of Terror,’ McCain Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-09-14T18:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/libya-attack-calculated-act-of-terror-mccain-says.html
The attack on a U.S. consulate in
Libya that resulted in the death of four Americans was
premeditated and took advantage of a protest, according to
senators briefed on the assault.  “This was a calculated act of terror on the part of a
small group of jihadists,” Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona 
Republican, told reporters on  Capitol Hill  today after a closed
briefing with Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  McCain’s description reflects a growing consensus that
militants in Benghazi seized on what was initially a more
spontaneous protest Sept. 11 against an anti-Islamic film that
ridicules the Prophet Muhammad.  “There was a group of either al-Qaeda or radical
Islamists, about 15 of them, armed with RPGs and other lethal
weapons that seized this opportunity to attack our consulate,”
said McCain, the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, referring to rocket-propelled grenades. “It wasn’t
an act of a mob getting out of control. People don’t go to
demonstrate and carry RPGs and automatic weapons.”  “If it’s not al-Qaeda, it’s certainly one of the
affiliated organizations,” McCain said.  Senators  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services Committee, and  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut
Independent, said it wasn’t yet clear whether al-Qaeda was
involved. It was “a well-planned and professional terrorist act
against the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,” Lieberman said.  McCain criticized President Barack Obama as not doing
enough to assert U.S. leadership in the Middle East.  U.S. ‘Weak’  “It’s clear that the message throughout the Middle East is
the United States is weak and the United States is leaving,”
McCain said. The senator, who lost the presidential election to
Obama in 2008, said he has urged Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  to give a foreign policy speech emphasizing U.S.
leadership.  Lieberman, who has joined McCain in urging U.S. to provide
arms to the rebels in Syria, came to the Obama administration’s
defense regarding the  Libya  attack.  “I don’t personally believe that it’s because of American
policy that any of these things are happening,” he said. “But
I do believe that there’s more we can do and that we have a
national interest in doing in trying to bring more stability to
the Middle East.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  