-- Michigan Consumer Sentiment Unexpectedly Rose in September
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-14T14:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-unexpectedly-rose-in-september.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly improved in September, providing an impetus for the
household spending that makes up more than 70 percent of the
economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  preliminary
index of consumer  sentiment  climbed to 79.2 from 74.3 the prior
month. The gauge was projected to fall to 74, according to the
median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Rising share prices and home values are helping to shore up
confidence in the face of higher gasoline costs. Unemployment
stuck above 8 percent for more than three years is restraining
optimism, one reason why the  Federal Reserve  decided yesterday
to expand record stimulus.  “Consumer sentiment has held up,”  Michelle Meyer , senior
U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said before
the report. “Sentiment, in the historical sense, is depressed,
but we have not seen a deterioration recently. That goes hand-
in-hand with the labor market, which has been weak but has not
collapsed.”  Stocks extended gains after the report, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rising 0.8 percent to 1,472.25 at 10:16 a.m. in
New York. Global stocks rallied along with commodities after the
Fed said it buy mortgage securities until the job market
recovers.  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 70 to 76,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession and 89 in the five years before the
18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions , which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether they consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items
like cars, fell to 88.3 from 88.7 the prior month.  Expectations  The gauge of  consumer expectations  six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
increased to 73.4, the highest since May, from 65.1 in August.  Michigan’s sentiment reading for September jibes with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which rose last week by the
most since December.  Growing confidence could stoke spending by consumers, who
reduced their pace of purchases in the April-to-June period. The
spending outlook has improved in the third quarter, with retail
sales increasing by 0.9 percent in August, the most in six
months, according to a Commerce Department report today.  “The economy has been slowly and gradually improving,” Sue
Yingzi Su, senior economist at General Motors Co., said during a
Sept. 4 sales call. “Although we would hope it could increase
at a faster pace, we couldn’t deny this increase. Stabilized
consumer and business sentiment will be the major driver to help
release the pent-up demand.”  Home Values  Rising home values and stock prices have bolstered
household wealth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 3.8
percent this month through yesterday and was up 16 percent for
the year. Home values in 20 U.S. cities increased in June for
the first time since 2010, the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed
Aug. 28.  At the same time, payroll growth has been too feeble to
push unemployment lower. A Labor Department report last week
showed that payrolls rose less than projected in August.  “We’re looking for ongoing, sustained improvement in the
labor market,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in his press
conference yesterday after the central bank announced it would
buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month and was likely to keep
its benchmark interest near zero until mid-2015.  Another threat to consumers’ incomes, regular gasoline
prices climbed to an average of $3.87 per gallon yesterday, up
54 cents since the start of July, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.5 percent over the next  12 months , compared
with 3.6 percent in the prior survey. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation, down from 3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  