-- Miller Says U.S. Should Issue Simplified Volcker Rule
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-14T20:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/miller-says-u-s-should-issue-simplified-volcker-rule.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department ’s top
official for domestic finance said regulators should seek
“simplicity” in the so-called Volcker rule, which will
restrict banks’ proprietary trading.  “We will strive for simplicity with Volcker and the other
reforms we are implementing,”  Mary Miller , the Treasury’s
undersecretary for domestic finance, said at a conference today
in Arlington, Virginia. “We understand its value. At the same
time, we are mindful of the need to have smart rules that are
responsive to the unique needs of our financial system and
promote economic growth.”  The Volcker rule, named for its original proponent, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to reduce the
chances that banks put depositors’ money at risk. The proposed
rule was one of the most contested by the banking industry and
resulted in more than 18,000 comment letters. Miller has said
she thinks regulators would complete the final rule by the end
of the year.  Speaking in conjunction with the anniversary of the
September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
Miller said the banking system is “far stronger than it was a
few years ago” and more repair to market confidence and the
economy is still needed.  ‘Cannot Afford’  “We cannot afford another financial crisis,” Miller said
at the American Banker Regulatory Symposium. “The price of
reform is small compared to the price of another September
2008.”  She said regulators should develop “simple” and
“sophisticated” rules as they implement the 2010 Dodd-Frank
law in response to the financial crisis. She said the financial
system needs “smart regulation that can make future financial
shocks less likely and less damaging -- and without unnecessary
compliance costs.”  On the planned overhaul of the nation’s housing finance
system, Miller said the Obama administration would release ideas
in the “reasonably near future” and the key is to find
“strong bipartisan support.”  “We do need to get past the election but I think once we
get past that I think there’s more support for some of the core
tenets that have been discussed,” Miller said.  Treasury officials have been working on a plan for a housing
finance overhaul since they released a white paper outlining a
range of different options in 2011. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in February that he would release the plan by
the beginning of this summer.  That deadline passed without a
release.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since investments in risky loans pushed them to
the brink of insolvency in 2008. The two companies have relied
on almost $190 billion in taxpayer aid to stay afloat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  