-- IMF Urges Ethiopia to Slow Nile Dam Project to Protect Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-14T08:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/imf-urges-ethiopia-to-slow-nile-dam-project-to-protect-economy.html
Ethiopia should slow the
construction of  Africa ’s largest hydropower plant to avoid the
dam and other projects starving the rest of the economy of
funds, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The government began work on the Grand Ethiopian
Renaissance Dam, situated on the Blue Nile River near the
Sudanese border, in April last year. The 80 billion-birr ($4.5
billion) project that will generate 6,000 megawatts, partly for
export to the region, is scheduled to be completed in 2018.  “I think there’s a need to rethink some of those projects
a little bit to make sure that they don’t absorb all domestic
financing just for that project,” IMF country representative
Jan Mikkelsen told reporters yesterday. “If you suck in all
domestic financing to just a few projects that money will be
used for this and not for normal trade and normal business.”  Ethiopia , the world’s fifth-biggest coffee producer, is
seeking to diversify its economy to reduce a reliance on
agriculture for 43 percent of total output. Ethiopian Electric
Power Corp., the state-owned utility, began exports to
neighboring Djibouti in May 2010 and plans to ship as much as
2,000 megawatts to Egypt and 1,200 megawatts to  Sudan  by 2020.
Power exports to those nations may earn about $1.6 billion a
year, according to Access Capital, the Addis Ababa-based
research company.  The delayed return on investments for long-term projects
increases the need to ensure they don’t absorb all domestic
financing as they’re being built, Mikkelsen said.  ‘Well-Considered’  Ethiopia’s government won’t reschedule construction of the
Grand Renaissance dam, said Communications Minister Bereket Simon, who co-chairs a fundraising committee for the plant.  “It was a well-considered plan and it’s one of the mega
projects for which the government commits itself
unconditionally,” Bereket said in a phone interview yesterday.  In the current fiscal year that ends next July, Ethiopia
plans to invest 144 billion birr, about 16 percent of gross
domestic product, in industrial development, transport,
telecommunications, energy and housing, according to the
government’s five-year growth plan.  The Grand Renaissance dam is being funded by Ethiopians as
foreign lenders were unwilling to finance it because of  Egypt ’s
historical refusal to sanction development projects on the
river, according to Ethiopia’s government. As much as 5 billion
birr has been raised for the project so far from the public by
selling bonds that pay 5.5 or 6 percent interest, Bereket said.  Bond Purchases  In April 2011, the government introduced a requirement for
banks to purchase  National Bank of Ethiopia  securities worth 27
percent of each loan they disburse. The measure raised 12.6
billion birr for the government to invest in infrastructure
projects in its first 16 months, according to Access Capital.  The regulation is “too onerous” and the fund has
suggested an adjustment so banks can still fund state
investments while freeing up more credit for private
enterprises, Mikkelsen said.  Ethiopia’s economy grew 7 percent in the 12 months to July
7 and 7.5 percent the previous year, according to the IMF.
Inflation is projected to slow to 25.4 percent by the end of
this year from 38.1 percent a year earlier, according to data on
the lender’s website.  Ethiopian officials have vowed to implement the
industrialization program of former Prime Minister Meles Zenawi,
who died last month. Meles aimed to transform Ethiopia into a
middle-income nation by 2025.  “This is the brainchild of the late prime minister and we
want to show commitment to his vision,” Bereket said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 