-- IMF to Watch Serbia’s Progress Before Agreeing Loan Program
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-14T15:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/imf-to-watch-serbia-s-progress-before-agreeing-loan-program.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said it will watch how Serbia manages its public finances and
central bank autonomy before agreeing to a new loan program.  The IMF “will assess the authorities’ request in the
context of their policy plans and their implementation in the
period ahead,” the Washington-based lender said after its
mission completed a fact-finding visit. The IMF visit is the
first to Serbia since Ivica Dacic became Prime Minister in July.  Serbia is eager to strike a deal because it may encourage
investors to offer cheaper funds to the indebted state. Serbia’s
parliament is due to adopt the 2013 budget next month.  The IMF, which suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan
in February on evidence  Serbia  was slipping on agreed deficit
and debt targets, welcomed Serbia’s “intention to maintain the
inflation-targeting regime needed for macroeconomic stability”
and called for “corrective measures” to bolster the central
bank’s autonomy.  The economy will shrink about “half a percent” this year,
while a recovery next year will only be modest, with downside
risks, the IMF said in Belgrade today. The outlook is
“clouded” by weak economic conditions and sizable domestic and
external imbalances amid “deteriorating investor confidence and
rating downgrades,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Dacic’s government inherited a budget gap of 7.1 percent of
gross domestic product and public debt of almost 55 percent of
GDP. The IMF said “tangible consolidation is needed” to
restore order to public finances. Serbia’s public debt will
increase to more than 60 percent of GDP by the end of 2012
because of “large public spending increases” and the country
needs policies to “credibly restore fiscal and external
viability and boost growth,” the IMF said.  The government has prepared a supplementary 2012 budget, to
be presented to parliament later this month, that aims to narrow
the deficit to 6.7 percent of GDP this year and 4 percent of GDP
in 2013. The Fiscal Council urged the government on Sept. 13 to
make efforts to reduce the gap to 6.5 percent of GDP. The
original 2012 deficit target was 4.25 percent of GDP.  “The mission recommends additional spending restraint to
be considered before the 2012 supplementary budget is enacted,”
the IMF said. “For 2013, the government’s deficit target is
broadly appropriate, but achieving it will require significant
additional measures,”  The government should aim to bring public debt below 45
percent of GDP over the medium-term to “unlock” growth
potential, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  