-- India Inflation Tops Estimates; Fuel Rise May Stoke Prices
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-09-14T08:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/india-inflation-tops-estimates-as-fuel-rise-risks-price-pressure.html
Indian inflation quickened more
than economists estimated in August, an acceleration that may be
stoked by the first rise in diesel tariffs in over a year.  The wholesale-price  index  rose 7.55 percent from a year
earlier, after climbing 6.87 percent in July, the Commerce
Ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The climb
exceeds all 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey, whose
median projection was 7.1 percent.  The pace of Indian price increases is the fastest in major
 emerging markets  and above the central bank’s comfort level of
about 5 percent. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will leave  interest
rates  at 8 percent for a third meeting next week, 32 of 35
economists said in another Bloomberg survey, as today’s diesel
rise of about 14 percent to pare subsidies fans costs.  “Increases in fuel prices will exacerbate inflation and
diminish any hopes of rate cuts in the near term,” said  Arun Singh , an economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services
 India  Pvt. in Mumbai. “It shows the government’s serious intent
to reduce the fiscal deficit, but it needs much deeper spending
cuts to achieve its budget targets.”  The rupee surged 1.2 percent to 54.7525 per dollar as of
1:44 p.m. in Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose
2.4 percent, amid speculation the diesel-price action signals
greater resolve to pare the budget gap to avert a  credit-rating 
downgrade. The yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due
June 2022 was little changed from yesterday at 8.17 percent.  Food Prices  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision yesterday to ease
monetary policy also boosted sentiment, as Asian stocks rose for
a seventh day and commodities climbed.  Food articles advanced 9.14 percent last month from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Non-food manufactured goods
prices, a measure of  core inflation , rose 5.58 percent compared
with 5.45 percent in July, calculations by Bloomberg showed.  The Indian government announced the rise in diesel tariffs
yesterday. It also said the number of subsidized cooking gas
bottles for each buyer is to be limited to six a year. Gasoline
and kerosene prices were left unchanged.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is trying to trim a subsidy
bill for food, fuel and fertilizer by 12 percent to 1.9 trillion
rupees ($34.7 billion) in the year through March 2013. The
government is seeking to pare the  budget deficit  to 5.1 percent
of gross domestic product, from 5.8 percent.  Interest Rates  The Reserve Bank lowered borrowing costs by 0.5 percentage
point in April to 8 percent, the first reduction since 2009, and
has said that move “frontloaded” a cut on the assumption the
government will restrain the budget gap.  It left rates unchanged at the last two policy meetings,
citing inflation risks including the 13 percent drop in the
rupee against the dollar in the past year and crimped farm
output from a below-average monsoon.  Curbing inflation is the central bank’s “top priority,”
 Reserve Bank  of India Deputy Governor K.C. Chakrabarty said in a
televised speech in Mumbai today.  The diesel-price increase will add as much as 72 basis
points to wholesale-price inflation, keeping it at an average of
7.5 percent to 8 percent until December, Morgan Stanley said.  The combination of elevated inflation and weaker economic
expansion makes India “somewhat of an outlier in the world,”
Subbarao has said. GDP  advanced  5.5 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, a pace close to the three-year
low of 5.3 percent in the first quarter.  Subdued expansion has affected companies such as motorcycle
manufacturers, with sales in an industry that includes Hero
Motocorp Ltd. and Bajaj Auto Ltd. down 4.5 percent last month,
the first fall since January 2009, according to the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Singh has struggled to revive growth amid opposition to
steps to open up the economy from a fractious ruling coalition.
The diesel move and signs India will open aviation to investment
by foreign airlines may signal increased assertiveness.  The budget shortfall and a trade deficit led Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to say earlier this year that they may
strip India of its investment-grade credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  