-- India May Today Consider Easing Airline Investment Rules
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-09-14T04:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/india-may-today-consider-easing-airline-investment-rules-1-.html
India ’s cabinet may today consider
allowing foreign airlines to buy stakes in local carriers,
according to two government officials with direct knowledge of
the matter.  Ministers may review a plan to permit carriers to acquire
as much as 49 percent of local counterparts, the people said
last night, asking not to be identified, citing rules.  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , struggling with five years of
losses and a cash shortage, and other carriers jumped in Mumbai
trading as the move may let them raise funds. A decision may
also help break two years of political deadlock that has
prevented Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  from easing overseas
investment rules including allowing retailers such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. to open local shops.  “If foreign investment in aviation is allowed, it will
improve the sentiment about the sector even if it doesn’t lead
to any investment immediately,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-
based director at CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry
consultant. “It also shows that the government is trying to
kick start the economy and encourage foreign investment.”  Non-airline investors from overseas are already allowed to
hold as much as 49 percent in local carriers. India has been
planning the policy change on investment by airlines for more
than three years as industrywide losses hindered companies’
efforts to raise funds needed for expansion.  Any deal today could signal an easing of tensions between
Singh’s Congress party and its coalition partners including
 Mamata Banerjee , leader of Trinamool Congress, who has led
political opposition to opening up  Asia ’s third-largest economy.
The split has hampered efforts to push through various pieces of
legislation.  Billionaire Mallya  Kingfisher, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, jumped
as much as 13 percent, to 11.40 rupees, the highest since July 6.
 SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  gained as much as 7.1 percent while Jet Airways
(India) Ltd. rose as much as 3.8 percent.  Kingfisher is seeking cash to maintain services after
losses prompted it to slash two-third of services and ground
planes. Some of the potential investments in Kingfisher depend
on the change in foreign ownership rules, its Chief Executive
Officer Sanjay Aggarwal said March 20.  The carrier, based in Bangalore, has pledged assets ranging
from its brand to office furniture for loans of 64 billion
rupees ($1.2 billion). Its market share has slumped to sixth
from second after cutting flights and losing passengers amid
disruptions caused by delays in paying salaries and fuel bills.  Airbus A380  Kingfisher also ended international operations and delayed
Airbus SAS A380 deliveries beyond 2016 because of the losses. It
was also shut out from  International Air Transport Association ’s
billing systems after failing to pay required cash deposits.  Jet Airways, India’s biggest carrier, and Kingfisher have
been planning to raise funds through rights offers for more than
two years. Both the airlines plunged more than 65 percent in
2011. Jet said last month that it plans to sell and lease back
some planes to pare debt by about $400 million.  Jet and SpiceJet Ltd., India’s only listed discount carrier,
posted a profit in the three months ended June 30 after five
straight quarters of losses. State-owned Air India Ltd. has been
losing money at least for five years.  India in February allowed carriers to directly import jet
fuel to help them avoid paying local taxes. Buying the fuel from
overseas may help airlines cut their biggest expense as they
would no longer have to pay fuel taxes imposed by state
governments that average 24 percent.  Government Help  In November, chiefs of Indian carriers met Prime Minister
Singh as they sought the government’s assistance to stem
industry losses. The nation’s airlines will probably lose $1.4
billion in the year ending March, compared with $2 billion a
year earlier. according to CAPA.  In the  federal budget  for the year started April 1, the
government allowed airlines to borrow overseas for their working
 capital requirements .  Indian carriers’ debt may have reached close to $20 billion
in the year ended March 31, based on a December report by the
aviation ministry. Working capital loans and dues to airport
operators and fuel companies account for half of this amount,
according to the report.  Airlines are losing money at a time when economic growth
and rising disposable incomes are boosting  travel demand .
Industrywide domestic passenger numbers rose 17 percent in 2011
to 61 million, according to data from the Directorate General of
Civil Aviation. Carriers in India will need 1,450 new aircraft
worth $175 billion through 2031, according to Boeing Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  