-- India Eases Rules for Foreign Retailers, Wal-Mart to Benefit
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-09-14T22:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/india-eases-rules-for-foreign-retailers-wal-mart-to-benefit.html
India’s government approved plans
to allow foreign retailers to open outlets that sell more than
one brand, opening up a $505 billion market to such companies as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA. (CA)   The government said yesterday that overseas companies must
put half of their investment in infrastructure such as
processing, manufacturing, storage, warehouses and packaging.  “India is a big opportunity, of that there is no doubt,”
 Arun Kejriwal , director of advisory firm Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt. said by phone. “We have the world’s
second-largest population, we have a fairly large middle class,
so we become an attractive destination for any sort of organized
retailing.”  Yesterday’s announcement came after political opposition
led the government in December to reverse a decision to allow
overseas companies to own 51 percent of Indian retail stores.
Global retailers have sought to enter the world’s second-most
populous country to tap a market that’s estimated to grow to
$725 billion by 2017, from $505 billion in 2012, according to
 Technopak Advisors Pvt.   Calling it an “important first step” for India to further
liberalize the retail industry, Wal-Mart said it is willing to
invest in infrastructure that will help lower product prices,
reduce wastage of farm produce and ease supply-side inflation.  Infrastructure Investment  “We are grateful that the government has realized and
appreciated the value that we will bring to strengthen the
Indian economy,”  Raj Jain , president of Wal-Mart India, said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Foreign-funded outlets are only allowed to set up in states
permitted by the local governments and can only be opened in
cities with a population of more than one million people,
according to yesterday’s statement. In states that do not have
cities of more than 1 million people, the state government can
choose where to allow stores.  The  Bank of New York Mellon India ADR Index  climbed to the
highest level in five months and American depositary receipts of
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s biggest private lender, rallied.  Indian retailers including  Pantaloon Retail Ltd. (PF) , the
country’s largest operator of supermarkets, surged in Mumbai
yesterday. Pantaloon rose 7.1 percent to 157.90 rupees, the most
since June 6, while  Shopper’s Stop Ltd. (SHOP)  added 1.2 percent and
 Trent Ltd. (TRENT) , which has a franchise agreement with  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,
climbed 3 percent.  Local Benefit  Indian companies may benefit from looser rules because the
action could encourage partnerships with international
businesses. Foreign investment will help ease fundraising
concerns for Indian companies that have been “bleeding money,”
said Arvind Singhal, chairman of Technopak Advisors.  Shoppers’ Stop will consider teaming up with a foreign
partner to expand its hypermarkets as it needs global
technology, sourcing and a large amount of funding, Govind Shrikhande, managing director at Shoppers Stop, said by phone.  Foreign companies are currently permitted to invest in
supply chains and wholesale stores, which sell to local
retailers and businesses. In January, India allowed overseas
companies full ownership of stores selling a single brand,
letting the likes of  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Ikea operate without a
local partner. Ownership had been limited to 51 percent.  Easing Restrictions  The government’s last attempt to open the industry to
overseas investment was met with protests from the opposition
and its allies, which forced repeated adjournments of
parliamentary proceedings. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  pledged
in December that he would urge the easing of restrictions in an
effort to boost the country’s economic growth.  Singh has a target to narrow the  budget deficit  to 5.1
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months ending March
2013 from 5.8 percent a year earlier. Asia’s third-largest
economy grew 5.5 percent in the three months ended June 30 after
expanding 5.3 percent in the previous quarter, the least in
three years.  ICICI Bank gained 5 percent to $38.19 in New York, the
highest since Feb 22.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land
Rover, increased 6.1 percent, the most in three months, to
$25.41. Sterlite Industries  India  Ltd., the nation’s largest
copper producer, surged the most since June 6, jumping 7.7
percent to $7.68.  The  iPath MSCI India Index ETN , an exchange-traded note
that tracks India’s equity market, gained 3.6 percent to $56.29,
the highest since April 12. India’s benchmark BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 2.5 percent to 18,464.27
yesterday, its highest close since July 26, 2011.  “The real issue is not the announcement but the
implementation of this policy,” Walter Rossini, a fund manager
with Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA, said by phone from Milan
yesterday. “We have seen this noise in the past but maybe this
time it is different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  