-- India Allows Foreign Airlines to Buy Local Carrier Stakes
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2012-09-14T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/india-allows-foreign-airlines-to-buy-local-carrier-stakes.html
India  ended a ban on local airlines
selling stakes to overseas carriers, opening a new possible
source of funding for Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. and other
operators struggling to turn rising travel demand into profits.  Foreign airlines will be allowed to own 49 percent in local
carriers, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said in New Delhi
today. India’s aviation ministry will frame rules regarding the
investments, Sharma said.  Kingfisher and other carriers jumped in  Mumbai  trading
ahead of the announcement, which had been held up for months by
political deadlock that also hindered efforts to let overseas
retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. open local shops. The
airlines are seeking funds after years of industrywide losses
caused by price wars and high fuel costs.  “Relevant investments can come through this,” said Nikhil Vora, Mumbai-based managing director at IDFC Securities Ltd.
“There may be near-term challenges in the aviation sector, but
India’s population and economic growth offer potential over a
period of time.”  Non-airline investors from overseas are already allowed to
hold as much as 49 percent in local carriers. India has been
planning the policy change on investment by airlines for more
than three years as industrywide losses hinder companies’
efforts to raise funds for expansion. The government today also
allowed Wal-Mart and other overseas retailers to own 51 percent
of supermarket chains in the country.  Easing of Tensions  The ending of investment bans may also signal an easing of
tensions in Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition
government. The leader of partner party Trinamool Congress,
 Mamata Banerjee , has led political opposition to opening up
 Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Amid the gridlock, India’s economic growth potential may
have fallen to as low as 6 percent a year, below the  Reserve
Bank of India ’s 7.5 percent estimate, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Foreign direct investment fell 67 percent to $4.43
billion in the three months ended June from a year earlier,
government data show.  The nation’s airlines have lost money because of high fuel
costs and a price war even as rising disposable incomes boost
travel. Domestic passenger numbers rose 17 percent in 2011 to 61
million, based on Directorate General of Civil Aviation data.
Carriers in the country will need 1,450 new aircraft worth $175
billion through 2031, according to Boeing Co.  Kingfisher (KAIR) , which has posted at least five straight annual
losses,  jumped  7.5 percent to 10.80 rupees, the highest since
July 10, at close of Mumbai trading. SpiceJet Ltd. gained 4.4
percent while Jet Airways (India) Ltd. rose 2.1 percent.  Planes Grounded  Billionaire Vijay Mallya-controlled Kingfisher is seeking
funds to maintain services after a cash shortage prompted it to
slash two-third of services and ground planes. Some potential
investments depend on the change in foreign ownership rules,
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal said March 20.  “Kingfisher will now be able to re-engage with prospective
airline investors in a more meaningful manner,” Prakash Mirpuri, its spokesman, said in a mobile phone text message
after today’s government decision. The carrier will now be able
to “move towards re-capitalization and ramp up operations.”  Assets Pledged  The carrier, based in Bangalore, has pledged assets ranging
from its brand to office furniture for loans of 64 billion
rupees ($1.2 billion). Its market share has slumped to sixth
from second after cutting flights and losing passengers amid
disruptions caused by delays in paying salaries and fuel bills.  Jet Airways, India’s biggest carrier, has also been
planning to raise funds through a rights offer for more than two
years. The carrier and Kingfisher plunged more than 65 percent
in 2011. Jet said last month that it plans to sell and lease
back some planes to pare debt by about $400 million.  “Allowing 49 percent stake to foreign airlines will create
access to capital, global connectivity, technology and best
practices,” said Amber Dubey, a partner at  KPMG  in a statement.  Jet and  SpiceJet (SJET) , India’s only listed discount carrier,
both posted profits in the three months ended June 30 after five
straight quarters of losses. State-owned Air India Ltd. has been
losing money for at least five years.  India in February allowed carriers to directly import jet
fuel to help them avoid paying local taxes. Buying the fuel from
overseas may help airlines cut their biggest expense as they
would no longer have to pay fuel taxes imposed by state
governments that average 24 percent.  Government’s Help  In November, chiefs of Indian carriers met Prime Minister
Singh as they sought the government’s assistance to stem losses.
The nation’s airlines will probably lose $1.4 billion in the
year ending March, compared with $2 billion a year earlier.
according to CAPA.  In the  federal budget  for the year started April 1, the
government allowed airlines to borrow overseas for their working
 capital requirements .  Indian carriers’ debt may have reached close to $20 billion
in the year ended March 31, based on a December report by the
aviation ministry. Working capital loans and dues to airport
operators and fuel companies account for half of this amount,
according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  