-- India Bonds Complete Second Weekly Gain After Diesel Price Rise
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-14T11:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/india-bonds-gain-by-most-in-five-weeks-after-diesel-price-rise.html
India ’s 10-year government bonds
completed a second weekly advance on optimism a diesel-price
rise will bolster government finances and may increase the
chance monetary policy will be eased.  The price of  diesel , subsidized by the state, was raised 14
percent to 47 rupees ($0.86) a liter, the oil ministry said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. That’s the first increase since
June 2011, according to Indian Oil Corp.’s website. The  Reserve
Bank  of India, which last cut the repurchase rate by 50 basis
points to 8 percent in April, will review policy Sept. 17.  “The diesel price hike and hopes for further fiscal
consolidation will increase expectations of monetary support
from the RBI,” Barclays Plc analysts including Singapore-based
Kumar Rachapudi wrote in a research note today. “The RBI has
been citing fiscal consolidation, of which subsidy curtailment
is a major part, as a precondition for cutting rates.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week to 8.18
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate was little changed today.  Yields erased gains after rising as much as eight basis
points to the lowest level since July 25 as government data
showed inflation exceeded estimates.  The wholesale-price  index  rose 7.55 percent from a year
ago, after climbing 6.87 percent in July, data from the trade
ministry showed today. The climb exceeds all estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey, whose median projection was 7.1 percent.  The central bank has kept the repurchase rate unchanged in
the last two policy meetings, citing inflation risks. Thirty
four of 38 economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict the
central bank will once again leave the rates at current levels
at next week’s review.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell four basis
points this week to 7.75 percent today and rose one basis point
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  