-- ING Vysya’s Bhardwaj Says India FDI Will Boost Sentiment, Rupee
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-09-14T13:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/ing-vysya-s-bhardwaj-says-india-fdi-will-boost-sentiment-rupee.html
Upasna Bhardwaj, a Mumbai-based
economist at  ING Vysya Bank Ltd. (VYSB)  comments on India’s decision to
allow foreign direct investment in multibrand retail and
aviation.  In the biggest policy push of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s second term, proposals to allow overseas retailers to
own 51 percent of supermarket chains have been enforced now,
Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  said. Overseas airlines are
allowed to own 49 percent of Indian carriers, he said.  “It is definitely a positive move. The entire wish list of
the markets is coming true and this will improve sentiments
which will bring in more capital flows and support the rupee.
Currency markets are going to react positively.”  On the rupee:  “The rupee will strengthen to 53.50 or 53 against the
dollar and the RBI will start purchasing dollars and be able to
replenish its foreign exchange reserves. The measures will bring
in sufficient capital flows and improve the balance of payments.
This may increase the liquidity in the system and reduce the
need for open market operations by the  Reserve Bank .”  On  interest rates :  “The Reserve Bank could be under political pressure to act
on Sept. 17, but I believe it will pause in this meeting and
then re-look at its decision in the next policy. It may maintain
the status quo this time. The impact of the decision will be
clearer as we go forward.”  On ratings downgrade:  “It definitely pushes back the possibility of a downgrade
by the ratings companies but doesn’t completely rule it out
because there is a sword hanging on the fiscal side. Despite the
reforms, there is a threat on the fiscal side. The credit rating
threat was looming, I think that has been pushed further back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  