-- IPhone’s Earlier Sales Debut Will Hurt Carrier Q3 Profit
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-14T20:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/iphone-s-earlier-debut-will-hurt-carriers-third-quarter-profit.html
Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  Sept. 21 release date
for the iPhone, earlier than last year’s debut, means U.S.
carriers will have to pay millions of dollars in subsidies in
the third quarter, hurting their bottom lines.  The earlier timetable is prompting analysts to lower
quarterly profit projections for  Verizon (VZ)  Communications Inc. and
 AT&T Inc. (T) , the two biggest U.S. carriers. The companies cover
most of the cost of the device, bringing its $600-plus price tag
down to $199, in exchange for two-year contracts.  Chris King, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., downgraded
Verizon and AT&T to hold from buy today and reduced his third-
quarter margin estimate for both carriers by about a percentage
point. Will Power at Robert W. Baird & Co. lowered his third-
quarter earnings estimate by 7 cents to 60 cents a share for the
companies.  Craig Moffett  at Sanford C. Bernstein also cut his
third-quarter margin estimates for both carriers.  “The iPhone is a double-edged sword for the carriers,”
Moffett said today in his report. While the iPhone helps fuel
customers’ use of data, leading to higher phone bills, the
upfront costs create short-term pain, he said. Moffett said he
had originally assumed the iPhone would go on sale in the fourth
quarter.  Another potential drawback to the iPhone popularity is
higher customer turnover, Moffett said. All three of the major
U.S. carriers, including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , now offer the
iPhone. The release may spur customers to move from one carrier
to another, increasing the rate of churn for the companies.  Shares of New York-based Verizon Communications, the co-
owner of  Verizon Wireless , fell 2.3 percent to $45.53. AT&T,
based in Dallas, also fell 2.3 percent, to $37.26.  All three carriers started taking pre-orders for the iPhone
today, with plans to ship the product between Sept. 21 and Sept.
28, according to the companies’ websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  