-- Japan Draws Curtain on Nuclear Energy Following Germany
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-09-14T10:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/japan-draws-curtain-on-nuclear-energy-following-germany.html
Japan  plans to scrap atomic power
by the end of the 2030s, bowing to public pressure after the
Fukushima nuclear disaster caused mass evacuations and left
areas north of  Tokyo  uninhabitable for decades.  The country’s first post-Fukushima energy policy approved
today by Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  means the country will
join  Germany  in abandoning the  power source  that helped both
countries build world-beating economies and models for
development from the destruction of World War II.  While the meltdowns at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  reactors in
2011 led nations from  China  to  France  to review atomic policies,
including the phase-out ordered by German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel , countries including Britain affirmed plans to  rely more
on atomic power. Even Japan’s new policy will allow idled
reactors to restart during the 27-year wind-down period.  “A whole generation of Japanese will grow up during this
transition,” said Vicente López-Ibor, president of  Estudio
Juridico Internacional , an energy law firm in  Madrid . “They
will have to decide which renewable-energy technologies should
be used, such as offshore wind farms, and consider shale gas
too.”  Under the approved policy, the government estimates
spending on solar, wind and other types of renewable energy over
the next two decades will total 38 trillion yen ($487 billion),
with another 84 trillion yen investment in energy-efficient
technology, and 6 trillion yen on co-generation systems.  Public Opinion  The energy plan is in line with  public opinion  polls
wanting an end to atomic power after the offshore earthquake and
13-meter (40-foot) tsunami triggered the worst nuclear accident
since Chernobyl. The decision follows almost all the
recommendations made last week by the ruling  Democratic Party  of
Japan, which may face elections as early as next month.  Japan should strictly enforce the 40-year limit on a
reactor’s operational life and ban construction of new atomic
plants, the government said in the 20-page report. In the three
decades of phasing out nuclear, the policy does allow for
restart of some reactors shut after Fukushima if approved by a
new regulator.  The DPJ’s plan is a “desperate election gambit,” Richard Katz, an economist and editor-in-chief of the New York-based
Oriental Economist Report, wrote in a Sept. 11 report. “If most
existing plants are restarted and then they are all shut down
after they reach age 40, nuclear power would still supply 15
percent of the country’s electricity as of 2030,” Katz wrote.  Zero Nuclear  Katz’s point was acknowledged last week by  Seiji Maehara ,
the chairman of the DPJ’s policy research committee that made
the recommendations. Five reactors would still be operating in
2039 even if the 40-year operation rule is applied, so the
country may bring forward the schedule for shutting them down,
said Maehara.  The government should use “all its political resources”
to achieve the zero-nuclear goal in the 2030s and if possible
achieve it before then, Maehara said on Sept. 6.  Only two of Japan’s 50 reactors, located at Kansai Electric
Power Co.’s Ohi plant, have restarted since the shutdowns
ordered after the catastrophe.  “This announcement must become law, otherwise it will be
seen as nothing but lip service to buy votes before the coming
election,” said Kazue Suzuki of Greenpeace Japan in a
statement.  Emissions Pledges  “Right now Japan is replacing a lot of the power by
revving up fossil fuel use,” said  Mark Hibbs , a senior nuclear
analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
“There is a lot of room for Japan to do things which would help
them to adjust to a no-nuclear policy, for example establishing
a unified national  power grid  and quickly building up renewables
sources, since these were largely neglected.”  Phasing out nuclear power means Japan will fail to meet its
international pledge to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions,
according to the figures in the government’s report.  Instead of a target of a 25 percent cut in emissions over
the three decades through 2020, Japan should aim for a 20
percent reduction by 2030. Under that goal, Japan’s greenhouse-
gas emissions in 2020 would be between 5 percent and 9 percent
less than 1990 levels, according to the documents.  The importance of thermal power generation will increase
“for the time being” as renewable energy is expensive and
often unstable, the government said in the report. To accelerate
replacement of old thermal  power plants , the government plans to
simplify environmental assessments to shorten the approval
process for new plants to 12 months from three years.  Nuclear Construction  It’s “very regrettable” the government approved an energy
policy to eliminate use of nuclear power, the Federation of
Electric Power Companies said in a faxed statement. The policy
means the country will face “extremely serious
issues” including rising fuel costs and electricity rates and
the global warming, it said.  The government hasn’t decided what to do about nuclear
power plants now under construction, National Policy Minister
Motohisa Furukawa told reporters at an evening press conference
in Tokyo.  Chugoku Electric Power Co. is building a new reactor at its
Shimane nuclear plant in western Japan and Electric Power
Development Co. is constructing a nuclear plant in Oma near
Hokkaido.  “We have outlined the course of the new nuclear policy,
that’s the thrust of this strategy,” Furukawa said, when asked
about the possibility the country would still have operating
reactors after 2039. “There are various factors to be decided
to achieve the goal.”  ‘Worth Trying’  The government plans to maintain its nuclear fuel recycling
program, according to the report. The country’s experimental
fast-breeder reactor, known as Monju, will be decommissioned
after completing studies on how to reduce the toxicity levels
and volume of radioactive waste in the country, according to the
report. It didn’t say when that would happen.  Prime Minister Noda’s approval ratings have fallen over his
push to raise the  sales tax  and his approval to restart  Kansai
Electric Power Co. (9503) ’s two reactors. Thousands of protesters show
up every Friday evening outside Noda’s residence to demand
shutdown of the Ohi units and an end to nuclear power.  Before Fukushima, Japan got almost 30 percent of its
electricity from atomic power. In debating a post-Fukushima
 energy policy , the government proposed three options for nuclear
 energy supply : Zero percent, 15 percent, or 20 percent to 25
percent by 2030. Newspaper polls and public hearings showed
citizens overwhelmingly supported the zero option.  “The plan is worth trying, but sooner or later it will be
realized it isn’t possible,” Hirofumi Kawachi, an energy
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., said by phone. “To
eliminate nuclear power by the 2030s will need breakthroughs in
renewable and energy-efficient technologies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  