-- Japan Warns on Strong Yen as Growth Outlook Downgraded: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-09-14T05:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/japan-warns-on-strong-yen-as-growth-outlook-downgraded-economy.html
Japan  lowered the assessment for
its economy, the first consecutive downgrade since the waning
of the global credit crunch in 2009, fueling concern the world’s
third-largest economy will contract this quarter.  Japan’s “recovery appears to be pausing due to
deceleration of the world economy,” the Cabinet Office said in
a monthly report released in Tokyo today. “Private consumption
is almost flat,” while industrial production and exports are
weakening, it said.  With the nation’s rebound from last year’s tsunami-induced
contraction waning, Finance Minister Jun Azumi today signaled
Japan is prepared to counter gains in the yen that would further
curtail exports, and is open to fiscal stimulus. The downgrade
may also escalate pressure on the  Bank of Japan  next week to
follow its U.S. counterpart and expand quantitative easing.  “It’s highly likely that the Japanese economy will
contract in the third quarter and its growth will probably
stagnate in the fourth quarter,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. “Policy
stimulus, including an extra budget, will be the only engine to
fuel Japan’s growth for the time being.”  Stocks Rally  Japan’s stocks rallied today even after the monthly
assessment, joining a global advance in equities following the
 Federal Reserve ’s decision to expand its holdings of long-term
securities. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average was up  1.8 percent  as
of 2:46 p.m. in Tokyo, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gaining
 2.4 percent .  The yen was little changed at 77.61 per dollar, about 3
percent from the postwar high reached in October that spurred
Japanese authorities to intervene with a record amount of
foreign-exchange sales.  “It’s obvious that the recent one-sided advance in the yen
doesn’t reflect the state of the Japanese economy and we can’t
overlook such moves,” Azumi told reporters today in  Tokyo . We
“will take decisive action if needed.”  The government is ready to “take necessary measures” to
stimulate the economy, although the size and timing of any extra
budget had not been decided, he added.  In Asia  Singaporean  retail sales  in July fell 2.9 percent on year,
a second month of declines.   Euro area inflation  in August was 2.6% on year, according
to the median estimate of economists in a survey. The European
statistics bureau Eurostat will also report employment in the
Euro area for the second quarter.  U.S. CPI is forecast to have risen 0.6 percent in August
from the previous month, according to 85 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Retail sales  probably rose for the second month in
August as consumers overcame a lack of jobs and stagnant wages,
economists said before a report today.  The preliminary reading of the  Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan confidence index  probably fell in September, a
separate survey showed.  Japan’s  gross domestic product  grew an annualized 0.7
percent in the second quarter after a 5.3 percent expansion in
the first three months. Today’s report adds weight to forecasts
by BNP Paribas SA and JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. that the
economy may shrink this quarter.  Demand remains for work to reconstruct areas devastated in
the disasters last year, and Japan should pick up as the global
economy improves, the Cabinet Office said. The government cut
its view on personal consumption and industrial production for a
second month, and lowered its assessment of  capital spending  and
corporate earnings.  Falling Sales  Japan’s  retail sales  fell more than economists forecast in
July and  industrial production  unexpectedly slumped as
government subsidies for car purchases wind down.  Gridlock in parliament may limit fiscal stimulus just as
Japan’s expansion is restrained by the weakness in global demand
and an appreciating currency. Immediately after the Fed’s
decision to expand holdings of long-term securities, the yen
rose today to its highest level against the dollar since Feb.
14, when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  unexpectedly expanded its asset-
purchase program.  Japan’s central bank is due to meet Sept. 18 and 19 to
decide whether the economy needs more monetary support.  While maintaining its appraisal of the global economy, the
government said today that the “further slowing down of
overseas economies” is a downside risk to Japan.  The euro area’s economy contracted in the second quarter as
consumers cut spending and corporate investment slumped.  China ’s
industrial output in August grew at the slowest pace in three
years, and imports to the world’s second-biggest economy
unexpectedly fell last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  