-- Chinese Ships Move Away From Islands Disputed With Japan
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-14T09:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/japan-tells-china-to-withdraw-ships-near-disputed-islands.html
Six Chinese patrol vessels moved
away from what  Japan  says are its territorial waters near
islands claimed by the two countries, as nationalist sentiment
over the dispute damped trade and tourism.  Japan’s Foreign Ministry had earlier summoned Chinese
ambassador Cheng Yonghua to demand that the ships leave and that
the Chinese government ensure the safety of Japanese nationals
after reports of attacks on people in  Shanghai .  “All the Chinese ships left Japan’s territorial waters by
1:30 p.m.,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura
told reporters in Tokyo today.  The dispute between  Asia ’s two largest economies over the
uninhabited islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese, intensified this week when Japan announced it had
bought the islands from a private Japanese landowner.  China  said
it didn’t accept the move and sent patrol vessels to the area.  Fujimura said that an intrusion by six ships was
unprecedented. One of the Chinese ships issued a radio message
in Japanese saying it was on official business and ordering
Japan’s ships to leave, Japan’s coast guard said in a statement.  “Waters off the Diaoyu Islands are waters under China’s
jurisdiction,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said
at a briefing in Beijing today. Chinese surveillance ships
patrolling “in relevant waters is normal performance of duty
and is indisputable.”  Trade Damage  The incident today follows tit-for-tat visits to the
islands by activists from  Hong Kong  and Japan last month, which
inflamed tensions. Another group of activists from Hong Kong is
expected to sail to the isles on Sept. 18, the Hong Kong-based
Ming Pao newspaper reported today, citing a ship owner involved
in the previous trip.  The dispute is hurting bilateral trade at a time when both
countries are struggling to cope with a global economic
slowdown. It also comes as China’s Communist Party prepares for
a generational leadership change and has become an issue in the
race to lead Japan’s main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party .  “I don’t think China wants to make things worse in the
run-up to the party congress,” said Ikuo Kayahara, a retired
major-general in Japan’s defense forces and emeritus professor
of Takushoku University in Tokyo. “If the people’s nationalism
is awakened, this could turn into something that even China’s
dictatorship cannot control.”  Tourism Industry  Japan’s consulate in Shanghai issued a safety alert for
Japanese nationals in China, saying on its website that a number
of Japanese citizens have been attacked.  In Shanghai,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  said police had taken a person
into custody in connection with the burning of a Civic compact
car in front of one of its dealerships.  Japan may see as much as a 20 percent drop in Chinese
visitor numbers because of the dispute, according to the Japan
National Tourism Organization.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) ,
owner of China’s biggest travel portal, has halted Japan
promotions ahead of a weeklong Chinese holiday starting Oct. 1.  A slump in demand from its second-biggest overseas market
would add to difficulties facing Japan’s tourism industry as it
tries to recover from last year’s tsunami and nuclear-power
crisis.  “We are very worried,” Mamoru Kobori, the tourism
agency’s overseas marketing manager, said by phone yesterday.
“There will surely be an impact on the numbers and the only
question is how much -- 10 percent or 20 percent is possible.”  LDP Race  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  has pared marketing events in China
because of anti-Japanese demonstrations prompted by the dispute,
Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga said Sept. 6. There
hasn’t been a significant impact on the Japanese carmaker’s
sales, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said in an interview
yesterday.  Four of five lawmakers running in the Sept. 26 election to
head Japan’s opposition LDP have vowed to build on the disputed
islands, which are close to gas reserves and rich fishing
grounds. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has no construction plans
on the islands and has called for calm.  Both countries are also mired in territorial disputes with
other Asian neighbors. Japan has been trying to beef up its
relationships with other Asian countries as China’s military
might grows. Japan and  Australia  agreed today to boost defense
ties with the U.S. and jointly called on China to increase
transparency in its military.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  