-- DLA, Bracewell, Wachtell Lipton, SNR: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-14T11:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/jenkens-bracewell-wachtell-lipton-snr-business-of-law.html
A member of the U.S. House
Intelligence Committee joined a colleague in urging  law firm  DLA
Piper LLP’s Washington office to reconsider representing China
phone-equipment maker  ZTE Corp. (763)   ZTE’s executives, along with Huawei Technologies Co., tried
to dispel allegations by U.S. lawmakers that their potential
expansions may increase cyberattacks and spying in a hearing
yesterday.  In what was described as the first appearance by Chinese
executives at a congressional hearing, the executives heard
accusations they haven’t cooperated with an investigation or
shown they’re independent from a government accused of stealing
U.S. intellectual property.  Republican representatives Sue Myrick of North Carolina, a
member of the intelligence committee, and Frank Wolf of Virginia
in a letter yesterday told DLA Piper they’re disappointed the
law firm is advising ZTE “as it attempts to circumvent U.S.
government concern and gain a larger share of the U.S.
marketplace.”  The letter cited “threats your client may pose to the
national security of the  United States .”  DLA had no comment,  John Merrigan , a Washington-based
partner, said in an e-mail.  Huawei and ZTE, both based in Shenzhen, told lawmakers at
the hearing the companies aren’t controlled by the Chinese
government, which Mike McConnell, a former U.S. director of
national intelligence, has called the “the most prolific”
state thief of U.S. intellectual property.  The companies haven’t provided full answers and supplied
“very few” documents that relate to the committee’s probe, the
committee chairman, Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican, said during the hearing.  Zhu Jinyun, ZTE’s company’s senior vice president for  North
America  and  Europe  the ZTE executive, told Myrick during the
hearing that the company hasn’t sold gear to the Iranian
government.  “We conduct normal business operations in Iran, but we are
gradually reducing our present operations and we are not
starting any new business operations in Iran,” Zhu said.  For more, click here.  Firms From Law to Finance Benefit From $1 Billion TARP Expenses  While Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  lauded the
government’s sale of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  shares
this week, the U.S. bailout program reached another milestone.  Expenses from the Troubled Asset Relief Program have passed
$1 billion, with more than 70 percent of that going to
“financial agents and legal firms,” according to Treasury
Department data released Sept. 10. The total paid to the
companies as of Aug. 31 was 37 percent more than it was a year
earlier.  Companies that have been paid for TARP work include
investment firm Houlihan Lokey, which reached a $4.5 million
deal in November to advise the Treasury on managing and selling
bank stakes, according to a July report by TARP’s special
inspector general. Law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP
agreed in 2009 and 2010 to contracts worth about $25 million,
most of it for work related to auto-industry bailouts.  TARP was enacted under the George W. Bush administration
amid the 2008 financial crisis and continued under President
 Barack Obama . The government used funds to rescue banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of America Corp., and
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  For more, click here.  Ex-Lawyer Donna Guerin Pleads Guilty in Tax-Shelter Case  Donna Guerin, a former partner in the defunct law firm
Jenkens & Gilchrist, pleaded guilty in what the trial judge has
called the biggest U.S. tax-fraud prosecution in history.  Guerin was convicted in May 2011 with three other
defendants of running a 10-year tax shelter scheme that created
more than $1 billion in phony losses. Three of the convictions,
including Guerin’s, were overturned in June after U.S. District
Judge William Pauley found that a juror in the case lied about
her past, including that she was an alcoholic and a suspended
attorney.  Guerin pleaded guilty yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court
to one count each of conspiracy and  tax evasion . Her plea comes
as prosecutors are preparing to retry the defendants whose
convictions were overturned based on the misconduct of the
juror, Catherine Conrad.  The jury, including Conrad, returned guilty verdicts
against Guerin and Paul Daugerdas, another former Jenkens &
Gilchrist partner; Denis Field, the former chief executive
officer at accounting firm BDO Seidman LLP; and David Parse, who
worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  unit Alex. Brown. Craig Brubaker, a
second former Alex. Brown accountant, was found not guilty.  Pauley threw out the convictions of Guerin, Daugerdas and
Field after finding that Conrad, Juror No. 1 in the trial, had
lied repeatedly about her background in an effort to make
herself “more marketable” as a juror.  Pauley, who found that Parse’s lawyers failed to reveal
information they had about Conrad before the jury delivered its
verdict, refused to grant him a new trial. Parse is seeking to
overturn his conviction by claiming his lawyers, from the  New
York  firm Brune & Richard LLP, provided him with inadequate
legal help.  The trial included 9,200 pages of testimony from 41
witnesses. Lawyers introduced 1,300 pieces of evidence.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Wynn Gets First Chance to Grill Okada in Casino Control Fight  Gaming mogul  Steve Wynn  may gain an edge in his courtroom
battle for control of a $10 billion casino empire as business-
partner-turned-rival Kazuo Okada is forced to answer questions
from  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ’s lawyers,  Bloomberg News ’ Edvard
Pettersson reports.  The Japanese pachinko magnate’s court-ordered deposition,
set for Sept. 18 in  Las Vegas , will mark the first time Okada,
who resides in Hong Kong and resisted coming to the U.S., will
face Wynn Resorts’ attorneys after the casino operator’s board
forcibly redeemed his 20 percent stake in the company at an $800
million discount.  “This is a significant tactical victory for the Wynn
side,” said  Matthew Close , a lawyer with  O’Melveny & Myers LLP 
in Los Angeles who isn’t involved in the case. “Depositions can
be case-defining.”  The questioning of 69-year-old Okada under oath may show
Wynn, 70, what he’s up against as he wages multiple legal
battles to keep control of the company he started with Okada 10
years ago that operates casinos in Las Vegas and in the Chinese
special administrative region of Macau.  Wynn, the company’s chairman and chief executive officer,
also faces challenges from his ex-wife, who wants to sell her 10
percent stake in the company, and scrutiny by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission of an HK$1 billion ($129
million) donation last year to the  University of Macau .  Wynn’s lawyers have said Okada is trying to dig up evidence
for a so-called unclean hands defense that Wynn improperly
courted officials in Macau, just as he accuses Okada of having
done in the  Philippines .  Questioning Okada will reveal “what besides his own
personal venom for Mr. Wynn and his personal agenda in his
lawsuit against Wynn Resorts has motivated his request,” Wynn
Resorts said in a June 18 court filing.  The deposition, which will take place behind closed doors,
can be used as evidence in court, where Wynn and Okada are also
squaring off in a separate lawsuit before the same judge over
the alleged breach of fiduciary duty by Okada that prompted Wynn
Resorts’ board to redeem his 24.5 million shares.  Michael Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn Resorts, declined to
comment on the deposition. Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Okada,
also declined to comment.  Okada’s petition for access to Wynn’s books and records is
Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522-B, District Court, Clark
County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  Wynn’s breach of fiduciary duty lawsuit is Wynn Resorts v.
Okada, A-12-656710-B, District Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more, click here.  Deals  Bracewell, Wachtell Help Chesapeake Sell $6.9 Billion in Assets  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  agreed to sell oil and natural-gas
assets for $6.9 billion in a series of transactions that will
narrow a cash-flow shortfall threatening to crimp the company’s
drilling and production goals.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and EnerVest Ltd. will
buy oil and gas fields in the Permian Basin of Texas and New
Mexico for $3.3 billion, Chesapeake said in a statement Sept.
12. Closely held Global Infrastructure Partners will acquire
most of Chesapeake’s pipeline and processing assets for $2.7
billion.  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, through partners G. Alan Rafte
and Michael S. Telle,  handled the transaction with GIP covering
midstream assets. The firm worked with Commercial Law Group PC,
according to an e-mail. Commercial Law Group didn’t return phone
calls seeking confirmation. Bracewell also represented Shell,
with partner W. James McAnelly III leading the deal team.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, with a team led by
corporate partner David A. Katz, is serving as legal adviser to
Chesapeake’s board.  The Permian Basin holdings were the most valuable of
several assets Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  put up for sale this year to raise cash to avoid a
credit-rating downgrade and maintain debt covenants amid
slumping gas prices. The Permian sales announced Sept. 12 fell
short of a $5 billion target set by McClendon in a March
interview, because some acreage in the basin failed to attract
bidders.  For more, click here.  Fees  Kodak Professionals Agree to Cut Initial Fee Request by 1.7%  Professionals working for bankrupt  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  and
its official creditors’ committee agreed to cut by 1.7 percent
an initial request for $38.3 million to cover fees and expenses
through the end of April.  Richard Stern, the court-appointed fee examiner, negotiated
with Kodak’s lawyers and advisers and won an agreement to reduce
by $651,000 the amount sought for work since the start of the
Chapter 11 case in January, according to a report filed Sept. 12
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLC, Kodak’s primary law firm, cut its
$10.9 million in fees by $300,000, on top of a voluntary
$600,000 reduction taken earlier. Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy
LLP, representing the creditors’ committee, trimmed its $4.54
million in fees by $125,000.  Stern said in his report that Kodak spent only $31 million
on professional expenses in the entire year before filing
Chapter 11, including $9 million for accounting and consulting
fees. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper is scheduled to hold a
Sept. 19 hearing to consider approval of the fee requests.  Kodak, based in Rochester, New York, listed assets of $5.1
billion and debt of $6.75 billion in Chapter 11 papers.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  New Criminal Defense and Civil Rights Firm Opens in New York  Barket, Marion, Epstein & Kearon LLP , a new criminal
defense and civil rights boutique law firm, has opened with
offices in Manhattan and Garden City, Long Island.  The firm represents clients in criminal defense, civil
rights claims and personal-injury matters in federal and state
courts throughout the New York City area at the trial, appellate
and post-judgment stage of all proceedings.  The firm currently represents 32 passengers in a lawsuit
against JetBlue Airways Corp. over a pilot’s erratic behavior,
as well as a victim of the New York Police Department shooting
in front of the Empire State Building.  The name partners include Bruce Barket, a past president of
the Nassau Criminal Courts Bar Association, who will be managing
partner. He will also oversee the firm’s trial practice group
and the post judgment wrongful conviction group.  Amy Marion will lead the firm’s civil rights group. Steven
Epstein will supervise the firm’s vehicular crimes group, while
Kevin Kearon, a past president of the Nassau Criminal Courts Bar
Association, will lead the criminal trial group.  Elaine Jackson Stack, a retired New York Supreme Court
justice, and Daniel Arshack of Arshack, Hajek & Lehrman PLLC, a
past president of the New York Association of Criminal Defense
Lawyers, have joined Barket Marion as counsel.  Bingham to Open Global Services Center in Lexington, Kentucky  Bingham McCutchen LLP plans to open a shared-services
center in Lexington, Kentucky, next year to consolidate its
administrative operations.  The center in the University of Kentucky’s Coldstream
Research Campus business park will house administrative support
staff from the finance and accounting, human-resources,
information-technology, knowledge-services, marketing,
operations and risk-management departments.  About 250 firm employees will be employed at the center,
with some people relocating from existing Bingham offices and
some expected to be hired in the Lexington area.  Bingham has committed $22.5 million to establishing the
center. That amount includes building improvements, startup
costs and rent for 10 years, the firm said.  “After 15 years of significant growth by combinations, we
are consolidating our operations model to more efficiently
support our lawyers around the world and, in turn, provide
better service to our national and global client base,”
Chairman Jay Zimmerman said in a statement.  Bingham has about 1,000 lawyers and more than 900 staff in
14 major offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Moves  American Express Chief Privacy Officer Joins SNR Denton  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s chief privacy officer, Andy Roth,
joined SNR Denton LLP as a partner in the New York office. He
will advise clients on issues including  crisis management  and
best practices in sustainable data governance.  At American Express, Roth oversaw the privacy matters of
more than 100 million customers and 60,000 employees worldwide
and worked with regulators in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  “Andy’s legal knowledge, technology savvy and operational
experience are a great addition, further enabling our global
team in counseling clients not just on compliance with privacy
and security laws, but on how to leverage data to drive
transformation,” Mike McNamara, SNR Denton’s U.S. managing
partner, said in a statement.  SNR Denton has more than 60 locations worldwide, through
offices, associate firms and alliances across the U.S., the
U.K., Europe, the  Middle East , Russia and the  Commonwealth of
Independent States , Asia and Africa.  Milbank Adds Latin America Finance Attorney Carlos Albarracín  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP said that Carlos T.
Albarracín, a corporate and capital markets attorney with a
career-long focus on  Latin America , joined the firm as a partner
in the Global Securities Group. He was previously a partner in
the New York office of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, the firm said.  Albarracín advises domestic and international clients on
transactional matters across Latin America. He has handled large
debt and equity offerings and mergers and acquisitions, as well
as bank and project financings and financial restructurings, the
firm said.  In addition to continuing his focus on Colombia, Peru,
Chile and Argentina, Albarracín will devote substantial time to
supporting Milbank’s Mexico practice, the firm said.  Milbank is based in New York and has offices in Beijing,
Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Los Angeles, Munich,  Sao Paulo ,
Singapore, Tokyo and Washington.  K&L Gates Adds Dubai Finance Partner From  Simmons & Simmons   The Dubai office of K&L Gates LLP hired Natalie Boyd as a
partner in its finance practice. She joined from Simmons &
Simmons LLP, the firm said.  Boyd advises on a variety of structured credit and debt
capital markets products, as well as bank lending, regulatory,
derivatives and  Islamic finance  matters.  K&L Gates has almost 2,000 lawyers practicing in more than
40 offices in North America, Europe, Asia,  South America  and the
Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  