-- Juncker Says Euro Group Await Detail Amid Intense Irish Talks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-09-14T15:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/juncker-says-euro-group-await-detail-amid-intense-irish-talks.html
Euro-area finance ministers will
discuss a new accord for dealing with Ireland’s legacy banking
debt as soon as technical details are worked out, Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said today.  “We will discuss a possible improvement of the well-
performing program at one of our next meetings once the
technical discussions are concluded,” Juncker told reporters in
Nicosia, Cyprus, describing Ireland’s current rescue program as
a success story. Juncker leads the finance ministers’ group.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said it’s “important” that Ireland receive support in
its banking cleanup. ECB Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen
said the organization’s staff has been in “intense
discussions” on “enhancements” to Ireland’s program.  Ireland’s debt level has more than tripled over the last
five years, in part because of the cost of saving the nation’s
financial system, and the government is campaigning to lower the
overall cost of the banking rescue. Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said today that political and technical talks are
underway. He declined to sketch out a timeline, saying only that
he sees broad support for a deal on easing Ireland’s terms.  “Many aspects of it are contingent on progress elsewhere,
especially in  Spain ,” Noonan said. He said a bank debt deal
would require support from euro-area ministers, while the issue
of refinancing the 30 billion euros ($39.4 billion) of
promissory notes used to rescue the former Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. could be negotiated with the  European Central Bank .  Intense Talks  Ireland needs to keep pressing forward fixing its financial
sector in tandem with other reforms, the ECB’s Asmussen told
reporters. He said the central bank’s staff discussions had
included talks on the promissory notes.  “The Irish program is well on track,” Asmussen said.  In all, Ireland has injected or pledged 64 billion euros
into its banks since the collapse of a domestic real-estate
bubble. European leaders in June opened the door for the euro-
region’s rescue funds to directly recapitalize banks, and the
government is using that declaration to seek retrospective help.  The yield on Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the
benchmark, was unchanged at 5.27 percent. The yield on the bond
on July 18 last year was 14.08 percent.  The IMF said this week Ireland would “significantly”
reduce” its financing needs in the coming years if it could
replace the notes used to bail out former Anglo Irish with long-
term government securities or a euro-area bailout fund loan.  Cutting Debt  Ireland could also cut its debt if the permanent euro-area
rescue fund invested directly in the nation’s banks, the fund
said. Five of the six biggest domestic banks have been taken
over by the government.  Investor confidence in Ireland is tied to the additional
assistance being received, said European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn . He said Ireland is
going through necessary rebalancing and has met its targets.  “This improved sentiment is, I believe, due in part to
commitment made by the euro area to find solutions to improve
the sustainability” of Ireland’s debt, Rehn said. “The quality
of the end result is more important than the schedule.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 