-- Junk-Bond Bears Squeezed With Fed Unleashing QE3: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-14T10:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/junk-bond-bears-squeezed-with-fed-unleashing-qe3-credit-markets.html
Ben S. Bernanke  is sending junk-
bond bears into hiding.  The number of shares borrowed to bet against  State Street
Corp. (STT) ’s exchange-traded  high-yield bond fund  has plunged 49
percent since Aug. 30, pushing its price to a 15-month high,
according to data compiled by Markit Group Ltd. The most
distressed securities are outperforming the highest speculative-
grade tier this month by the most since February, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The  Federal Reserve ’s third round of quantitative easing to
stimulate the economy is leading junk-bond buyers to accept the
lowest yields ever as they seek a reprieve from a fourth year of
near-zero  interest rates . Even as the pace of earnings growth
for speculative-grade companies slows and credit-ratings cuts
accelerate, research firm EPFR Global says investors have
shifted six times more cash this year than all of 2011 into
funds that buy the debt.  “Shorts have pulled back from the market,” said  James Lee , the senior high-yield analyst at Bethesda, Maryland-based
Calvert Investment Management Inc., which oversees about $12
billion. Investors are thinking “the chances that a landmine is
going to hit the portfolio are probably pretty low.”  Short Sales  Shares of State Street’s  SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield
Bond ETF (JNK)  that investors borrowed, a practice commonly used for
short sales, dropped to 6.76 million on Sept. 12 from 13.14
million shares on Aug. 30, Markit data show. That’s 22 percent
below the daily average since the end of May.   In a short sale, traders sell borrowed stock in a bet they 
can profit from price declines.  Investors are curbing bearish bets as Fed Chairman Bernanke
enlarges his supply of unconventional tools to attack
unemployment stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. The
central bank said yesterday it will expand its holdings of long-
term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month and will probably hold the federal funds
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  Even as corporate ratings downgrades outpace upgrades for
the first time since 2009, according to Standard and Poor’s,
distressed securities, or those closest to default in the eyes
of debt investors, have returned 3 percent this month. That’s
1.9 percentage points more than bonds one tier below investment
grade, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
average speculative-grade  yield  dropped to a record 7.1 percent
on Sept. 12 from 8.3 percent in June.  ‘Oxymoron’  “You should not be long high-yield,” said Peter Troob,
founder of credit hedge fund Troob Capital Management. “High
yield is an oxymoron. There is nothing high about it.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Energias de  Portugal  SA sold
the country’s first corporate bond since January 2011 after the
busiest two weeks for peripheral euro-region issuance in 1 1/2
years. Corporate bond risk fell to a 13-month low in  Europe  and
the lowest in six months in the U.S. after the Fed’s QE3
announcement, while mortgage-bond yields tumbled to records.  EDP (EDP) , Portugal’s biggest utility, is selling 750 million
euros ($978 million) of five-year senior unsecured bonds, a
banker with knowledge of the transaction said. Companies from
Spanish oil producer Repsol SA to Telecom Italia SpA have issued
more than 16.3 billion euros of debt in the past two weeks in
the busiest period for peripheral sales since March 2011.  Debt Risk  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 5.2 basis
points yesterday to a mid-price of 85.8 basis points. That’s the
lowest since March 19.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of swaps on 50
mostly junk-rated European companies dropped 38 basis points to
457, the lowest since Aug. 1, 2011, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 1.12 basis points to 12.63 basis
points, the lowest since March 2010. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Morgan Stanley  Bonds of New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers yesterday, with 179 trades of $1 million or more,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed mortgage bonds trading
closest to face value declined 18 basis points to 2.18 percent
as of 3 p.m. in  New York  yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The gap with an average of five- and 10-year
Treasury rates narrowed 16 basis points to about 98 basis
points, or the lowest since 1992.  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index  added 0.1 cent
to 96 cents on the dollar, the highest level since April 15,
2011. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has climbed from 91.8 on
June 5, the lowest since Jan. 6.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Emerging Markets  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 3 basis points
to 294 basis points, or 2.94 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
averaged 365 basis points this year.  The number of borrowed shares on  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s junk-bond
ETF dropped to 6.65 million as of Sept. 12, 11 percent below the
daily average since the end of May, Markit data show.
BlackRock’s fund, the biggest of its kind, owns $16.27 billion
of corporate securities, up from $10.4 billion at year-end,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bonds held by State Street’s junk ETF, the second-largest,
have climbed $3.4 billion since December to $12.25 billion, the
 data  show. ETFs are listed on exchanges and brokered like
stocks, unlike mutual funds, whose shares are priced once daily.  ‘Bubble Levels’  Bets against the junk-bond market also are declining after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to
do “whatever it takes” to save the euro from the region’s
fiscal crisis. Draghi announced an agreement on Sept. 6 for an
unlimited bond-buying program to lower borrowing costs in the
region and fight speculation of a currency breakup.  “The Fed and ECB actions have created a lot of liquidity
and cash in the market,” said James Serhant, senior vice
president and head of high-yield fixed income at Hartford
Investment Management Co. in Hartford,  Connecticut . “If you sit
on the cash long enough and returns lag, you get a little hot
under the collar.”  Junk-bond funds globally have reported $52.4 billion of
deposits this year through Aug. 29 compared with $8.3 billion in
2011 and $31.5 billion in 2010, as measured by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR.  Flows into credit funds “in some respect are reaching
bubble levels, never before breached in history,”  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  strategists led by Oleg Melentyev in New York
wrote in an Aug. 14 report.  Yields Plunge  Yields on speculative-grade corporate debt, which have
averaged 10.2 percent since 1993, have plunged from as high as
23 percent at the peak of the credit-market seizure in 2008,
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent
investors fleeing the market.  For the 360 speculative-grade companies that had reported
second-quarter results at the time of the Bank of America report
last month, earnings growth slowed to 1.2 percent from “high
single digits” in previous quarters.  That and a slowdown in sales gains “suggest corporate
issuers are dealing with both noticeable slower revenue growth
environment coupled with inability to immediately cut the costs
to fully protect their margins,” the Bank of America
strategists wrote.  Moody’s global speculative-grade default rate was 3 percent
in August from 1.8 percent a year ago, according to a Sept. 10
report. S&P has downgraded 220 speculative-grade U.S. companies
this year, 44 more borrowers than the credit-ratings company
upgraded. It’s the first year since 2009 that downgrades have
outpaced upgrades.  “We’re past the peak of  credit quality , but that’s not to
say we’re in a rapid deterioration mode,” said  Diane Vazza , the
head of S&P’s global fixed-income research.  Growth in the U.S. will improve to as much as 3 percent
next year and as much as 3.8 percent in 2014, from upper
estimates of 2.8 percent and 3.5 percent in the Fed’s previous
forecasts.  While Troob said it makes sense to wager against the bonds
at current levels, he said, “This isn’t a today trade, it is
six months to a year from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  