-- Kenyan Police Foil Attack by al-Qaeda-Linked Militia, Arrest Two
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-14T13:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/kenyan-police-foil-attack-by-al-qaeda-linked-militia-arrest-two.html
Kenyan police thwarted a planned
attack by al-Shabaab insurgents, arresting two men and seizing
an arsenal including suicide vests packed with explosives,
assault rifles and ammunition, spokesman  Eric Kiraithe  said.  Officers raided a home in Eastleigh, the ethnic Somali
enclave of the capital, Nairobi, and detained Abdul Majid Yasin
Mohammed, a 26-year-old Kenyan, and Suleiman Abdi Aden, 24, from
Somalia, Kiraithe told reporters today in the city. Authorities
are still searching for eight men of Somali and Kenyan origin
who were involved in the plot, he said.  “We seriously suspect al-Shabaab and its sympathizers,”
Kiraithe said.  Al-Qaeda’s affiliate carried out the Horn of Africa
country’s first suicide bombing and has used the tactic during
its insurgency to topple Somalia’s Western-backed government.
The latest suicide attack in Mogadishu, the capital, killed at
least four people with twin blasts on Sept. 12, only two days
after the election of President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud. Al-
Shabaab threatened to attack  Kenya , after the East African
nation sent troops into Somalia in October to hunt down the
insurgents. Kenya blames al-Shabaab for a series of cross-border
attacks and kidnappings.  At least 27 people have been killed in blasts, mostly
grenade attacks, across Kenya including on churches and a bus
station since the Somalia incursion, and foreign governments
including the U.S. State Department, have warned of “imminent
attacks.”  Investigators found four suicide vests lined with about 10
kilograms (22 pounds) of explosives each and designed to
detonate by mobile phone, four AK-47s along with 480 rounds of
ammunition, two improvised explosive devices and 12 grenades
during the raid, Kiraithe said.  The attackers may have been planning to strike crowded
churches as early as this Sunday, Kiraithe said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  