-- Klose Turned Down Tottenham Offer, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-09-14T08:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/klose-turned-down-tottenham-offer-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  No Closer?  Miroslav Klose turned down an offer to move to Tottenham
before the start of the season, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The 34-year-old German striker decided to remain with
Lazio, where he’s under contract until 2014, the newspaper said.
The Italian side and Tottenham will meet next week in the Europa
League.  Liverpool Effect?  Liverpool owner  John Henry  denied he and his partners were
planning to sell the Boston Red Sox of Major League Baseball to
concentrate on the soccer club, the Boston Globe said.  The Fox Business Network reported that the team was being
“quietly” marketed to potential bidders because Henry’s group
didn’t have the funds to run both franchises, the Globe said.
Henry denied any plans to sell the club, saying “it hasn’t even
come up apart from technical planning issues involving death or
disability,” the Globe said.  Loose Lips?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has told Bacary Sagna not to
disparage the north London club after the injured defender
questioned the departures of  Robin van Persie  and  Alex Song , the
Sun said.  The French player’s contract expires at the end of next
season, and he said the club hasn’t started to discuss an
extension, the newspaper said.  Fulham Keeper?  Fulham may try to sign Standard Liege’s goalkeeper Sinan
Bolat after the Turkish player underwent rehabilitation on a
knee injury with the west London club, the Daily Express said.  The 24-year-old hasn’t played since June, but Fulham
manager  Martin Jol  wants to bring him in as backup for 40-year-
old Mark Schwarzer, the newspaper said.  Noble Offer?  West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  said the club won’t overpay
to keep midfielder Mark Noble, the Daily Mail said.  The player, who came through the east London team’s
academy, is under contract until the end of the season, and is
in discussions over a new pact, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  