-- Korea Corporate Bond Sales Fall 73% as Interest Rates on Hold
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-14T07:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/korea-corporate-bond-sales-fall-73-as-interest-rates-on-hold.html
Sales of won-denominated bonds by
South Korean companies declined 73 percent this week as the
central bank unexpectedly left interest rates unchanged.  Issuance decreased to 400 billion won ($356 million) from
1.5 trillion won last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Three-year AA- rated corporate note yields, the
benchmark according to the  Korea  Financial Investment
Association, rose four basis points to 3.36 percent this week,
up from a record-low 3.24 percent on Sept. 5. Yields on AA rated
U.S. corporate securities increased two basis points to 2.13
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “Some issuers prefer to avoid days near rate-decision in
selling bonds due to rising uncertainties,” said Kim Ki Myung,
a Seoul-based credit analyst at Korea Investment & Securities
Co. “Still, I expect issuance to continue to rise as the
current yield level is near historical lows, allowing companies
to borrow for a longer term at cheaper costs.”  The Bank of Korea’s decision to leave the key interest  rate 
at 3 percent yesterday was forecast by only one of 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The rest expected a 25 basis-point
cut to 2.75 percent. Only four companies sold bonds this week,
compared with a weekly average this year of about eight,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung SDI, Dongwon  Samsung SDI Co., a maker of  lithium-ion batteries , led
issuance with 200 billion won of three-year notes priced to
yield 3.19 percent, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The Gyeonggi-
based company last sold debt in 2009. Those securities are due
to mature Sept. 16 and were priced to yield 5.47 percent, the
data show.  “The bond sale was planned to refinance debt that comes
due this month,” Kim Sang Eun, a Seoul-based spokesman at
Samsung SDI, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 12. “We
were able to lower borrowing costs this time because government
bond yields have fallen.”  Dongwon Enterprise Co., the owner of  South Korea ’s biggest
canned-tuna company, raised 100 billion won selling three-year
notes to yield 3.39 percent, according to Bloomberg-compiled
data. The company sold 50 billion won of similar maturity notes
in January yielding 4.36 percent, the data show.  The  Bank of Korea  said in a statement after the rate
decision that the nation’s growth momentum appears to be
slackening. South Korea’s gross domestic product  rose  2.3
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in almost three years. Exports fell 6.2 percent in August,
the sixth monthly decline this year.  Won Appreciates  South Korea will add 4.6 trillion won of stimulus measures
this year, without expansion of the government’s budget, and 1.3
trillion won for 2013, the  Finance Ministry  said on Sept. 10.
The measures include extra spending and tax cuts intended to
boost the housing market and car sales, the ministry said in an
e-mailed statement.  Korea’s currency rose to the strongest level in six months
today after the U.S.  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
asset purchases that will boost the supply of dollars. The won
appreciated 1 percent to 1,117.30 per dollar at the close in
 Seoul , the strongest level since March 12, boosting the week’s
advance to 1.2 percent.  “With the benchmark rate on hold and the Federal Reserve’s
quantitative easing raising bond yields, companies may take a
wait-and-see stance for the short term until they become sure of
bond market directions,” Lee Jong Myung, a Seoul-based credit
analyst for Hanwha Securities Co., said in a telephone interview
today.  SK Energy, E-Mart  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 fell two basis points to 2.86 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. The rate rose four basis points this week.  SK Energy Co., Hanjin Transportation Co. and E-Mart Co. are
among companies planning bond sales in the coming week,
according to preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The proceeds will be used to refinance 180 billion won of
debt maturing in October, and also for business operations,”
Yoo Jung Min, spokesman for SK Innovation Co., SK Energy Co.’s
parent company, said on Sept. 12 in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  