-- Korea Gets S&P Upgrade on Stability Amid Global Turmoil
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-09-14T06:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/korea-gets-s-p-upgrade-on-stability-amid-global-turmoil.html
South  Korea  saw its debt rating
boosted for a third time in less than three weeks, spurring the
won to its highest level against the dollar since March.  The sovereign rating was upgraded one step to A+, the
fifth-highest, by  Standard & Poor’s , on a par with  Chile  and one
level below China, Japan,  Taiwan  and Saudi Arabia.  Fitch Ratings 
has South Korea at AA- and Moody’s Investors Service at Aa3,
both the companies’ fourth-highest level, after their upgrades.  The won rose after the upgrade, extending gains following
the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s decision to begin a third round of
quantitative easing to spur growth. Further strengthening may
add to pressure on the Bank of Korea, which yesterday
unexpectedly left  interest-rates  unchanged, to add stimulus as
Europe’s debt crisis curbs South Korean exports of cars and
electronics.  “This is positive for Korean  government bonds  and suggests
more capital inflow into Korea,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Nomura International Ltd. “Combined
with quantitative easing in the U.S., this will likely add
appreciation pressure on the Korean won. The  Bank of Korea  will
cut rates in October.”  The won strengthened 1.0 percent to 1,117.30 per dollar as
of 3:13 p.m. in Seoul, the biggest jump since May 28 and the
strongest level since March 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due
June 2015 fell 2 basis points to 2.86 percent, after earlier
climbing as much as four basis points to 2.92 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show.  Stimulus Pressure  South Korean policy makers are weighing calls for more
stimulus with signs of resilience such as unemployment at an
eight-month low. The  Finance Ministry  announced 5.9 trillion won
($5.3 billion) of spending and tax relief this week while
resisting calls for a budget increase.  The Bank of Korea unexpectedly held borrowing costs at 3
percent yesterday as it opted to preserve policy room in the
event of a deeper global slowdown. The central bank instead said
it will boost by 1.5 trillion won its loan program to help small
businesses refinance debt at a lower interest rate.  “Korea is apparently doing well on fiscal soundness and
economic resilience, when many others are suffering rating
cuts,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “The rating upgrade should increase
foreign investors’ appetite for Korean assets.”  Limited Utility  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
government bonds fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped France and the U.S. of AAA grades,
interest rates paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  The S&P upgrade may not lead to foreign capital inflows
because it merely confirms what the market “has known for a
long time,” according to Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC. “People have
been looking for a safe haven since 2009.”  South Korea ’s upgrade reflects reduced geopolitical risk on
the Korean peninsula following a “smooth” leadership change in
North Korea, S&P said in a statement today. The transition
reduces the risk of military confrontations, the statement said.  “The Kim Jong Un regime stabilized sooner than the world
had expected it to,” said Dong Yong Sueng, senior fellow who
specializes in North Korean economy at Samsung Economic Research
Institute in Seoul. “That provides for a positive outlook for
the entire peninsula.”  Still, S&P said it expects South Korea’s economy to be
“relatively weak  in the next one to two years” as the global
economic slowdown weighs on companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  