-- New York City-Area Ironman Triathlon Canceled After One Year
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-14T19:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/new-york-city-area-ironman-triathlon-canceled-after-one-year.html
The New York-area Ironman triathlon
has been canceled after one year, organizers said, citing the
difficulty of staging the event in an urban market.  The cancellation comes after World Triathlon Corp., which
owns Ironman, raised the entry fee to the 2013 race to $1,200
from $895. The price increase, and other factors, had led the
company to suspend registration for next year’s event while re-
evaluating its plans.  “This race cannot be conducted in the way our athletes
expect and deserve,” World Triathlon said in an e-mailed
statement. “Producing an event in a large urban market is
complex and challenging.”  The Olympic-distance  New York  City Triathlon, which is
about 1/4 the length of an Ironman, is unaffected. The 2013 race
is scheduled for July 14.  World Triathlon cited a combination of ferry service, a
lack of spectator access and other factors for the decision. The
140.6-mile (226-kilometer) race, which involves a 2.4-mile swim
down the  Hudson River , 112-mile bike ride and a 26.2-mile run,
“needed substantial improvement,” Ironman said.  This year’s race was also hindered by a New York City noise
ordinance that didn’t allow music or the use of a public address
system at the finish line area in Riverside Park after 10 p.m.  The event’s swim leg was originally in question after a
broken sewer line led to a controlled discharge of 3.4 million
gallons of chlorinated raw sewage into the river three days
before the race. The race was allowed to continue after health
officials said the river passed a water quality test.  Sold Out  The inaugural event on Aug. 11 sold out its $895 regular
race slots online in 11 minutes. It was the most expensive
triathlon in the Ironman series, as the typical entry fee for a
race is about $575.  When registration opened for the 2013 race opened on Aug.
12, the price rose to $1,200, leading to backlash among
triathletes. At the time, John Korff, the event’s local
organizer, said the price increase was too high and would
probably put an end to the race.  After receiving complaints about the price and the race’s
logistics, Ironman, which is owned by Providence Equity Partners
Inc., suspended registration just hours after it opened.  Refunds were given to early registrants who paid $1,200, a
34 percent increase over this year’s fee, Ironman said.  While Korff, 60, said there were minor logistics issues
that need to be addressed, the decision to suspend the
registration was based mostly on economic reasons.  World Triathlon didn’t cite the price increase among the
feedback it received before deciding to cancel the event.  Difficult Start  Some competitors in this year’s race said it was difficult
to get to the event’s start area, which required a ferry ride at
4 a.m. local time, and said the race’s run portion through
 Manhattan ’s Riverside Park was difficult due to numerous
pedestrians being on the course.  “We dreamed a very big dream that can only come true in
 New York City ,” Korff said in an e-mail today. I’m “very happy
and proud of what we were able to do, happy for the athletes,
volunteers, and amazed at the cooperation of the many government
agencies. That’s a first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  