-- Nintendo President Says Wii U Will Grab Gamers With Mario
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-09-14T20:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/nintendo-president-says-wii-u-will-grab-gamers-with-mario.html
Nintendo’s Wii U console, built
with television and other features meant to appeal to Mom and
Dad, will first attract their game-playing kids with exclusive
titles, the president of the company’s U.S. unit said.  “It’s Mario, it’s Zelda, it’s great first-party content
that’s our secret weapon,” Nintendo of America President  Reggie Fils-Aime  said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York 
headquarters. “The fact that it doesn’t exist on your tablet,
the fact that it doesn’t exist on your smartphone, is going to
drive consumers to enjoy our products on our devices.”  Nintendo, the world’s biggest video-game machine maker, is
trying to prove $350 hardware and $60 games are must-haves this
holiday, even as casual players drift toward free titles played
on smartphones and social-networking sites like  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s.
When the original Wii arrived in 2006,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
wasn’t yet on the market, “Angry Birds” didn’t exist and
social-gaming company  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  hadn’t been founded.  The Osaka, Japan-based company needs a hit to reverse its
losses. Lackluster demand for Nintendo’s handheld game console,
the 3DS, which can display images in 3-D, coupled with a
stronger yen that eroded overseas earnings, led to Nintendo
posting both a net loss and an operating loss in the year ended
March 31 -- the first time that’s happened since the company
went public in 1962.  Nintendo’s strategy is two-fold, according to Fils-Aime.
First, great titles, including some that others don’t have.
Second, add features such as TV that will help make the console,
with its tablet-like controller, a central part of the living-
room experience.  ‘Gaming Console’  “There’s a lot there for parents to get excited about, but
the message is that this is a gaming console,” Fils-Aime said.
“Whether you have physical platform or an electronic one,
without the content, you’re dead.”  The Wii U will go on sale on Nov. 18 in the U.S. with new
games “Super Mario Bros. U” and “Nintendo Land” that won’t
be found elsewhere, Nintendo said this week.  There’s something for teens too. The machine adds high-
definition graphics and offers innovative ways to play using a
touch-pad controller, giving the Wii the potential to also
appeal to traditional gamers.  In the past,  Activision Blizzard (ATVI) ,  Electronic Arts (EA)  and other
core-game developers have focused on games for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
PlayStation 3 and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox 360 because of the
Wii’s limitations.  Shooters, Zombies  Activision, based in  Santa Monica ,  California , said
yesterday it will sell a Wii U version of its upcoming “Call of
Duty: Black Ops II” that has features unique to the console and
its GamePad controller with a 6.2-inch diagonal widescreen.
 Ubisoft Entertainment (UBI) ’s “ZombiesU” horror-shooter game also
will be exclusive to the console.  Most of the 50 games Nintendo said would be available by
March will be in stores before Christmas, Fils-Aime said. The
company projects it will sell 10 million Wii U and older Wii
consoles in its first financial year. Fils-Aime declined to
break out Wii U projections.  Nintendo has about 7 million fans worldwide who are likely
to buy a new console, analyst  Michael Pachter  at Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles , estimates. The company could sell 10
million Wii U consoles in its first 14 months, or about half
what it sold in the same period for the Wii,  Michael Olson , an
analyst with  Piper Jaffray (PJC) , said in a research note.  “We remain cautious on the sell-through potential for the
Wii U due to a soft economy, unprecedented competition and what
we view as a disappointing clunky form factor, user interface
and operating system,” Olson wrote.  U.S. Holiday  Nintendo will begin selling the Wii U in North America
three weeks ahead of Japan, because the competitive holiday
shopping period kicks off in the U.S. with Black Friday after
Thanksgiving, Fils-Aime said.  The basic unit with eight gigabytes of storage will sell
for $300. A deluxe version will cost $350 and come bundled with
32 gigabytes of memory, “Nintendo Land,” a game bundle
featuring iconic characters, a charger for the GamePad
controller and other accessories.  “Are we an anachronism? No way,” Fils-Aime said. “By
creating software and marrying it to strong hardware, we believe
we create groundbreaking experiences.”  Nintendo hasn’t ruled out paying developers for exclusive
content, Fils-Aime said. The company also plans to set up kiosks
in malls and stores to let consumers get their hands on the
device.  The company is trying to duplicate the buzz that made the
older Wii a must-have holiday 2006 stocking-stuffer, Tony Bartel, president of Grapevine, Texas-based retailer GameStop,
said in an interview.  “When people experience Wii U, that’s where the excitement
starts,” Bartel said.  Nintendo also has considered creating subscription-based
services for some of its content, though it would not follow the
model of Microsoft’s popular Xbox Live subscription, which
requires people to pay $60 annually for premium content, Fils-
Aime said. He declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  