-- NLB Names Medja CEO as Slovenian Bank Struggles With Bad Loans
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-09-14T12:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/nlb-names-medja-ceo-as-slovenian-bank-struggles-with-bad-loans.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. named
Janko Medja as chief executive officer of Slovenia’s biggest
bank, which is struggling with increased bad loans as the
economy slides into recession.  Medja has been a member of the supervisory board of the
Ljubljana-based bank since June, board member Stephan Wilcke
told reporters today. Before joining NLB, Medja was responsible
for corporate banking at UniCredit SpA’s unit in Slovenia. He
replaces Bozo Jasovic, who stepped down in December because of a
failed attempt to sell the holding in  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR) 
d.d. to its Croatian rival Agrokor d.d.  “I am taking this job at a very difficult time for the
bank,” Medja told reporters in Ljubljana after the appointment.
“The main priority will be to restructure the portfolio of bad
liabilities in cooperation with other agencies, where the
government and its institutions as well as the European Union
will play an important role. ”  Nova Ljubljanska, majority owned by the government, is
weighed down by bad loans as the export-driven  economy  enters
its second recession in three years. NLB has lent a total 209
billion euros ($2.74 billion) that will probably never be
repaid, private broadcaster POP TV reported on Sept. 6, citing a
leaked report by the country’s central bank.  Slovenia will guarantee as much as 4 billion euros to help
recapitalize its banking industry, which is relying on loans
from the  European Central Bank  for liquidity, Finance Minister
Janez Sustersic said yesterday.  Less Lending  Lenders in the nation that adopted the euro in 2007 are
lending less to the economy as they increase provisions for bad
loans, the government’s economic institute has said. Bad loans
advanced to more than 6 billion euros at Slovenian banks at the
end of April, the institute said in July.  Gross domestic product shrank an annual 3.2 percent in the
second quarter and is estimated to contract 2 percent for the
whole year, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  of  Belgium  is the second-largest investor in
NLB after the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  