-- NYSE Penalized by SEC for Giving Head Start on Trading Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-09-14T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/nyse-penalized-by-sec-for-giving-head-start-on-trading-data-1-.html
NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S.
exchange operator, will pay $5 million to resolve regulatory
claims that the  New York  Stock Exchange violated rules by giving
certain customers a head start on trading information.  The NYSE sent data through two proprietary feeds to paying
customers before relaying the information to the so-called
consolidated feed, which distributes trade and quote data to the
public, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in an
 administrative order  filed today. Investigators are conducting
similar reviews of other exchanges, according to two people with
knowledge of the probes, which aren’t public.  The SEC penalty, the first of its kind against an exchange,
comes as lawmakers and regulators question whether retail
investors are being harmed in an increasingly fragmented
marketplace of high-speed, computer-driven trading. NYSE’s
practice was discovered in the SEC’s investigation of the so-
called flash crash of May 2010, in which $862 billion was erased
from equity prices in 20 minutes before recovering.  “The NYSE chose ground-shipping for sending market data to
the consolidated feed but used next-day air for its paying
customers,” Sanjay Wadhwa, deputy chief of the SEC’s market
abuse unit, said in an interview.  The practice violated Regulation NMS, which obliges
exchanges to give the public fair access to market information,
the SEC said. The NYSE violated SEC rules “over an extended
period of time” starting in 2008 by failing to monitor the
speed of its proprietary feeds compared to the consolidated
feed, the agency said in its order.  Rapid Decisions  The violations stemmed from technology issues in NYSE’s
Open Book Ultra and PDP Quotes proprietary data feeds. According
to the SEC, about 80 percent of NYSE’s trading volume is
attributable to such products, which customers use to make rapid
decisions through computer algorithms.  NYSE also had a software problem that made its public data
feed susceptible to delays during times of high trading volume.
While the exchange began to address the problem in February
2010, only about half of the relevant computer servers had been
fixed by May 6, 2010, the day of the flash crash, the SEC said.  Under the stress of record trading volume that day, the
servers still running on the old software experienced delays of
as long as 10 seconds on quotes they processed. The average
processing times for the two proprietary feeds ranged from 2
milliseconds to 16 milliseconds, the SEC said.  Faulty Systems  “The timing differentials stemmed from technology issues,
not from intentional wrongdoing by the exchange or any of its
personnel,” NYSE Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer , said in a statement. The company, which operates
exchanges in the U.S. and  Europe , will “ensure that our market
operates with the utmost fairness and transparency,” he said.  While the SEC has previously faulted exchanges for
misconduct by employees, today’s action marks the first time the
agency has fined an exchange for having faulty systems that
violated securities rules.  Direct Edge Holdings LLC and two electronic exchanges it
operates were faulted by the SEC last year for having weak
controls that led to about $2.8 million in trading losses and a
systems outage. Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S.
exchange operator, said in February that it received a request
from the SEC for information on its use of order types and
“communications with certain market participants.”  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  completed systems modifications in 2010 and
2011 that eliminated the technology issues that were the subject
of the investigation, according to its statement. The company,
which didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing, also agreed to hire an
independent consultant to assess its compliance systems.  “How does a retail or institutional investor not think the
game is rigged when you see something like this,” Joseph
Saluzzi, partner and co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading
LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in an interview. “It’s not
much different from knowing what’s in earnings report a minute
before everyone else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  