-- NYSE Liffe to Fine Members That Breach Delivery Limits
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-14T14:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/nyse-liffe-to-fine-members-that-breach-delivery-limits.html
NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm of
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , will fine members that breach new delivery limits
on its robusta coffee, white sugar, cocoa and feed wheat futures
contracts traded in London.  A fine of 40,000 pounds ($64,860) will apply on an average
offense basis to members that break delivery limits or delivery-
limit exemption rules or fail to comply with the terms of a
delivery-limit exemption, the exchange said in a notice on its
website. NYSE Liffe will limit the amount of the four
commodities buyers can take delivery of as part of its new
position-management regime that came into force yesterday.  “Any member who makes or takes delivery in excess of the
relevant delivery limit without a delivery-limit exemption
having been granted by the exchange will be the subject of
disciplinary action,” the exchange said in the notice. “The
benchmark sanction will only be used as the starting point for
determining the appropriate sanction.”  Buyers won’t be able to take delivery of more than 7,500
contracts on cocoa and robusta coffee, 5,000 contracts on white
sugar and 2,000 contracts on feed wheat, according to the
notice. The changes will take effect for positions in November
for robusta coffee, December for white sugar and cocoa and
January for feed wheat, the exchange said.  NYSE Liffe may allow buyers to take delivery of up to
double the limit in certain cases, which include a physical
commitment to deliver to a client the commodity obtained via the
exchange and transactions in which the buyer takes delivery in
the front-month to subsequently sell the product on a later-
dated contract, according to the notice.  Exemption Possibilities  The exchange may also approve exemptions in the case of a
financial institution needing to have a short position bigger
than the limit to be able to finance traders’ inventories, in
the case of the cocoa and robusta coffee contracts, it said. The
exchange may decline an application for a delivery exemption and
there will be no right of appeal, according to the notice.  The exchange unveiled its plans for delivery limits in
February, almost two years after  Anthony Ward  of Armajaro took
delivery of 240,100 metric tons of cocoa (or 24,010 contracts)
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London in July 2010, the Financial
Times reported at the time, citing unidentified traders. The
delivery was the biggest from the exchange since 1996 and helped
drive prices to a high, according to the newspaper. Ward
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg at the time.  Transparency Moves  In response, a group of 16 cocoa consumers wrote to NYSE
Liffe to complain about a lack of transparency in the market,
according to a copy of the letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .
The exchange started publishing trader holdings positions last
year to increase transparency.  Delivery limits will be reviewed every six months and
changes will be informed via exchange notices and will come into
effect three delivery months later, according to NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  