-- Obama Honors ‘Four Patriots’ Who Died in Libya Attack
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/obama-honors-four-patriots-who-died-in-libya-attack.html
President  Barack Obama  pledged a
nation’s resolve to “dignity and freedom” as he received and
honored the remains of the four Americans killed in the Sept. 11
attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya.  Libyan and American investigators are probing the assault
that killed Chris Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya, and
three others: Sean Smith, a Foreign Service information officer,
and Tyrone S. Woods and Glen A. Doherty, two former Navy SEALs
working as security personnel at the consulate in Benghazi.  “There is no doubt these are difficult days,” Obama told
an audience of more than 200 yesterday in an open hangar at
Andrews Air Force Base. “In moments such as this, so much anger
and violence, even the hopeful among us must wonder,” he said.
“The  United States of America  will never retreat from the
world. We will never stop working for the dignity and freedom
that every person deserves.”  The president saluted those who died, reciting their names.  “Chris Stevens was everything America could want as an
ambassador,” Obama told the audience. “In Benghazi, he laid
down his life for his friends, Libyan and American,” he said.
“Four Americans, four patriots, they loved this country and
they chose to serve it, and they served it well.”  Families of the Americans who died in the attack on the
consulate had assembled in a distinguished visitors lounge at
the base, which serves as home for Air Force One, with American
and Air Force flags flying at half-staff.  Presidential Honors  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , chief of the American
diplomatic corps that lost a devoted, career envoy and three
others, joined them for what is officially called a transfer of
remains ceremony.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  delayed the
start of a campaign rally in Painesville,  Ohio , so he could
watch the arrival of the remains. Standing with his hand over
his heart, he led a rain-drenched crowd in a moment of silence
to recognize “the blood shed for freedom.”  Colonel Michael Minihan, 89th Air Wing commander at
Andrews, greeted and briefed the president, joined by National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon and White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew, and they traveled to a hangar holding the Americans’
remains.  Four black hearses, their tail doors open to the audience
in the hangar and service members standing beside them, parked
in pairs in a row flanking the podium where the president would
speak with a large American flag hanging behind him. Four black
platforms were arranged before them on the floor.  Gaping Entrance  Obama walked in followed by Vice President  Joe Biden  and
took a seat in the front row. A hulking gray C-17 transport
stood outside the gaping entrance to Hangar Three. Four teams of
seven honor guards carried the flag-draped coffins and placed
them on the platforms in front of the hearses.  Obama, Clinton, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, United
Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  and former Secretary of State
 Colin Powell  sat in the front row of the audience.  Clinton spoke first.  “Today we bring home four Americans who gave their lives
for our country and our values,” Clinton said, naming one by
one the victims and the names of their families.  The secretary thanked Stevens’s parents for their “gift”
to a nation. She named Smith, who left a wife, Heather, and two
young children, Samantha and Nathan. Woods served two decades as
a SEAL and was a registered nurse, a warrior with “the hands of
a healer,” Clinton said. He left a wife, Dorothy, and three
sons, Tyrone Jr., Hunter and Kai. Doherty, another SEAL, had
“deployed to some of the most dangerous places on earth,” she
said.  Internet Video  The “rage and violence” in  Libya  was prompted by an
Internet video that the American government had nothing to do
with, Clinton told the audience. “It is hard for the American
people to make sense of that because it is senseless, and it is
totally unacceptable,” she said.  As a military brass band played “America the Beautiful,”
the honor guards placed the coffins inside the hearses, and the
cars rolled out of the hangar to the saluting guard.  The attack coincided with protests against a film made in
the U.S. ridiculing the Islamic Prophet Muhammad.  The weapons, violence and duration of the attacks, two U.S.
intelligence officials said, suggest that it was carried out by
radical Islamists, perhaps to avenge the June death of al-Qaeda
leader Abu Yahya al-Libi in a U.S. drone attack or to mark the
anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against  New
York ’s World Trade Center and the Pentagon.  Diplomatic Veteran  Stevens, 52, was killed trying to evacuate the consulate.
Known to friends, family and colleagues as Chris, the California
native was an Arabic-speaking, 21-year veteran of the State
Department who had postings in Damascus, Cairo and other Middle
Eastern stations before his first stint in Libya from 2007 to
2009.  Stevens, the No. 2 diplomat in Tripoli when the late Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  was still in power, traveled to Benghazi
in 2011 as an observer for U.S. policy makers trying to gauge
how to respond to the rebellion under way and avert a massacre
in that city by Qaddafi forces. He was promoted to ambassador
after the dictator was killed by rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  