-- Obama Warns Congress of ‘Devastating’ Cuts in Report
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/obama-sequestration-report-warns-of-devastating-impact-of-cuts.html
An Obama administration report
cataloguing the impact of $1.2 trillion in looming spending cuts
illustrates the stakes as lawmakers debate what to do about the
 U.S. deficit  less than two months before the election.  The White House budget office said the cuts, known as
sequestration and set to start in January, would undermine
economic investment and cause “severe harm” to initiatives
including food-safety inspections, air-traffic control and
support for schools. The Pentagon would be forced to juggle
accounts to maintain the war effort and delay repairing or
buying equipment, according to the report released yesterday.  “Sequestration would be deeply destructive to national
security, domestic investments and core government functions,”
the 394-page report said. “The administration strongly believes
that sequestration is bad policy, and that Congress can and
should take action to avoid it by passing a comprehensive and
balanced  deficit reduction  package.”  The report, ordered by Congress, comes less than two months
before a presidential election in which President  Barack Obama 
and Republican  Mitt Romney  have offered starkly different plans
to address the government’s red ink. Obama is pressing to raise
taxes on the wealthiest Americans to help pay for government
programs. Romney argues that doing so would hit small businesses
and hurt  job creation  at a time when the  unemployment rate  has
been above 8 percent for 43 months.  Punitive Step  The automatic, across-the-board reductions would begin on
Jan. 2, unless Congress adopts an alternative, and would
designate annual reductions through 2021. The sequestration is a
punitive step lawmakers imposed upon themselves for failing last
year to reach a deal to cut deficits by at least $1.2 trillion
over a decade.  The cuts in fiscal 2013 would amount to $109.3 billion,
equally drawn from defense and non-defense programs, and would
hit agencies in the middle of the government’s fiscal year,
according to the Office of Management and Budget report.  The deficit is projected this year to reach $1.1 trillion,
which would make it the fourth consecutive year the government
has run trillion-dollar shortfalls.  That has contributed to a recent run-up in the  debt , which
has climbed more than 75 percent in the past four years. At
$11.3 trillion, or 73 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, the publicly held debt this year is projected to reach
the highest level since shortly after World War II. Moody’s
Investors Service warned earlier this week it may join  Standard
& Poor’s  in downgrading the U.S.’s credit rating if lawmakers
don’t agree next year on a deficit plan.  Partisan Finger-Pointing  Neither party wants to see the cuts imposed, though there
is little agreement on what to swap in their place, and
lawmakers don’t plan to address the issue in earnest until after
the Nov. 6 election.  Obama’s budget advisers said the reductions would affect
more than 1,200 budget accounts and blamed Republican lawmakers
for focusing strictly on spending cuts. House Republicans have
offered “particularly irresponsible approaches” that would
“shift the burden of deficit reduction onto the middle class
and vulnerable populations and represent the wrong choices for
the nation’s long-term growth,” the report said.  A plan endorsed in May by House Republicans would replace
much of next year’s cuts with savings carved out of  food stamps ,
Medicaid, federal workers’ benefits, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and other spending programs. They would allow
some of the scheduled cuts to take effect, such as the 2 percent
reduction in Medicare.  ‘Common-Sense’ Cuts  The Republican plan “replaces the president’s dangerous
defense sequester with common-sense spending cuts and reforms,”
said House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. “But with
only a few months before they’re scheduled to go into effect,
President Obama and Senate Democrats have taken no action
whatsoever to avert these cuts.”  The automatic cuts would hit a broad swath of the
government, and those who rely on it, the White House report
said. They would shrink the Federal Aviation Administration’s
budget by $1 billion, which may lead to a drop in airline travel
of as much as 10 percent, according to a study released last
month by the Aerospace Industries Association, an Arlington,
Virginia-based trade group.  The Air Force’s $21.3 billion aircraft procurement request
would be cut $2 billion, affecting top aircraft and electronics
makers  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL) 
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) 
would be hit by a $2.1 billion cut to the Navy.  Embassy Security  The  National Institutes of Health , which provides medical
research grants, would lose $2.5 billion. The  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation would take a $742 million hit. Embassy security
would be reduced by $129 million. More than $1.4 billion would
come out of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s
budget. State and local governments would also face more than
$250 million in cutbacks in subsidies on bonds they sold to pay
for public works projects under Obama’s stimulus program.  While the law calls for reductions totaling $1.2 trillion
over the next nine years, the real cuts amount to $984 billion.
That’s because it allows lawmakers to chalk up 18 percent of
those savings to reduced interest payments on the debt, which
the report shows would amount to $216 billion.  Overall, sequestration would impose a 9.4 percent cut in
defense discretionary spending, and an 8.2 percent reduction in
nondefense discretionary accounts, according to the report.
Nondefense mandatory programs would take a 7.6 percent hit and
defense-related mandatory programs would be slashed by 10
percent.  The administration, charged with implementing the savings,
emphasized the law gives it little discretion in apportioning
the cuts.  ‘Single Exception’  “With the single exception of military personnel accounts,
the administration cannot choose which programs to exempt, or
what percentage cuts to apply,” the report says. “These
matters are dictated by a detailed statutory scheme.”  For the Pentagon, the reductions wouldn’t affect the war
effort, the report said. Still, the cuts “would result in a
reduction in readiness of many non-deployed units, delays in
investments in new equipment and facilities, cutbacks in
equipment repairs, declines in military research and development
efforts, and reductions in base services for military
families.”  Some programs are exempt from the cuts. Certain mandatory
programs such as  Social Security  are off limits, and the
administration has said military pay and veterans’ health-care
programs should be left alone. Other programs, such as  student
loans , are subject to special rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  