-- Oil Rises to $100 for First Time Since May After Stimulus
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-14T12:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/oil-rises-to-100-for-first-time-since-may-after-fed-stimulus.html
Oil rose to $100 a barrel in  New
York  for the first time since May as the  Federal Reserve  pledged
further economic stimulus, while unrest in the  Middle East  and
North Africa fanned concern that supplies will be threatened.  West Texas Intermediate advanced as much as 2.2 percent to
$100.42 a barrel, having last risen above $100 in intraday
trading on May 4. The Fed announced additional purchases of
mortgage debt yesterday in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing, following the  European Central Bank ’s bond-
buying announcement on Sept. 6. Tensions in the Middle East
escalated this week after protestors in Libya, Egypt and Yemen
demonstrated against a video considered insulting to Islam.  “It’s a great time to put money into oil,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “The stimulus plans and the Middle
East tension are the horses pulling the cart.”  Crude for October delivery has since retreated to $99.52 a
barrel, up $1.21, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 1:41 p.m. London time. Front-month prices
are up 0.6 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement advanced $1.06 to $116.94
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $17.16.  The Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month, and that it will probably hold the federal funds
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  Quantitative Easing  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing. The Fed’s move followed ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s earlier statement that the bank has
agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program.  Germany’s top constitutional court on Sept. 12 cleared the
way for ratification of the euro-area bailout fund. The Federal
Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe dismissed motions that sought
to block the 500 billion-euro ($645 billion) fund, known as the
European Stability Mechanism, and a deficit-control treaty
championed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel .  “The decision in Germany to support the European Stability
Mechanism makes people feel that the crisis has bottomed out and
there is no more threat of a collapse of the euro,” said Lynch.  Attack on Consulate  The Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya,
together with demonstrations in Egypt, Tunisia, Iran and Yemen
that were sparked by an anti-Islamic video, amplified Middle
East tensions.  Iran, the third-biggest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Export, is facing sanctions on its energy and
financial industries because of its nuclear program.  Brent crude, used to price more than half of the world’s
oil, has traded above $100 for most of the year. The front-month
Brent contract dipped below that level in June and early July.  “The events out of Libya and Egypt add to general
geopolitical tension that is currently prevailing in the Middle
East,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s London-based
head of commodity markets strategy.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said on Sept. 10
that global supply, demand and inventories of crude don’t
justify the current increase in  oil prices , the official Saudi
Press Agency reported.  Futures may decline next week on speculation U.S. crude and
fuel inventories will increase as production in the  Gulf of
Mexico  continues its recovery from Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Nineteen of 36 analysts and traders, or 53
percent, predict oil will drop through Sept. 21.27  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  