-- Oil Approaches $100 in New York on Fed Stimulus, Mideast Unrest
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-09-14T08:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/oil-approaches-100-in-new-york-on-fed-stimulus-mideast-unrest.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
four months on speculation that economic stimulus in the U.S.
will boost fuel demand, and concern that unrest in the  Middle
East  and North Africa may threaten supplies.  Futures advanced as much as 1.5 percent, erasing their
decline for the year. The  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will
make open-ended purchases of $40 billion a month of mortgage
debt to boost the economy. Protesters attempted to storm the
U.S. embassy in Yemen and demonstrators marched in  Egypt  and
Iran this week against a film seen as insulting to Islam. Iran
is raising tension by expanding its nuclear program, according
to the U.S. envoy to the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  “Sentiment is upbeat as we’re a little clearer on what the
Fed and  European Central Bank  will do to revive the economy,”
said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London ,
who predicts further gains for oil will be limited. “But crude
is really struggling to post large gains since at these prices
demand concerns are still there.”  Crude for October delivery climbed as much as $1.44 to
$99.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $99.38 at 9:15 a.m. London time. The
contract yesterday increased 1.3 percent to $98.31, the highest
close since May 4. Prices are up 3.1 percent this week, set for
the sixth gain in seven weeks.  Brent oil for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $1.23, or 1.1 percent,
to $117.11 a barrel, the highest since May 2. The front-month
price for the European benchmark crude was at a $17.35 premium
to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade.  Geopolitical Concerns  The Fed said it will continue buying assets and employ
other policy tools as appropriate “if the outlook for the labor
market does not improve substantially.”  “We always have initial optimism on stimulus programs --
the question is, how long it will last?” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney. “Middle East geopolitical concerns should
add a premium of about $5 to $6.”  Demonstrators in the Yemeni capital, Sana’a, breached the
U.S. embassy compound’s security perimeter and set two cars
ablaze yesterday, according to Yousef Al-Ahjan, who joined the
rally. One protester was killed and five injured, Al Arabiya
television reported.  Al-Qaeda Links  At least 216 people in Egypt were injured in a third day of
clashes near the U.S. embassy in Cairo, said Ahmed el-Ansari,
vice-president of the Egyptian Ambulance Organization. There
were also demonstrations outside the Swiss mission in Tehran,
which represents U.S. interests in Iran.  The violence in the Middle East and North Africa, which
hold more than half of the world’s oil reserves, was prompted by
extracts of a film that portrays Muhammad. For Muslims, any
depiction of the prophet is sacrilegious. The U.S. ambassador to
 Libya , Chris Stevens, and three officials were killed during an
attack on consular buildings in Benghazi on Sept. 11. U.S.
lawmakers said groups tied to al-Qaeda may have been involved.  Iran ’s decision to double the number of installed
centrifuges, the fast-spinning machines that enrich uranium, at
its Fordo site is provocative, Robert Wood said in prepared
remarks in Vienna yesterday. While the U.S. and  Israel  suspect
Iran is hiding nuclear-weapons work, the Persian Gulf nation
says its program is peaceful.  The dollar extended losses for a fourth day against the
euro, boosting investor’s demand for commodities denominated in
the U.S. currency. It slid to $1.3024 versus the common
currency, the weakest since May.  The 14-day relative strength index has risen above 68, the
highest since Aug. 22. A reading above 70 will show prices have
climbed too quickly for further gains to be sustained.  Futures may decline next week on speculation U.S. crude and
fuel inventories will increase as production in the  Gulf of
Mexico  continues its recovery from Hurricane Isaac, a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Nineteen of 36 analysts and traders, or 53
percent, predict oil will drop through Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  