-- Oil Rises to Four-Month High on Fed Stimulus Measures
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-14T19:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/oil-rises-to-100-for-first-time-in-four-months-on-fed.html
Oil climbed to the highest level in
more than four months as the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to buy
mortgage securities boosted demand for commodities and stocks.  Futures rose above $100 after the Fed said yesterday that
it would make additional purchases of debt in a third round of
so-called quantitative easing. The move followed a European
Central Bank bond-buying announcement on Sept. 6. Crude also
gained on concern that protests in the Middle East and North
Africa will disrupt shipments.  “All the factors that financial actors look at are
pointing to higher prices,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing
director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. “I’m surprised the price isn’t higher given the
news this week.”  Crude oil for October delivery advanced 69 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest settlement since May 3. Futures touched $100.42 in
intraday trading. Prices increased 2.7 percent this week and are
up 11 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for November settlement climbed 78 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $116.66 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
grade’s premium over November West Texas Intermediate oil traded
in  New York  was $17.33, up from $17.25 yesterday.  Global Benchmark  “There’s a lot of talk of WTI breaching $100 but it’s one
of the cheapest light, sweet crude grades out there,” said
 David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in New York. “Brent, which is more of a global benchmark,
rose above $117. That’s what gasoline and diesel prices will
move on.”  The Fed said it will expand its holdings of long-term
securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month and that it will probably hold the federal funds
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.”  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 in two rounds of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing. This follows ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s earlier statement that the bank has agreed to an
unlimited bond-purchase program.  “What we’re seeing is primarily due to Draghi’s
announcement on unlimited bond purchases last week and the Fed
announcement yesterday,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in New York. “Prices have risen
over the last month or two in anticipation of quantitative
easing and now we’re seeing a second wave of buying.”  Unconventional Tools  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is enlarging his supply of
unconventional tools to attack U.S. unemployment stuck above 8
percent since February 2009.  “This is a significant move by the Fed and it’s lending
considerable support to commodity prices,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “A lot of money will be pushed out and
commodities are looking like a good place to invest.”  The dollar dropped as much as 1.4 percent to $1.3169
against the euro, the lowest level since May 4. A weaker U.S.
currency bolsters the appeal of raw materials to investors. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 1 percent at
3:37 p.m in New York.  Stocks rallied around the world on the Fed move. The  S&P
500 (SPX)  and  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 0.2 percent each.
The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index jumped 3.2 percent in its
biggest gain since June.  ‘Speeding Train’  “The Fed announcement was enough to encourage the risk-on
trade and send us to the highest level in four months,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “There are reasons to be concerned about
the sustainability of these prices, but you can’t stand in the
way of a speeding train.”  The Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,
Libya, in which the U.S. ambassador to the country and three
colleagues were killed, bolstered tensions in the region
together with demonstrations in Egypt, Tunisia, Sudan, Iran and
Yemen. They were sparked by an anti-Islamic video.  The German embassy in the Sudanese capital Khartoum was set
on fire after it was stormed by protesters today, German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said.  Iranian Barrels  Output in Iran, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ third-biggest oil producer, fell 350,000 barrels to
2.75 million barrels a day last month, the least since February
1990, according to a Bloomberg survey. Sanctions aimed at
stopping the Islamic republic’s nuclear program have hindered
its ability to export crude.  “We have a tight market in large part because of the loss
of Iranian barrels,” Greely said. “The tension in the  Middle
East  continues to escalate supply concerns.”  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 52
percent of proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 754,521
contracts as of 3:37 p.m. Volume totaled 760,356 contracts
yesterday, the highest level since June 29. Open interest was
1.61 million, the highest level since May 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 