-- Oki Widens Loss Estimate on Overstated Accounts in Spain
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-09-14T07:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/oki-widens-loss-estimate-on-overstated-accounts-in-spain.html
Oki Electric Industry Co. (6703) , a
Japanese telecommunications-equipment maker, widened its half-
year net  loss  forecast by 50 percent after a Spanish unit
overstated accounts.  The net loss will probably total 3 billion yen ($39
million) in the six months ending Sept. 30, compared with its
earlier loss  estimate  of 2 billion yen, Tokyo-based Oki said in
a statement today. The company also lowered its sales estimate
for printers in  Spain , it said.  Oki, with  customers  including  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , has said it intends to improve management and
internal controls to prevent future overstatements. The company
last month said the unit in Spain overstated accounts
receivables, prompting the biggest one-day  decline in shares  in
at least 37 years.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange said today that Oki will be
removed from its watchlist for possible delisting, effective
tomorrow. Oki was put on the list after reporting the accounting
irregularities and was asked to submit a business improvement
report, according to the statement.  The accumulated effect on Oki’s earnings over at least six
years from the accounting irregularities totaled 30.8 billion
yen, the company said earlier this week.  Annual Estimate  Oki kept its full-year profit estimate unchanged, as the
company expects higher demand for its information and
communication systems, including automated teller machines, to
make up for lower-than-expected sales for its printers, it said.  Net income will  probably total  11 billion yen for the year
ending March, Oki said in May. That compares with the 9.1
billion yen average of four analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Oki today raised its full-year sales estimate 1.6
percent to 447 billion yen.  First-quarter loss widened to 4.1 billion yen in the three
months ended June 30 from a 3.1 billion yen loss a year earlier,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. Sales rose
8.7 percent to 91.1 billion yen.  Oki set aside money for potentially uncollectable accounts
following the misconduct in the first quarter, it said. A
stronger yen also eroded the company’s overseas earnings when
repatriated, Oki said.  The  stock  fell 2.2 percent to 90 yen in Tokyo trading
before the announcement, trimming its gain this year to 30
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  