-- Homebuilders in U.K. Defy Recession in Cameron Rescue: Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2012-09-14T16:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/homebuilders-in-u-k-defy-recession-in-cameron-rescue-mortgages.html
The U.K. is mired in its second
recession in three years and business confidence is at a record
low. You wouldn’t know it from homebuilder stocks, as an
 industry index  beats the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  by more than 10 times.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the most prolific builder, which
once sold a house to  Margaret Thatcher , has been the star
performer with a 86 percent gain this year. Like competitors,
it’s set to profit from government efforts to stimulate growth
in a business that’s been hurt by fewer mortgage approvals and
falling prices. The plan includes relaxing construction
guidelines and making it easier for first-time buyers to take
out loans.  “The cash-generating profile of these companies is
beginning to make people sit up and take notice,” said Simon Brown, an analyst at Northland Capital Partners Ltd., which has
an “add” rating on Leicestershire-based Barratt. “If we see
just a small loosening of credit in the U.K. mortgage market,
homebuilders should be able to outpace the market by 4 percent
to 5 percent by the year end, possibly more.”  The government is counting on homebuilders to deliver as
many as 70,000 new properties thanks to less stringent planning
rules, while adding 140,000 jobs to the ailing economy. Since
demand peaked in 2007, Barratt, Persimmon Plc and  Taylor Wimpey
Plc (TW/)  have become more profitable by building homes at lower cost.  The Bloomberg EMEA Home Builders Index rose 2.9 percent
today to the highest since June 2008. The index has climbed 52
percent this year, compared with a gain of 6.2 percent for the
FTSE 100 Index.  Land Banks  The biggest savings have been on land. Homebuilders have
taken advantage of falling prices to build up holdings of land
in anticipation of rising home prices in the years ahead.  “That’s working its way into their numbers,” said Gary Channon, chief investment officer of Phoenix Asset Management
Partners Ltd., which owns about 5 percent of Barratt.  They’re also building more houses rather than apartments to
capture the higher margins that come with larger residencies,
particularly in the southeast of  England , where the government
has identified a shortage of homes.  “Housebuilders do not need the market to recover in order
to deliver earnings growth,” Anthony Codling, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co., said in a Sept. 11 note to investors.  Persimmon (PSN) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value,
widened its operating margin to 12.2 percent in the first half
from 9 percent a year earlier. Taylor Wimpey, the No. 3 company
in the industry, increased its margin by 2.3 percentage points
to 11.1 percent during the same period, while Barratt’s rose to
8.2 percent from 6.6 percent in fiscal 2012.  Expanding Margins  Margins are expanding after the housing market’s collapse
in 2008 forced homebuilders to slash costs to compensate for a
slump in demand. At the same time, they exploited falling prices
to snap up land cheaply. Companies “were forced to adopt a
siege mentality and take some tough decisions,” Codling said in
his note. “They turned out to be the right ones.”  Land values declined throughout England for five straight
quarters starting in the first three months of 2008, including a
23 percent drop in urban land in the third quarter of that year,
broker  Knight Frank  LLP estimates. By the end of 2009, land
prices had dropped as much as 60 percent from their peak two
years earlier.  Homebuilders including Taylor Wimpey,  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS) 
and  Redrow Plc (RDW)  raised more than 1.65 billion pounds ($2.67
billion) selling shares as the housing slump eased and the
prospect of acquiring plots became attractive again in 2009.
Barratt spent 1.31 billion pounds on land in fiscal 2008 and
2009 combined, according to a company statement.  ‘Significant Rebound’  The purchases set homebuilders up for a “significant
rebound,” Citigroup Inc. analysts including Clyde Lewis said in
December 2009.      Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the U.K.’s second-largest
homebuilder by market value, paid about 12 million pounds for an
office property in the  City of London  financial district in
August 2010. The building was erected in the 1950s and had been
vacant since December 2007, the Cobham, England-based company
said.  Berkeley is now building 90 homes on the site, ranging from
studios to three-bedroom apartments. Residential real estate in
the district has gained 13 percent in the two years since
Berkeley acquired the site, according to London-based Knight
Frank.  Fewer Mortgages  U.K. banks have reined in lending to comply with stricter
capital rules even as  interest rates  have fallen to record lows.
 Mortgage approvals  are at less than half their monthly average
in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis struck.
Business confidence fell to a record low last month and the
economy shrank 0.5 percent in the second quarter.  Housing measures continue to point to a “sluggish” market
where prices continue to fall, the  Royal Institution  of
Chartered Surveyors said Sept. 11. Mortgage-lender Halifax said
on Sept. 6 that real-estate prices fell for a second month in
August and will probably remain little changed into 2013.  “The general housing market across the U.K. is quite
depressing and it will continue to be depressing until the
government decides to give it some sort of boost,” said Nick Candy, who helped conceive One Hyde Park, the U.K.’s most
expensive apartment complex. ’’If they can bail out banks with
huge amounts of quantitative easing, they can help first-time
buyers, can’t they?’’  ‘Mini-Resurgence’  House prices  increased for the first time in three months
in August as demand rebounded from an early summer lull,
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said today. The
improvement was a “mini-resurgence” following slow activity
tied to an extra public holiday and historically heavy rainfall,
said Richard Sexton, director of LSL’s e.surv business.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats is seeking to make it easier for home
buyers to get a mortgage and giving breaks to homebuilders.  It also has tried to bolster the housing market by easing
planning laws and reducing the down payments needed by some
first-time buyers. The government is loosening the requirement
that building projects include social housing and low-cost homes
to spur work on sites wouldn’t have been profitable, the
government said Sept. 6.  The  Bank of England  and Treasury started an 80 billion-
pound loan-funding program last month to make it cheaper for
banks to lend and boost household credit.  The ability of Britain’s homebuilders to continue to
flourish “is going to center on the ability of the government
to achieve in part their desire to see greater stimulus on new
house-building,” Brown of Northland said in a telephone
interview.  Loan Guarantee  Starting in the second quarter, more people seeking a new
home were able to get a mortgage equal to 95 percent of the
property’s value. The loans include a guarantee shared by the
government and the homebuilders that protects lenders from some
losses they would incur in a default.  Barratt, which builds everything from social housing to new
family homes and inner city residential properties, said in
March that about 20,000 people had registered with the company
to buy their homes using the state-backed mortgages.  The government-led program, called New Buy, should be made
more widely available to spark economic growth, Persimmon Chief
Executive Officer Mike Farley said in an Aug. 21 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  “If we can come up with a scheme that avoids the necessity
of putting down a 20 or 25 percent deposit that’s the real key
to unlocking the first-time buyer movement,” Farley said. “The
issue isn’t so much affordability as such it’s finding those
large deposits.”  Savills Survey  Despite the government’s support, a Savills Plc survey of
more than 800 people in the residential real estate industry
showed homebuilder profits are expected to slow next year. A
weakening global economy and the risk of a major external event
overtook lack of finance as the top perceived risk, the London-
based broker said.  “They’re pretty pessimistic about the economy,” Yolande Barnes, Savills’ head of residential research, said in an
interview.  The government’s homebuilding initiatives introduced in
March haven’t yet produced the anticipated results. Planning
permission for new homes fell 32 percent in the second quarter
from the previous three months to less than half of the 55,466
granted in the same period of 2007, according to data compiled
by researcher Glenigan Ltd. for the Home Builders Federation
published Sept. 10.  ‘Simple’ Rationale  Still, builders may not need a government-led increase in
lending and home buying to continue to see profits increase
because the industry’s recent success hasn’t come on higher
volume. Even though about 245,000 homes a year in the decade
through 2023 need to be built to meet demand, new-home
completions last year were at the lowest during peacetime since
1924, according to the Department for Communities and Local
Government.  “The investment case for the U.K. house building sector is
a simple one: we are not building enough houses and the supply
gap is growing not shrinking,” Jefferies’ Codling said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  