-- London Gin Craze Had Roots in Nascent Consumer Society
-- B y   L e s l e y   J a c o b s   S o l m o n s o n
-- 2012-09-14T13:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/london-gin-craze-had-roots-in-nascent-consumer-society.html
Gin has always been big business in
 England . In the 18th century, as London’s infamous “Gin Craze”
unfolded, the spirit was at the center of a debate that helped
define the country’s politics and economics -- and created a
commercial demand that persists to this day.  The privileged of the 1700s sipped genever, the “original
gin” imported from Holland. Desperate to keep up with their
betters, the lower classes demanded a gin of their own. As a
result, from 1720 to 1751, a storm of unrest swirled around the
production, distribution and sale of rotgut booze.  The story of the Gin Craze properly begins with the
Glorious Revolution of 1688, which brought William III of Orange
to the British throne. He brought with him a hatred of all
things French -- he immediately banned the import of Gallic
spirits, such as brandy -- and a warring political agenda that
required funding. Meanwhile, William’s wealthy landowner friends
in Parliament had surplus grain, not to mention an eye for the
profit it could make them.  A Stranglehold  This led to a series of political machinations that would
set the stage for gin’s stranglehold on the underprivileged.
First, the Distilling Act of 1690 dissolved the production
monopoly that had been held by the Worshipful Company of
Distillers, thus allowing anyone to set up a still simply by
posting a public notice and produce spirits without a license.  Then, in 1694, beer -- the “national beverage” -- was
subjected to a heavy tax, making gin cheaper to drink. In 1720,
one of Parliament’s annual Mutiny Acts stated that those who
distilled spirits in their homes didn’t have to house soldiers,
since soldiers and alcohol often did not create the best of
situations. Soon, “distillers” of the home-grown sort abounded.
Over time, the government would come to rely heavily on excises
on distilled spirits for revenue.  And gin didn’t disappoint, luring the masses from their
daily toil with its promise of blissful oblivion. The era’s
extreme consumption -- in  London , with a population of about
600,000, one in four residents were drunk at any given time --
reflected the development of a nascent consumer society. A lack
of available workers increased wages as supply affected demand.
For the first time in history, the English masses had something
akin to disposable income, and they enthusiastically spent it on
whatever might ease their suffering, particularly gin. Although
the English, rich and poor alike, had always drunk to excess,
never before had the underprivileged been able to consume a
spirit so readily available and so deadly.  Thanks in part to the Mutiny Act, there were roughly 7,000
gin shops in London in 1720. By 1733, the city was producing 11
million gallons of legal gin per year -- roughly 14 gallons for
every man, woman and child. The harsh flavor and adulterated
character of this 160-proof gin was only partially disguised by
the addition of creative additives like turpentine and sulfuric
acid (and later juniper). It was a recipe for death and social
destruction.  Thus, it’s no surprise that a series of Gin Acts were soon
passed. Quite simply, the rich were offended that the poor were
trying to rise above their station and disturbed by an apparent
rise in crime, not to mention the hundreds of souls passed out
or dead in the streets. Daniel Defoe, the pamphleteer and author
of “Robinson Crusoe,” noted that the rich had some role in the
disaster. In defending the poor in “A Brief Case of the
Distillers” (1726), he observed, “it seems to me they have done
not only that which their Ancestors did before them, but even
what their Superiors have seem’d to lead them into just now, by
a general Example.” In other words, if the rich didn’t drink so
much and put on airs, the poor wouldn’t be desperate to copy
them.  A Scapegoat  The 1736 Gin Act was spearheaded by Sir Joseph Jekyll, who
made no attempt to hide his disgust for drunkenness. The act
drastically raised license fees for retailers, fined home
distillers and rewarded informers. The result was predictable.
As with Prohibition in the U.S., crime increased even more as
gin went underground, showing up with new tongue-in-cheek names
such as Parliamentary Brandy. As is often the case with social
reform, the true cause of the problem -- poverty itself -- was
overlooked as gin became the scapegoat for all of London’s ills.  Economics brought about a brief decline in gin’s
popularity, and thus an end to the craze. In the second half of
the century, the working poor had to count their shillings:
Wages had dropped drastically as the population increased, and
the price of bread shot up after a series of devastating
harvests. Meanwhile, other products such as rum and porter were
gaining popularity and Parliament outlawed the use of domestic
grain in distilling. These factors were enough to loosen gin’s
grip.  But not for long: A new standard of consumption had been
set. Soon, advances in mechanization and distribution would
allow gin to evolve into the spirit we know today as London Dry.
According to the  Gin and Vodka Association of Great Britain , the
U.K. is now the largest gin exporter in the world. Perhaps gin
was destined to become the tipple of both commoners and kings.  (Lesley Jacobs Solmonson is the author of “Gin: A Global
History” and the co-founder of 12bottlebar.com, a website devoted to
classic cocktails. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the author of this post: Lesley Jacobs Solmonson at
 ljsolmonson@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 