-- Hong Kong Tightens Mortgages Amid QE3 Concerns of Bubble
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/hong-kong-tightens-mortgages-amid-qe3-concerns-of-asset-bubble.html
Hong Kong ’s central bank tightened
mortgage lending after saying a third round of quantitative
easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve risks pushing up  home prices 
that have already surpassed their 1997 peak.  The central bank is limiting the maximum term on all new
mortgages to 30 years,  Norman Chan , chief executive of the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority, told reporters yesterday. Mortgage
payments for investment properties can’t be more than 40 percent
of buyers’ monthly incomes, from the current 50 percent, he said.  The measures are the second set of curbs in as many weeks
by the government of new Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who is
trying to rein in home prices that have gained more than 85
percent since early 2009. Hong Kong property stocks surged,
pushing the benchmark Hang Seng Index to a four-month high,
after the Fed said it will continue buying assets in a third
round of quantitative easing without setting any limit on the
ultimate amount it would buy or the duration of the program.  “Without policy intervention, QE3 will further heat up the
Hong Kong property market,”  David Ng , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Macquarie Securities Ltd., wrote in a note yesterday after
the HKMA’s announcement. “Excessive price growth not only hurts
affordability, but will further weaken the political clout of
the government.”  Record low mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other
parts of  China  and a lack of new supply have been underpinning
the Hong Kong property market, prompting Leung, who was sworn in
as the city’s leader in July, to accelerate land sales and give
preference to local buyers in some projects.  Stand Ready  The introduction of QE3 “will create the potential for
renewed influx of capital into Hong Kong,” Chan said. “We have
to stand ready for it.”  The central bank also raised the minimum down payment on
investment properties for buyers who derive their income from
outside Hong Kong. Investors using their assets -- not income --
to borrow can now only take out loans for as much as 30 percent
of a property’s value, Chan said. The restrictions are effective
immediately.  “The new measure will deter speculative and investment
demand and the yield for property investors will be lower,”
said Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based economist at Australian &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The city’s Financial Secretary  John Tsang  also said
yesterday that QE3 may push up Hong Kong home prices and the
government won’t hesitate to introduce more property curbs if
needed.  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  The nine-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  jumped 3.2 percent
to end the week at its highest since August 2011, before Chan
announced the new measures. That extended its gain this year to
27 percent, more than double the 12 percent advance in the  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  over the period.  Restricting Homebuyers  Leung said on Sept. 6 he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices
including making more land available to developers and speeding
up the building of public housing.  The city’s chief executive, who was elected in March by a
committee of mostly businessmen, professionals and lawmakers,
has pledged during his campaign to address a widening wealth gap
and concerns that housing is becoming unaffordable for the
general public.  The city’s government has had to tweak demand and supply
through additional property transaction taxes, higher mortgage
down payments and by releasing more land to developers as Hong
Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  pushed borrowing costs to
a record low and prevents the de-facto central bank from using
monetary policy.  1997 Peak  The number of home transactions in Hong Kong rose 42
percent in August from a month earlier, the biggest increase
since March.  The central bank raised the minimum down payment for some
mortgages in June last year, the third time since August 2010,
with borrowers now having to put down 40 percent for homes
costing more than HK$7 million ($902,000). In 2010, the
government introduced an additional stamp duty on residential
units sold within two years of purchase.  Hong Kong home prices have  risen  14 percent this year,
according to an index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.
They fell 4 percent in the last three months of 2011, the
biggest quarterly drop since the global credit crisis, after the
government’s mortgage restrictions and as  China’s economy  began
to slow.  Hong Kong’s home prices have now surpassed their peak in
October 1997, which marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to the Centaline index. They have soared
240 percent since that trough nine years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 