-- Mortgage-Bond Spreads Fall to Record Low as Fed Starts Buying
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-14T19:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/mortgage-bond-spreads-fall-to-record-low-as-fed-starts-buying.html
A measure of relative yields on
mortgage securities dropped to the lowest on record after the
 Federal Reserve  said it will expand its purchases, extending a
rally that offered hedge funds returns of 15 percent in a week.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value fell about 1 basis
points to 92 basis points, or 0.92 percentage point, higher than
an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates as of 3 p.m. in
New York. That’s the narrowest spread since at least 1984 for
the securities that guide U.S. home-loan rates.  “A typical fundamental-value framework really isn’t
applicable here” because the Fed’s goals differ from those of
normal investors, said Todd Abraham, co-head of the government
and mortgage-backed fixed-income group at Federated Investors
Inc. “It makes it pretty challenging to determine at what point
you need to change your allocations. It’s almost more of a case
of needing to try to anticipate what others are going to do.”  The Fed’s focus on the mortgage market, after speculation
its third round of so-called quantitative easing would also
include U.S. government bonds, capped a rise today in the
housing debt’s absolute yields. A climb of 9 basis points from a
record low to 2.21 percent reflected a jump in benchmark
Treasury yields as the central bank’s move yesterday to
strengthen the economy created soaring inflation expectations.  The spread, which tumbled 20 basis points yesterday as the
central bank announced a plan to expand its holdings with
monthly purchases of $40 billion of agency mortgage bonds, has
declined from 152 at the start of the year.  Spread Measures  A type of bet on the outperformance of mortgage bonds that
was recommended on Sept. 6 by Credit Suisse Group AG offered a
gain of 1.5 cents on the dollar through late yesterday, when
analysts led by Mahesh Swaminathan said in a note it was no
longer attractive. With the 10-times leverage often employed by
 hedge funds  on such wagers, potential returns were 15 percent.  Relative yields may not widen even with so-called option-
adjusted spread measures signaling the bonds offer less yield
than Treasuries, Nomura Securities International analysts led by
Ohmsatya Ravi said.  With much further spread tightening amid the start of the
Fed’s purchases today, “investors should consider exiting
overweights,” they wrote. Still, “investors shouldn’t consider
shorting agency MBS yet, considering that the likely size” of
the open-ended program “is not known at this time.”  $1 Trillion  A “reasonable person” could see additions of as much as
$1 trillion to the Fed’s holdings in the $5.2 trillion market
for agency, or government-backed, mortgage securities, according
to the Nomura analysts, the second-ranked for strategy on the
debt in this year’s Institutional Investor magazine poll. An
increase of $650 billion is most likely, they said. The central
bank already owns about  $850 billion .  Investors are usually considered overweight if they are
holding more of the debt than found in benchmark indexes.  About 77 percent of investors surveyed by mortgage-bond
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week expected the Fed
would start a round of bond buying involving home-loan
securities. Among the respondents, 22 percent predicted it would
be announced at yesterday’s meeting and 26 percent in October.  Most expected $200 billion to $500 billion of mortgage-bond
purchases. Seventy percent said they were already overweight the
securities among those guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae that the central
bank would target.  ‘Incredible’ Performance  “Many were expecting they would do something, but the
probability seemed pretty low they would do something open-ended
like this,” Federated’s Abraham, whose Pittsburgh-based firm
manages about $356 billion of assets, said in a telephone
interview. “You’re seeing performance that’s frankly pretty
incredible.”  Bond gains amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, concern that the  U.S.
economy  is slowing and anticipation of Fed purchases drove down
the  average rate  on a typical 30-year mortgage to a record low
3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, according to Freddie Mac
data. After a subsequent increase to as high as 3.66 percent,
borrowing costs declined through the week ended yesterday,
falling back to 3.55 percent.  Swings in lending rates have been smaller than seen in bond
yields as lenders prevent borrowing costs from falling too far
to avoid being overwhelmed by applications a jump in refinancing
demand. That dynamic will limit the initial declines in  mortgage
rates  from falling yields on home-loan securities after the Fed
announcement, according to Credit Suisse.  Including an existing program in which the Fed is
reinvesting proceeds from its past purchase of housing debt into
the market, the central bank will be buying about $65 billion to
$70 billion a month, Bank of America Corp. analysts including
 Chris Flanagan  and Satish Mansukhani said in a report yesterday.  Cheap Financing  “As it stands right now, this volume of purchases would
absorb a substantial share” of issuance, which totaled $122
billion in August, they wrote.  The securities that the Fed may target “could remain rich
and tighten further based on the strong technical backdrop this
creates, the outlook for lower volatility” and potential for
especially cheap financing costs to be created for investors
using the so-called dollar roll market, they said.  With dollar rolls, an investor seeking to borrow money
enters into contracts to sell mortgage securities in any month
and then buy similar bonds the following month; a lender would
undertake the opposite trades. Investors entering into
transactions for other reasons may be on either side of the
contracts.  Higher Volatility  Higher forecasted rate  volatility  increases doubt about
when mortgages will be repaid because homeowner refinancing
fluctuates, as well as the cost of options used as hedges.
Investors in mortgage bonds trading for more than face value
stand to lose as prepayments return their cash faster at par and
curb interest.  Option-adjusted spreads, or OAS, capture projected average
yields relative to benchmarks over a range of potential future
 interest rates  that will influence homeowner prepayment speeds.
Simpler yield spreads against benchmarks of a single maturity
also fail to reflect that borrowers’ principal is paid down both
sooner and later than the average lives of the debt.  The Fed may already be the biggest buyer in the agency
mortgage-bond market after starting in October to purchase new
securities with proceeds from its past acquisitions of housing-
related debt, including $1.25 trillion of home-loan notes
through March 2010. It has bought $305 billion of securities
under the reinvestment program, which it announced with the
first round of its so-called Operation Twist for Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  