-- Most Popular Structured Notes Use Leverage for Returns
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-09-14T22:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/most-popular-structured-notes-use-leverage-for-returns-correct-.html
(Corrects assets under management in fourth paragraph of
story published Sept. 13.)  The most popular U.S. structured
notes tied to stocks this year use leverage to boost returns, as
interest rates hover close to record lows and as gains in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slow.  Of the 50 largest notes this year linked to a stock or
index, $2.52 billion, or 61 percent of the total issuance, allow
investors to multiply gains, typically until reaching a cap,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 40
percent for the 50 biggest similar securities in 2011.  The five largest stock-tied leveraged notes in 2012 have
been issued after the first quarter, during a period when the
 S&P 500   increased  less than 2 percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve
also has restated the need to keep its benchmark  interest rate 
“exceptionally low” until at least late 2014, and the five-
year Treasury touched a record low of 0.5426 percent on July 24.  “If you have a flat market, the leverage allows you to
outperform,” said Tom Balcom, founder of 1650 Wealth
Management, a Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Florida, investment
advisory firm with one-third of its $45 million in assets under
management in leveraged structured notes. “People are not
expecting gangbusters from the stock markets.”  The largest leveraged offering this year came from UBS AG,
which sold $946.2 million of one-year notes tied to the  Russell
1000  Growth Index on May 16. The securities, which Fisher Asset
Management bought, account for 23 percent of the issuance for
the 50 biggest equity-linked notes this year, Bloomberg data
show.  Russell-Linked Note  Investors receive twice the gains and losses of the Russell
1000, subject to certain adjustments and the possibility of an
early redemption. The notes traded at $28.15 on Sept. 11, up 13
percent, while the  index  has increased 6.7 percent since the
securities were sold, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Corp. had the second-largest offering,
$118.5 million of 14-month securities that yield three times the
gains of the S&P 500, with returns capped at 21.06 percent,
according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Investors suffer one-to-one losses if the
benchmark declines.  The low levels of both interest rates and the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as the VIX, are hurting
the ability of issuers to create attractive leveraged notes,
said Scott Miller Jr., a managing partner at Blue Bell  Wealth
Management . The VIX dropped to a five-year low in August.  Not as Favorable  “The terms you could get right now probably aren’t quite
as favorable as the terms you would get in a more volatile
environment,” said Miller, whose company has about 20 percent
of its $200 million of assets in structured notes. More
volatility would permit higher caps on returns, he said.  The level of the VIX is derived from the value of options,
which are embedded in structured notes. Higher volatility boosts
the price of the options.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  