-- Panetta Seeks to Reassure Allies and Defuse China Tension
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-09-16T02:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/panetta-seeks-to-reassure-allies-and-defuse-china-tension.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
left today on a mission to reassure Chinese leaders that the
Obama administration’s pivot to Asia isn’t meant to provoke a
confrontation over  China ’s increasingly assertive posture toward
its neighbors.  Panetta will visit China Sept. 17 after stopping in  Japan ,
a longtime U.S. ally in the Pacific. China, with the world’s
second-biggest economy, is preparing for a leadership succession
clouded by uncertainty.  Chinese leaders worry that the administration’s plan to
reinforce the U.S. military presence in Asia is aimed at curbing
China’s influence and encouraging countries to stand up to
Beijing, according to  Kenneth Lieberthal , a China specialist at
the  Brookings Institution  in Washington. China’s claims to
uninhabited islands and oil and natural gas fields in the East
China and South China seas are disputed by nations including
Japan, Vietnam and the Philippines.  “The U.S. does not take a position on territorial
disputes,” Panetta told reporters on board a U.S. military
airplane en route to Asia. “We do urge not just China but other
countries to engage in a process to peacefully resolve these
issues. What we don’t want is any provocative behavior either on
the part of China or others that will result in a conflict.”  The U.S. military’s global strategy, announced in January,
will result in positioning about 60 percent of the Pentagon’s
naval assets in the Asia-Pacific region by 2020, up from about
50 percent now, Panetta told the region’s leaders in Singapore
in June. As part of this “rebalancing,” the U.S. plans to
redeploy to Guam military forces stationed in Japan and rotate a
contingent of Marines through Australia, and probably also the
Philippines.  China’s Concern  Chinese leaders are concerned about the U.S. strategy,
Lieberthal said. “In China, they’re pretty stoked up, at a time
when they’re going through a difficult succession, that the U.S.
is piling on by exacerbating China’s tensions with its
neighbors,” he said in a phone interview. “They think it is
purposeful and that’s what the U.S. means by rebalancing.”  One of Panetta’s tasks in China, which he will visit for
the first time at the invitation of Defense Minister General
Liang Guanglie, is to explain “what’s involved in rebalancing
and try to take a little bit of air out of the heated rhetoric
that’s increasingly characterizing the U.S.-China
relationship,” Lieberthal said.  Xi Jinping  Asked if Panetta would see Vice President  Xi Jinping , who
canceled meetings this month with visitors including U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said Sept. 13 that the itinerary wasn’t yet confirmed.  Xi, who is in line to be named president, appeared in
public yesterday for the first time in two weeks, visiting an
exhibition at the China Agricultural University in Beijing,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  China Central
Television  showed footage of him smiling and shaking hands with
children.  In explaining U.S. strategy to his Chinese counterparts,
Panetta must be careful not to appear to be placating China, as
if its “emerging hard-line strategy” is paying off, said
Patrick Cronin, an Asia specialist at the Center for New
American Security, a policy center in Washington.  China appears to have abandoned  Deng Xiaoping ’s dictum
“Hide your strength; bide your time” and instead is taking a
more assertive approach toward its neighbors over territorial
claims, Cronin said.  China, Japan  China and Japan are deadlocked over ownership of a group of
uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea  known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. On Sept. 13, China sent six
government vessels near the islands into what Japan considers
its territorial waters.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  announced last week
that the country had bought the disputed islands from their
private Japanese owner, a move China said it rejected.  The tension has led to Japanese citizens being attacked in
parts of China, and also threatens the flow of Chinese tourists
to Japan.  In April, China clashed with the Philippines over the
Scarborough Shoals in the South China Sea. Chinese vessels last
year cut the cables of a Vietnamese petroleum exploration ship.  “I am concerned that with these countries engaging in
provocation of one kind or another over these various islands it
raises the possibility that a misjudgment of one side or another
could lead to violence,” Panetta told reporters today.  Japan, New Zealand  Panetta will stop first in Japan to meet his counterpart
Satoshi Morimoto and Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba . After
China, Panetta will travel to New Zealand.  New Zealand, once a U.S. treaty ally along with Australia,
no longer has such a relationship after the South Pacific nation
passed legislation in 1985 banning nuclear-powered ships or
nuclear-armed vessels from calling at its ports.  While U.S. officials have said their military rebalancing
isn’t aimed at containing China, “the circle around China
orchestrated by the U.S. seems to be tightening,” Zhao
Xiaozhuo, a senior colonel in the  People’s Liberation Army ,
wrote in a Sept. 13 opinion piece in the  China Daily , a state-
run newspaper. An illustration accompanying the article showed
 Uncle Sam  pouring gasoline on a fire.  The author wrote that the U.S. conducted a joint military
exercise with the Philippines and encouraged Manila to take an
“aggressive attitude” toward China during the two nations’
dispute over the Scarborough Shoals.  The U.S. also has held joint military exercises with Japan
amid that country’s territorial dispute with China.  Military Budget  In March, China’s announced an 11.2 percent increase in its
annual military budget to about 670 billion  yuan  ($106.4
billion). The Pentagon’s proposed 2013 budget is $525 billion.  China’s increase in military spending continues “more than
two decades of sustained annual increases,” according to the
Pentagon’s annual report to Congress on China’s military.  “Analysis of 2000-2011 data indicates China’s officially
disclosed military budget grew at an average of 11.8 percent per
year in inflation-adjusted terms over the period,” according to
the report prepared in May. The U.S. defense budget almost
doubled in the decade ending 2010, fueled by spending on the
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.  Beyond Panetta’s challenge in explaining U.S. strategy, the
“bigger issue is China’s growing nuclear capability,” said
Larry Wortzel, a member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security
Review Commission, a congressionally appointed panel that
examines China’s military capabilities. “The major strategic
concern for the U.S. ought to be the increase in their ballistic
missile force.”  Stealth Fighter  China is developing a stealth jet fighter that was first
tested when U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  visited Beijing
in January 2011. It also is building the DF-21 anti-ship
missile.  From China’s perspective, a top concern is the U.S.
missile-defense capability in the region, as well as joint
development under way with Japan, said  Bonnie Glaser , a China
specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington.  While relations with China demand attention, the U.S.
should continue to tend to its long-standing ties with Japan,
according to retired Navy Admiral Dennis Blair, a former U.S.
Director of National Intelligence.  In discussing the rebalancing strategy with Japan, the U.S.
must explain “what kind of Asia we want to see in the future,”
Blair said.  New Generation  A new generation of Japanese is coming to power with a
different view of China, said Blair, who also served as
commander of the U.S. Pacific Command from 1999 to 2002. The
Japanese once had “tremendous sympathy for China” and provided
significant aid to the country, “but all that is gone now, and
China is seen as a potential rival and possibly a threat,” he
said.  Panetta also has to reassure Japan that the Marine Corps’
V-22 Osprey aircraft being deployed to U.S. bases in Japan will
be safe. The Pentagon has delayed flying the V-22 in Japan while
it investigates two crashes involving the aircraft, which lifts
off like a helicopter and flies like an airplane.  Panetta will be the first U.S. defense secretary to visit
 New Zealand  since Caspar Weinberger in the early 1980s.
Panetta’s trip follows New Zealand Defense Minister Jonathan Coleman’s visit to Washington in June.  The increase in visits by U.S. officials to New Zealand
“reflects American concern that China is gaining influence in
the region, and the U.S. doesn’t want to cede that to China,”
said Robert Ayson, a professor of strategic studies at the
Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand’s capital. The
U.S. is seeking to “bolster relations with New Zealand and the
South Pacific.”  New Zealand, which has a free-trade agreement with China,
and has substantial economic ties with the country, would like
to “maintain a positive relationship” with both the U.S. and
China, Ayson said. “If the U.S. and China get into a tense
situation, it’s bad for all of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  