-- Pennsylvania Top Court Hears Arguments on Voter-ID Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-14T04:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/pennsylvania-top-court-hears-arguments-on-voter-id-law.html
Pennsylvania ’s law requiring voters
to have photo identification “impermissibly” violates a
fundamental right, an attorney for the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and 10 citizen-plaintiffs told the state’s Supreme Court.  “The right to vote is fundamental,” David Gersch, a
lawyer for the plaintiffs with the firm Arnold & Porter LLP,
told the six-justice panel yesterday in Philadelphia. “The
right to vote is the country’s proudest boast and Pennsylvania
has been in the forefront of that from the very beginning.”  “Not everything that affects that right is fundamental,”
John Knorr, chief deputy attorney general, countered in his
arguments to the panel. “Fashioning the regulatory framework is
the job of the legislature.”  Yesterday’s arguments came in an appeal by the ACLU of a
lower court’s Aug. 15 decision upholding the law, which requires
voters to show government-issued photo identification before
casting a ballot.  The justices considering the case are split evenly between
Democrats and Republicans. If they tie, the law would be upheld.  Laws requiring photo identification to vote in battleground
states including Pennsylvania and Florida could be the deciding
factor in the Nov. 6 presidential election, according to a study
released Sept. 11 by researchers at  Washington University  in  St.
Louis  and the  University of Chicago . As many as 700,000 young
minority voters nationwide could be kept from the polls by
voter-ID laws in several states, according to the study.  Florida, Pennsylvania  More than 100,000 voters under the age of 30 could be
barred in Florida and as many as 44,000 in Pennsylvania if the
laws in those states are upheld, according to the study.  Pennsylvania is one of nine states requiring voters to show
a state-issued ID before casting a ballot. Last month,
Commonwealth Court Judge Richard Simpson, a Republican, denied a
request to block the law, ruling that the  ACLU  failed to prove
it would disenfranchise voters. Seventeen states require voters
to present some kind of photo ID.  Proponents argue the law passed by Pennsylvania’s
Republican-controlled legislature is needed to stop voter fraud
and enhance the integrity of elections. The ACLU and advocacy
groups, including the Advancement Project and the Public
Interest Law Center of Philadelphia, say the measure is aimed at
keeping some likely Democratic voters away from the polls.  New Card  Pennsylvania’s law , enacted in March, requires a driver’s
license or other state-issued ID, or an acceptable alternative
such as a military ID, to cast a ballot in November. The
Pennsylvania Department of State on Aug. 27 began offering a new
identification card for voting as a last resort for those unable
to obtain any other state-issued ID.  A state analysis found the photo requirement might exclude
as much as 9 percent of Pennsylvania’s electorate from voting in
the presidential election.  Democratic President  Barack Obama  carried Pennsylvania,
which has 20 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win
the presidency, by 620,478 votes in 2008, fewer than the number
who might be kept from the polls this November, according to the
law’s challengers.  Backed by Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican,
the law follows similar measures passed by Republican-controlled
legislatures in other states since Obama’s 2008 victory. Just
two states adopted voter-ID laws before 2008.  ‘Strict Scrutiny’  The arguments of the ACLU and other advocacy groups before
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court hinge on the level of scrutiny
Simpson should have applied in evaluating the case. They said in
court filings that the proper legal standard, because the law
may affect the right to vote, is “strict scrutiny,” which
would put the burden on the state to prove why the law is
necessary.  Simpson ruled that a “deferential standard” was
appropriate, with the court deferring to the judgment of
legislature to make rules for elections.  Much of yesterday’s hearing focused on how much deference
should be afforded to the general assembly.  “Is the degree of that deference dissipated when an
enactment of a legislation is so close to an election, one that
impacts state office holders and federal offices?”  Supreme
Court  Justice Debra McCloskey Todd, a Democrat, asked Gersch.  ‘Considerable Deference’  “The problem for the commonwealth in this situation is
that they are burdening the right to vote,” Gersch said. “If
this was a mere election regulation that didn’t impose
substantive harm then there would be deferential position.”  Legislators should be given “considerable deference” over
the substance and timing of the law, Knorr said.  Justice Seamus McCaffery, a Democrat, questioned whether
the law’s requirement of a specific type of photo ID creates an
additional level of qualification to the voting booth that could
be considered unconstitutional.  “I would not agree this is an additional qualification,”
Knorr responded. “It’s simply a means to establish that you are
who you say you are.”  Knorr also discounted as “fantasy” reports that as many
as 1.5 million people may be unable to vote in the state on Nov.
6.  “The burden to me is quite minimal,” he said. “Most
people can get photo IDs quite easily. We haven’t had any
evidence of a single real person who can’t get this.”  Most if not all of the 10 plaintiffs have some form of
photo ID, Knorr said.  Two Cycles  Both McCaffery and Todd asked lawyers whether spreading
enforcement of the law over two federal election cycles would
alleviate any potential burden.  Yes, if all qualified electors are assured an ID, Gersch
said.  “Those things are matters for the general assembly”
Knorr said.  “The rushing of this is not a reason for us to overturn a
lower court judge,” Chief Justice Ronald Castille, a
Republican, said.  Last month, U.S. courts rejected election-related laws
passed by Republican-controlled legislatures in  Ohio ,  Florida 
and  Texas , finding they violated the right to vote. At least 14
cases challenging voter-list purges, provisional-ballot rules,
early voting curbs or photo ID mandates are pending in
 Wisconsin ,  Colorado ,  Iowa , Florida and Ohio.  This week, Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted failed to
persuade a federal judge to delay enforcement of an Aug. 31
ruling equalizing the number of early voting days for all the
state’s citizens before the Nov. 6 election.  Democratic Parties  The Ohio and national Democratic parties, along with
Obama’s campaign, sued Husted in July, arguing it was
unconstitutional for the state to grant three more early or
absentee voting days to members of the armed forces or Ohioans
living overseas than to other voters. U.S. District Judge Peter Economus in Columbus, Ohio, agreed, ruling that all the state’s
citizens must be allowed to cast pre-Election Day ballots
through Nov. 5.  Overall, the states where photo-ID laws have been enacted
would probably see a total drop in turnout by young minorities
of as much as 696,000, possibly falling below 2004 and 2008
levels, according to the study by University of Chicago
political science professor Cathy J. Cohen and Jon C. Rogowski
of  Washington University . Across the country, at least 16
competitive races for the  House of Representatives  have photo
identification requirements that are likely to affect minority
voters disproportionately, they concluded.  Even so, the professors acknowledged “a variety of
challenges associated with ascertaining the likely consequences
of these laws,” because of the difficulty in determining how
many Americans lack valid government-issued identification and
because results differ by state.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 71
MAP 2012, Supreme Court of Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  