-- Peter Lougheed, Who Shaped Modern Alberta, Dies at 84
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-14T13:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/peter-lougheed-who-shaped-modern-alberta-dies-at-84.html
Peter Lougheed, the former premier
of  Alberta  who helped transform the Canadian province into one
of the world’s largest exporters of oil and natural gas, has
died. He was 84.  Lougheed, the 10th premier of Alberta, died yesterday from
natural causes, according to a statement from his family.  Lougheed became premier in 1971 as leader of the
Progressive Conservative party, leading the province until 1985.
During his tenure, he revamped rules to encourage fossil fuel
exploration and production and had a stand-off with then Prime
Minister Pierre Trudeau over the country’s energy policy.
“Peter Lougheed was quite simply one of the most remarkable
Canadians of his generation,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper
said in an e-mailed statement. “He was a driving force behind
the province’s economic diversification, of it having more
control of its natural resources and their development, of
Alberta playing a greater role in federation and of improving
the province’s health, research and recreational facilities.”  The Harvard business school graduate and former player for
the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League was chosen
by 30 Canadian historians, political scientists, economists and
journalists as the country’s best premier over the past four
decades, in a survey done in June for the Institute for Research
on Public Policy. His Progressive Conservatives have held power
for more than 40 years, winning every election during that time.  Wealth Fund  As premier, Lougheed raised royalties paid to the province
by  oil companies . He also began to prepare the province for a
post-oil era by establishing a wealth fund, the Alberta Heritage
Savings Trust Fund, using oil and gas revenue.  Policies that Lougheed implemented included tax measures to
spark  oil sands  and heavy oil development, government
investments into research on fossil fuel production technology,
and an investment in Syncrude  Canada  Ltd. to kick start what
would become the largest single oil sands mining project, now
owned by a partnership of oil and gas companies.  “His forward-thinking, progressive vision gave us the
tools to succeed today and helped to propel Alberta into a
leadership role in Canada,” Premier Alison Redford said in a
statement.  A dispute over the National Energy Program led Lougheed to
cut oil production after the Trudeau government put a cap on the
price of Alberta oil. Still, he offered to reverse the move if
Canadian oil supply was at risk.  “We will not put any Canadian in a position of being
concerned with regard to supply,” he told Albertans in a
televised statement Oct. 30, 1980.  Court Challenge  Lougheed also took the federal government to the  Supreme
Court  over its policy to tax exports of provincial-controlled
resources. The disagreement led to a drop in the province’s
economic growth as oil and gas producers cut investment and
production.  The province’s oil sands contain about 173 billion barrels
of recoverable crude, the third-largest in the world after  Saudi
Arabia  and  Venezuela , according to the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  After leaving politics, Lougheed practiced law as a partner
at Bennett Jones LLP and served as the chairman of  Keyera Corp. (KEY) 
While he largely avoided making public political comments, he
endorsed Premier Redford’s bid to seek re-election for the
 Progressive Conservatives  in April.  Slower Growth  In 2009, Lougheed called for a slowdown of oil sands growth
to lower inflationary pressures on the Alberta economy. Last
year, he spoke out against exports of oil sands crude via
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Alberta-to-Texas Keystone XL
pipeline, in favor of upgrading and refining more crude in the
province.  Lougheed’s paternal grandfather James was a federal senator
and government minister who advocated for provincial control of
natural resources and supported the creation of the province of
Alberta out of the federally-administered  Northwest Territories 
in 1905.  Lougheed is survived by his wife Jeanne, his four children
Stephen, Andrea, Pamela and Joseph and seven grandchildren,
according to a statement today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  