-- Peugeot May Sell Gefco Trucking Stake to Russian Railways
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-09-14T14:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/peugeot-may-sell-gefco-trucking-stake-to-russian-railways.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, may sell a majority stake in its Gefco
trucking unit to OAO Russian Railways after the state-owned
company made the highest offer, a union official said.  The Russian company is willing to pay about 1 billion euros
($1.31 billion) for 75 percent of Gefco, two people familiar
with the matter said. Peugeot and Russian Railways officials
declined to comment.  “Russian Railways is best positioned so far to win the
bid,” Christian Lafaye, an FO union official at Peugeot, said
in a phone interview. “They would buy a majority stake of Gefco
and Peugeot would retain a minority stake.”  Peugeot announced plans in February to sell assets,
including a Gefco stake, as the carmaker grapples with European
overcapacity and increasing debt. The 116-year-old French
manufacturer plans to cut 8,000 jobs and close the Aulnay
factory on the outskirts of Paris to reduce costs. It issued 1
billion euros in new shares this year to investors and sold a
stake to  General Motors Co. (GM)  to raise cash.  “In terms of value, this is good news,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities with a buy rating on
Peugeot. “I had valued Gefco at about 1.4 billion euros so to
me this is a fair value. We had heard rumors about private
equity funds offering half of the sum.”  Shares Climb  Peugeot  climbed  as much as 43 cents, or 6.5 percent, to
7.13 euros and was up 6.3 percent as of 4:13 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has dropped 33 percent this year, valuing the
French carmaker at 2.53 billion euros.  Russian Railways still needs government approval to make
the purchase, said the people, who asked not to be identified
discussing private talks. Russian newspaper Kommersant first
reported the railway’s 1 billion-euro offer on Aug. 30.  Peugeot was lowered to two levels below investment grade by
all three main rating services in July after it reported a 662-
million euro first-half loss at its automaking unit. The
carmaker said in July it had burned through 200 million euros in
cash monthly for the last year.  Gefco, founded in 1949 by Peugeot, reported a 6.7 percent
drop in first-half revenue to 1.88 billion euros. The unit’s
operating profit in the period dropped 56 percent to 63 million
euros. Gefco employs 10,300 people in 32 countries, according to
its website.  GM and Peugeot announced an agreement on July 2 to transfer
the majority of the Detroit-based company’s logistics business
in  Europe  to Gefco as part of the far-reaching alliance the two
reached in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  