-- Philippine Peso Gains Most in a Year on Fed Plan; Bonds Advance
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-09-14T08:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/philippine-peso-approaches-four-year-high-on-fed-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso surged the most
in a year and government bonds gained on speculation a third
round of asset purchases by the  Federal Reserve  will spur fund
flows into  emerging markets .  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares  climbed to a four-
month high after the Fed said yesterday it will expand holdings
of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month. The  Philippines  is ready to smooth out
“potential excessive volatility” in the nation’s financial
assets including the exchange rate, central bank Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a text message today.  “The flows are coming in,” said Rafael Algarra, executive
vice president of financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in
 Manila . “The Fed’s quantitative easing is fueling inflows
toward risky assets, and it’s natural that many Asian assets
will go up.”  The peso rose 0.9 percent to 41.405 per dollar as of the 4
p.m. close in Manila, the biggest gain since Sept. 28, 2011,
data from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It closed at the strongest
level since April 2008 and strengthened 0.6 percent this week.
One-month implied volatility, which measures  exchange-rate 
swings used to price options, dropped 25 basis points to a four-
month low of 5.25 percent. It fell 45 basis points this week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas held its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 3.75 percent yesterday, while raising
inflation forecasts for this year and next.  Debt Swap  The pace of price increases may average 3.4 percent this
year and 4.1 percent in 2013, compared with earlier projections
of 3.1 percent and 3.2 percent, respectively, Deputy Governor
Diwa Guinigundo said yesterday. Policy makers aim to contain
inflation, which reached 3.8 percent in July, between 3 percent
and 5 percent.  The yield on the 7.375 percent bonds due March 2021 fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.68 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate fell six
basis points this week.  The Philippines is ready to hold a debt swap or buy back
more expensive bonds, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in
an interview in  Melbourne  today. The government is reviewing
privatization plans, and may sell more assets as it
“rationalizes” operations of prisons, military facilities and
hospitals, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 