-- Presidential Race May Hinge on Third Party Candidates
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/presidential-race-may-hinge-on-third-party-candidates.html
Virgil Goode, an anti-immigration
southerner, and Gary Johnson, a pro-marijuana southwesterner,
have little in common, save one thing: They both are seeking to
shake up the American presidential race as third-party
candidates.  While they have no chance to win the Nov. 6 election, the
tight race between President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney  may create the right circumstances for one of them -- or
both -- to pull just enough votes in a key state to sway the
contest.  The greater risk is for Romney, whose chances of winning
the battleground state of  Virginia  may diminish with Goode, a
Democrat-turned-Republican and former U.S. House representative
from the Old Dominion, on the ballot.  “If he’s going to hurt anybody, he’s going to hurt
Romney,” said Quentin Kidd, government department chairman at
Christopher Newport University in Newport News, Virginia, who
added that Goode’s vote will amount to a “haircut” for Romney.
“Is the haircut enough to hurt Romney in the final vote count?
If Virginia stays as close as it is right now, it’s possible.”  While chances are slim, third-party candidates have
impacted presidential elections in the recent past. In 2000,
Green Party nominee  Ralph Nader  became a political outcast after
Democrats blamed him for Vice President  Al Gore ’s 537-vote loss
to Republican  George W. Bush  in  Florida . They became convinced
Nader’s 97,488 votes in the Sunshine State cost Gore the state
and the 2000 election.  Ross Perot  In 1992, billionaire businessman H. Ross Perot drew 19
percent of the vote as an independent candidate, helping
Democrat Bill Clinton defeat Republican President  George H.W. Bush  with just a plurality -- 43 percent -- of the vote.  Goode’s presence on the Virginia ballot has prompted the
state  Republican Party  to challenge the qualifying signatures he
submitted, and it’s up to the state’s Republican Attorney
General  Ken Cuccinelli , a Romney ally, to decide whether to
remove his name.  “This race is so close that they don’t have to get many
votes to make a difference,” said John H. Aldrich, a specialist
on political parties at  Duke University  in Durham,  North
Carolina . In addition to Goode and Johnson, Jill Stein is
running for president as the Green Party nominee.  Goode, who runs his campaign out of Rocky Mount, Virginia -
- a small town nestled in the Blue Ridge Mountains where he has
spent most of his life -- says he doesn’t expect to siphon many
votes from either candidate, and will win support primarily from
those who wouldn’t otherwise cast ballots for either Obama or
Romney.  Romney Backers  “We’ll get some votes from Romney backers, but really, if
I were Governor Romney, I would focus on my message and appeal
to as many as possible,” Goode, who has four campaign staffers
and has raised about $105,000 for his campaign, said in an
interview. “I’m going to get some votes in Virginia and across
the country from conservatives, because they weren’t going to go
vote. They didn’t see that big a difference between Romney and
Obama -- because there’s not.”  Goode, the Constitution Party nominee who represented his
southwestern Virginia district for a dozen years in Congress,
has centered his campaign around his proposal to block virtually
all immigration into the country until the  unemployment rate  --
now at 8.1 percent -- falls to 5 percent. He says he would do so
by placing a “near-complete moratorium” on the issuance of
green cards that authorize people to live and work in the U.S.  Immigration Opposition  “It’s absurd, in my opinion, to bring in so many persons
from foreign countries when the unemployment levels are as high
as they are,” Goode says. He also pledges to abolish the
 Internal Revenue Service  and the Department of Education and
submit a balanced budget that would slash funding on social
programs including  food stamps  and public housing, as well as on
defense.  Romney “wants to tell everyone what they want to hear; I
want to tell people what they need to hear, and they’re going to
get mad, they’re not going to like it, but we’ve got to cut,”
Goode said.  The race in some polls is close in Virginia, where Romney
is roughly tied with Obama, with the  RealClearPolitics  average
of polls in the state over the past month showing his edge at
less than 1 percent. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist
College survey shows Obama with a 5-point lead, within the
poll’s error margin. Obama won Virginia in 2008 by 232,317
votes, about 6 percentage points over Republican nominee  John McCain , an  Arizona  senator.  Target Votes  Goode “has a core set of supporters there that love him”
in southwestern Virginia, Kidd said -- exactly the area where
Romney must drive up his vote to counter Obama’s anticipated
strong showing in urban areas of Norfolk, Richmond and Hampton
Roads as well as Northern Virginia.  Johnson, a former Republican New Mexico governor and the
Libertarian Party nominee, advocates legalizing marijuana and
same-sex marriage and immediately withdrawing U.S. troops from
 Afghanistan . He also says he’s in the race to give voice to
voters who are fed up with both parties.  “I’m more liberal than Obama on many issues; I’m more
conservative than Romney on many issues,” Johnson, who has
raised $2 million for his candidacy and qualified for ballots in
47 states and the  District of Columbia , said in an interview.
“Hopefully, at a minimum, the results in November would show
that people are really fed up with this thing, and that would be
reflected in votes for me -- not necessarily winning.”  Johnson Impact  A CNN/ORC International poll conducted Sept. 7-9 found
Johnson drawing backing from 3 percent of likely voters, with 51
percent supporting Obama and 43 percent backing Romney. It
suggested Johnson would pull more votes away from Romney, who
otherwise won support from 46 percent of likely voters when
Johnson’s name was not mentioned. Obama received the support of
52 percent of likely voters in a two-way match-up with Romney.  Still, Johnson’s best chance of upending either candidate’s
bid is in  Colorado , where a marijuana-legalization initiative
likely to draw voters sympathetic to him will be on the ballot
on Nov. 6. In a Public Policy Polling survey conducted Aug. 31
to Sept. 2, Obama led Romney 49 percent to 46 percent in the
state. When Johnson was included in the choices, he drew backing
from 5 percent, with Obama’s support falling 3 points to 46
percent, and Romney’s down 2 percent.  “People are going to turn out at the ballot box that
wouldn’t ordinarily turn out because of the initiative” on
marijuana, said Johnson, who is embarking Sept. 17 on a 15-city
tour of university and college campuses, starting in West
Chester,  Pennsylvania .  Obama Monitoring  Obama’s campaign is monitoring Johnson’s candidacy, without
sounding alarm bells. They see him as taking equally from both
candidates in Colorado and damaging Romney more in most states.  The president holds a slim lead over Romney in Colorado,
according to the RealClearPolitics average of polls in the state
over the past month, in which he has a 3-point advantage. That’s
a smaller margin than the 8 percentage points by which he won
the state over McCain in 2008.  “If I cost Obama votes, Obama is most responsible for
that; if I cost Romney votes, Romney is most responsible for
that,” Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  