-- QE3 Adds to Hong Kong Asset Bubble Risks, HKMA’s Chan Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-09-14T08:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/qe3-adds-to-asset-bubble-risks-for-hong-kong-hkma-s-chan-says.html
Hong Kong ’s central bank head said
a third round of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve
risks pushing up  property prices  that have already surpassed
their 1997 peak, and may prompt the city to adopt more cooling
measures.  “The launch of QE3 and the short-term improvement of the
 European debt crisis  will increase the risk of overheating in
Hong Kong’s asset market,”  Norman Chan , chief executive of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority, told reporters at a briefing today.
“We will further introduce more counter-cyclical measures when
appropriate.” Chan will address reporters again at 4:30 p.m.
local time today, the HKMA said in an e-mailed statement.  Hong Kong property stocks surged, pushing the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  to a four-month high, after the Fed said it will
continue buying assets in a third round of quantitative easing
and may employ other policy tools if the U.S. labor market
doesn’t improve. Hong Kong’s government on Sept. 6 introduced
its toughest measures in more than a year to rein in home prices
that have gained more than 85 percent since early 2009.  “Low interest rates and ample liquidity globally” will
last for a longer time, adding pressures to inflation and asset
prices in  emerging markets , Chan said.  The nine-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  jumped 3.2 percent
to the highest since August 2011 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong
Kong. New World Development Co. surged 5.2 percent to HK$10.88,
Sino Land Co. rose 3.9 percent to HK$14.34, while Wharf Holdings
Ltd. advanced 3.5 percent to HK$51.80.  The Hang Seng Index gained 2.9 percent to the highest since
May.  Rates, Liquidity  The city’s government has had to tweak demand and supply
through additional property transaction taxes, higher mortgage
down payments and by releasing more land to developers as Hong
Kong’s currency peg to the  U.S. dollar  pushed borrowing costs to
a record low and prevents the de-facto central bank from using
monetary policy.  “The government measures launched so far are not tackling
the gist of the problem,” said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based
managing director at China Merchants Securities Co. “They could
only stabilize property prices by controlling the pace of growth,
but prices are unlikely to plunge. As long as low  interest rates 
and ample liquidity remains, the risk of asset bubble remains.”  The government will restrict buyers of apartments on two
sites it plans to sell next year to local residents, Hong Kong
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said Sept. 6, a week after
flagging it will begin drafting laws that may be incorporated
into land sale agreements to put restrictions on purchases by
people outside of Hong Kong.  1997 Peak  The HKMA raised the minimum deposit for some mortgages in
June last year, the third time since August 2010, with borrowers
now having to put down 40 percent for homes costing more than
HK$7 million ($902,000). In 2010, the government introduced an
additional stamp duty on residential units sold within two years
of purchase.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have now surpassed their peak in
October 1997, which marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. They have soared 240 percent since that
trough nine years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 