-- South Africa Bonds Fall 1st Week in Four on Unrest; Rand Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-09-14T15:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/rand-heads-for-first-week-drop-in-three-on-s-africa-mine-unrest.html
South African bonds dropped,
capping their first weekly decline in four as unrest in the
nation’s mining industry undermined investor confidence.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021
advanced 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.78
percent, at 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, the highest this month on a
closing basis. The rand strengthened 0.2 percent to 8.2198 per
dollar, trimming this week’s decline to 0.6 percent.  Production at mines owned by  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , Golds Fields Ltd.
and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  has been halted this week by a
series of illegal strikes over pay. At least 45 people have been
killed since Aug. 10 at Lonmin’s Marikana mine in the North West
Province. The spreading unrest comes as  South Africa  posts its
biggest current-account deficit in almost four years, while
central banks in Europe and the U.S. pledged to take steps to
shore up their economies.  “Global factors may have been positive in September, but
local factors have been all negative: the mine strikes and
violence and the current account deficit,”  John Cairns  and
Josina Solomons, strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the violence could
curb growth, production and exports, widen the current account
deficit and deter investment, which would be “extremely
damaging” to Africa’s largest economy.  The gap in South Africa’s  current account , the broadest
measure of trade in goods and services, grew to 6.4 percent in
the second quarter, the widest shortfall since the third quarter
of 2008, from 4.9 percent of gross domestic product, the Reserve
Bank said Sept. 11.  Rand Underperforms  “The rand is definitely underperforming other risk
assets,”  Brigid Taylor , the head of institutional flow sales at
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s investment banking unit in Johannesburg,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions today. “Despite the
rally seen overnight -- we are not maximizing on the positive
sentiment as political and fundamental concern emanate.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it will expand
holdings of long-term securities with open-ended purchases of
$40 billion of mortgage debt a month, and keep the federal fund
rate near zero “at least through mid-2015.” The  European
Central Bank  announced last week a program of bond-buying to
combat the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  