-- Randy Brecker, Mike Stern Reunite for Blue Note Tribute
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/randy-brecker-mike-stern-reunite-for-blue-note-tribute.html
It’s been five years since
saxophonist Michael Brecker died of leukemia at age 57, ending a
deep musical bond with his trumpeter brother, Randy.  This weekend Randy is revisiting the music the siblings
made with the pioneering Brecker Brothers jazz fusion group,
assembling some alumni for dates at the Blue Note in  New York .  They include guitarist Mike Stern, drummer  Rodney Holmes ,
bassist Will Lee and keyboardist-producer George Whitty. On sax
is Randy’s wife, Ada Rovatti, from Morata,  Italy . Vocalist Oli
Rockberger will also play keyboards.  “It’s nice to celebrate Michael’s life and the history of
the band with the musicians who worked with him,” Randy, 66,
said in a telephone interview from his  Long Island , New York,
home.  Born in Cheltenham Township near Philadelphia, Randy
recalled his years as a music student at Indiana University. He
said he would pass along his professors’ wisdom to his younger
brother.  “I probably learned more from Michael than he learned from
me,” he said.  Michael later followed his brother to  Indiana University 
and then to New York. The Breckers recorded six albums that
earned seven Grammy Award nominations between 1975 and 1981.  Michael’s tenor sax can also be heard on recordings by
 Frank Sinatra , Dave Brubeck,  Herbie Hancock ,  Joni Mitchell  and
Dire Straits.  Grammy Awards  Regarded by some critics as one of the most influential
saxophonists since John Coltrane, Michael won 15 Grammy Awards
during his career. “Pilgrimage,” his CD released four months
after his death, won the Grammy for Best Instrumental Album for
2007.  The brothers reunited two decades ago to record “The
Return of the Brecker Brothers” (1992) and “Out of the Loop”
(1994). Stern, who has worked with  Miles Davis  and Blood, Sweat
& Tears, said he enjoyed touring with the Breckers after the
release of “The Return.”  “They were funny, and sometimes they would squabble with
each other,” Stern said by phone. “You could almost picture
them as kids in their room fighting over a toy.”  For the Blue Note gigs the band will play signature tunes
such as the frenetic “Some Skunk Funk,” “Sponge” and their
classic, “Straphangin’.” They’ll also play one of Stern’s most
heartfelt compositions, “Common Ground,” from his 1991 CD,
“Odds or Evens.”  ‘Pretty Good’  “Toward the end of Michael’s life, he was listening to
some of the old records we made, and he said to me, ‘You know,
we were pretty good together, we were pretty good,’” Randy
said. “Michael was a giant of a musician.”  (The Brecker Brothers Band Reunion is at the Blue Note, 131
W. 3rd Street in  Manhattan , tonight through Sunday at 8 and
10:30 p.m. Information:  http://www.bluenote.net  or +1-212-475-
8592.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 