-- RBS Begins Direct Line IPO After Talanx Scraps Stock Sale
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-09-14T15:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/rbs-pushes-ahead-with-direct-line-ipo-after-talanx-scraps-sale.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s largest state-owned lender, will push ahead with the
initial public offering of its insurance unit even after Talanx
AG,  Germany ’s third-biggest insurer, pulled its IPO this week.  RBS will offer a stake in Direct Line to institutional and,
through intermediaries, individual investors, the companies said
in statements today. The IPO may value Direct Line at 3 billion
pounds ($4.9 billion) to 3.2 billion pounds, said Eamonn Flanagan, a Liverpool-based analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)   RBS is trying to sell Direct Line, the U.K.’s biggest home
and motor insurer, in stages to comply with a European Union
ruling to offload the division by the end of 2014 as a penalty
for the bank’s 45.5 billion-pound bailout in the 2008 credit
crisis. Talanx called off its IPO for a second time in three
months Sept. 13 after investors balked at the price.  “This will no doubt send shivers down the spines of RBS
executives who had been banking on getting Direct Line’s IPO
done at a decent price,” said  Marcus Barnard , a London-based
insurance analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. The fact that the
bank is a “forced seller” and the U.K. motor insurance market
being “mature and cyclical” may lower the valuation, he said.  Direct Line won’t raise money itself in the IPO. RBS, which
will start canvassing investor appetite for the stock today,
plans to sell a 25 percent stake initially, according to a term
sheet for the offering obtained by  Bloomberg News . RBS is
“committed” to selling a majority stake by the end of 2013 and
all of its holding by the end of 2014 to comply with EU state-
aid rules, according to the insurer.  Glencore IPO  RBS rose 1.9 percent to 279 pence in London trading, for a
market value of about 32 billion pounds. The bank received 800
million pounds in dividends from Direct Line in the first half
of 2012 and a further 200 million pounds earlier this month, RBS
said in a statement Sept. 3.  The IPO may raise about 750 million pounds, based on Shore
Capital’s calculations. That would make it the U.K.’s biggest
since  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  amassed $10 billion in May
2011. Companies have gathered $1.4 billion in London share sales
this year, less than a tenth of the $15.6 billion they amassed
in the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and UBS AG are
managing the IPO as bookrunners, while Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are joint lead managers.  To lure investors, Direct Line said it will have a
“progressive” dividend policy. The insurer plans to pay its
2012 dividend in the second quarter of next year. The payment
will amount to between 50 percent and 60 percent of profit after
tax from continuing operations, the firm said.  ‘Lots of Interest’  “We’ve had lots of discussions with institutional
investors for about a year and there’s a lot of interest,”
Direct Line Chief Financial Officer John Reizenstein told
reporters on a conference call today.  The insurer set itself a 15 percent return-on-equity target
and said it will seek to pay out 98 pence in claims for every
pound it takes in premiums next year. In the first half of 2012,
it paid out 1.01 pounds for every pound of premium.  Talanx shelved its IPO this week after investors sought an
“excessive discount” to the Hanover, Germany-based company’s
own valuation, Chief Executive Officer Herbert Haas said.  Investors’ negativity toward Talanx may not affect Direct
Line in the same way because RBS may be more flexible on price
due to the requirement to sell, according to Ben Cohen, a
London-based insurance analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd.  “The companies are competing for separate pots of money in
different countries with different investment stories,” Cohen
said. “Talanx would have used the money to grow in  emerging
markets  whereas Direct Line has strong positions in U.K.
household and motor insurance and a restructuring story.”  Motor Policies  Direct Line, which has about 8.5 million mainly U.K. home
and motor insurance customers, said profit rose 7 percent to
224.2 million pounds in the first half of this year. The company
returned to profit last year after posting a loss in 2010 after
a jump in motor personal-injury claims.  While private-equity firms expressed interest in Direct
Line, none entered into formal discussions because of
disagreements over price, people with knowledge of the
discussions said Sept. 10. RBS had tried to sell the division
before its bailout in 2008 for about 7 billion pounds, people
with knowledge of the discussions said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  