-- Republican-Led House Passes Bill to Block Energy Loans
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-09-14T16:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/republican-led-house-passes-bill-to-block-energy-loans.html
The U.S. House passed legislation
to end an energy loan-guarantee program, the culmination of a
Republican-led investigation into the collapse of solar-panel
maker Solyndra LLC last year.  The “No More Solyndras Act,” adopted by a 245-161 vote,
wouldn’t immediately halt the loan program. It would prevent the
Energy Department from considering applications for government
backing submitted since Dec. 31. With $34 billion in loan
authority remaining, Democrats said the bill would let nuclear-
power projects favored by Republicans go forward.  The Democratic-led Senate isn’t considering a similar bill,
which means the program probably won’t end. The vote did allow
 House Republicans  to highlight what has become a political
embarrassment for President  Barack Obama , who visited Solyndra’s
 California  factory in May 2010 and said it showed clean energy
wasn’t “just an article of faith.” The company, which won a
$535 million U.S. guarantee in 2009, collapsed last year.  “It is amazing to me that the administration gave a half-
billion dollar loan guarantee to a company its own experts
predicted would fail, a company so dysfunctional that it burned
through this giant handout and went bankrupt in just two
years,” said Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  The bill applies to the loan program for alternative energy
projects, including wind, solar, geothermal, nuclear and cleaner
coal efforts. It wouldn’t apply to a separate loan program for
advanced-technology vehicles.  Political Ads  While Solyndra collapsed in September 2011, it has had a
second life in political ads. Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  has
cited the company to show what he says is the administration’s
broader failure to revive the economy.  Solyndra’s loan was financed by the 2009 economic stimulus
bill, though the loan-guarantee program was authorized during
the administration of Republican  George W. Bush .  Representative  Michael Burgess , a Texas Republican, said
documents collected during the Energy and Commerce Committee’s
investigation  showed White House political appointees had a
“heavy hand” in pushing the loan to Solyndra.  Democrats said Republicans didn’t back-up allegations that
Solyndra won the guarantee because of political connections to
the White House. The panel issued three subpoenas, conducted
five hearings and reviewed more than 300,000 documents.  A foundation tied to  George Kaiser , an Oklahoma billionaire
and fundraiser for Obama, was a leading investor in the company.  Obama administration officials said Solyndra’s award was
granted on the merits of its application. Kaiser told
investigators on the committee’s Oversight and Investigations
Subcommittee that he didn’t lobby to get the company the loan.  The vote was designed to embarrass the administration,
Democrats led by Representative  Henry Waxman  of California said.  “It isn’t going to pass the Senate,” said Representative
John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat. “It isn’t going to be signed
by the president. It grandfathers everybody in and says, ‘There
will be nothing new.’”  The bill is H.R. 6213.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  