-- Romney Tax Cuts Work Only When Mortgage Break Mostly Reduced
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-09-14T16:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/romney-tax-cuts-work-only-when-mortgage-deduction-mostly-reduced.html
Mitt Romney  says he can lower
income-tax rates by 20 percent without costing the U.S.
government revenue and without making the middle class carry a
bigger share of the tax load.  He’s right -- assuming that Congress eliminates the most
widely used deductions by taxpayers earning more than $100,000 a
year, says Harvey Rosen, an economics professor at  Princeton
University  whose study Romney cites as evidence that his plan is
viable.  The Republican presidential candidate has refused to say
which tax breaks he would eliminate. Rosen’s illustration
abolishes those for home mortgage interest payments, employer-
provided health insurance, state and local taxes, charitable
donations and the unrealized increase in the value of life-
insurance policies for households with six-figure incomes.  “Even if you could maybe make it work in an abstract
world, you can’t assume that all of these deductions will be
eliminated, especially by a candidate who so far hasn’t
identified one he’d do away with,” says Alan Viard, a former
Treasury Department tax expert in President  George W. Bush ’s
administration.  Former Republican Representative William Frenzel, a tax and
budget expert who spent 20 years in the U.S. House, says,
“Romney’s plan would have enormous difficulty getting through
the Congress.”  ‘Mathematically Possible’  Seeking to curtail tax benefits that save millions of
taxpayers billions of dollars each year would spark such a
backlash that the Republican Party platform explicitly rules out
ending the deduction for charitable contributions.  “What the political system would find feasible, I don’t
know,” Rosen says. “It’s mathematically possible.”  Rosen’s analysis -- and separate studies by the  Tax Policy
Center  and  Martin Feldstein , a Harvard University economist and
once a top adviser to President  Ronald Reagan  -- found that
households with more than $100,000 in annual income could pay
higher taxes, even with Romney’s promise to “bring taxes down
for middle-income people.”  President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign has sought to
capitalize on Romney’s failure to specify his tax plans,
maintaining that “two typical teachers, or a police officer and
a nurse” would see higher taxes if he was elected, according to
a Sept. 12  memo  from  James Kvaal , policy director for the Obama-
Biden campaign.  Middle Class  Under Rosen’s analysis, policy makers have room to reduce
the amount of tax breaks eliminated for those making more than
$100,000 annually to avoid raising their tax bill.  Feldstein, whose analysis focused on a Romney-like plan,
says “it is very reasonable to say that people in that high-
income group are not the ‘middle class.’”  Yet Romney, who insists he won’t raise taxes on the middle
class, said in an interview broadcast today on ABC, “middle
income is $200,000 to $250,000 and less.” Such a broad
definition will complicate efforts to make the tax plan work and
is at odds with Census Bureau data showing that median  household
income  is $50,054.  About 12 percent of tax returns reported adjusted gross
income of more than $100,000 in 2009, the latest year for which
detailed Internal Revenue Service data is available.  The Republican nominee is campaigning on a promise to cut
tax rates by 20 percent, bringing the top marginal rate to 28
percent from the current 35 percent. He would make up the lost
revenue by eliminating some of the $1.3 trillion in myriad
breaks that riddle the U.S.  tax code .  ‘Patchwork Decisions’  On his campaign website, Romney assails the tax code as
“an accretion of decades of patchwork decisions that came into
being with no systematic thought for their implications for  job
creation  or economic growth.”  Though  Glenn Hubbard , his chief economic adviser, told PBS
on Aug. 28 that “everything is on the table,” Romney has ruled
out raising taxes on  capital gains  and dividend income. Also, he
wants to eliminate such taxes for married taxpayers making less
than $200,000 a year or individual filers with less than
$100,000 in income.  In the same interview, Hubbard said faster economic growth
would make up some of the revenue lost because of lower tax
rates. Romney’s economic plan sets an annual economic expansion
goal of 4 percent -- a rate the U.S. has achieved once in the
past 12 years. The Federal Reserve forecasts economic growth
next year of as much as 3 percent.  ‘Enormous Incentive’  “You can keep the progressivity in the code, you can
remain revenue neutral and you create an enormous incentive for
growth in the economy,” Romney said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
on Sept. 9.  In response to a request to interview Hubbard, a campaign
spokeswoman scheduled an interview with Rosen. Rosen, a former
chairman of the  Council of Economic Advisers  under President
George W. Bush, says he has no formal role with the campaign.  Romney has provided no details of his tax plan, so experts
have been left to make assumptions about what provisions might
be saved or killed. Each of the three principal analyses uses
different assumptions and data. Rosen and Feldstein rely on 2009
aggregate IRS tax-return information while the Tax Policy Center
uses an economic model to project 2015 results.  The Tax Policy Center said in August “it is not
mathematically possible” to do everything Romney has promised.
The center, a joint project of the  Brookings Institution  and the
 Urban Institute , said his plan would fall $86 billion short of
replacing all the revenue lost by reducing tax rates.  Disputed Finding  Both Rosen and Feldstein disputed that finding and
concluded that Romney’s math was theoretically possible, even if
politically questionable.  “Critics might not like the Romney plan, but they cannot
call it ’mathematically impossible,’” Feldstein wrote on Sept.
2.  William Gale, a co-author of the Tax Policy Center study,
agreed that the $86 billion hole could be filled by assuming
revenue gains from economic growth and by taxing interest on
state and local bonds. That change, however, would violate the
candidate’s promise not to reduce incentives for savings and
investment.  “We’ve always said you can do revenue-neutral and
distributionally neutral  tax reform  if you violate one or more
of the things Romney wants to do,” Gale said in an interview.  Eliminating Breaks  Romney has said his tax overhaul approach -- paying for
lower rates by eliminating billions of dollars in tax breaks --
mimics that of the Simpson-Bowles debt commission. But the co-
chairmen of that panel, former Senator  Alan Simpson , a Wyoming
Republican, and former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, a Democrat, called for taxing capital gains and
dividends as ordinary income and retaining the estate tax, which
Romney wants to eliminate. They also backed a 15-cent-a-gallon
increase in the federal gasoline tax.  In April, Romney was overheard at a private fundraiser in
Florida telling donors that he might eliminate the mortgage
interest deduction on second homes for high-income taxpayers
along with the deductions for state income and property taxes.  Depending upon the specific provisions, ending those tax
breaks would likely raise only a sliver of the funds required.
Eliminating the second-home deduction for high-income taxpayers
might raise about $10 billion, according to the Tax Policy
Center.  Deductions Cap  Romney campaign officials have said they would consider a
proposal by Feldstein to cap the total value of deductions
available to high-income taxpayers.  “Professor Feldstein’s idea is an interesting one,”
Lanhee Chen, the campaign’s policy director, said last month at
a Bloomberg panel at the  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa, Florida. “And it’s one that we would look at in a Romney
administration.”  Earlier this week, a veteran of the last major
comprehensive tax overhaul, the 1986 rewrite pushed by Reagan,
told Bloomberg Television that Romney’s trade of lower rates for
fewer loopholes would face a predictable clash in Congress.  “Part of the problem is when you say that, everybody likes
it, and then the pastor of the First Baptist Church comes in and
says, ‘Now wait a minute. You’re not talking about contributions
to the church,’” said former Senator  Phil Gramm , a Texas
Republican. “Then the home builder comes and says, ‘That’s a
great idea. I loved it, but surely you’re not talking about the
ability to deduct mortgage interest rates.’ Well, the plain
truth is you are.”  “And this is a world where there’s no free lunch,” Gramm
said. “If you want lower rates, if you want a fairer system, if
you want to simplify the tax code, you’ve got to give up some
things to get it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tackett at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net  