-- Rothman Resigns as Co-Chairman of News Corp.’s Fox Film
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/rothman-resigns-as-co-chairman-of-news-corp-s-fox-film.html
Tom Rothman resigned as co-chairman
and chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century
Fox movie studio, ending an 11-year partnership with Jim Gianopulos, who will remain as sole chairman and CEO.  Fox will also separate its  Los Angeles  film and television
production units, New York-based News Corp. said in a statement
yesterday. Gianopulos, 60, will oversee the film division, while
TV production co-chairmen Dana Walden and Gary Newman will report
directly to Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey .  The resignation of Rothman, 57, who helped oversee the two
top-grossing films of all time, “Titanic” and “Avatar,” follows
broader executive changes at News Corp. as the company prepares
to separate its entertainment and publishing units. Fox finished
last at the box office in 2011 among the major studios and has
moved up one spot to fifth this year, generating $853.6 million.  “I do need some new challenges and to write a new
chapter” after more than 18 years at the studio, Rothman said
in a memo to staff. Rothman’s resignation is effective Jan. 1,
the company said.  Together, Rothman and Gianopulos oversaw 2009’s “Avatar,”
the biggest movie ever with $2.78 billion in worldwide ticket
sales, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo . As a senior
executive at Fox, Rothman played a major role in “Titanic,”
the 1997 movie that generated $2.19 billion globally, second on
the all-time list.  Oscar Win  The small-picture Fox Searchlight label generated a string
of hits, from “Slumdog Millionaire,” which won the Oscar for
best picture, to “ Black Swan ” and “Juno.”  Rothman was the outspoken and gregarious half of the
management team, while Gianopulos is known for a quiet,
deliberate manner.  “Jim has been an equal driving force in bringing some of
the greatest films of all time to audiences around the world,”
Carey said in the statement. “I am confident that Jim will take
our film business to new heights.”  With more than a decade as co-chairman, Rothman was on the
job longer than most studio chiefs, said Tom Sherak, who worked
with him and Gianopulos during the 1990s as Fox’s head of
domestic distribution.  “In our business that’s a lifetime and a half,” said
Sherak by telephone, who now runs Revolution Consulting
Services. “These things usually happen sooner in a run.”  Other News Corp. executives have departed since June, when
the company said it will divide in two.  Jonathan Miller  left
last month as the company’s chief digital officer. David Haslingden, chief operating officer of Fox Networks Group, will
leave at the end of the year.  News Corp. rose 31 cents to $24.67 at the close of  New York 
trading yesterday and has gained 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  