-- Rothstein Firm Lawyer Lippman Is Sentenced to Three Years
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-09-14T16:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/rothstein-firm-lawyer-lippman-is-sentenced-to-three-years.html
     Sept. 14 (Bloomberg) --Steven Lippman, a former attorney in
the law firm of convicted Ponzi schemer Scott Rothstein who
admitted helping the firm make illegal campaign contributions,
was sentenced to three years in prison.  Lippman, 50, pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy to violate
banking, election and tax laws. He said he helped Rothstein’s
 now-defunct  law firm, Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, illegally
“bundle” contributions to Republican  John McCain ’s losing
campaign in 2008 against President  Barack Obama . The firm was
the largest contributor to McCain’s campaign.  Lippman also was fined $15,000 today in federal court in
Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , and ordered to pay $179,000 in
restitution. He told U.S. District Judge James I. Cohn that he
was “horrified” by his actions. He said he was taken in by the
charms of Rothstein, who is serving 50 years in prison for
running a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme .  “The first mistake I made was an error in judgment
regarding Scott Rothstein,” Lippman said. “I not only failed
to ask the right questions, I agreed to do things that were
wrong. Yes, he played me like a fool, but at the end of the day,
I should have said no. That’s my fault.”  Tax Returns  Cohn said he wasn’t swayed by letters that friends and
family members wrote on Lippman’s behalf, or by the three people
who testified for him. He said he gave Lippman some credit for
amending four years of tax returns to show income that he had
not initially reported to the  Internal Revenue Service . Lippman
changed the returns before he was charged criminally.  “Without question Mr. Lippman is an accomplished lawyer,”
Cohn said. “He has a strong work ethic. He’s a good family man,
and he’s helped a lot of people. But, also without question, Mr.
Lippman is a very intelligent man. As such, he knew the legal
requirements.”  The length of the sentence was less than the government
asked for and more than the defense sought.  Prosecutors asked Cohn for a sentence within the advisory
guideline range of 41 to 51 months.  Lippman’s attorney, Bruce Zimet, sought a sentence of no
more than 18 months. He said Rothstein conned Lippman into
moving money through his bank account and making illegal
campaign donations.  Conned Easily  Assistant U.S. Attorney Lawrence LaVecchio questioned how
such an accomplished attorney could have been conned so easily.  “In the first half of this hearing we hear that he’s a
brilliant attorney,” he said. “In the second half of the
hearing, I hear he’s a veritable idiot who is easily manipulated
into committing these acts.”  LaVecchio said Lippman “did it because he was making a lot
of money at RRA and he wanted to keep the gravy flowing.”  He said Lippman went from earning less than $400,000 in
2004, the year before he started at Rothstein Rosenfeldt, to
making almost $1.3 million in 2008.  Lost Career  “This will be with me for the rest of my life,” Lippman
said as his family members sobbed in the front row of the
courtroom gallery. “I’m going to be a felon for the rest of my
life.  “I was a real lawyer,” he said. “I was doing real work.
I worked as hard as anybody can work for their client. I’m just
devastated that I can’t do that anymore.”  Rothstein pleaded guilty in 2010 to racketeering,  money
laundering  and  wire fraud .  He admitted that he persuaded wealthy investors to buy
stakes in what he said were payouts from settlements of sexual-
harassment and workplace discrimination cases. He fabricated the
cases, using forged documents and ruses such as having an
accomplice pose as a bank officer.  Flight, Return  The scheme fell apart over Halloween weekend in 2009 when
Rothstein couldn’t lure enough new investors to pay earlier
ones. After fleeing to Morocco, he returned to the U.S.  Rothstein was known for what he called his “rock star”
lifestyle. He was married in the Versace mansion in  Miami Beach 
-- Florida’s then-governor  Charlie Crist  was a guest -- and his
car collection included a Rolls-Royce, a Bugatti, two
Lamborghinis and a Maserati.  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed in February to settle a
lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided in the fraud. TD
Bank will pay $170 million, said Paul Singerman, attorney for
the law firm’s bankruptcy receiver.  The case is U.S. v. Lippman, 12-cr-60078, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida ( Fort Lauderdale ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 