-- Rupiah Poised for Weekly Gain as Trade Data Boosts Confidence
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-09-14T02:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/rupiah-poised-for-weekly-gain-as-trade-data-boosts-confidence.html
Indonesia’s rupiah was poised for
its first weekly rally since Aug. 3 as a narrowing trade deficit
and the central bank’s decision to hold  interest rates  bolstered
confidence in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy.  Government bonds  advanced for a second week, pushing the
benchmark 10-year yield to a one-month low, after foreign funds
added 2.1 trillion rupiah ($219 million) to holdings of
 sovereign notes  in the first three days of this week, finance
ministry data show. The trade shortfall shrank to $177 million
in July from an all-time high of $1.3 billion in June, official
data showed last week, while  Bank Indonesia  held its policy rate
at a record-low 5.75 percent for a seventh month yesterday.  “Improving economic data and steady borrowing costs will
give investors more confidence to buy into Indonesia,” said
Artanavaro Gasali, the Jakarta-based head of global markets at
PT Bank ICBC  Indonesia . “Bonds saw a rally across all tenors,
but it remains to be seen if these inflows are here to stay.”  The rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent this week to 9,573 per
dollar as of 9:21 a.m. in Jakarta, the biggest weekly gain since
the five days ended July 6, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. The currency advanced 0.2 percent today after
reaching 9,609 yesterday, the weakest level since May 31.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell one percentage point this
week to 5 percent. It dropped 85 basis points today.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent notes due May 2022
dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, this week to
5.92 percent prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association
show. That was the lowest level since Aug. 15. The yield
declined one basis point today.  Overseas investors bought $79 million more local stocks
than they sold this week through yesterday, according to
exchange data. Bank Indonesia will take more steps if needed to
improve the nation’s current account, which reached a record
deficit of  $6.9 billion  in the second quarter, it said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 