-- Russian Parliament Strips Opposition Lawmaker of Immunity
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-14T12:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/russian-parliament-strips-opposition-lawmaker-of-immunity-1-.html
Russia ’s lower house of parliament
expelled a prominent opposition lawmaker, stripping him of
immunity as he faces potential criminal charges.  In a session shown on state television, 291 deputies in the
State Duma voted in favor of ousting Gennady Gudkov, with 150
opposing and three abstentions.  Gudkov, a member of the Just Russia party who’s accused of
breaking the law by running a business while being a member of
parliament, is one of the organizers of protests against
President  Vladimir Putin . The next opposition rally in Moscow is
scheduled for tomorrow.  “Putin has no choice, either he drives the country onto
the very risky path of full-scale civil conflict or he opts for
negotiations with those who are demanding free and fair
elections,” Gudkov said in an interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp broadcast today.  The Investigative Committee on Aug. 1 said it has proof of
“illegal business activity” by Gudkov. A criminal case may be
opened against Gudkov on charges that carry a maximum penalty of
two years in jail, the committee said.  Putin, 59, who won another six years in the Kremlin in
March, has responded to the largest demonstrations since he came
to power in 2000 by tightening controls over the Internet and
non-governmental organizations and prosecuting opposition
activists and leaders. Protest leader and anti-corruption
activist Alexey Navalny faces as long as 10 years in jail after
being charged yesterday with embezzlement.  Gudkov, a reserve colonel in the Federal Security Service,
or FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, announced in
June that he was selling his private security business after it
came under pressure from the authorities. He said last month he
had decided to give the business away to its managers to
preserve employees’ jobs, and had lost $10 million to $15
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  