-- Republicans Expand Foreign Policy Attacks as Bodies Return Home
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-15T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/ryan-calls-for-moral-clarity-in-american-foreign-policy.html
The Republican presidential ticket
escalated its attack on President  Barack Obama ’s foreign policy
as the U.S. political debate focused on a topic largely absent
from the campaign trail until this week.  As Obama and Vice President Joe Biden yesterday honored the
return of the remains of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans slain as violence erupted in Libya, Republican
challengers  Mitt Romney  and  Paul Ryan  argued that they would be
better able to prevent a crisis from developing overseas.  “Only by the confident exercise of American influence are
evil and violence overcome,” said Ryan, his party’s vice
presidential nominee. “That is how we keep problems abroad from
becoming crises. That is what keeps the peace. And that is what
we will have in a Romney-Ryan administration.”  Anti-Western protests, sparked by the release of an online
video that denigrates Muslims, spread to more than 20 countries,
with demonstrators storming the American embassy in Tunisia and
leaving the German embassy in Sudan in flames.  Romney delayed his appearance at a campaign rally in
Painesville, Ohio yesterday afternoon so he could watch the
arrival of the bodies at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington.
Standing with his hand over his heart, he later led a rain-
drenched crowd in a moment of silence to recognize “the blood
shed for freedom.”  ‘Four Patriots’  Obama, Biden and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
attended the ceremony at Andrews to pay tribute to the victims
as their remains were returned to the U.S.  “Four Americans, four patriots, they loved this country
and they chose to serve it, and they served it well,” Obama
said, standing before four coffins draped with American flags.
“We will bring to justice those who took them from us.”  Republicans have struggled to gain traction on foreign
policy issues against the sitting commander-in-chief, who ended
the war in Iraq and oversaw the U.S. raid in Pakistan last year
that killed  Osama bin Laden .  Romney’s first statement earlier this week about the fast-
moving events in the  Middle East , calling the president
‘disgraceful” for “sympathizing” with the attackers, drew
bipartisan criticism.  Since then, the former Massachusetts governor has shifted
his tone, arguing that Obama has repeatedly undermined American
power across the globe.  ‘Confusing Messages’  “There have been over the years, confusing messages sent
by the president of the  United States  to the world,” Romney
told campaign donors in  New York  yesterday morning.  Ryan took a tougher line in a speech in Washington,
charging the administration with treating  Israel , a longtime
U.S. ally, with “indifference bordering on contempt.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  criticized the timing of
the Republican attacks.  “The criticism, in particular from  Governor Romney  and his
team, in what seems to be an attempt to score a political point,
has been both factually wrong and poorly timed,” Carney told
reporters yesterday. “Now is a time when Americans should be
coming together.”  Public opinion polls have shown voters giving Obama higher
marks on dealing with foreign policy than Romney. In a CNN/ORC
International survey released this week, Obama was favored on
the issue over Romney, 54 percent to 42 percent.  Republican Tack  Republicans see the recent protests as an opportunity to
undermine one of Obama’s biggest strengths.  America needs a leader who “unabashedly” stands up for
Israel, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, told the Value Voters Summit meeting in Washington
yesterday, the same forum where Ryan spoke.  William Bennett, a former education secretary under
President  Ronald Reagan  who Ryan described as a mentor, fired up
the crowd by contrasting statements about the Middle East
violence made this week by Romney and the Obama administration.  Obama’s response “to the bleeding slaughter spectacle,”
he said, “was a bleating, sheepish statement.” Bennett told
the cheering audience of party activists that the Republican
presidential candidate “did not hesitate. He thundered.”  After a fundraising swing in New York that took in $7.5
million for his campaign, Romney flew to the swing state of Ohio
where his campaign rally took place in pouring rain.  Almost 1,000 people attended the fundraising breakfast in
New York, the last such event the campaign will host in the
city, according to New York finance chairman  Woody Johnson . Over
the course of the campaign, Romney has raised roughly $70
million from the New York City area, finance aide  Spencer Zwick 
told donors this morning.  Snooki Fan  He also used his time in New York to tape an interview with
the day-time talk show, “ Live! With Kelly & Michael .” In the
final segment of the lighthearted appearance, Romney revealed
that he indulges in Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups, hates how his
wife squeezes toothpaste tubes, and likes Nicole Polizzi, better
known as Snooki on the reality show “ Jersey Shore .”  “I’m kind of a  Snooki  fan,” he told the hosts. “Look how
tiny’s she’s gotten. She’s lost weight. She’s energetic. Just
her spark-plug personality is kind of fun.”  The interview will be shown on Sept. 18, the same day Obama
makes his seventh appearance on CBS’s “Late Show with  David Letterman .”  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in
Painesville, Ohio at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  