-- Scene in DC: Casey, Baucus, McCarthy, Smits, Ambassadors
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/scene-in-dc-casey-baucus-mccarthy-smits-ambassadors.html
At the 34th Ambassadors Ball
Wednesday night, Senator Robert Casey read a message from
President Barack Obama about the killing of Ambassador
Christopher Stevens in Libya.  The gala, held in honor of Washington’s diplomatic corps,
raises funds for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society,
National Capital Chapter.  Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat, was saluted along with
Congressman  Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican, for work on behalf
of Multiple Sclerosis. Casey is co-chairman of the MS Caucus in
the U.S. Senate, and Terry is a member of the Congressional MS
Caucus.  At the cocktail reception, Casey said that Ann Romney’s
public discussions about her own battle with MS will
“personalize” the condition and “lead to more bipartisan
efforts.”  The diplomats wore red roses, while the legislators wore
white ones. Among the ambassadors present were Arturo Sarukhan
of Mexico, Perezi Kamunanwire of Uganda, Shankar Sharma of
Nepal, and  Michael Collins  of Ireland.  Senator  Max Baucus , Montana Democrat, and Senator  Chris Coons , Delaware Democrat, turned out to support their wives,
Melodee Hanes, and Annie Coons, who served as co-chairmen of the
event.  Indian Dance  During a dinner of beef tenderloin and pumpkin ravioli, a
dancer from the Sutradhar Institute performed a traditional
Indian number.  Wearing an Oscar de la Renta gown with a keyhole back, U.S.
Chief of Protocol Capricia Penavic Marshall offered a champagne
toast to her diplomatic colleagues all over the world.  Then Congressman  Kevin McCarthy , California Republican, hit
the dance floor with his wife, Judy, another ball co-chairman.  The gala raised $850,000, which includes major corporate
gifts from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Teva Neuroscience Inc.,  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  Southern Co. (SO) , among others.  Empty Chair  “I gotta tell you, bro, you’re gonna need us,” said actor
Jimmy Smits Tuesday night, speaking to an empty chair
representing President Obama at the National Hispanic Foundation
for the Arts gala.  Smits’s reference to the crucial Hispanic vote in this
year’s presidential election drew a ripple of chuckles and
claps.  The 16th annual Noche de Gala at the historic Mayflower
Renaissance Hotel honored actor Demian Bichir and rising
actresses Cierra Ramirez and Gina Rodriguez.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  was the primary underwriter. Toy cars were
placed on the tables as centerpieces in a nod to the motor
company.  Smits and Bichir both said they were impressed with the
speech given by Cuban-American Senator  Marco Rubio , Florida
Republican, at the Republican National Convention last month.  “He’s going to be one of the great politicians,” Bichir
said. “Notice I skipped the word ’Hispanic,’” he added.  The Mexican Bichir portrayed an undocumented worker in “A
Better Life,” which won him an Academy Award nomination this
year. He was given the foundation’s Raul Julia Award for
Excellence for his blending of advocacy into his art.  Smits said he will hit the road for President Obama, but
the “surrogate thing” doesn’t come naturally to him as public
speaking is sometimes intimidating “without my script.” His
character Matt Santos on the hit series “The West Wing”
successfully campaigned for president.  American Idol  Representative Loretta Sanchez, California Democrat,
chatted with “American Idol” finalist Stefano Langone, who
performed Tuesday night, and actor Esai Morales, who along with
Smits is a co-founder of the organization.  Arts supporter Adrienne Arsht, in “very old” Marchesa,
attended the gala with her friend Jorge Plasencia, the chairman
and chief executive of advertising agency Republica.  Other private-sector leaders present included Frank Ros,
vice president for Hispanic strategies for  Coca Cola Co. (KO) , Ruby
Beserra, vice president of Latin affairs for Coca Cola, and
Jerry Fuentes, president of Arizona and New Mexico for  AT&T Inc. (T)   ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on this story:
StephanieGreen in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 