-- Schaeuble Says Bank Oversight Plan May Disappoint Markets
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-14T16:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/schaeuble-says-bank-oversight-plan-may-disappoint-markets.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the European Union risks a backlash from
financial markets if it takes longer than expected to set up a
common bank supervisor for the 17-nation euro area.  The  European Central Bank  is due to take on bank oversight
duties next year under proposals from the European Commission,
the EU’s regulatory arm. EU leaders called for a single bank
supervisor in June as a condition of allowing  euro-area banks 
direct access to the region’s firewall funds.  “My concern is always that there is the risk to raise
expectations with financial-market participants that can’t be
fulfilled later,” Schaeuble told reporters today on his way
into a meeting of European finance chiefs in Nicosia, Cyprus.
“I don’t see the possibility of a direct bank capitalization
from the European Stability Mechanism as of January 1.”  Germany  has broadly backed the banking union plans, while
emphasizing the need for national regulators to monitor most of
the euro area’s more than 6,000 banks. The U.K. has voiced
concerns that it and other non-euro nations might be drowned out
of financial rulemaking if the plan goes through as offered.  Schaeuble’s call for careful deliberations, along with
strong conditions for countries whose banks receive aid,
contrasted with  France ’s plea for speed. French Finance Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  said EU leaders agreed to the clear aim of a
rapid setup.  ‘Go Fast’  “The direction set by the European Council is very
clear,” Moscovici told reporters. “It’s to complete the
discussion in 2012 and to go fast. Otherwise everything remains
theoretical and our problems are concrete.”  The EU can’t afford to “waste time” in its efforts to
tame the crisis, he said. “There’s no reason for us, the member
states, to drag our feet. The crisis is there and is affecting
everybody, including Germany.”  EU taxpayers have provided 4.5 trillion euros ($5.9
trillion) in capital injections, guarantees and other forms of
support to their lenders since 2008, exacerbating strains on
public finances that have led  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain 
and Cyprus to seek external aid. ECB President  Mario Draghi  and
the Brussels-based commission want the single supervisor to be
the first step in separating bank backstops from national
balance sheets.  Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said a common
supervisor shouldn’t be considered in isolation.  Fiscal Backdrops  “It’s very important that if we do a banking union that we
analyze also the issues regarding the resolution fund, that we
analyze the issue of fiscal backstops,” Frieden said in an
interview. “We have to see how in a single market, where there
is the European passport of financial services, there will be an
interaction between those countries that are in the  euro zone 
and those that are outside.”  An EU official told reporters today that the common
supervisor is “necessary but not sufficient” to begin direct
bank bailouts. It will need to be launched and declared
effective, and then euro-area officials will consider what other
conditions might need to apply.  Schaeuble said nations whose banks want to tap the fund
must also hold talks with euro-area authorities.  “Even when there’s a European banking supervision
authority, for a bank capitalization to happen the member state
always has to not only make a request, but also agree on the
necessary memorandum of understanding with the necessary macro-
economic adjustments,” Schaeuble said. “Conditionality is not
annulled.”  ‘Good Outcome’  The proposed banking union needs to be approved by all 27
EU members. It eventually could include cross-border  deposit
guarantees  and pooled funds to stabilize troubled lenders, and
non-euro members would be allowed to opt in.  “We can get a good outcome before the end of this year,”
EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  told
reporters. He said plans to follow up the common supervisor with
stronger deposit guarantees won’t include “an open-ended
kitty” at taxpayers’ expense.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said his nation, which
does not use the euro, has two “red lines” in negotiations on
making the ECB the single supervisor across the 17-nation euro
area and possibly extending its purview to other EU countries.  “We will not accept any burden on our taxpayers,” Borg
said in Cyprus today. “We already have fully funded systems for
banking resolutions and for deposit insurances so we will not
accept that money our taxpayers have paid would be used for
other banking systems.”  ‘Problematic’  It would be “problematic” for the ECB to assume
supervision of the country’s banks, Borg said. Closer
coordination creates the “clear risk” that some countries
would be required to ease their rules to match common standards.  As proposed, non-euro members wouldn’t be fully bound by
ECB regulations even if they decided to join the system, because
EU law prevents the central bank from exercising power outside
the currency zone. Other nations that chose to participate would
be able to share information with the ECB, which would not have
binding powers over those governments.  Czech Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said the banking
union may hurt the common financial market in the EU.  “Our great interest is to see negotiations proceeding in a
way that will prevent damage to the common financial market,”
Kalousek told reporters. More than 90 percent of the Czech
banking market is held by units of foreign institutions, and the
country “must very carefully safeguard competences” of its
national regulator, which is the Czech central bank, Kalousek
said.  The impact of banking union “goes well beyond the issue of
supervision and  Hungary  sees itself very strongly affected,”
Marton Hajdu, a Brussels-based spokesman for Hungary, said in a
twitter message today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Nicosia, Cyprus, at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .;
Jim Brunsden in Nicosia at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 