-- SEC May Extend Planned Rule to Brokers, Shillman Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-09-14T17:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/sec-may-extend-planned-rule-to-brokers-shillman-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may include large brokers and dark pools in a planned
rule aimed at ensuring that regulated securities markets have
adequate technology systems, an SEC official said.  The SEC is working to turn policies on how exchanges manage
their automated systems into regulations in the wake of a $440
million  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  trading loss triggered by a
software malfunction last month.  The commission’s so-called automation review policy program
was established after the 1987 market crash to ensure exchanges
and clearing agencies have the capacity to handle sudden surges
in trading. The initiative evolved to encompass the security of
automated systems and make sure the technology wouldn’t fail
during or after a crisis, according to David Shillman, associate
director in the SEC’s division of trading and markets.  The aim now is “to codify that, to make the standards
clearer, perhaps expand them a bit,” Shillman said yesterday at
a conference in New York sponsored by the Futures Industry
Association and Options Industry Council. Minimum standards for
automated systems, which currently cover exchanges and
clearinghouses, “could be applied to other market
participants” including brokers and dark pools, he said.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said on Aug. 3, two days after
the Knight error, that she had asked her staff to hasten work on
the rule. Knight’s loss, which drove the company to the brink of
bankruptcy before it shored up its finances by selling shares to
a consortium of investors, was the latest damage to confidence
in a market infrastructure following this year’s botched initial
public offerings of Facebook Inc. and Bats Global Markets Inc.  SEC Roundtable  Shillman said he expects the automation review policy, or
ARP, program to be discussed during a  roundtable  meeting about
technology the SEC is holding in  Washington  on Oct. 2. That
dialogue will focus on the “ways in which technology can be
used to prevent errors” and address mistakes when they occur,
he said.  Schapiro said in a March 2011  speech  that compliance with
the ARP guidelines should be made mandatory. The Government
Accountability Office  urged  that action in 2004, she said.  While the SEC’s focus in the ARP program has been on
trading systems, that’s likely to broaden following the recent
technology mishaps, Shillman said.  ‘Enforceable Rule’  “We recognize that other technologies are important to the
markets as well, including market data provision, routing
services, issuer services and the like,” Shillman said. “The
main goal of the initiative is to see whether objective
industry-wide standards can be devised that are appropriate for
the securities industry and to have an enforceable rule to
buttress that,” he said.  The SEC’s project to update the ARP guidelines is one of
several initiatives to improve the securities industry’s ability
to manage automated trading. The agency is now conducting
reviews stemming from its so-called market-access rule, adopted
in 2010 to reduce the risk of trading disruptions and improper
and manipulative activity, Shillman said. The rule, which went
into effect last year, requires brokers to employ risk checks on
orders before they’re sent to markets to make sure they aren’t
erroneous and don’t exceed preset capital and credit levels.  The commission is “getting a sense of best practices and
looking for weaknesses in the controls as well as looking for
potential violations of the rule,” Shillman said. He declined
to comment on Knight’s trading activity on Aug. 1, saying that
regulators are “still looking into the Knight incident.”  Improper Reporting  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which oversees
about 4,400 brokers, has uncovered problems through its reviews
of brokers’ trading practices following the implementation of
the market-access rule, according to Gene DeMaio, senior vice
president for market regulation at Finra.  Finra has seen a “real uptick” in brokers improperly
reporting the positions of so-called large traders in options,
DeMaio said yesterday at the conference. This is part of a
“whole host of misreporting issues,” he said.  The regulator is conducting reviews to look for instances
where orders are coded as coming from customers even when
they’re from a broker-dealer, he said. The codes affect how the
orders are executed by options exchanges and the trading fees
they’re charged.  Potentially manipulative activity is another area receiving
greater scrutiny after an increase in complaints, DeMaio said.
These may involve efforts to move the price of a stock to affect
an options position and attempts to manipulate the volatility of
an options contract, he said. He added that these are “hard
cases to prove.”  Microbursts, Blips  Finra is also examining issues related to high rates of
order message traffic by brokers, DeMaio said. The focus is on
“microbursts” of quoting activity and not efforts to slow down
data transmission “by barraging the system with quotes or
message traffic,” he said.  “Most of the problems we’re seeing are these microbursts
of activity, these blips where there really wasn’t a controlled
review of the algo sending the quotes in advance, or at least
the due diligence wasn’t there to ensure that these problems
weren’t going to arise,” he said.  Algorithms are trading strategies that automate the
submission of orders or quotations to a venue such as an
exchange. Some algorithms may submit hundreds or thousands of
orders, including updates and cancellations, each second.  “What we’re looking for is situations where there are
numerous blips over an elongated period of time,” DeMaio said.
Finra is also probing instances when it has told a firm to
address a problem related to microbursts “and then we continue
to see those blips happen day after day or week after week,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  