-- Sharp Plans to Return to Profit Next Fiscal Year, Okuda Says
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-09-14T09:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/sharp-plans-to-return-to-profit-next-fiscal-year-okuda-says-1-.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese TV maker
firing 5,000 workers after forecasting a second straight loss,
said it plans to post a profit next fiscal year with the help of
job cuts and cost reductions.  “We will achieve structural reforms without fail,”
President Takashi Okuda told employees today, according to an e-
mailed statement from Sharp, which didn’t provide a specific
forecast. The net-income forecast for next year contrasts with
the 9.6 billion-yen ($124 million) average loss forecast of nine
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal panels is cutting
jobs and negotiating with a labor union to reduce wages,
managers’ salaries and bonuses to trim 14 billion yen in costs,
the company said earlier this week. That would be in addition to
a 100 billion-yen reduction in  fixed costs  that Sharp announced
last month.  The maker of Aquos TVs reiterated its target to post an
 operating profit  in the second half of the year ending in March,
the statement cited Okuda as telling employees on the occasion
of the company’s 100th anniversary tomorrow. Sharp last month
forecast a 250 billion-yen net loss for this year, eight times
greater than originally predicted, because of its unprofitable
TV and display units.  The company posted a record 376 billion-yen net loss in the
year ended in March.  Worst Performer  Sharp was unchanged at 208 yen at the close of trading in
 Tokyo  today. The shares have declined 69 percent in Tokyo
trading this year, making them the biggest percentage loser
among more than 1,600 companies in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)   The 100-year-old inventor of mechanical pencils is seeking
to raise cash and cut costs as it faces a total of 706 billion
yen in bonds, commercial paper and borrowings maturing within
one year. The company is cutting  5,000 jobs , its first  workforce
reduction  since 1950, as part of plans to reduce fixed costs by
100 billion yen.  Sharp is working on a contingency plan to present to banks
as the company seeks help to refinance debt, Tetsuo Onishi, the
senior executive managing officer in charge of accounting, said
earlier this month. The company has submitted a plan for
returning to an operating profit in the second half and hired a
specialist to evaluate assets and business plans, Onishi said.  Weak Demand  Sales of display panels for tablet computers are less than
the company expected, a senior executive at the Japanese company
said earlier today. Finding customers for the IGZO panels is the
biggest focus of Sharp, which is trying to negotiate a tie-up
with  Taiwan ’s Foxconn Technology Group.  “We need to get enough orders to keep the factory
running,” the executive said in a briefing given on condition
that the speaker not be identified. “That is our biggest
mission.”  Sharp, a  supplier  to Apple Inc., has invested at least 350
billion yen in the factory, which was converted from making TV
panels and started producing  IGZO panels  in March. The company
hopes an alliance with Taiwan’s Foxconn may help it find
customers for the displays, the executive said.  “If demand for this technology is lower than expected, it
will be difficult for the company to achieve its operating
profit target,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. “The company may be forced to lower its earnings
estimates when it submits revival plans to banks this month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  