-- Singh’s Bold Political Gamble on Opening India’s Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-14T21:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/singh-s-bold-political-gamble-on-opening-india-s-economy-view.html
Sometimes, raw courage is the only
way to break political gridlock. With a flurry of bold executive
decisions yesterday on foreign investment -- the most extensive
policy changes since his government was re-elected in 2009 --
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  of  India  has rediscovered his
reformist zeal.  India’s consumers, media watchers and flyers will benefit
from the Cabinet’s approval of plans that allow foreign
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to take a 51 percent
stake in multibrand retail, raise the cap on non-Indian stakes
in broadcasting to 75 percent from 49 percent, and allow foreign
investors to own as much as 49 percent of national airline
carriers. Singh’s move is all the more remarkable as a similar
proposal was opposed last year not just by his political
opponents in Parliament, but also by some of his ostensible
partners in the governing coalition led by his Congress Party.  Today’s liberalizing measures also followed a surprisingly
large increase -- almost 14 percent -- in the price of  diesel
fuel , which will help the government to narrow the country’s
 deficit  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product for the year
ending in March, from 5.8 percent a year earlier.  Of course, it didn’t hurt that Singh had a bad cop in his
corner to add urgency to the case for reform: the threat by
foreign credit-rating companies to downgrade India’s investment-
grade credit rating to junk status because of slower investment
and  economic growth .  Singh and his recently appointed finance minister,
Palaniappan Chidambaram, deserve huge credit for defying the
political demagogues who all too often in recent years have been
able to set the terms of India’s economic debate. The biggest
such “frenemy” in Singh’s coalition is  Mamata Banerjee , the
combative chief minister of West Bengal, who is giving the
government 72 hours to reconsider its decision. Her kneejerk
opposition to  foreign investment  has been poor comfort for her
contituents. West Bengal had the 8th highest  unemployment rate 
among India’s states and will require a massive bailout by the
central government over the next few months just to pay its
government workers.  Singh is betting that he will be able to hold together his
coalition. Let’s hope he’s right, and that the willingness to
take that kind of principled, existential gamble wins the day.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  