-- Spanish Bonds Drop After Debt-Sale Announcement on Aid Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-09-14T16:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/spanish-bonds-drop-after-debt-sale-announcement-on-aid-concern.html
Spanish 10-year  government bonds 
dropped, heading for a weekly decline, as the nation said it
will auction benchmark securities next week and European finance
ministers put off decisions on aid for the nation.  Spain’s two-year note also slid as officials said Spain
will unveil reforms to boost the economy, holding back from an
aid request that may include bond purchases by the  European
Central Bank . Spain’s credit rating is under review by Moody’s
Investors Service. Germany’s 10-year  bunds  headed for their
biggest two-week drop since November after the  Federal Reserve 
said it will take further steps to underpin the  U.S. economy .  “Supply is going to be a burden until there’s a concrete
backstop,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “We
still need clarification on what Spain is looking to do. Are
they going to try and tough it out for a while? Maybe that’s
playing on the market’s mind.”  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 5.79 percent at 4:50 p.m. London time,
rising 16 basis points in the week. The 5.85 percent bond due
January 2022 fell 1.105, or 11.05 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,314)
face amount, to 100.425. The two-year note yield rose 19 basis
points to 3.14 percent.  Spain said it will auction the 5.85 percent securities due
2022 for the first time since Aug. 2 as well as 3.75 percent
notes due 2015 on Sept. 20.  Private Placement  The nation also plans to sell 8 billion euros of bonds in a
private placement to banks as part of its efforts to fund a
bailout facility for its cash-strapped regions, the  Economy
Ministry  said in a statement yesterday. In the first stage
starting on Sept. 21, it will sell 3 billion euros of a new
floating-rate note maturing in 2016 as well as existing
securities maturing in 2015 to 2017.  Moody’s said on Aug. 30 it would probably continue a review
of Spain’s credit rating through the end of September to get
more information on support measures for the nation. The company
has assigned the nation a Baa3 ranking, one level above junk.  “The threat of a Spanish downgrade below investment grade
might increasingly weigh on  market sentiment  over the next two
weeks,” said Norbert Aul, a rates strategist at  Royal Bank of
Canada  in London. “Also, supply is pushing next week with a new
three-year benchmark and the private placement,” he said
referring to shorter-maturity debt.  New Reforms  “However, we expect the front-end of the Spanish curve to
remain relatively safe against the prospect of an ECB
intervention in the future,” he said.  Finance ministers meeting in Cyprus looked to a fresh set
of reforms to rebuild confidence in Spain’s economic management
and said the fate of Greece’s 240 billion-euro rescue program
won’t be decided until late October, possibly at a crisis summit
of leaders.  Officials said Spain will unveil new reforms by the end of
the month that cover a possible increase in the  retirement age ,
a shift to consumption taxes and the deregulation of closed
professions. Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos pledged a
“plan of reforms to boost growth and competitiveness.”  “Spain may not for the near term find it necessary” to
request aid, according to  Bill O’Neill , chief investment officer
for  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  at Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management in London. “The market is aware now that there’s a
mechanism in place to support one- to three-year yields.”  O’Neill spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee .  ‘Bearish’ Sentiment  Germany’s 10-year yield rose 15 basis points to 1.71
percent after adding as much as 16 basis points to 1.72 percent,
the highest since April 30. The yield added 19 basis points in
the week and has climbed from 1.33 percent on Aug. 31, the
biggest two-week increase since Nov. 25.  The rate advanced through its 200-day moving average today
for the second time since July 2011. It may climb to the highest
since April if it closes above that level because it would “add
to bearish market sentiment” toward the securities,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency
strategy at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  in Toronto, wrote in a client
note dated yesterday.  The ECB’s plan to buy unlimited amounts of bonds pushed the
yield above a key long-term trendline at 1.53 percent, he wrote.  Bunds Demand  Demand for the relative safety of bunds slumped after the
Fed yesterday announced its third round of large-scale asset
purchases since 2008, with the difference that it didn’t set any
limit on the ultimate amount it would buy or the duration of the
program. Instead, Bernanke said stimulus will be expanded until
the Fed sees “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by the Netherlands and  Finland , also
perceived as haven assets, according to measures of 10-year or
equivalent-maturity debt, the spread between two-year and 10-
year securities and credit-default swaps.  Spanish bonds returned 1.7 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities advanced 15 percent, while German debt made 2.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  