-- Spanish Home Prices Fall Most on Record as Economy Shrinks
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-09-14T11:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/spanish-home-prices-fall-most-on-record-as-economy-shrinks.html
Spanish  home prices  fell the most
on record in the second quarter as the euro area’s fourth-
largest economy shrank and a reduction in mortgage lending
crimped demand for property.  The average price of houses and apartments declined 14.4
percent from a year earlier, the most since the measurement
began in 2008, the  National Statistics Institute  in Madrid said
today in an e-mailed statement. Prices fell 3.3 percent from the
previous quarter.  “The data reflects a significant drop and confirms that
prices haven’t bottomed out yet,” said  Fernando Encinar , co-
founder of Idealista.com, Spain’s largest property website.
“Only homes that are heavily discounted will sell as access to
credit has completely dried up for potential buyers.”  Spain, which forecasts an economic contraction of 1.7
percent this year, is in its second recession in three years.
The country’s 25 percent unemployment rate is  Europe ’s highest
and has diminished lending for residential real estate.  House prices  more than doubled in the decade through 2007,
before turning negative in the first quarter of 2008 and have
since fallen by about 23 percent, data from the Ministry of
Public Works show.  Home prices  have fallen 32.4 percent since a
December 2007 peak, according to separate data from Tasaciones
Inmobiliarias,  Spain ’s largest home appraiser.  Lending Drop  The number of Spanish homes sold declined in July for a
17th month, dropping 2.5 percent from a year earlier, according
to the statistics agency. Mortgage lending fell 20.4 percent in
June from the year-ago period, INE data shows.  The government has passed two decrees this year forcing
Spanish banks to make deeper provisions for losses linked to
real estate in an effort to push down prices and boost sales.  Spain built on average 675,000 homes a year from 1997 to
2006, more than  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. combined, according
to a report by a unit of Spanish savings bank Cajamar.  The property bonanza that ended in 2008 has left around 2
million unsold homes in Spain, representing supply that will
take a decade to absorb, according to Madrid-based property
research firm R.R. de Acuna & Asociados.  “Stock isn’t being reduced and some of it will never be
sold because of its quality and location,” said Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna Martinez, a partner at Acuna & Asociados.
“Some of it may have to be demolished in the future to stop the
slide in prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  