-- Spanish Regions’ Debt Swells as Aid Dilemma Continues: Economy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-09-14T11:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/spanish-regions-debt-swells-as-aid-dilemma-continues-economy.html
Spanish regions’ debt load
continued to swell in the second quarter, as the cash-strapped
local administrations urged the government to speed up its
planned bailout fund.  The regions’ debt rose to 14.2 percent of gross domestic
product from 13.8 percent in the first three months of the year,
the Bank of  Spain  in Madrid said today on its website. The
overall public debt load rose to 75.9 percent of GDP from 72.9
percent in the prior quarter.  The regions have added to the nation’s fiscal burden and
the government has created a fund to help them meet redemptions.
Spain is already drawing on 100 billion euros ($130 billion) for
banks, and speculation is growing that it may seek a full
bailout, which would enable the  European Central Bank  to buy
bonds to bring down its borrowing costs.  “Spain is the first candidate that could use the ECB bond
program,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt . “The household consolidation in this economically
challenging environment remains a problem. We don’t think that
Spain will reach its  budget deficit  goal this year.”  With most of the regions shut out of public markets, they
have been calling on the central government to implement the
fund it started to create in July. The facility, funded by a
private sale of bonds to banks and a loan from the national
lottery, is due to start working in October, Deputy Economy
Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said this week.  ‘Important Announcements’  The euro traded at $1.3115 as of 12:09 p.m. in  London , up 1
percent on the day. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose to its
highest level in more than 14 months after the  Federal Reserve 
said it will buy mortgage-backed securities to encourage
economic growth in the world’s largest economy.  The single currency has appreciated almost 4 percent
against the dollar since Sept. 6, when European Central Bank
Mario Draghi outlined the details of the government-bond
purchasing plan. Under the program, the ECB would spend as much
as needed to contain borrowing costs in countries such as Spain
and  Italy  if they sign up to bailout conditions first.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos continued to play
for some time, saying that a bond-buying program won’t be on the
agenda at a meeting of euro-region ministers in Nicosia, Cyprus,
today. He pointed to “important announcements” on economic
reforms to be made in Madrid “in coming days.”  Slump  At the same time, the country’s deepening economic slump
may make it more difficult for the government to plug its budget
gap. Spanish registered unemployment rose in August and
 industrial output  fell in July from a year earlier. The euro
area’s fourth-largest economy remained in recession in the
second quarter, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 24.6 percent.  The ECB said on Sept. 6 the euro-area economy will shrink
about 0.4 percent this year instead of a previously projected
0.1 percent. In 2013, the economy may expand 0.5 percent, half
the pace projected in June.  In the U.S. late yesterday,  Ben S. Bernanke  for the first
time pledged that the Fed will expand stimulus until it sees
“sustained improvement” in the labor market. The central bank
announced its third round of large-scale asset purchases since
2008, with the difference that it didn’t set any limit on the
ultimate amount it would buy or the duration of the program.  U.S. Data  U.S. consumer prices probably rose 0.6 percent in August
from the previous month, according to the median of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a report later today.  The preliminary reading of the Thomson Reuters/University
of Michigan confidence index fell in September, according to
another survey.  Japan  lowered the assessment of its economy today, the
first consecutive downgrade since the waning of the global
credit crunch in 2009, fueling concern the world’s third-largest
economy will contract this quarter. Japan’s “recovery appears
to be pausing due to deceleration of the world economy,” the
Cabinet Office said in a monthly report.  In Spain, the 17 semi-autonomous regions risk overwhelming
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s plan to tackle the euro area’s
third-biggest budget deficit. They were responsible last year
for most of Spain’s overspending, which remained nearly
unchanged from 2010 at 8.9 percent of gross domestic product.  Andreu Mas-Colell, the finance chief of Catalonia, the
biggest and most indebted region, said on Sept. 3 the central
government should put some kind of bridge loan in place to help
regions if the rescue mechanism isn’t ready in September.
Catalonia’s debt rose to 22 percent of its GDP in the second
quarter, from 21.2 percent in the prior quarter.  Regional Targets  The regions, which spend most of their budgets on health
and education, are aiming to halve their combined budget deficit
this year to 1.5 percent of GDP, as part of Spain’s overall
efforts to reduce its shortfall to 6.3 percent.  “These figures can understate the real current fiscal
positions of the regions,” said  Ricardo Santos , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in London. “The regions may end up with deficits
of 2.5 percent this year.”  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight in London, said the ECB will probably continue to lower
borrowing costs after cutting the benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points to a record-low of 0.75 percent in July.  “‘With the  euro zone  headed for a further GDP contraction
in the third quarter and still facing a troubling outlook, it
seems highly likely that the ECB will take  interest rates  down
to 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter,’’ he said. A move is
‘‘very possible as soon as October.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  