-- Staples Rises on Report Private Equity Mulling Buyout
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-09-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/staples-rises-on-report-private-equity-mulling-buyout.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the largest U.S.
office-supplies chain, rose the most in more than two months
yesterday after Fortune reported that private-equity firms
including Bain Capital LLC are considering buying the retailer.  Staples climbed 3.6 percent to $11.96 in New York trading
for the biggest gain since June 29. The Framingham,
Massachusetts-based company’s  shares  have fallen 14 percent this
year through yesterday.  Discussions to take over Staples are preliminary and an
offer wouldn’t be made until late this year, Fortune reported,
citing people it didn’t name. Staples has a market
capitalization of $8.16 billion.  “It’s a low-probability event, given the size of the
deal,” said R.J. Hottovy, an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
Chicago. Still, Staples is an industry leader, the world’s
second-largest Internet retailer after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , and its
delivery business would make it an attractive buyout, he said.  Staples has posted sales declines in the past two quarters
as workers shift to using fewer traditional office products,
like pens and folders. The retailer also relies on job creation,
especially at small businesses, for revenue gains and that’s
been damaged by the recession in Europe and high unemployment in
the U.S. To revive growth, the company is shrinking stores and
selling services and mobile computers.  Romney Connection  Potential buyers need time to arrange financing and don’t
want the public-relations challenges of buying a business
associated with Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
during the campaign season, Fortune said. Romney helped found
 Bain Capital , which was an early investor in Staples. He also
served on the board at Staples.  Owen Davis, a spokesman for Staples, declined to comment.
Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Boston-based Bain, didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  So-called same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s
growth because new stores are excluded, declined 2 percent in
 North America  and 9 percent in Europe in the quarter ended July
28. A private-equity firm would probably shed the retail stores
and focus on the online and delivery units, according to
Hottovy.  “There is some value” in those assets, Hottovy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  