-- Strategic Brings in Partner to Complete Essex Acquistion
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-09-14T18:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/strategic-brings-in-partner-to-complete-essex-acquistion.html
Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) 
said it completed the $362.3 million purchase of  Manhattan ’s
Essex House hotel and formed a partnership with KSL Capital
Partners LLC to fund the acquisition.  Strategic will own 51 percent of the venture, the Chicago-
based company said in a statement today. The seller was Dubai
Investment Group LLC, the real estate and asset-management arm
of Dubai Group LLC, which is controlled by the emirate’s ruler.  “Consistent with our strategy of being an opportunistic
investor, we moved quickly to take advantage of this highly
compelling opportunity,”  Laurence Geller , Strategic’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Strategic said a week ago that the sale’s completion would
be delayed until today as it worked on financing. The mortgage
backed by the Essex House matured Sept. 9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was transferred two days later to a
so-called special servicer,  Fitch Ratings  said. The reason was
maturity default, meaning the debt was unpaid at the time it
came due, according to Fitch. Special servicers negotiate with
property owners on behalf of commercial-mortgage bondholders.  Essex House, located across from  Central Park  and known for
the red neon sign bearing its name atop the 40-story tower,
opened in 1931. Dubai Investment bought the property in 2005 for
$440 million and spent $90 million more on renovations,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm.  Strategic partnered with KSL on the equity portion of the
acquisition. The joint venture also got a $190 million mortgage
from Bank of America Corp., according to today’s statement.  Management Contract  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  will manage the property
starting Sept 18, and it will operate under the company’s JW
Marriott brand. Under the contract, Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott will manage the property for 50 years and guarantee as
much as $21.5 million of hotel net operating income annually for
eight years, according to an August statement.  The Essex acquisition works out to about $685,000 per unit
for the 509 hotel rooms and nine condominiums, according to
Strategic, a real estate investment trust that owns luxury
hotels and resorts. The company plans to spend about $18.3
million on Essex property improvements.  Strategic said that its share of earnings from the
property, including payments from Marriott, will contribute
about $3.5 million of earnings before interest, taxes
depreciation and amortization for the remainder of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  