-- Studios Manage DVD Death With Profits on Digital Rights
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-09-14T17:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/studios-manage-dvd-death-with-profits-on-digital-rights.html
(Corrects Fox-HBO terms in 11th paragraph.)  Film premieres get all the
attention in Hollywood while the cash cow for years has been
selling those silver DVDs to a home video market far more
predictable -- and profitable -- than the hit-or-miss theatrical
release game. That’s why it was widely thought the movie
business would take it on the chin as disc ownership gave way to
digital distribution of content, just as the music business has
been decimated by the shift to MP3s.  Yet Hollywood is discovering there’s life after the DVD.
With  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , and soon  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox bidding for
rights to stream movies on Kindles, iPads, and TVs, the studios
are enjoying a boomlet that’s taking the edge off declining disc
sales and rentals,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Sept.
17 issue.  Studio-backed pay-TV channel Epix became the latest to
strike gold earlier this month when it signed a multiyear
agreement with Amazon to supply such films as “The Hunger
Games” and “Marvel’s The Avengers” for Amazon’s Prime Instant
Video service.  Epix, co-owned by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures, Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, and  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  ended
its exclusive deal with Netflix and is expected to make as much
as $80 million more a year selling the same content to the two
streaming rivals and to a third venture financed by Verizon and
Redbox, BTIG Research analyst  Rich Greenfield  says.  Old Model  Epix’s journey illustrates how Hollywood’s old model, in
which movies slowly made their way from theaters to small-screen
reruns, continues to evolve. These days digital outlets such as
Netflix and Amazon vie with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO and  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime for movies at the so-called premium cable
window, a lucrative stop that comes after films have run in
theaters, been sold as DVDs and appeared on pay-per-view.  That’s given Hollywood the chance to play the services
against each other and replace some of the revenue lost with the
drop in DVD sales and the decline of rental outlets such as
Blockbuster.  The post-theatrical release market has grown from selling
movies for late-night showings on three TV networks to providing
content to over 200 cable, satellite, and Net services. Wary of
following the music industry, which failed to see the threat of
Net piracy and the downside of relying only on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes for a la carte sales, Hollywood is looking for ways to
embrace new business models without being tied to a single
distribution outlet, says Mark Greenberg, chief executive
officer of Epix.  ‘Reinventing Ourselves’  “We are all reinventing ourselves and going after
different competition in different ways,” he says.  As recently as the mid-2000s, a consumer might go to the
theater, collect discs at $20 a pop and still pay to see “Steel
Magnolias” again on HBO or other cable outlets that purchased
exclusive rights to show the titles on TV months after they hit
retail shelves.  Since Apple, Netflix,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and others began serving
up digital copies that give consumers access to flicks anywhere,
anytime, fewer people are buying hard copies. Led by falling
DVDs, home video sales have dropped 16 percent, to about $18
billion in 2011, since peaking at $21.8 billion in 2004. And
pay-TV outlets are scrambling to find ways to retain viewers now
that almost 90 percent of America’s 115 million TV households
have the capacity to access a broad catalog of films via the
Web.  Streaming Service  In August,  HBO  got  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox to
extend its agreement to sell newer movies exclusively to the
premium channel. The deal, through 2022, lets the same Fox
content be sold through online outlets like Apple and Amazon
while it’s on HBO, though not to subscription services like Hulu
LLC, Jeff Cusson, a spokesman for the channel, says.  “HBO considers exclusivity valuable, whether it be our
original programming or theatrical” releases, Cusson says.  For now, HBO can take solace in studies that show almost 75
percent of viewing households still haven’t accessed content
online. Still, it’s only a matter of time. So Time Warner CEO
Jeffrey Bewkes is pushing his cable channels to produce more
original content, such as HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and serve
it up via the Web.  Premium channels also will try to strike deals to get
studios’ top films first, says Jim Gianopulos, co-chairman of
Fox Filmed Entertainment.  “Eventually these services will differentiate themselves
by the content they offer.”  Strike Deals  Cable and streaming outfits have seen the price of movie
content soar -- Netflix’s costs to acquire content in 2012 will
rise to more than $2 billion from about $800 million, predicts
Wedbush Securities. So they’re parsing the numbers more closely.  Armed with data about what its subscribers are watching,
Netflix is taking a harder look at its content costs. Because
Epix offers movies to  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) ,  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , and Verizon’s FiOS service, and enforced a 90-day delay
in Netflix showing those same titles, Netflix cut the amount it
pays Epix in exchange for letting it strike deals with other
online subscription services, says  Ted Sarandos , the online
service’s chief content officer.  To give it additional negotiating leverage, Netflix is
developing its own programming. Next year five shows, including
 Kevin Spacey ’s “House of Cards” and new episodes of the cult
comedy “Arrested Development,” will be exclusive to Netflix’s
25 million U.S. subscribers.  Such moves are a shot across the studios’ bow. Should
Netflix, Amazon and other online subscription sites not see
their customer rolls jump as a result of the expensive deals
they’ve cut with the studios, they will focus less on movie
acquisitions and more on developing original programming, says
Clark Hallren, an independent financial entertainment adviser.  “It’s temporary while people see if this money they’re
spending generates subscribers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  