-- Sugar Bulls Ascend as Rain Returning to Top Producer Brazil
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-14T17:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/sugar-bulls-ascend-as-rain-returning-to-top-producer-brazil.html
Sugar traders are the most bullish
in two months on speculation rain may again disrupt the harvest
in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, just as output and
exports from second-ranking  India  decline.  Twelve of 18 traders surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar
to gain next week and three were bearish, the most bullish since
July 6. The commodity has gained 6.9 percent this week to 20.72
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Brazil’s main growing area is set to get rain again as of
Sept. 20, according to weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia in
 Sao Paulo . Prices climbed 8.2 percent in June and 7.8 percent in
July after rainfall delayed its harvest and shipments.  Sugar production in India, the biggest consumer, may be
23.5 million metric tons in the season starting in October
because of dry weather, according to ED&F Man Commodities India
Pvt. That’s less than the 24 million tons estimated by the
country’s Sugar Mills Association and the 26 million tons
produced in 2011-12.  India won’t export sugar from the domestic crop in the
fourth quarter, John Stansfield, a senior analyst at Vitol
Services Ltd., said at a conference in  New Delhi  this week.
Shipments under the so-called tolling mechanism which allows
refineries to import raw sugar and re-export the refined product
will continue, he wrote in an e-mail today.  “There are still some weather issues both in Brazil and
India and sugar is clearly undervalued right now,”  Michael McDougall , head of the Brazil desk at broker Newedge Group in
New York, said by e-mail yesterday. “Millers in Brazil will
probably leave more cane in the fields if rain returns, which
will tighten availability for the rest of this year.”  Sugar Surplus  Sugar has fallen 11 percent this year as supplies were
forecast to outpace demand by 5.9 million tons in 2012-13, a
third consecutive surplus, the  International Sugar Organization 
in London estimated last month. The commodity is the fourth
worst performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials, beating coffee, cotton and lean hogs.  Sugar’s drop accelerated last month as dry weather in
Brazil helped boost production. Sugar-cane processing in the
center south, the country’s main growing region, climbed 14
percent to a record 46.5 million tons in the second half of
August, according to data from industry group Unica. Cane
processing for the season through Aug. 31 fell 9.4 percent to
307.6 million tons, Unica estimates show.  “This year’s crop is still behind last year’s and if it
rains in October, millers won’t be able to process all of the
cane,” Bruno Lima, a risk consultant a INTL FCStone Inc. in
Campinas, Brazil, said by phone yesterday. “The crop in India,
which is already forecast to be smaller, may start late to allow
for the cane to mature after a poor monsoon.”  October Weather  While all of September will still be drier than normal in
Brazil’s cane-growing regions, wet weather in October may be 10
to 15 percent above average, Celso Oliverira, a meteorologist at
Somar, said yesterday. World Weather Inc. forecast rain at
normal levels in October, with precipitation increasing to 1.5
times to 2.5 times above the norm in November and December, Drew Lerner, president of the  Overland Park , Kansas-based company,
said yesterday. Rain in May and June that delayed the crop was
more than double the average, according to Somar.  India is unlikely to export any of its 1.5 million-ton
surplus in the fourth quarter and in the first three months of
2013, according to Manish Gupta, head of sugar trading at
Singapore-based raw materials trader  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) 
Exports may emerge after there is more clarity on the size of
the crop, he said in an interview on Sept. 1. In  Thailand , the
second-biggest sweetener exporter, production will be 9.5
million to 10 million tons in 2012-13, down from 10.2 million
tons this season, according to Mitr Phol Sugar Corp.  Sugar Shorts  Large and small sugar speculators excluding  index funds 
have been betting on lower prices for three weeks to Sept. 4,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.
Prices fell 3.9 percent in the week ended Sept. 4 as the net
short climbed by more than 13 times.  Sugar may rise at least 2 cents a pound when investors
return to buy futures to close bets on lower prices, according
to Piromsak Sasunee, chief executive officer at the Thai Sugar
Trading Corp., Thailand’s biggest exporter.  Prices may also gain if the Brazilian government raises the
percentage of ethanol into gasoline back to 25 percent from 20
percent now, and rising corn prices result in more exports of
the biofuel to the U.S. Both sugar and ethanol are made from
sugar cane in Brazil. Corn has climbed 21 percent this year
after the worst drought in the U.S. since 1956.  “If the government raises the mixture of ethanol into
gasoline still this year as some expect, millers could take away
some cane away from sugar production,” FCStone’s Lima said.
“Rising corn prices may also mean that the Brazil could
increase ethanol exports to the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  