-- U.A.E.’s FAL Oil Faces Forced Tanker Sale to Repay DVB Loan
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-09-14T07:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/u-a-e-s-fal-oil-faces-forced-sale-of-tanker-to-repay-dvb-loan.html
FAL Oil Co., a United Arab
Emirates-based energy trader that’s under U.S. financial
restrictions for links to  Iran , faces the forced sale of a fuel
tanker held in Singapore to repay $57.6 million to  DVB Bank SE. (DVB)   U.A.E.-based Horizon Energy LLC intends to buy the vessel
for $34.5 million, Gina Tan, the attorney representing FAL, said
today at a hearing of the Singapore Supreme Court. A judge in
the city state, where authorities have detained the ship since
July, gave lawyers one week to arrange the sale.  Frankfurt-based DVB, which loaned $62.4 million to FAL Oil
in July 2010 to refinance the construction of two tankers, sued
the trader and sought the seizure of one of the tankers after
telling FAL it had defaulted. The allowance financed the
Khorfakkan, currently held in  Singapore , and the Al Buhaira,
according to publicly available documents at the Court. Both are
Aframax tankers capable of transporting about 80,000 to 100,000
metric tons of oil.  Energy-trading companies that rely on cash flows and credit
to buy fuel and operate ships have faced difficulties amid the
global financial crisis, with banks restricting lending at the
same time that rising commodity prices have made fuel more
expensive.  Selling the Khorfakkan won’t raise enough to pay off FAL’s
loan from DVB, the bank said in an Aug. 13 filing to the court.
The vessel was appraised at between $30 million and $36 million,
DVB said in the filing, citing two valuations it commissioned
for the court case. That compares with a fair market value for
the vessel of $56 million to $58 million in 2010, DVB said.  Motion Filed  DVB’s lawyers filed a motion yesterday, asking the court to
allow the bank to sell FAL’s ship itself, rather than putting
the vessel up for public auction, as the court had suggested.
Mark Tan, representing the bank, told Justice Andrew Ang today
that Liberia-registered Loyalty Trading bid $32.7 million for
the tanker.  FAL, once one of the largest ship-fuel suppliers in the
U.A.E., is in talks with lenders to restructure debt and get new
cash for operations, a FAL official said last month. FAL is
trying to extend the maturity of about $700 million in debt,
said the official, who asked not to be identified because talks
are in progress. The trader is seeking about $600 million in
working capital from lenders, the official said on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  