-- U.K. Roast-Chicken Tax Seen Costing Shoppers, Farmers Millions
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/u-k-roast-chicken-tax-seen-costing-shoppers-farmers-millions.html
U.K. plans to include fresh roasted
chickens sold in supermarkets among hot takeaway foods subject
to value-added tax will cost farmers and shoppers millions of
pounds, the British Poultry Council said.  New rules on  sales tax  will increase the cost to shoppers
of whole rotisserie chickens by 20 percent as of Oct. 1, the
council wrote in an e-mailed statement. That could prompt
consumers to cut purchases by 9 percent, or 73,000 birds a week,
the council said, citing an in-store trial by William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc.  British shoppers buy about 810,000 rotisserie chickens a
week in supermarkets, with a value of about 185 million pounds
($300 million) a year, according to Peter Bradnock, chief
executive officer of the council.  “We’re asking that the status quo remains and we’re
treated the same as other foodstuffs in the supermarket,”
Bradnock said by phone. “Consumers are keen to buy rotisserie
chicken because it is freshly cooked in store and they know the
provenance.”  The VAT plan is unjust because it singles out only
rotisserie chicken in supermarkets, according to the lobby
group. The council and Morrison are asking the government to
rethink the measure, it said.  Whole rotisserie chickens bought in supermarkets are not
eaten in the same way as a takeaway, with the birds typically
eaten later and as only part of a main meal, the council wrote.  Morrisson sells hot roasted chickens for 4.40 pounds a
bird, and the price would climb to 5.28 pounds based on the VAT
plan, according to Bradnock.  The tax would bring in 34 million pounds for the
government, while sales of rotisserie chicken in the U.K. might
fall by as much as 4 million birds, or 17 million pounds, the
council wrote.  “These sales that’ll be lost will be sales of whole
British chicken,” Bradnock said. “Those sales are likely to be
lost to imports of chicken that’s been cooked in Thailand,
frozen and then exported to the EU and the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  