-- E-Book Publishers, States’ $69 Million Accord Approved
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-14T19:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/u-s-judge-approves-69-million-digital-book-accord-with-states.html
A U.S. judge granted preliminary
approval to a $69 million settlement between 49 states and three
U.S. publishers over alleged price fixing of electronic books.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  New York  gave initial
approval to the accord with Hachette Book Group, HarperCollins
Publishers LLC and  Simon & Schuster  Inc. and all the states but
 Minnesota .  The  District of Columbia ,  U.S. Virgin Islands , Northern
Mariana Islands and  Puerto Rico  also joined in the settlement.  Hachette agreed to pay $31.7 million; HarperCollins,
$19.6 million; and Simon & Schuster, $17.8 million, Cote said in
an order signed yesterday and made public today. The judge
scheduled a fairness hearing for Feb. 8.  The states sued alleging the publishers unlawfully agreed
to fix the prices of electronic books, violating U.S. antitrust
law. The companies agreed to switch from the “traditional
wholesale/retail model of distribution to an agency model with
the major retailers of e-books in order to raise and fix the
prices of electronic books to consumers,” the states said.  Apple Lawsuit  In a separate case, the U.S. sued  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five
publishers in April, charging that they conspired to limit e-
book price competition. The government said the defendants
sought to raise e-book prices “significantly higher” than the
$9.99 level at which they were selling.  Cote approved a settlement with Hachette, HarperCollins and
Simon & Schuster in that case earlier this month, saying it was
in the public interest.  The U.S. suit against Apple and the publishers Macmillan, a
unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, and  Pearson
Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group remains in effect, according to a statement
by Texas.  The case is Texas v. Hachette Book Group Inc., 1:12-cv-
06625, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 