-- U.S. Money Funds Favor Japan, Shun Euro-Area Banks, Survey Shows
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-09-14T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/u-s-money-funds-favor-japan-shun-euro-area-banks-survey-shows.html
The 10 biggest U.S. money market
funds boosted holdings of Japanese bank securities to $79
billion at the end of August, more than any other country, as
they shift money to  Asia  and away from  Europe .  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s
three biggest banks, attracted $3.5 billion from the funds,
continuing a 12-month trend, a monthly survey by the Bloomberg
Risk Newsletter found.  Japanese bank holdings accounted for 11.5 percent of the
funds’ total holdings last month, compared with 6.8 percent a
year earlier. The funds reduced their euro-area holdings by 60
percent in the 12 months through August, according to the
survey. By getting funding in dollars, Japanese lenders are able
to expand their lending overseas.  “There is an interesting parallel between the inflow of
money market funding to Japanese banks and their rise within the
project finance league tables over this same period,” Kevin
D’Albert, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in  New York , wrote in an
Aug. 29 report.  Project financings are used to fund large-scale
infrastructure, public services and industrial developments. The
debt is typically secured solely on the project rather than the
companies involved in the development.  The Fitch report estimated that Mitsubishi UFJ increased
its share of the project finance market to 8.6 percent in the
first half of the year from 3.6 percent in the second half of
2010.  Sumitomo Mitsui  and Mizuho become top-10 lenders in the
industry in the first six months of this year.  Mitsubishi UFJ  Mitsubishi UFJ climbed to second from eighth in the global
project finance league tables last year, with $9.49 billion of
new loans, while Sumitomo Mitsui was third, compared with 10th a
year earlier, according to a May 23 Mitsubishi UFJ investor
 presentation . Tokyo-based Mitsubishi UFJ has targeted a 40
percent growth in profit from project finance loans in the three
years ending March 2015, the presentation said.  The bank’s total includes 3.8 billion pounds ($6.2 billion)
of loans it bought from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc at the
end of 2010. Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui were the top two
arrangers of project-finance syndicated loans in Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa between January 1 and Sept. 13, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mizuho expects to boost overseas lending by as much as 30
percent a year, targeting Asian companies unable to borrow from
European banks, Nobuhide Hayashi, managing executive officer at
Mizuho’s corporate banking unit, said in an interview in July.  Overseas Loans  The bank increased its foreign currency deposits and sold a
$1.5 billion senior bond in the first quarter to meet increased
demand for overseas loans, it said earlier this month.  Total assets under management at the 10 funds increased to
$681.7 billion on August 31 from $678.7 billion on July 31.
Prime funds are those not restricted to securities backed by the
U.S. government.  Japan ’s banks together have received $32
billion from the funds during the last 12 months.  The survey included Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan Prime
Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  