-- U.S. Consulate in Libya Scarred by Lethal Night Assault
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-14T04:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/u-s-consulate-in-libya-scarred-by-lethal-night-assault.html
As Libyan and American
investigators began probing the Sept. 11 attack that killed U.S.
Ambassador to  Libya  Chris Stevens and three of his colleagues,
there was abundant evidence of the assault’s fury.  The sand-colored buildings in the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi are blackened by smoke and gutted, and three embassy
cars are burned-out wrecks. While the attackers never breached a
smaller housing compound a mile away, it was hit by a heavy
projectile and a sustained assault that lasted through the night
left bullet marks in the walls.  The weapons, the violence and the duration of the attacks,
two U.S. intelligence officials said, suggest that it was
carried out by radical Islamists, perhaps to avenge the June
death of al-Qaeda leader Abu Yahya al-Libi in a U.S. drone
attack or to mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.  “This wasn’t a group of individuals who ran down to the
garage and picked up a few AK-47s and showed up and started
shooting at the consulate,” Republican Representative Mike Rogers, who heads the House intelligence committee, told
reporters yesterday. “This was clearly a planned, coordinated
event that took place on 9/11. And as an old FBI guy, you don’t
believe in too many coincidences, let alone that many
coincidences all in the same day.”  The U.S. intelligence officials took a more cautious
stance. Speaking on the condition of anonymity because they
aren’t authorized to talk publicly, both said it isn’t clear
whether Islamic extremists, perhaps veterans of the war in
 Afghanistan  and possibly now allied with their former enemies in
the late Libyan dictator Muammar Qadhafi’s security forces,
planned the attack.  No Evidence  More likely, they said, militants infiltrated a peaceful
demonstration and used it as cover for assaulting the compound.  The officials said they had no evidence that al-Qaeda’s
core leadership in  Pakistan  directed the attack, and none that
its North African affiliate, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,
did, either.  Nevertheless, they said, militants in North Africa have
obtained numerous weapons, including some of the type used in
the attack, that were looted from Qadhafi’s arsenals.  “There’s a possibility of an al-Qaeda link,” said Michele
Dunne, director of the Middle East center at the Atlantic
Council, a Washington policy group. As Libya moves to a
democratic system, Dunne said in an interview, “you have in
Libya several different groups unhappy with the way the
political order is evolving and want to destabilize it.”  Attack Begins  The consulate’s landlord, Ahmed Busheri, said in an
interview that Libyans who witnessed the attack told him it
began at about 10 p.m. on Sept. 11 with protests against a film
made in the U.S. that demonstrators said insults the Islamic
Prophet Muhammad.  He and Mohammed el Kish, a former press officer with the
National Transitional Council, which handed power to the
National Congress elected in July, both said it was unclear who
started shooting.  “It might have started with the Libyan guards firing,” el
Kish said in an interview.  “I think the Libyan guards may have fired like this,”
Busheri said, indicating a man firing a gun into the air.  What’s not in dispute is that a gun battle ensued.  Bullet casings lie on the ground outside the consulate, a
walled facility that includes four sand-colored villas. A
rocket, which appears to have been fired from inside the
consulate compound, hit one of the concrete blocks placed around
the facility to prevent cars from parking close to it.  Swarming Protesters  Busheri, who rents the premises to the U.S. government,
said he was told that protesters, some of them armed, then
swarmed over the walls. He said the attackers got past the
consulate’s Libyan guards, and that Stevens and at least two of
what he said was a three-person security detail moved to a villa
to the left of the main gate.  The villa has two white sandbagged emplacements that
Busheri said were built months earlier so the villa could serve
as a safe house if the consulate compound’s outer walls were
breached. U.S. diplomatic and military facilities in risky
environments often have safe houses or rooms.  Pointing to flecks of blood on opposite walls, Busheri said
two members of the security staff were killed on a terrace by
the villa.  “The two Americans died here,” he said.  Burned-Out Ruin  Busheri said that Stevens was inside the villa and was
overcome by smoke, contrary to earlier reports that he was
killed by a grenade attack on his car.  Also killed in the attack were Sean Smith, a Foreign
Service information officer, and Tyrone S. Woods and Glen A.
Doherty, two former Navy SEALs who were working as security
personnel, according to a State Department news release.  The consulate building is a burned-out ruin, as are the
villas, which stink of smoke and rotting food. Furniture has
been dumped in the swimming pool, and more broken furniture,
clothing and food packets from U.S. military field rations lie
scattered, apparently by looters.  Stevens was brought to the city’s largest hospital,
Benghazi Medical Centre, at 2 a.m. on Sept. 12, said hospital
director Dr. Fathi al Jehani.  Jehani said in an interview at the medical center that
hospital night duty staff members told him they’d heard the
sound of fighting earlier that morning and had dispatched an
ambulance to the scene, but that the ambassador and a Libyan
translator working for the consulate were brought up the
emergency ramp by civilians in a private car.  No Identification  Stevens “had no form of identification on him,” Jehani
said. “One of the people with him said this is the ambassador.
He was dead on arrival. We tried to revive him.”  Ambulances brought 10 more wounded people to the hospital,
two Americans and eight Libyan security guards, Jehani said. All
but one of the guards has been treated and released, with the
remaining guard undergoing surgery yesterday, he said.  Thomas Burke, a Boston-based doctor making his second visit
to Benghazi, arrived at the medical center the morning after the
attack for what was supposed to be a meeting with Stevens.  “The hospital staff were really devastated,” Burke, chief
of the Division of Global Health and  Human Rights  in the
Department of Emergency Medicine at  Massachusetts General
Hospital , said in a phone interview. “Several of the doctors
who tried to take care of him were crying.”  Spoke With Stevens  Burke, who was assisting Benghazi Medical Centre with
training, said he could hear explosions from the attack from the
Tibesti Hotel, where he was staying with American colleagues
about a mile from the consulate.  An hour before the explosions began, Burke said, his
colleagues spoke to Stevens by phone about a meeting the next
day regarding a cooperation agreement between Benghazi Medical
Centre and Massachusetts General.  “He voiced remarkable delight” about the partnership,
Burke said.  When the attack on the consulate occurred, “nobody really
knew what was happening,” Burke said. Benghazi hospital
officials kept him apprised of developments through the night.  “The hospital had to brace itself for what was going to be
an onslaught of wounded,” Burke said, in explaining the
frequent calls by hospital officials to their U.S. colleagues.  A group of diplomats escaped the consulate under fire in a
white armored jeep, according to Adel Ibrahim, one of two
landlords who own a compound approximately a mile south of the
consulate that houses most of the dozen or so U.S. diplomats
based in Benghazi. The residential compound is smaller than the
consulate premises and is surrounded by a high wall.  ‘Bullet Holes’  Ibrahim, who said he didn’t witness the diplomats’ arrival,
said that his staff told him the American’s jeep reached the
gate of the housing compound early on the morning of Sept. 12.  “I saw the vehicle later,” he said in an interview. “It
had bullet holes.”  Ibrahim said about an hour later, attackers whom he assumed
had come from the consulate fired machine guns and rockets into
the compound. He showed a Bloomberg reporter a hole made by a
heavy projectile in the wall of a one-story house and smears of
what he said was blood where he said one American died.  The other landlord, Kolan Garmud, said the surviving
diplomats remained in the housing compound, with the attackers
outside, until Libyan security forces arrived at a time he
estimated as 6 a.m.  “We feel a great loss,” Garmud said of Stevens. “We saw
him as an ally, as a friend; he knew the people of Libya.”  Burke, who travels frequently through  Africa  and returned
home last night, said many residents of Benghazi “are so happy
to see Americans, unlike anything I’ve seen.”  “To see all the people weeping over the loss of Ambassador
Stevens is really moving,” he said. “There’s an enormous
amount of goodwill. I hope we can be thoughtful in how we
proceed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  