-- Hugh Grant Sues News Corp. Over Phone Hacking by Tabloid
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-14T14:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/hugh-grant-sues-news-corp-over-phone-hacking-by-u-k-tabloid.html
Hugh Grant , the British actor who
told a media-ethics inquiry the press had become “toxic” in
its pursuit of celebrity gossip, sued  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit
over claims its News of the World tabloid hacked his phone.  The lawsuit was filed yesterday in London, his lawyer Mark
Thomson said in an e-mail. Grant, 52, joins  Sarah Ferguson , the
Duchess of York, and 34 other victims who lodged claims
yesterday, racing to beat the deadline for the civil suit which
won’t begin before May 1.  Grant, who starred in the comedy “ Notting Hill ,” told the
inquiry in November that phone hacking was probably used by
other publishers. He said he’d suffered numerous media
intrusions, such as a break-in at his apartment in 1995 and
tabloids running stories about private medical treatments.  The now-defunct tabloid targeted some of the best-known
celebrities, including U.S. actors  Brad Pitt  and Angelina Jolie
and England soccer player Wayne Rooney, prosecutors said in
July. Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. publisher, and seven others were charged with
conspiring between 2000 and 2006 to hack the phone messages of
more than 600 people.  Rupert Murdoch , chairman of New York-based News Corp.,
closed the News of the World in July 2011 to help contain public
anger after revelations the tabloid hacked the phone messages of
murdered British schoolgirl Milly Dowler, who went missing in
2002 and became the subject of front-page stories.  Daisy Dunlop , spokeswoman for London-based News
International, declined to comment. Thomson would only comment
to confirm the suit had been filed.  Single Case  The civil lawsuits are being handled as a single case to
establish a common set of claims and facts about the hacking
conspiracy and set standards for payments of money damages. News
International faces a second trial scheduled for sometime after
May 1 if the newer cases aren’t settled.  Welsh priest Richard Reardon, whose phone messages were
hacked to get scoops about parishioner and British pop star
 Charlotte  Church, sued yesterday. The singer, who also sued,
settled her case in February for 600,000 pounds ($974,000) after
the company admitted targeting her starting when she was 16,
hacking her father’s phone and harassing her mother.  Among the dozens of new victims that emerged today are
psychic spoon-bender Uri Geller, former England soccer captain
Tony Adams and long-serving Labour member of parliament Geoffrey Robinson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  