-- UN Carbon for 2013 Falls to Record as Supply From Coal May Gain
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-09-14T10:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/un-carbon-for-2013-falls-to-record-as-supply-from-coal-may-gain.html
United Nations emission credits for
December 2013 dropped to a record as supplies of offsets from
more-efficient coal plants in emerging nations may increase.  Certified Emission Reduction credits for that month fell
2.2 percent to 2.20 euros ($2.87) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London as of 10:40 a.m. European
Union carbon for this December rose 1 cent to 7.82 euros a ton,
after falling as much as 1.3 percent.  The Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board yesterday
approved a  revised set of rules  governing how many emission
credits more-efficient new natural gas- and coal-powered
generators are eligible to receive in emerging and developing
nations. That conclusion will boost supply and cause prices to
fall, Eva Filzmoser, director of CDM Watch, the Brussels
environmental lobby group, said yesterday.  “This is the worst board decision in years,” she said in
an e-mailed statement. The ruling, which didn’t accept
recommendations from the board’s own technical panel, will
result in credits for stations that would have been constructed
even without the revenue from selling the offsets, Anja
Kollmuss, an emissions trading specialist at the lobby group,
said today by phone.  “They would have been built exactly the same way,” she
said by phone. The coal plants might even be formed into so-
called programs of activities, where each station doesn’t need
individual approval from regulators, she said by e-mail.  David Abbass, a spokesman for the board, didn’t immediately
return two e-mails and a phone call seeking comment.  CERs for December 2012 have dropped 78 percent in the past
year, while EU carbon has fallen 39 percent.  Market Glut  The EU market, where emitters can use UN credits for part
of their compliance needs, will probably be oversupplied by 1.6
billion tons in the five years through 2012, according to a
forecast yesterday by Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the  London 
research company.  Taking into account forward power hedging demand by
utilities, the “real surplus” is about 600 million tons,
Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at New Energy Finance, said by e-
mail. Total carbon-dioxide emissions in the EU program this year
will be about 2.2 billion tons, New Energy forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  