-- Uralkali CEO Defends Potash Pricing on China, India Contracts
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-09-14T12:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/uralkali-ceo-defends-potash-pricing-on-china-india-contracts.html
OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest
potash producer by output, will seek to maintain prices as it
prepares to sign contracts with  India  and  China  and global
droughts impoverish the soil, said Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner.  “We will do our best to protect the current prices,”
Baumgertner said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
 New York  yesterday. “We see a stable price environment in key
markets this year.”  Dry weather in countries including the U.S., Australia and
Russia this year has left soil parched, damaging crops. Potash,
a form of potassium, is used by farmers to strengthen stalks and
roots and help plants fight disease.  Uralkali jumped 2.9 percent to $42.18 by 1:12 p.m. in
 London , heading for the highest close since July 20. The shares
rose 0.8 percent to 259.22 rubles in Moscow, extending its gain
this year to 11 percent. The ruble-denominated  Micex (INDEXCF)  benchmark
stock index has gained more than 9 percent in 2012.  Uralkali will probably sign a new contract with China by
November and a new contract with India “immediately after
that,” he said. Belarusian Potash Co., a trader part owned by
Uralkali, has held the potash price for China at $470 a metric
ton since the second half of 2011, and for India at $490 a ton
since August 2011.  The devaluation of the Indian rupee and an end of subsidies
for farmers reduced demand for Uralkali’s potash, Baumgertner
said. China and India could generate an increase in fertilizer
consumption if the nations focus on domestic  food production  as
opposed to imports, he said.  “We don’t see governments in China and India acting
rationally,” Baumgertner said. “But we see huge potential
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  