-- Veritas Capital Chairman McKeon Takes Own Life at Age 58
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-09-14T15:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/veritas-capital-chairman-mckeon-takes-own-life-at-age-58.html
Robert McKeon, the founder of
private-equity firm Veritas Capital and a former chairman of
Wasserstein Perella Management Partners, died Sept. 10 at his
home in Darien,  Connecticut . The cause of death was suicide,
according to the office of Connecticut’s chief medical examiner.  Darien police in an e-mail confirmed McKeon’s death and
said the incident isn’t considered suspicious. He was 58.  “Bob was an extraordinary person, a consummate
professional, and a cherished friend and colleague,” New York-
based Veritas said in an e-mailed statement. “We are all deeply
saddened by this tragic loss and have his family in our
thoughts.”  McKeon, a founding partner of Wasserstein Perella & Co.,
started Veritas in 1992, building it into a $2.2 billion firm.
He was a member of the  Council on Foreign Relations  and the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington ,
and was appointed in 1993 to chairman of the Connecticut Health
and Educational Facilities Authority.  Veritas in April agreed to buy Thomson Reuters Corp.’s
health-care data and analytics business for $1.25 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal, which closed
June 6, was the firm’s largest acquisition, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company is being run by senior partners Ramzi Musallam,
Hugh Evans and Benjamin Polk following McKeon’s death, the firm,
which invests in government service providers, said in the e-
mail. Musallam has been at Veritas since before its first fund
was raised.  Bronx-Born  “We are continuing to oversee operations at Veritas and at
our portfolio companies, consistent with our regular practice
and as Bob would have wanted,” Veritas said in the statement.  McKeon began his career as a director at First Boston
Corp.’s mergers and acquisitions group, working on deals valued
at more than $20 billion, according to a biography posted on the
 website  of  Fordham University  in  New York , where he sat on the
board of trustees. At Wasserstein Perella, he was instrumental
in fundraising and investing of the group’s $1.1 billion
private-equity fund.  McKeon was born in Bronx, New York, and earned his
bachelor’s degree from Fordham University in 1976, according to
the school. He received a master’s degree in business
administration from  Harvard Business School , according to
Veritas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  