-- Vestas Says Chinese Market Shifting to Higher Quality Turbines
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-14T16:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/vestas-says-chinese-market-shifting-to-higher-quality-turbines.html
China ’s wind park developers are
increasingly seeking higher-quality turbines rather than just
picking the cheapest machines,  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  said.  Morten Albaek, the chief marketing officer for the world’s
biggest wind turbine maker, said China’s leading developer of
the facilities,  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916)  has said it’s
focusing on quality as it picks from 70 domestic suppliers.  “Chinese customers are becoming more demanding and
insightful,” Albaek said in an interview in  London  today.
“Customers have started focusing not only on the price, but
also the long-term profitability of the investment, which
depends on quality.”  Vestas last year took 3.8 percent of the Chinese wind
market and has 5.7 percent of the total installed wind capacity
in the nation. Gains by Chinese manufacturers have trimmed
prices across the industry, squeezing margins for European
manufacturers.  Now, even the Chinese manufacturers are “challenged” by
falling profitability, said Albaek.  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., China’s biggest
maker of  wind turbines  by market share, on Aug. 24 said first-
half profit fell 83 percent because competition intensified.
Sinovel Wind Group Co., the second-biggest, two days later said
first-half profit declined 96 percent.  “If you look at the reports from Goldwind, Sinovel and
other large manufacturers, you can see they are challenged like
the rest of the global wind industry,” Albaek said. “Their
earnings are dropping. Whether you’re a Chinese company or not,
It’s unsustainable not to earn money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  