-- Visteon Said to Study Permanent CEO, Weigh Unit Sale
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-09-14T20:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/visteon-said-to-study-permanent-ceo-weigh-unit-sale.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) , the auto-parts
supplier, is leaning toward naming interim Chief Executive
Officer Tim Leuliette to the post permanently after ousting its
CEO last month, people familiar with the plans said.  The company’s board is also asking advisers for options
about its electronics unit, which makes instrument clusters and
infotainment systems, and may explore a sale of the business,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the deliberations are private.  Since exiting bankruptcy in 2010, Visteon has tried to shed
lower-margin units to focus on faster-growing operations in
Asia. Leuliette, 62, will detail Visteon’s new strategy at an
investor conference in Boston next week, which will include an
increased focus on the climate business that makes heating and
air-conditioning systems, one of the people said.  Jim Fisher , a
company spokesman, declined to comment.  Visteon, spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has been
pressured by investors to boost its share price, which peaked at
$75.75 in January 2011. The Van Buren Township, Michigan-based
parts supplier hasn’t been able to generate consistent profits
under three permanent CEOs before Leuliette.  A month ago, CEO Don Stebbins was weighing options after a
deal to sell Visteon’s interiors unit fell apart and his attempt
to buy the remaining 30 percent of Halla Climate Control Corp.
was blocked by South Korea’s National Pension Service. Stebbins
said in an interview that while he was looking at acquisitions
in climate and electronics to boost market share in both units,
he didn’t expect any new transactions to close in 2012.  Climate Focus  Stebbins, 54, resigned on Aug. 10 and Leuliette was named
interim chief, the company said in an Aug. 13 statement.  The company will focus on expanding its climate business,
which includes 70 percent ownership of Halla and Visteon’s own
climate unit, two people said. The climate operation is ranked
No. 2 behind  Denso Corp. (6902) , the Kariya, Japan-based parts maker
that is 23 percent owned by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “Visteon has a vested interest in maintaining a combined
Climate Company” made up of Halla and Visteon’s climate
operations and would realize greater value with the combined
entity, Matthew Stover, a Boston-based analyst at Guggenheim
Securities LLC, wrote in an Aug. 30 research note.  Visteon’s board favors Leuliette as the permanent CEO
because potential candidates view him as likely to win the job,
he agrees with shareholders who have pushed the company to sell
off lower-margin businesses and it’s hard to find CEO candidates
to shrink the company, the people said.  Electronics Unit  The shares rose 1.3 percent to $47.62 at the close in  New
York . They have dropped 4.6 percent this year.  Visteon also is asking banks for ideas on how to exit its
electronics business, which has intellectual property shared
with a joint venture between the company and  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) ,
one of the people said.  Electronics accounted for 17 percent of Visteon’s revenue
last year, or $1.37 billion. Visteon’s electronics business is
fifth-largest globally, according to a 2011 investor
presentation, trailing  Continental AG (CON) , Denso,  Harman
International Industries Inc. (HAR)  and  Alpine Electronics Inc. (6816)   Visteon recently bid on Air International Thermal Systems,
a climate business owned by Unitas Capital, one person familiar
with the proposal said. The talks have stalled over price, the
person said.  Strategic Review  Visteon hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Rothschild in
October 2011 as advisers for a strategic review. Independent
board members such as  Harry Wilson  and Leuliette pressed
Stebbins to interview banks to help streamline the supplier, two
people familiar with the process said in October.  The company sold lighting, its smallest unit, to Varroc
Group of India last month. In July, Visteon ended an agreement
to sell the majority of its interior business to Yanfeng Visteon
Automotive Trim Systems Co., its joint venture with Shanghai-
based  Huayu Automotive Systems Co. (600741)   Leuliette served as CEO of Dura Automotive Systems Inc.
until 2010, the year he became a Visteon director. He was CEO of
Metaldyne Corp. from 2001 to 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  