-- VIX Contracts at Record as Traders Lock in Stock Gains
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-14T16:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/vix-contracts-at-record-as-traders-lock-in-stock-gains.html
Investors are boosting options and
 futures  wagers based on U.S. equity-market volatility to a
record to protect gains after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
jumped to an almost five-year high.  The number of futures on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, has more than tripled to 411,407 this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Outstanding
 options  on the gauge, which tracks the cost of insuring against
 S&P 500  losses, has more than doubled to 7.48 million in 2012.
The level is close to the peak reached last month.  Investors are turning to securities based on volatility to
hedge against losses after the S&P 500 surged 16 percent this
year, putting it on track for the biggest annual gain since
2009. Funds that bet on market swings attracted almost as much
cash in the first six months of this year as in all of 2011,
data from Hedge Fund Research Inc. show.  “Volatility has become more attractive now as an asset
class,” Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
European head of global  asset allocation  said in a Sept. 12
phone interview from  London . JPMorgan has $2.3 trillion in total
assets. “When you have a crisis, volatility spikes. So buying
volatility provides a generic crisis hedge.  VIX (VIX)  futures and
options open interest has increased sharply as hedge funds have
become more heavy users.”  Volatility Trading  Investors are using options to buffer against losses in
other assets. In the strategy, known as volatility trading, fund
managers buy the contracts to improve the odds that the value of
their fund will be preserved during a market rout. When the S&P
500 plunged 38 percent in 2008, the VIX soared 78 percent.  About $874 million was added to volatility funds in the
first half of the year, according to data compiled by Chicago-
based HFR. That compares with inflows of $914 million for all of
last year and withdrawals in 2010 and 2009. Investors poured
$1.35 billion into the investments in 2007, the highest since
the start of the data in 1990.  “It’s what I call a  bull market  in fear,” Christopher Cole, founder of volatility investment-management firm Artemis
Capital Management LLC in  Santa Monica ,  California , said in a
phone interview. “There’s a tremendous amount of shock risk
between deflationary events and the unintended consequences of
the actions of global central banks and policy makers. As long
as these issues remain unresolved, investors will continue to
bid up volatility.”  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it would buy
mortgage-backed securities, adding to the $2.3 trillion of
stimulus that the central bank committed to spur growth in the
world’s largest economy.  The HFRX RV Volatility Index, which tracks 40 funds that
bet on stock swings, climbed 4.8 percent this year through the
end of July. The broader HFRX Global Hedge Fund is up 2.7
percent in 2012. Volatility is a small part of the fund
industry, with inflows this year accounting for 4.3 percent of
the $20.4 billion added to hedge funds during the first half of
this year, HFR data show.  “It’s a newer strategy, people aren’t as familiar with
it,” Paul Britton, chief executive officer of New York-based
Capstone Investment Advisors LLC, which manages about $1.7
billion and focuses on volatility trading, said in a phone
interview. “If we can educate people on the matter, then we
have a chance to make them comfortable with the asset class, and
where it would fit in with their overall portfolio.”  Volume Drop  U.S. options trading is poised for the biggest annual drop
since 1988. The number of contracts changing hands fell 13
percent to 2.70 billion during the first eight months of 2012,
according to data compiled by Chicago-based Options Clearing
Corp. Should the pace continue, that would mark the second-
biggest drop since OCC data began in 1973.  The VIX slid 11 percent to 14.05 yesterday, the lowest
level since Aug. 20. That’s 31 percent below its historical
average of 20.50 since 1990. It rose 2.4 percent to 14.38 at
12:20 p.m. in  New York  today. The European counterpart, the
VStoxx Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50 Index option prices,
lost 10 percent to 21.11.  The number of shares outstanding for exchange-traded funds
that profit from volatility gains in U.S. stocks has also
increased. Shares of the Barclays Plc’s iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-
Term Futures ETN, the biggest of the securities,  jumped  almost
nine-fold this year and touched a record 192 million on Sept. 7,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People are fundamentally worried about uncertainty,”
Kathryn Kaminski, chief investment officer at Alpha K Capital, a
fund of hedge funds, said in a phone interview. “More pension
funds are starting to wake up to the tune of either selling vol
or getting involved in vol, which means that this space has a
lot more growth potential for the next few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  