-- Volcker Rule Needs Narrow Hedge Exemption, CFTC’s Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-14T10:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/volcker-rule-needs-narrow-hedge-exemption-cftc-s-chilton-says.html
Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  should be prevented from skirting a ban
on proprietary trading through an exemption for hedging, said
 Bart Chilton , a member of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Five federal regulators are required by the Dodd-Frank Act
to implement the ban, which must include the allowance for
hedging to mitigate risks. Chilton, in a letter today to Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , urged regulators to create a
narrow exemption that doesn’t become a loophole.  “A too-expansive definition will significantly undercut
the fundamental purposes of the rule,” said Chilton, a Democrat
on the commission that is among the regulators writing the ban.
“The final rule should encourage prudent risk management and
not provide an incentive for banking entities to game the
definition.”  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , is
intended to reduce the chance that banks will put depositors’
money at risk. Dodd-Frank, signed into law in 2010, largely left
regulators to define the provisions. They have said they intend
to finish the rule by the end of the year and have given banks
until July 2014 to implement it as long as they make a good-
faith effort to comply.  The scope of the risk-mitigating hedging provision gained
attention after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reported trading losses
from a credit-derivatives position Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called a “hedge.” The loss this year stands at $5.8
billion. Regulators have been under pressure from lawmakers and
consumer advocacy groups to respond to the loss by narrowing the
hedging exemption.  Underlying Risks  Chilton said banks should be required to present an array
of metrics for trades to demonstrate their compliance with the
Volcker rule.  “If a banking entity’s risk-management program results in
transactions that are not reasonably correlated to risks -- that
is, gains on ‘hedges’ are greater than the loses on underlying
risks -- then a strong presumption should be created that the
hedge exemption may have been improperly claimed,” he said.  When comments on the proposal were due in February, U.S.
and international banks criticized the measure for too tightly
restricting hedging activities.  “The proposal, if implemented in its current form, will
overly restrain our customer-facing market-making businesses and
our risk-mitigating hedging activities to the detriment of our
customers,”  Colm Kelleher , co-president of Morgan Stanley’s
institutional securities group, and  Jim Rosenthal , the company’s
chief operating officer, wrote in a Feb. 13 letter.  ‘Narrow View’  John F.W. Rogers, Goldman Sachs’s chief of staff, said in a
comment letter that regulators had taken a “narrow view” of
market-making, underwriting and hedging activities.  “Without substantial revisions, the proposed rule will
define permitted market making-related, underwriting and hedging
activities so narrowly that it will significantly limit our
ability to help our clients,” Rogers said in  a Feb. 13 letter .  In addition to the CFTC, the rule-writing agencies are the
Fed, Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., and Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  