-- Walgreen Pays $80 Million to Settle DEA Painkiller Probe
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-06-11T21:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/walgreen-florida-facility-barred-from-shipping-oxycodone.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, will pay $80 million to end an investigation
into whether it violated rules governing the distribution of
prescription painkillers, federal officials said.  The Deerfield, Illinois-based company agreed to the payment
to resolve a U.S.  Drug Enforcement Administration  probe of drug-distribution practices in  Florida  and at least three other
states, the DEA said today in a statement. It’s the largest such
settlement in DEA history, according to the statement.  DEA agents were looking into claims that Walgreen officials
allowed prescription painkillers, such as  oxycodone , to be
diverted to illegal uses. Walgreen’s Jupiter, Florida-based
distribution center was the largest supplier of oxycodone to
retail pharmacies in the state, federal officials said.  “Walgreen pharmacists blatantly ignored red flags and
filled prescriptions they knew or should have known would be
illegally diverted,” Mark Trouville, a Miami-based DEA agent,
said in an interview.  Costs tied to the settlement will reduce earnings by
4 cents to 6 cents a share in the fiscal third quarter, Walgreen
said today in a statement. Analysts project adjusted earnings of
91 cents, the average of 19  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  “We have worked closely with DEA over the past several
months to reach this agreement, which concludes the DEA’s review
of our operations,” Kermit Crawford, president of Walgreen’s
pharmacy, health and wellness services businesses, said in an e-mailed statement.  Shoddy Practices  Walgreen’s agreement with the DEA comes nine months after
the pharmacy chain sued the agency over its ban on shipments of
controlled substances from the Jupiter facility. The DEA
concluded that shoddy drug-handling practices made the facility
a public-safety threat.  The ban was part of a DEA crackdown on retail pharmacies
and drug distributors for high sales of oxycodone in Florida,
considered by U.S. officials the epicenter of prescription drug
abuse.  In May 2012,  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , the second-largest U.S.
drug distributor by revenue, agreed to suspend shipments of
controlled drugs from a Florida facility for two years in a
settlement with the DEA.  Federal officials contended that Cardinal’s Lakeland,
Florida, distribution center posed a public-safety threat by
shipping large quantities of oxycodone to pharmacies.  2.1 Million Units  In 2011, the average pharmacy in the U.S. ordered about
73,000 oxycodone dosage units. That year, the six Walgreen’s
pharmacies identified as the company’s top oxycodone buyers in
Florida each ordered from 1.2 million to 2.1 million dosage
units, according to the DEA.  Under the settlement, the Walgreen distribution center and
six Walgreen pharmacies in Florida are barred from distributing
controlled substances covered by the pact for two years. The
chain also agreed to beef up compliance efforts and eliminate
awards to pharmacists based on the volume of prescriptions
filled, DEA officials said.  The accord also ends investigations of Walgreen’s
prescription practices in  Colorado ,  Michigan  and  New York , the
agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  