-- Wells Fargo Climbs Ladder of U.S. Company Bond Underwriters
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-14T14:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/wells-fargo-climbs-ladder-of-u-s-corporate-bond-underwriters.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is seizing a
bigger share of U.S. corporate bond sales, underwriting its
highest portion of deals on record this year as the bank climbs
the ranks after buying Wachovia Corp. in 2008.  Wells Fargo, the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets, has
underwritten 5 percent of this year’s sales, excluding self-led
deals, up from 3.6 percent in 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bank has aided borrowers from  Clorox Co. (CLX)  to
Newfield Exploration Co. in sales of $48.3 billion, ranking it
as the eighth most active underwriter of the debt. That’s up
from 11th in 2010.  The lender has sought to expand its investment banking
business after acquiring much of the operation from Wachovia. An
early target for expansion was debt underwriting, in units from
investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds to leveraged
loans. The bank has built market share since the financial
crisis, taking advantage of its large deposit base and limited
presence in  Europe .  “Reputation is as important as it’s ever been in that
business,”  Jennifer Thompson , an analyst at Portales Partners
LLC in  New York , said in a telephone interview. Wells Fargo
“came through the financial crisis in very good shape: well
capitalized, high liquidity,” she said. “They are probably
picking up market share from some other larger entities that
maybe have had a tougher time.”  ‘Multi-Year Effort’  Wells Fargo helped underwrite 4.1 percent, or $29 billion,
of investment-grade sales this year, up from 2.5 percent, or
$21.2 billion, in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. In high-
yield, the bank has helped manage 6.7 percent, or $14.3 billion
of issuance in 2012, an increase from 5.8 percent in 2009, or
$9.3 billion.  “It hasn’t been an overnight success story; you’ve seen
our momentum accelerate,” Gary Wolfe, head of high-yield
capital markets at Wells Fargo, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re starting to see the fruits of what has been a multi-year
effort.”  The cost to protect against losses on Wells Fargo’s debt is
the lowest among its U.S. peers, with credit-default swaps tied
to the bank at 76.2 basis points yesterday, compared with an
industry average of 148 basis points among the six-biggest U.S.
banks.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , and his
predecessor Dick Kovacevich, built Wells Fargo into one of the
largest U.S. banks by focusing on consumers and avoiding riskier
trading and underwriting, the same businesses that hobbled some
of the biggest U.S. investment banks during the financial
crisis.  Changed Strategy  The bank’s strategy changed after it acquired Wachovia in
December 2008 as the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender
neared collapse. Wachovia underwrote 2.6 percent of investment-
grade deals and 2 percent of high-yield transactions in 2008.
Wells Fargo executives liked what they saw in Wachovia and
tapped John Shrewsberry to oversee an expansion of the
investment-banking unit.  Wells Fargo added a total of 21 managing directors and
directors to the investment banking and  capital markets  business
this year, following an addition of 26 executives last year,
according to Wells Fargo. The San Francisco-based bank serves
more than 70 million retail and corporate customers, Chief
Financial Officer Timothy J. Sloan said Sept. 11 at an investor
conference.  Client Base  The merger “certainly gave the investment bank a chance to
expand its client base,” John Hines, head of investment grade
syndicate, said. “Over the past four years, we’ve been rewarded
with more book-running roles and been able to build on that
momentum.”  Still, Wells Fargo ranks seven places behind JPMorgan Chase
& Co., the No. 1 underwriter, which has helped sell $118.8
billion in debt this year, or 12.3 percent of the market. Bank
of America Corp., ranked No. 2 and based in Charlotte, has sold
about $103 billion in bonds for 10.7 percent market share,
according to Bloomberg data. JPMorgan is based in New York.  Wells Fargo served this week as one of the bookrunners on a
$600 million offering from Clorox and on a $1.05 billion, three-
part sale by Dominion Resources Inc., Bloomberg data show. The
bank led a $1 billion debt sale for  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX)  in
June.  ‘Better Capitalized’  Wells Fargo is one of the “firmer financials,” said
Anthony Valeri, market strategist at  LPL Financial  in  San Diego .
“They have less financial markets exposure, certainly less
exposure to Europe, and are better capitalized with a less
market-sensitive model.”  The bank’s price-to-earnings ratio of 11.6 times compares
with an industry average of 14.9 among the largest U.S. banks,
Bloomberg data show. The lender holds almost $930 billion in
customer deposits.  “Clients are eager to partner more with Wells Fargo given
the stature and financial strength of the company,” Hines said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  