-- Westinghouse ‘Absolutely Committed’ to U.K. Nuclear Rollout
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-09-14T14:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/westinghouse-absolutely-committed-to-u-k-nuclear-rollout.html
Westinghouse Electric Co. said it’s
committed to the U.K. as the company seeks to ensure its AP1000
model is among the nation’s new generation of nuclear reactors.  “Our vision for Westinghouse is that we will be one of the
main players in the U.K. for decades to come,” Michael Tynan,
who heads up the local unit, told reporters yesterday at a
conference in  London . “We’re absolutely committed to the U.K.”  Britain, trying to replace aging plants and cut carbon
dioxide emissions, is one of just three western European
countries still pursuing plans for new nuclear plants following
last year’s Fukushima disaster. Westinghouse, which already
provides nuclear fuel to U.K. reactors, and  Areva SA (AREVA)  have
submitted designs to the government for new reactors.  Westinghouse, which is owned by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , sees
“massive opportunities“ in the U.K. in the next decade, Tynan
said. He declined to say whether Westinghouse is bidding for a
stake in RWE AG and  EON AG (EOAN) ’s Horizon nuclear project, put up for
sale earlier this year.  Westinghouse may join  China ’s State Nuclear Power
Technology Corp. and  Exelon (EXC)  Corp. to buy a stake in Horizon, the
Financial Times reported in July, without saying where it got
the information. GE Hitachi may be interested in bidding as
well, the report said. Areva has already confirmed it may put in
a joint bid with China’s Guangdong Nuclear Power Corp.  “Horizon is likely to make a decision on which way they’re
going to go in the next several months,” said Sandy Rupprecht,
senior vice president for the development of the nuclear power
plant business at Westinghouse. “Depending on what that
selection is -- if there were to be a model in there where an
AP1000 were to be chosen -- then we would likely start in
earnest with re-constituting a U.K.-based team.”  Areva is working with  Electricite de France SA  to build a
new nuclear station at Hinkley Point in southwest  England , with
a final investment decisions pending later this year. The
Horizon reactors would come online at a later date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  