-- Wisconsin Law Limiting Public Worker Unions Struck Down
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-09-15T19:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/wisconsin-law-limiting-public-worker-unions-struck-down.html
Wisconsin  laws limiting public
employees’ collective bargaining rights were declared
unconstitutional by a state court judge.  Judge Juan B. Colas in Madison yesterday ruled the measures
signed into law last year by Republican Governor  Scott Walker 
unduly burden the free-association and free-speech rights of
union members. He declared them “void and without effect.”  “Without any evidence or argument that the infringement
serves to prevent an evil in the operation of the bargaining
system created by the statutes, the court must find the
infringement to be excessive,” Colas wrote.  The legislation championed by Walker, a first-term
governor, required annual recertification votes for union
representation and made the payment of union dues voluntary. It
exempted firefighters and police officers.  The laws, known as Act 10, touched off protests at the
state capital and triggered a drive for a recall election this
year in which Walker triumphed over his Democratic challenger,
Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett.  “We believe that Act 10 is constitutional in all respects
and will be appealing this decision,” state Attorney General
J.B.  Van Hollen , said today in an e-mailed statement.  “We also will be seeking a stay of Friday’s decision
pending appeal in order to allow the law to continue in effect
as it has for more than a year while the appellate courts
address the legal issues,” Van Hollen said.  Walker Confident  Walker, in a separate statement, said he was confident the
state would win a reversal.  “The people of Wisconsin clearly spoke on June 5th,” the
governor said, referring to the recall election outcome. “Now,
they are ready to move on. Sadly a liberal activist judge in
Dane County wants to go backwards and take away the lawmaking
responsibilities of the Legislature and the governor.”  Colas is the second judge to find fault with the
legislation.  U.S. District Judge William Conley in Madison, who was
appointed by President  Barack Obama , invalidated those parts of
the law which prohibited voluntary deduction of union dues from
paychecks of general employees while exempting “public safety”
unions, in a March 30 ruling. He also overturned a requirement
for annual certification of a union by more than half of the
members, not just those voting.  Oral Argument  The state has appealed that decision. Oral argument is
scheduled for Sept. 24 at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Chicago .  Phil Neuenfeldt, president of Wisconsin’s chapter of the
AFL-CIO, applauded yesterday’s ruling in an e-mailed statement.  “Walker’s attempts to silence the union men and women of
Wisconsin’s public sector was an immoral, unjust and illegal
power grab,” Neuenfeldt said. “Now, a court has ruled that the
essential provisions of Act 10, Scott Walker’s Draconian attack
on public worker’s right to collectively bargain, is
unconstitutional.”  The case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 11-cv-3774,
 Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court, Branch 10 (Madison). The
federal court case is Wisconsin Education Association v. Walker,
12-2011, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  