-- Twitter Turns Over Wall Street Protester Posts Under Seal
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-14T15:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/twitter-turns-over-wall-street-protester-posts-under-seal.html
Twitter Inc. turned over an  Occupy
Wall Street  protester’s posts under seal, extending a seven-
month fight over whether the company or its users is responsible
for Twitter posts.  The company had to turn over information about Malcolm
Harris’s Twitter posts today or face a fine and be found in
contempt of court,  New York  Criminal Court Judge Matthew A.
Sciarrino Jr. had ordered. Today’s compromise, in which Twitter
turned over the information in a sealed white envelope, extends
a seven-month fight against  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s subpoena for Harris’s posts. Twitter seeks a higher
court finding that its users, and not the company, are
responsible for their posts.  “Twitter’s position, and ours, is that people who own the
accounts should be the ones who are able to object,” Martin Stolar, a lawyer for Harris, said after the ruling.  Sciarrino had asked Twitter to show why it wasn’t in
contempt of court after refusing to produce information about
the posts by Harris, who was arrested Oct. 1 with about 700
protesters on the Brooklyn Bridge.  Sciarrino ruled June 30 that Twitter must turn over
Harris’s Twitter posts from Sept. 15 to Dec. 30 and user
information linked to his “@destructuremal” account. Twitter
asked for a stay that would block enforcement of the order while
it appealed Sciarrino’s decision. That request was denied Sept.
7, according to court records.  ‘Hobson’s Choice’  Stolar told Sciarrino today that a judge hearing a separate
suit by Harris will decide on a request to stay his June 30
ruling at a Sept. 21 hearing. That lawsuit, in state  Supreme
Court , targets Sciarrino, saying his ruling is inappropriate. A
ruling in Harris’s favor there may aid Twitter in its own appeal
of Sciarrino’s ruling to the Appellate Term.  Sciarrino rejected a request today by Terryl L. Brown, a
lawyer for Twitter, to stay his own June 30 order, and said he
would instead keep the information sealed until the Sept. 21
ruling, therefore preserving the company’s rights.  Today’s order “is not considered to be a waiver of
Twitter’s right to appeal,” Sciarrino said in court.  Brown had argued that Twitter “is being given an unfair
Hobson’s choice” of waiving its right to appeal or be held in
contempt of court.  Subpoena Burden  The Harris case will determine whether Twitter faces the
burden of responding to subpoenas for its users, the San
Francisco-based company has said. The outcome is significant
throughout the U.S. as  law enforcement  becomes more aggressive
in seeking information about what people do and say on the
Internet, the  American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31
court filing.  That issue will be decided by the results of Harris’s
lawsuit against Sciarrino and Twitter’s appeal, Stolar said.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.
Carolyn Penner, a spokeswoman for Twitter, couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them. Some of Harris’s posts are no longer available on his
Twitter account, and Twitter only keeps as many as 3,200 posts.  “I may have deleted some Tweets after a three-month
period,” Harris, 23, said after today’s hearing, adding that he
wanted to keep his most important ones online if he ran over the
capacity.  IP Addresses  Vance’s office said it seeks only subscriber information
linking Harris to the account at issue, and tweets that were
already publicly disseminated. Twitter has said that if the
information was public, Vance’s office wouldn’t have to subpoena
it. Stolar has said that the information sought includes IP
addresses.  Harris said in court papers that police engaged in
misconduct by escorting protesters onto the bridge and
misleading them to believe that crossing the bridge was
authorized.  “The tweets are thought to contain admissions that
Harris’s violation of New York Law was intentional and/or would
undermine” his potential trial defense, prosecutors said in a
court filing.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Harris,
11-80152, New York Criminal Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  