-- Yemeni Police Use Water Cannons on Protesters at Embassy
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-09-14T11:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/yemeni-police-use-water-cannons-on-protesters-at-embassy.html
Police used water cannons and fired
warning shots into the air to disburse hundreds of protesters
who rallied for a second day at the U.S. Embassy in Yemen’s
capital against a film seen as insulting to Islam.  Al Jazeera television reported that four people were killed
yesterday when demonstrators tried to storm the embassy in
Sana’a as protests against the film ridiculing the  Prophet
Muhammad  flared in Egypt and  Iran . Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood
sought to tone down rallies today, urging all Muslims to temper
their response to the movie.  The spread of violence follows the killing of the American
ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, and three colleagues during
a Sept. 11 attack on consular buildings in Benghazi. Several
people were arrested in Libya for that attack, Al Arabiya TV
reported yesterday, citing the Libyan  Interior Ministry .  U.S. President  Barack Obama  thanked Yemeni President
Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi by phone yesterday for his swift
condemnation of the violence and his promise to investigate the
matter, according to a statement issued by the White House.
Obama underscored the importance of security for U.S. personnel
and Hadi said additional security forces had been deployed
around the embassy, according to the statement.  In Egypt, more than 200 people were injured yesterday,
according to health officials. Demonstrations also took place
outside the Swiss mission in Tehran, which represents U.S.
interests in Iran.  Danish Cartoon  The eruptions across the  Middle East , recalling the
reaction to the publication of cartoons about the Prophet
Muhammad in a Danish magazine in 2005, were prompted by excerpts
of the disputed 14-minute film that were posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube. It portrays the Prophet Muhammad as a womanizer. For
Muslims, any depiction of the prophet is sacrilegious.  The anti-American violence threatens U.S. efforts to
establish ties with the new governments that are emerging in the
Middle East after last year’s wave of revolts.  In  Washington , the Obama administration downplayed any rift
with the Egyptian government a day after Obama said he doesn’t
consider Egypt an “ally,” following the assault on the embassy
in Cairo. The president “in diplomatic and legal terms was
speaking correctly” when he described Egypt’s status in an
interview with Telemundo, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said yesterday in  Colorado , where Obama was campaigning.  Carney said the U.S. has no mutual defense agreement with
Egypt as it does, for example, with members of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization. For more than 20 years, Egypt has
held a preferential status known as a “major non-NATO ally.”  National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor called
Egypt a “long-standing and close partner of the United States”
and said Obama is committed to “supporting Egypt’s transition
to democracy and working with the new government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  