-- Chevron Agrees With YPF to Develop Shale Wells in Argentina
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-09-14T20:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/ypf-agrees-with-chevron-to-develop-shale-wells-in-argentina-2-.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-biggest
U.S. oil company, agreed with  YPF SA (YPFD) , the nationalized Argentine
oil producer, to develop oil and natural-gas wells in the
country’s Vaca Muerta shale formation.  YPF and San Ramon, California-based Chevron also agreed to
study the recovery of oil from aging wells through new
technologies, the Buenos Aires-based company said today in an e-
mailed statement.  “This is the first step for a long relationship,” YPF
Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio said in the statement.  Galuccio on Aug. 30 unveiled three types of partnerships to
tap the Vaca Muerta shale formation, a Connecticut-size area in
southern Argentina that contains at least 23 billion barrels of
oil. YPF is seeking financial and strategic partners and
operators for its $37.2 billion business plan to boost
production, he said.  Spain’s Repsol SA said it plans to take legal action
against the development accord. The Argentine government seized
51 percent of YPF from Repsol in April.  “Repsol will take legal action against this agreement,
which our legal team is currently studying,” Kristian Rix, a
Repsol spokesman, said today in a telephone interview from
 Madrid . “We will not let third parties benefit from illegally
confiscated assets.”  Shale Agreements  James Craig, a spokesman for Chevron’s operations in  Africa 
and  Latin America , declined to comment on Repsol’s legal action
in an e-mail. Pablo Dorfman, a YPF spokesman, declined to
comment in an e-mail statement.  Repsol is seeking as much as $10 billion in compensation
from the government takeover. The Madrid-based company still
owns a  12 percent stake in YPF , making it the second-biggest
shareholder behind the Argentine government.  The shale accord with Chevron is the third obtained by YPF
since it was seized by the government.  Galuccio said on Aug. 30 the company had signed a $500
million deal with local businessman Eduardo Eurnekian to develop
wells in Vaca Muerta. It also said it had signed a deal with
Bridas Corp., a joint venture between China’s Cnooc Ltd. and
Argentina’s Bulgheroni family, without elaborating on how much
money was involved.  YPF and Chevron didn’t provide additional details on
today’s accord.  “Chevron has had an ongoing, collaborative relationship
with YPF since the early 1990s,” Craig said in an e-mail.  Seeking Investors  The YPF-Chevron development accord was signed by Galuccio
and  Ali Moshiri , Chevron’s president for Africa and Latin
America exploration and production.  YPF’s American depositary receipts slid 2.7 percent to
close at $12.75 in  New York  trading. Chevron added 0.6 percent
to $117.25.  YPF plans to start next week a two-week trip to the U.S.
and Europe seeking financial and strategic investors for its
five-year business plan, a YPF official briefed on the matter,
said yesterday. Galuccio and YPF Chief Financial Officer Daniel
Gonzalez will meet with Exxon Mobil Corp. and Apache Corp. as
well as other producers during an oil conference in Houston on
Sept. 18-21, the official has said.  Other stops include New York,  London , Los Angeles and
 Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  