-- Zillow, Upsher-Smith, Libya, UTV: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-14T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/zillow-upsher-smith-libya-utv-intellectual-property.html
Zillow Inc. (Z) , operator of the
largest real-estate information website, filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit against competitor Trulia Inc. over a
software program that helps make home valuations more accurate.  Zillow claims Trulia is infringing patent 7,970,674, which
covers its Zestimate home-valuation service. The program lets
homeowners and real-estate agents update valuations by adding
information specific to the property. Zillow said about a third
of the 100 million homes in its database have been updated this
way and it has “played a major role in Zillow’s success.”  The two competitors have been increasing their profiles as
the U.S. housing market improves, and each has mobile
applications on smartphones and tablet computers. Trulia is
seeking to raise as much as $96 million in an initial public
offering, according to a Sept. 7 regulatory filing, and Zillow
 shares  have doubled since they first sold in July 2011.  Trulia’s search engine is used by more than 20 million
people a month to look for homes, according to the regulatory
filing. The company makes money through ads on the site and
subscriptions.  Trulia doesn’t comment on litigation, Ken Shuman, a
spokesman for the San Francisco-based company, said.  Zillow, which began its website in 2006, said in the
complaint filed Sept. 12 that Trulia didn’t offer an automatic
home-valuation service to users until September 2011. Its Trulia
Estimates provides valuations based on recent sales of similar
homes and information such as the number of bedrooms and
bathrooms.  “When Trulia first launched Trulia Estimates, it was
obvious to commentators that Trulia was merely copying Zillow,”
Zillow said in the complaint filed in its hometown of  Seattle .
“Commentators accused Trulia of being a ‘copycat’ of Zillow’s
Zestimate service and predicted that Trulia’s copycat version
might ‘ding’ Zillow’s Web traffic.”  Zillow is seeking cash compensation and a court order that
would block further use of the patented invention.  Cheaper properties, dwindling supply and record-low
mortgage costs are boosting demand for real estate and aiding a
turnaround in a market that helped trigger the recession.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of prices in 20 cities  climbed 
0.5 percent in June from a year earlier, the first such gain
since September 2010.  Sales of existing homes climbed 2.3 percent in July to a
4.47 million annual rate, according to figures from the National
Association of Realtors.  The case is Zillow Inc. v.  Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , 12-cv-1549, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of  Washington  (Seattle).  Upsher-Smith Files Preemptive Suit Over Auxilium’s Testim Gel  Upsher-Smith Laboratories Inc. filed a preemptive suit to
challenge eight patents for  Auxilium Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AUXL) ’s
testosterone gel Testim, according to a Sept. 10 filing in
federal court in  Newark , New Jersey.  Upsher-Smith, based in  Minneapolis , asked the court to
declare that its plans to market a generic form of testosterone
gel don’t infringe Auxilium’s patent rights. Patent owners often
file an infringement suit when a competitor submits an
application to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to produce
a generic form of a drug covered by the patents.  The company asked the court to block Malvern, Pennsylvania-
based Auxilium from enforcing patents against its generic
product. Additionally, Upsher-Smith asked the court to find all
eight of the patents to be invalid and have no enforceable
claims.  The case is Upsher-Smith Laboratories Inc., v. Auxilium
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-cv-05648, U.S. District Court, District
of  New Jersey  (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Libya Loses Trademark Case Against Document Expeditor  In a case that predates the fall of the regime of the late
 Muammar Qaddafi  in October 2011, the government of  Libya  has
been locked in a trademark dispute with a document expediter.  The government, then known as the Great Socialist People’s
Libyan Arab Hamahiriya, initiated the trademark infringement
suit in federal court in Washington in November 2006. It
objected to the use by Ahmad Miski of the domain names that
contained variations on the phrase “embassy of Libya.”  The case was put on hold during the period of unrest in
that country, and when the case was resumed, the complaint was
amended to include the new name, simply “Libya” and “Embassy
of Libya” as plaintiffs.  In his Sept. 6 ruling, U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton
dismissed Libya’s infringement allegations. He said the term was
merely suggestive and not entitled to protection under U.S.
trademark law. He also rejected Miski’s claim that the country
had interfered with his business advantages, saying the document
expediter had failed to present evidence of damage.  The case is Libya v. Miski, 06-cv092946, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  UW-Whitewater Changes Logo in Efforts to Control Trademark Use  The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater adopted a new logo
as a way to help regain control of its trademark, the school’s
Royal Purple student newspaper  reported .  A warhawk logo adopted a decade ago had been so widely
embraced that there were many instances of improper and
unapproved use, according to Royal Purple.  The school’s marketing and media relations department has
asked campus organizations and a local bar to phase out their
use of the hawk’s head logo, the newspaper reported.  UTV’s ‘Barfi’ Film Accused of Infringing Murphy Radio Trademark  UTV Software Communications Ltd.’s UTV Motion Pictures unit
received an infringement notice from a radio manufacturer, the
FirstPost Bollywood entertainment news website  reported .  UTV’s “Barfi!” film allegedly used a baby image that is a
trademark of Murphy Radio, according to FirstPost.  Producer Siddharth Roy Kapur said that the film doesn’t
infringe the trademark, FirstPost reported.  Murphy Radio seeks an order halting release of the film,
according to FirstPost.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Paramount Loses Bid for ‘Titanic’ Infringement Dismissal  A federal judge in  San Diego  refused to throw out a
copyright-infringement lawsuit over Paramount Pictures Corp.’s
“Titanic” movie.  Princess Samantha Kennedy of Imperial Beach,  California ,
filed a handwritten complaint in February, claiming that the
movie’s script is taken from her autobiography and other
writings and that the Los Angeles-based company had access to
them.  She asked for damages in excess of $3 billion and the
impoundment of all copies of the film.  In a Sept. 5 order, U.S. District Judge William O. Hayes
gave Kennedy permission to file an amended complaint and refused
Paramount’s request for a dismissal. Federal court procedural
rules giving a party permission to amend a filing are “to be
applied with extreme liberality,” he said.  Kennedy is still unrepresented by counsel.  The case is Kennedy v. Paramount Pictures Corp, 12-
cv-00372, U.S. District Court, Southern District of California
(San Diego).  Guyana Urged Not to Buy Pirated Textbooks as an Economy Measure  Guyana’s  Georgetown Chamber of Commerce and Industry  and
the Guyana Trades Union Congress recommended that the nation’s
government seek compulsory licenses from publishers at set
royalties rather than buy pirated textbooks as it had announced,
the Demerara Waves newspaper  reported .  The chamber said in a statement that the government’s
choice to buy pirated textbooks as an economy measure is a
violation of publishers’  intellectual property  rights and not a
solution, Demerara Waves reported.  Lincoln Lewis, general secretary of the Guyana Trades Union
Congress, told Demerara Waves that the government’s actions puts
workers’ welfare at risk and may open the gate to retaliation,
according to Demerara Waves.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Pepper Hamilton Expands IP Practice, Hires Robert A. Brooks  Pepper Hamilton LLP hired Robert A. Brooks for its
intellectual-property practice group, the Philadelphia-based
firm said in a  statement .  Brooks , a litigator, previously practiced at Day Berry &
Howard, a predecessor firm to Day Pitney LLP, and Shipman &
Goodwin LLP, both of Hartford,  Connecticut . He has represented
clients in federal courts in disputes involving patents,
trademarks and trade secrets.  He has an undergraduate degree from Bates College and a law
degree from the  University of Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 