-- Zynga Countersues Electronic Arts Over Unfair Competition
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-09-14T21:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-14/zynga-countersues-electronic-arts-over-game-similarities-1-.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer
of games played on  Facebook Inc. (FB) , claimed  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) 
demanded an improper no-hire agreement to staunch executive
defections from EA and threatened to file sham lawsuits when
Zynga refused.  EA’s chief executive officer, John Riccitiello, instructed
company lawyers to get an agreement from Zynga prohibiting
future hiring of EA employees as part of an “anticompetitive
and unlawful scheme” that violates  California ’s unfair
competition law, Zynga attorneys said today in filings in  San
Francisco  federal court.  Responding to EA’s Aug. 3 lawsuit claiming Zynga’s “The
Ville” game infringed copyrights of its “The Sims Social,”
Zynga attorneys denied the claims and asked a federal judge for
an order barring EA from threatening litigation and interfering
with its hiring. It said EA’s copyright claims are meritless.  “Today we responded to EA’s claims, which we believe have
no merit,” Reggie Davis, general counsel for Zynga, said in a
statement. “We also filed a counterclaim which addresses
actions by EA we believe to be anticompetitive and unlawful
business practices, including legal threats and
demands for no-hire agreements.”  EA said in its Aug. 3 copyright complaint that senior
executives who left for Zynga had details about the company’s
strategy and development for “The Sims Social.”  ‘Diverting Attention’  “This is a subterfuge aimed at diverting attention from
Zynga’s persistent plagiarism of other artists and studios,”
John Reseburg, an EA spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Zynga would
be better served trying to hold onto the shrinking number of
employees they’ve got, rather than suing to acquire more.”  Zynga has struggled with slowing sales and a declining
stock price as it competes with Electronic Arts and other makers
of games for social networks and mobile devices. EA has grown to
become the third-largest maker of games on Facebook, with 47.6
million users, as it seeks to reduce the company’s reliance on
retail sales of more traditional video games.  While Zynga has stirred the rivalry between the two
companies by hiring top managers from EA, at least three of
those executives have left Zynga in recent weeks as the falling
stock price has eroded the value of shares used to compensate
employees.  Management Overhaul  John Schappert, a former EA executive who last year was
hired as chief operating officer at Zynga, departed the company
last month after a management overhaul had stripped him of
oversight of key operations. Jeff Karp, another former EA
manager, resigned as Zynga’s chief marketing and revenue officer
earlier this week.  Barry Cottle, ex-senior executive directly responsible for
EA’s social game development, joined Zynga in January. The three
executives are named in EA’s lawsuit.  None of the men provided Zynga with confidential EA
information and Zynga entered settlement agreements with EA in
2011 over hiring, lawyers for Zynga said in a filing today.
Details of the agreements were redacted in the filings.  “The Sims Social,” released in August 2011, has generated
more than $50 million in revenue and averaged about 3 million
daily users in the past month, Frank Gibeau, president of
Electronic Arts Labels, said on a post-earnings conference call
on July 31.  Zynga, based in San Francisco, said in an Aug. 3 e-mail
that “The Ville” builds on its earlier games, and Davis
alleged that the recently released EA game “SimCity Social”
had “an uncanny resemblance” to Zynga’s “CityVille” game.  Zynga has 274 million monthly users on Facebook while
 Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts has 53 million
players, according to website AppData.  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
maker of “World of Warcraft,” is the largest U.S. video-game
maker.  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, 12-4099, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  