-- MagicJack’s 18% Weekly Drop Unjustified to CEO: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-14T08:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/magicjack-s-18-weekly-drop-unjustified-to-ceo-israel-overnight.html
MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) ’s 18 percent
drop last week, the biggest decline on the benchmark index of
Israeli stocks in  New York , is unjustified given the company
will post the highest quarterly revenue in two years, according
to Chief Executive Officer Daniel Borislow.  The Israeli company, whose founders invented the technology
used for making phone calls over the Internet, slumped 5.7
percent to $20.11 on Oct. 12, the lowest level since July. The
decline capped the fourth weekly drop for MagicJack, which is
due to report third-quarter earnings on Oct. 19. The  Bloomberg
Israel-U.S. Equity index  of the biggest Israeli companies traded
in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent on Oct. 12, trimming its fall in
the week to 1.2 percent. The benchmark TA-25 Index fell 0.3
percent at 9:57 a.m. in  Tel Aviv .  “Sales of our product have been quite good and the drop
doesn’t make much sense to me,” Borislow said by phone from
 West Palm Beach ,  Florida , on Oct. 12. “There will not be any
downside surprises reported next week.”  MagicJack said on Sept. 6 that it probably made as much as
$41 million of sales in the third quarter, a number reiterated
by Borislow on Oct. 12. That would be the highest revenue posted
in any quarter since the three months through Sept. 30, 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Netanya, Israel-based
company, which competes with Skype Technologies SA and  Vonage
Holdings Corp. (VG) , will boost sales as it expands into products
used on mobile devices, according to the CEO.  The  weekly drop  for the Israel-US Equity Index was the most
since the week ending July 13. The gauge trades for 12.9 times
estimated earnings, compared with the average multiple of 11.7
for the TA-25 Index, which slid 0.8 percent last week.  EPS Estimate Raised  MagicJack raised its 2012 earnings estimate to as much as
$2 per share, compared with an earlier estimate of $1.50 to
$1.80, according to the Sept. 6 statement. The shares have lost
24 percent since that announcement was made.  The company’s main product is a device that connects to a
computer or to a router to enable voice calls over the Internet.  “There’s always apprehension with MagicJack,” John Gualy,
a partner at Eagle Global Advisors, which oversees about $3
billion in assets and holds the company’s shares, said in a
phone interview from Houston. “It’s definitely a one-trick
pony, but it’s been doing that very well. Some people believe
the management will trip over at some point, but they have been
executing well so far.”  The stock has increased 47 percent this year.  Israel , which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  ‘Virtual Monopoly’  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based
maker of technology used to transfer and store data, led gains
on the Bloomberg Israel-U.S. index on Oct. 12, adding 1.8
percent to $103.38. The Tel Aviv shares dropped 0.8 percent to
396.2 shekels, or the equivalent of $ 103.4, today.  The company may report a record $153.2 million in third-
quarter sales when it releases results on Oct. 17, according to
the mean estimate of 14 analysts.  “They have a virtual monopoly in an expanding market
opportunity,”  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC which
rates the stock buy, said by phone from  San Francisco .
“InfiniBand is seeing increasing penetration into new use cases
and that is responsible for the significant growth that the
company has seen in the last year.”  Mellanox’s InfiniBand product is used in high-end computing
and data centers.  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , the largest Israeli maker of
aesthetic medical products, dropped 0.7 percent to $9.40 on in
New York on Oct. 12, the lowest level in a year. The company has
reported losses for the last six quarters.  “A lot of investors were hoping there should be no
questions of profitability by now and they have gotten impatient
about that,” Jeremy Feffer, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald 
which rates Syneron buy, said by phone. “There just haven’t
been any positive catalysts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  