-- Thailand Doesn’t Need to Reduce Interest Rates, Prasarn Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-13T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/thailand-doesn-t-need-to-reduce-interest-rates-prasarn-says.html
Thailand  doesn’t need an interest-
rate cut as credit growth is accelerating and domestic demand is
countering a slowdown in exports, central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said.  Inflation remains “benign” and  Southeast Asia ’s second-
largest economy is estimated to grow 5.7 percent this year,
Prasarn said in an interview with Bloomberg News in  Tokyo 
yesterday. The central bank next meets to decide monetary policy
on Oct. 17.  The Bank of Thailand has refrained from adding to its
November and January rate reductions as the country recovered
from its worst floods in almost seven decades. Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra has boosted state spending and raised
government salaries, while demand for loans has risen.  “We don’t see necessity at the moment to use monetary
policy to restore confidence because the market is already quite
confident,” Prasarn said. “Exports are coming down but
domestic demand is still very strong to compensate.”  Thailand’s central bank has kept its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged for five meetings. The  one-day bond repurchase
rate  is at 3 percent and nine of 11 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  forecast borrowing costs will be kept unchanged
on Oct. 17. Two forecast a cut of a quarter of a percentage
point.  Rising Inflation  Consumer price inflation rose to a six-month high of 3.38
percent in September, a pace the central bank has said is in
line with its expectations and not worrisome.  Core inflation  was
1.89 percent, below the 3 percent target that the monetary
authority seeks to avoid breaching.  Total bank loans climbed 14.2 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, accelerating from 13.9 percent in the
previous three months.  Thai  exports  fell 6.95 percent in August from a year
earlier, dropping for a third consecutive month as demand for
products from electronics to rubber declined. The  International
Monetary Fund  on Oct. 9 cut its projections for global expansion
this year and next, saying it sees “alarmingly high” risks of
a steeper slowdown.  The Bank of Thailand has room to ease monetary policy if
needed, Prasarn said. He was in Tokyo to attend the IMF’s annual
meeting.  “If the slowdown in the world markets curb exports to the
level that Thai businesses” suffer, the central bank will act,
he said.  There are no “alarming signs” of asset bubbles in
Thailand, the governor said. The baht hasn’t come under
“serious pressure” and the central bank hasn’t had to
intervene in the currency, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  