-- Asian Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Decline Since August
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-10-13T05:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/asian-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-decline-since-august.html
Asian  stocks  fell this week, posting
the biggest weekly decline on the regional gauge since August,
after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for
global growth and  Spain  had its  credit rating  downgraded.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s largest carmaker by market
value, dropped 3.7 percent after reporting its biggest drop in
China sales since at least 2008.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an
operator of ports and telephone companies which gets 55 percent
of sales in  Europe , slid 1.2 percent.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  plunged 21
percent, the biggest slide since October 2008, after  Japan ’s
third-biggest phone operator said it’s in talks to invest in
loss-making Sprint Nextel Corp.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 1.5 percent to 120.78 this
past week, the biggest weekly drop since the final week of
August. The IMF cut its global growth forecast, Japanese car
sales fell in China and Spain’s debt rating was lowered two
levels to BBB- from BBB+, citing mounting economic and political
risks.  “We are clearly seeing the impact of a Chinese slowdown
globally,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic
 asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Equity markets have had a very strong
run, so it won’t be surprising if they go through some
correction. In a sense, actually a correction will be healthy.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has gained 6.1 percent this
year as central banks in Europe, the U.S.,  Japan and China
added stimulus measures to counter a global economic slowdown
and the  European debt crisis . The Asian benchmark traded at
12.78 times  estimated earnings  on average, compared with 13.61
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11.96 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan ‘Crisis’  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 3.7 percent, its
biggest weekly decline since May. Japan’s Economy Minister  Seiji
Maehara  said he has a “sense of crisis” as the government
downgraded its economic assessment for a third month, the
longest streak since the 2009 global recession.  The biggest declines in more than a year for Fast Retailing
Co. and Softbank dragged the Nikkei 225 Stock Average to its
fourth day of declines Oct. 12. Without those two companies, the
benchmark gauge would have risen 1.4 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan and China agreed to hold talks over a territorial
dispute that has disrupted trade and resulted in a slump in
China sales for Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.
last month. No date has been set for the vice-ministerial level
discussions, Japan’s foreign ministry said.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index gained 0.6 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 0.9 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index
slipped 3.1 percent.  Singapore Policy  Singapore’s Straits Times Index retreated 2.1 percent for
its biggest weekly decline since May. The country’s central bank
unexpectedly refrained from easing monetary policy even as the
economy contracted last quarter, saying inflation will remain
elevated for some time.  Toyota and Honda reported China sales plunged after rioters
torched dealerships and smashed cars in protests sparked by the
territorial dispute. Japanese auto brands may lose their market-
share lead in the country for the first time since 2005,
according to data from the China Passenger Car Association.
Toyota lost 3.7 percent to 2,934 yen, while Honda dropped 3.5
percent to 2,338 yen.  ‘Against Hope’  “Growth is facing headwinds not only in China, but also
everywhere, and the territorial dispute is adding another
headache, weighing on the auto sector,” said Kuninobu Takeuchi,
Tokyo-based executive portfolio manager at Diam Co., which
oversees about 10 trillion yen ($128 billion). “You had
expected a rebound in earnings in the second half of this fiscal
year, but now things seem to be going against that hope.”  Softbank plunged 21 percent to 2,395 yen, recording a
record one-day drop yesterday, after Japan’s third-largest phone
operator said it’s in talks to invest in Sprint Nextel. CLSA
called the possible acquisition “a cause for concern,” citing
difficulties in returning the U.S. company to profit.  Fast Retailing Co. sank 13 percent to 16,040 yen after
forecasting annual profit below analyst estimates as a slowdown
in global economic growth hurt sales of the clothier’s Uniqlo
branded apparel.  Hutchinson Whampoa lost 1.2 percent to HK$75.25. Makita
Corp., a power-tool maker that gets more than 40 percent of
sales from Europe, slid 2.8 percent to 3,000 yen in  Tokyo .  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  tumbled 21 percent to 83.5
Australian cents as TPG International LLC scrapped a A$694
million ($713 million) bid for the surfwear maker, sending the
shares to a record low as it was left without a suitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  