-- Australia’s Swan Says Global Economy Relying on Asia for Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-13T02:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/australia-s-swan-says-global-economy-relying-on-asia-for-growth.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
the global economy is relying too heavily on  Asia  to make up for
stagnant growth in the U.S. and Europe and international policy
makers need to do more to bolster expansion.  “It is time for the other players to get off the benches
and start to pull their weight on global economic growth
again,” Swan said in remarks to the International Monetary and
Financial Committee in  Tokyo  today, according to a transcript
from his office. “Asia alone can’t carry the global economy.”  Europe’s fiscal crisis, now in its third year, is
constraining growth in Asian exporting nations from  China  to
 South Korea  and Taiwan. The Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund  said this week that failure to remedy the region’s
debt problems was contributing to an “alarmingly high” risk of
a steeper slowdown in the world economy, already on course to
expand this year by the least since the 2009 recession.  While policy makers need to contain risks, they must
dedicate themselves to lifting global growth, Swan said.  “Putting fiscal positions on a sustainable footing needs
to be done hand in hand with supporting growth -- this does not
need to be one or the other,” he said.  Swan also called on the U.S. to act to avoid “falling off
the fiscal cliff,” referring to a deadlock in Congress to avert
hundreds of billions of dollars in tax increases and spending
cuts. He said failure to do so would “no doubt” push the
world’s largest economy back into recession.  Swan reiterated Australia’s commitment to return its budget
to surplus this fiscal year. Lower prices for  iron ore  and
coking coal have eroded the nation’s terms of trade -- a measure
of windfall gains from exports that reached a record high last
year -- making it more difficult for the government to achieve
its objective.  “Returning the budget to surplus remains appropriate for
an economy growing around trend and is our best defense against
global instability,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  