-- Bill Gates, Annan Urge Leniency for Inside Trader Gupta
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/bill-gates-annan-urge-leniency-for-inside-trader-gupta.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates  and former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan 
asked a judge to show leniency in 11 days when he sentences ex-
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director Rajat Gupta for  insider
trading .  Gates and Annan were among more than 200 supporters seeking
mercy for Gupta, citing his lifetime of good deeds. He will be
sentenced on Oct. 24 for leaking stock tips to hedge-fund
manager  Raj Rajaratnam . The letters were made public yesterday
by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan.  “I urge you to recognize Rajat for the good that he has
done in this world, to give him the credit that he deserves for
helping others, and to take into account his effort to improve
the lives of millions of people,” Annan said of Gupta’s work to
reform management of the UN.  “I wanted to add my voice to those of other friends and
colleagues of  Rajat Gupta  who are writing to you in order to
round out Rajat’s profile,” Gates said of Gupta’s service as
chairman of an organization fighting AIDS, tuberculosis and
malaria.  Gupta is the most prominent of the 69 people convicted
since a nationwide crackdown on insider trading began in August
2009. Besides his tenure at Goldman Sachs, he served as managing
partner of McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003 and on the boards of
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the Rockefeller Foundation and the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation .  June Conviction  Gupta, 63, was convicted in June of three counts of
 securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy. While securities
fraud carries a maximum prison term of 20 years, Gupta is likely
to be sentenced to fewer years under federal guidelines.  After a four-week trial, a federal jury in Manhattan found
Gupta guilty of leaking tips to Rajaratnam, 55, about New York-
based Goldman Sachs, including information about a $5 billion
investment by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  on Sept.
23, 2008, and a tip on a quarterly loss. Rajaratnam is serving
11 years in prison for trading on tips from Gupta and others.  Letter writers included Gupta’s family and former
associates in the worlds of academia, business and charity.  They included Kushal Pal Singh, the billionaire chairman of
DLF Ltd., India’s largest developer; Leonard Lauder, the
chairman emeritus of  Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) ; and  Mukesh Ambani ,
India’s richest man and the chairman of Mumbai-based Reliance
Industries Ltd., the world’s largest refining complex.  ‘The Prison Fence’  Singh credited of the Kolkata-born Gupta with bringing
Microsoft’s Gates to India and with helping DLF create an urban
development initiative there. Because of the case, Gupta’s
charitable works in India have been at a “standstill,” he
said.  “We as a society need more visionaries like Rajat Gupta,”
Singh wrote. “Rajat Gupta is no threat to anyone inside or
outside the prison fence.”  Other writers included  Ajit Jain , Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
reinsurance chief; Judith Rodin, president of the Rockefeller
Foundation; Amartya Sen, a Harvard University professor; and
author Deepak Chopra.  Chopra called Gupta “compassionate, caring, selfless and
dedicated” and cited his work helping found the Indian School
of Business in Hyderabad.  “I think Rajat has tremendously contributed to humanity,”
Chopra said.  ‘Leverage Information’  Jain, who testified at the trial as a defense witness,
talked about his long friendship with Gupta and family. Jain
said Gupta has already “been disgraced personally and
professionally.”  Jain said Gupta “customarily chided me during our social
meetings to become more active in philanthropic causes” and
said he never saw Gupta abuse “his many positions of trust for
personal gain.”  “On no occasion of our meetings did Rajat ever seek to
inappropriately obtain or leverage information or opportunity by
speaking with me, and I would have considered even a mild effort
in that regard to be completely foreign to his character,” Jain
wrote.  Gupta’s wife, Anita, wrote a heartfelt account of meeting
her husband in 1968 at the Indian Institute of Technology, where
she was the only girl in a class of 250 and he was “a big man
on campus.”  ‘Devastating’  “I have never forgotten his kindness to the very shy,
quiet, small-town girl who felt so out of place,” she said.  She told the judge the case has been “devastating” for
her family. “Never in my wildest dreams” did she imagine she
would be “separated from my husband in this way,” she said in
an apparent reference to prison.  She recounted how Goldman Sachs Chief Executive  Lloyd Blankfein  “loudly gave Rajat an ultimatum that he had to choose
between Goldman and KKR,” citing a 2008 offer he received to
join  KKR & Co. (KKR)  as an adviser. Gupta, who joined Goldman Sachs’s
board in 2006, opted for KKR, then agreed to a request by
Goldman Sachs that he return when the financial crisis hit, she
said.  “I tried very hard to counsel Rajat against it because I
felt he had been treated unfairly by Goldman Sachs,” she wrote.
“He felt he owed Goldman Sachs his loyalty.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on Anita Gupta’s letter. Gupta left Goldman Sachs’s
board in 2010.  Jurors acquitted Gupta of charges that he leaked
information that Cincinnati-based P&G’s organic sales growth
would fall below estimates and that he tipped Rajaratnam about
Goldman Sachs’s earnings in the first quarter of 2007.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  