-- Brazil Industry Exports Gaining on Weaker Real, Mantega Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-13T09:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/brazil-industry-exports-gaining-on-weaker-real-mantega-says-1-.html
The fall in the Brazilian real to a
“more favorable” level this year has allowed manufacturers to
boost exports even as global trade remains weak, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  “Brazil today is much more competitive, and I perceive
that there was already an increase in manufacturing exports
because of the new  exchange rate , even with the adverse
situation of world trade,” Mantega told reporters in Tokyo,
where he is attending the annual meeting of the  International
Monetary Fund . “It’s a good start.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has imposed barriers
on capital inflows and purchased dollars in the spot and futures
markets to weaken the real and help manufacturers. The currency
has weakened about 22 percent since August 2011, when the
central bank began cutting  interest rates , to 2.0426 per dollar.
Even at this level, it remains highly valued compared to where
it was a few years ago, Mantega said.  The central bank cut its benchmark Selic rate for a 10th
straight meeting to a record-low 7.25 percent on Oct. 10, to try
and revive the slowest growth among the major  emerging markets .
Exports fell to $20 billion in September from $22.4 billion in
August.  The global economy needs “intermediary mechanisms” to
help tide it over until policies and reforms such as the
European Stability Mechanism to help steer the region out of the
crisis are functioning properly, Mantega said.  “When all these mechanisms are up and running, we’ll have
an excellent economy,” he said. “It will be a marvel. The
question is whether we will survive until then.”  An inflation forecast of 5 percent this year, and 5.1
percent for 2013 are “reasonable,” Mantega said. Brazil’s
annual inflation rate accelerated in September for the third
straight month to 5.28 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  