-- China Exports Exceed Estimates, Easing Concern Over Slump Risk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/china-s-september-exports-rise-9-9-exceeding-estimates.html
China 's exports rose at the fastest
pace in three months in September, easing concerns that the
global economy is heading for the first recession since 2009.  Overseas shipments increased 9.9 percent from a year
earlier, the  customs administration  said yesterday in Beijing.
That was more than the 5.5 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists and a 2.7 percent gain in
August. Imports rose 2.4 percent, leaving a $27.7 billion  trade
surplus , the biggest since June.  The  International Monetary Fund  warned this week of an
alarmingly high risk of a deeper global slowdown unless
officials in the U.S. and Europe address threats to their
economies. China’s widening surplus may provide ammunition to
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who pledges to
designate the nation a currency manipulator if elected, a step
the U.S. government hasn’t taken since 1994.  “We could see China’s export growth maintained at 8 to 9
percent in the fourth quarter,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-
based economist with  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,
citing improved U.S. consumer sentiment and favorable year-
earlier bases for comparison. “But growth of more than 10
percent is unlikely as a recession in Europe won’t change
China’s export outlook there.”  Anti-China rhetoric may become stronger in the lead-up to
the presidential election on Nov. 6, said Liu, adding that the
yuan, near a 19-year high against the dollar, may appreciate
until then in response to the pressure. The Chinese currency
closed last week at 6.2672 per dollar.  World Outlook  “Recession in the  euro zone , the possible fiscal cliff in
the U.S. and the dispute with Japan will likely cap the upside”
for China’s exports in the months ahead, said Ding Shuang, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Citigroup Inc., referring to
looming U.S. spending cuts and tax increases, and a dispute
between China and Japan over the ownership of islands.   The IMF’s steering committee yesterday added to cautions on
the global outlook, saying in a statement in  Tokyo  that policy
makers “need to act decisively to break negative feedback loops
and restore the global economy to a path of strong, sustainable
and balanced growth.”  The trade report was after data that showed slower-than-
forecast loan growth in September and ahead of inflation and
gross domestic product numbers next week. Banks extended 623.2
billion  yuan  ($99.5 billion) of local-currency loans, the
central bank said Oct. 12. That compared with the median
estimate of 700 billion yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Money Supply  At the same time, China’s M2  money supply  gained 14.8
percent in September, the fastest pace since June 2011, a
central bank report showed yesterday. The nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves, the world’s largest, rose to $3.29 trillion
at the end of September from $3.24 trillion at the end of June,
it said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is struggling to reverse a slowdown
without swelling bad loans or fueling inflation as the Communist
Party prepares for a once-a-decade leadership transition
starting next month. The central bank has refrained from cutting
 interest rates  since July, in contrast with its counterparts in
 South Korea ,  Brazil  and  Australia .  The IMF this week reduced its estimate for China’s growth
this year to 7.8 percent, which would be the weakest pace since
1999, from 8 percent.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, meanwhile, cut its forecast for global consumption of
the metal on slowing Chinese demand.  U.S. Trade  The trade data indicated that the value of China’s exports
to the U.S. exceeded its imports from the nation by about $21
billion. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
Tokyo yesterday that while “some progress” has been made
toward a more balanced economic relationship with China, more is
needed.  Also in Tokyo for IMF meetings, Chinese central bank Deputy
Governor Yi Gang said that the absence of a credible plan for
fiscal consolidation is slowing the U.S. recovery and hurting
the rest of the world. Yi said that China’s growth remains
“robust.”  China’s gross domestic product probably expanded 7.4
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, the seventh
quarterly deceleration.  The nation's exports climbed to a record last month as 
sales to the U.S. increased at the fastest pace in three months.
Shipments to Japan rose for the first time since June and those
to Southeast Asian nations jumped 25.5 percent. The gains helped
counter a 10.7 percent drop in exports to the European Union.  Copper Shipments  Copper imports climbed to a four-month high in September
while purchases of  iron ore  were the biggest in volume terms
since January 2011, customs data show.  The  trade surplus  was higher than the $20.5 billion median
forecast in a survey of analysts and compared with a $26.66
billion excess in August. The surplus for the first nine months
rose 38 percent from a year earlier to $148.3 billion, customs
data show.  Import growth compared with the median estimate in another
Bloomberg News survey for a 2.4 percent gain. Inbound shipments
recorded the first non-holiday drop in August since 2009.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  