-- China, Japan Signal Support for Europe Rescue Fund as IMF Meets
-- B y   A n d r e w   J o y c e   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-13T10:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/china-japan-signal-support-for-europe-rescue-fund-as-imf-meets.html
China  and Japan, the world’s second-
and third-biggest economies, indicated support for  Europe ’s new
rescue fund as they pushed for quick implementation of measures
to solve the region’s crisis.  China will “cooperate” with the European Stability
Mechanism, a permanent 500 billion-euro ($648 billion) fund that
started this week, People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said today at a seminar in  Tokyo . Japan’s Vice Finance
Minister Takehiko Nakao said at the same event that the country
will “positively consider’ buying bonds issued by the ESM.  Three years since the crisis began, the International
Monetary Fund warned this week that failure to remedy Europe’s
problems was raising the risk of a steeper slowdown in the world
economy. Spain is in the sights of investors as it mulls whether
to ask for a bailout and accept the conditions required for the
European Central Bank to start buying its bonds.  ‘‘We will continue our cooperation with the European
Financial Stability Facility and the future ESM,” the PBOC’s Yi
said in the seminar at the IMF’s annual meeting. He said that
China would support the efforts of the European Union, the
European Central Bank and the IMF, playing “a minor role.”  At the same time as China and  Japan  signaled support for
Europe’s rescue funds, officials had advice on what more is
needed to counter the crisis dragging down global growth.  Yi, one of the leaders of China’s delegation to the IMF
meetings, said that policies announced in the past few months by
the European Union, the euro region, and individual nations now
need to be fully implemented “to restore and rebuild
confidence.”  Taking Responsibility  Japan’s Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said today that
Europe should take responsibility to resolve its debt crisis and
implement measures quickly.  The euro-area crisis has hurt China and Japan’s export-
driven economies by chilling global demand. The IMF this week
reduced its estimate for China’s 2012 growth to the weakest pace
since 1999, while Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch see Japan’s economy shrinking for two consecutive quarters
through December.  The ESM will replace the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, which has committed 192 billion euros of its
440 billion euros on loans to Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece . The
two funds will run in parallel until the EFSF is phased out in
mid-2013.  Controlled by euro finance ministers, the ESM can lend
directly to governments, intervene in bond markets, offer credit
lines and provide loans that can be used to recapitalize banks.
It would be authorized to pump capital into banks directly once
the euro zone sets up a central supervisor, possibly in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Joyce in Tokyo at 
 ajoyce8@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  