-- Colombia to Leave Brazil IMF Group for Mexico’s, Uribe Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-13T08:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/colombia-to-leave-brazil-imf-group-for-mexico-s-uribe-says-1-.html
Colombia  will leave Brazil’s group
at the  International Monetary Fund  and join one headed by Mexico
as part of a reshuffle at the lender’s board of directors,
central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said.  “It’s a group where there’s a receptivity towards a
country like Colombia, where there are great historical and
commercial ties,” Uribe said in an interview in Tokyo today,
where he is attending the IMF’s annual meetings. “It’s a group,
without doubt, of interest.” Nicaragua, Cape Verde and East
Timor will be added to Brazil’s constituency, according to an
IMF document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Brazil has been one of the most vocal of the IMF’s 188
member countries, pushing policy makers to grant  emerging
markets  more say at the institution and criticizing guidelines
on  capital controls . Brazil’s increasing clout on the global
stage probably makes it challenging for a nation like Colombia
to be heard, said Bessma Momani,  a political science professor 
at the University of Waterloo in Canada.  “It can be difficult to be in a group with a rising
economic power like Brazil” that “can be self-centered in its
pursuit of its agenda,” Momani said in an interview in Tokyo.
“Without Colombia, Brazilians are freer to act as they will,
but losing a Spanish-speaking country doesn’t help its
legitimacy as a regional power.”  Spain, Venezuela  Colombia’s new group is currently represented on a
rotational basis by  Mexico , Spain and Venezuela, which takes
over the leadership on Nov. 1. The chair’s voting power will
rise as a result of Colombia joining, and cement the group’s
position as the largest of three Latin American constituencies
on the board.  Uribe said details about Colombia’s role will be announced
later.  The movements on the  24-seat IMF board , which approves
loans and economic assessments of member countries, aren’t
limited to emerging economies. Europe is making changes in its
constituencies to meet a 2010 pledge to reduce representation by
two chairs in favor of developing economies.  European Shifts  Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands are forming their
own group, along with countries currently represented by the
Netherlands, Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told the
IMF’s steering committee today. Turkey, Austria, the Czech
Republic and Hungary are now in a group as well, and will rotate
as executive directors, he said.  The chair of Nordic countries will extend its rotation to
Baltic members of the group, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said.  The European moves were criticized by Brazil and  South
Africa . Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called them
“cosmetic” and said they will upgrade the status of emerging
markets from the European Union.  “This of course fails to correct the overrepresentation of
Europe in the board, sending yet another negative signal to the
outside world,” Mantega said in his speech in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Tokyo at
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Tokyo at  mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  