-- Draghi Says Nobel Prize a Reminder of Europe’s ‘Ongoing Project’
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-13T08:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/draghi-says-nobel-prize-a-reminder-of-europe-s-ongoing-project-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to the European
Union signals that unity in the region is a continuous project.  “This prize is a powerful reminder that Europe is first
and foremost a project of peace,” and “the ideals that have
inspired this project and the people that dedicated their lives
to it are now being rewarded,” Draghi said in Tokyo today at
the annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund . “But
this prize also reminds us that it is an ongoing project. This
prize asks us to make this project one that will also bring
prosperity to all those who suffer in Europe today because of
the needed economic adjustments.”  The Norwegian Nobel Committee bestowed the prize in the
same week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Europe’s most
powerful politician, encountered rioters and anti-Nazi taunts on
a trip to debt-stricken, recession-wracked Greece. Praise for
the EU’s past was coupled with a warning that economic ills and
social instability pose a risk to the historic achievement of
entrenching peace and democracy on the continent that brought
forth two world wars.  “The EU has united war-torn countries into what is now the
most lasting  peace process ,” European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today. “The EU
underpinned shared values, the respect of democracy, rule of law
and respect for human rights.”  The Nobel Committee stressed the enlargement of the EU as
one of the achievements meriting the prize, Rehn said.  “Enlargement has been the soft power of democratic and
economic transformation in Europe over the past decades,” he
said. “As a committed European, I recognize the need to
continue to work for these values and that’s what we will
certainly do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Tokyo  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  