-- Heathrow Growth Would Kill More People Than New Hub, MIT Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-13T12:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/heathrow-growth-would-kill-more-people-than-new-hub-mit-says.html
Building a third runway at BAA
Ltd.’s  London  Heathrow airport would lead to more early deaths
from pollution than constructing a new airport in the Thames
Estuary, U.S. researchers said.  Expanding Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest hub, would lead to
about 150 premature deaths from pollution per year in 2030, up
from 50 today,  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  researchers
said in a  study  on the school’s website. Replacing Heathrow with
a new hub in the mouth of the Thames River would cause 50 annual
deaths, according to the paper.  “Heathrow is embedded in the major population center of
Greater London, and upwind of a significant portion of it,” the
researchers wrote. “In contrast, the Thames Hub would be
downwind of London, such that much of the pollution from a
Thames Hub would blow into the  English Channel .”  The findings lend support to London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s
proposal to build a new hub, dubbed “Boris Island” by the U.K.
press, in the Thames east of the capital. Johnson on Oct. 4
called Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s aviation policy
“lamentable,” and said London is losing jobs as a result of
“dither and delay” over a decision to expand airport capacity.  The study found that nationwide, 110 people die prematurely
per year because of pollution from airports, 50 of them
attributable to Heathrow. They projected that to increase to 250
in 2030, with 110 due to Heathrow, even without airport
expansion. That’s because of higher utilization of airports,
 population growth , and aging citizens being more susceptible to
respiratory illnesses.  Rising Toll          The MIT report, dated October 2012 and carried out with
England’s University of Cambridge, summarizes papers that have
been published already or will be published in the U.K.
scientific journal Atmospheric Environment.  Adding a third runway to Heathrow would raise that
airport’s toll by 40 to a total of 150 early deaths per year,
while reductions in traffic at other London hubs would result in
a nationwide increase of just 10 deaths to a total of 260, the
study said.  Closing Heathrow and establishing a new hub in the Thames
would cause the nationwide projection of 250 deaths to decline
by a quarter, the researchers wrote. That would mean about 187
deaths, according to Bloomberg calculations. Just 50 of those
would be attributable to the new airport, the researchers said.  Environmental campaign groups including Greenpeace and
Friends of the Earth oppose an expansion of Heathrow and the
construction of a new airport because they say it will increase
flights, raising air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.  Cameron’s  Conservative Party  made an election pledge in
2010 to block an additional runway at Heathrow, and the prime
minister has commissioned an inquiry into airports that’s not
scheduled to report until after the next election in 2015.
Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin said on Oct. 8 the
government is committed to expanding London’s airport capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  