-- EBRD Seeks Partners to Bolster Greece-Stricken Countries
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-13T13:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/ebrd-seeks-partners-to-bolster-greece-stricken-countries.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development plans to seek support tomorrow from other
lenders for its program to bolster countries hurt by Greece’s
economic turmoil.  The London-based lender will meet with officials from the
 International Monetary Fund , the  World Bank  and the  European
Investment Bank  in Tokyo, President Suma Chakrabarti said in a
phone interview in the city today. The development bank may put
about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) into the area over the next
two years, Jonathan Charles, a spokesman, said later.  “We’ll try to agree that there is a common analysis of the
problem and a common desire to do something about it together,”
Chakrabarti said. “In the next two months, through to the end
of the year probably, we’ll try to work up what the details of
that plan would be.”  Southeastern  Europe  has struggled to shield itself from
Greece’s fiscal and economic crisis, which has led to drops in
investment in neighboring countries. The lender, set up in 1991
to support the development of market economies after the
collapse of communist regimes, is looking to work with states
including  Romania , Serbia, Slovenia, Albania and Macedonia,
Chakrabarti said.  “It’s not about Greece but about its imprint on the
region,” Chakrabarti said. “If you look at the banking sectors
for many of these countries, Greek subsidiaries take up quite a
large share, sometimes 20 to 30 percent.”  The development bank works in 29 countries from central
Europe to central Asia financing projects intended to help
nations transition to market economies and democratic societies,
according to its website. It’s owned by 63 countries, the
European Union and the European Investment Bank, the website
says.  The EBRD is looking for ways to encourage private
investment in southeastern Europe and encouraging governments to
make changes so that they’re better placed to benefit from an
improvement in the global economy in 2014, Chakrabarti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  Tokyo  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  