-- ECB Says Euro-Area Banking Supervision May Not Start Until 2014
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-13T12:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/ecb-says-euro-area-banking-supervision-may-not-start-until-2014.html
     Oct. 13 (Bloomberg) --The head of the  European Central Bank 
said that common banking supervision in the euro area may not
become operational before 2014 even if legislation is in place
at the beginning of next year.  “It’s very important that the council regulation enters
into force Jan. 1 but that doesn’t mean supervision will be in
place on Jan. 1 from an operational view point,” ECB President
 Mario Draghi  told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “That may well take
another year or so. We have to move in time, but we also have to
move well.”  The European Union on Sept. 12 unveiled proposals for bank
oversight that require unprecedented cooperation between the ECB
and national regulators. While the ECB would become the top-
level supervisor of every lender in the 17-nation currency bloc,
it would depend on national regulators for day-to-day
supervision and ensuring that banks comply with European rules.  EU leaders called for a single bank supervisor in June as a
condition of allowing euro-area banks direct access to the
region’s firewall funds. While they set a start date of Jan. 1,
2013, the ECB is pushing for more time.  Policy makers including ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
and Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  indicated that it
would be difficult for the ECB to assume supervisory control
over the region’s banks before July.  ‘More feasible’  “It’s demanding in July; if it happens by the end of the
year it is still OK,” Constancio said in an interview on Oct.
10. “In a way it is more feasible. In some ways it would be
easier to start January 2014, to coincide with CRD IV,” the
European Union’s capital requirement legislation, he said.
“It’s not essential, but it would help.”  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  urged European
policy makers not to procrastinate.  “When all these mechanisms are up and running, we’ll have
an excellent economy,” he said today. “It will be a marvel.
The question is whether we will survive until then.”  Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said today the ECB
shouldn’t be made responsible for the health of financial
institutions unless it can act to defend it.  “I only want to have this at the ECB if it’s fully
operational from day one because we’re taking on reputational
risk,” he said at a panel discussion today.  Conflict of Interest  Germany ’s Bundesbank, the ECB’s largest shareholder, is
wary of potential conflicts of interest between setting monetary
policy and supervising banks. Board member Andreas Dombret said
on Aug. 22 the ECB may jeopardize its independence if it has
final responsibility in supervision.  The proposed common supervisor needs to be approved by all
27  European Union members . Non-euro members would be allowed to
opt in. There also are proposed safeguards to keep the ECB from
dominating disputes among the bloc’s supervisors.  “All countries that are asking to be part of the
supervisory system should be part of the system, whether they’re
in the euro or not,” Draghi said. “They should be there with
equal rights. It’s nice to say but harder to do because there
are certain legal issues that need to be resolved.”  Finance ministers from euro-area nations have emphasized
the need for national regulators to continue to play a strong
role after the ECB takes on its new duties.  “Much of the day-to-day oversight is in fact conducted by
national supervisors,” European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today. “But the key is the
ECB-based euro-area supervisor has the ultimate responsibility
to ensure that there are no empty sheets or black holes.”  “It doesn’t mean that the ECB-based supervisor on a daily
basis would supervise 6,200 banks in the euro area,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Tokyo at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  