-- Tepco Says Wasn’t Prepared for Accident on Scale of Fukushima
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-13T03:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/tepco-says-wasn-t-prepared-for-accident-on-scale-of-fukushima.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co., the owner
of the nuclear reactors at Fukushima whose 2011 tsunami-
triggered meltdown led nations across the world to review their
atomic policies, said it was unprepared to handle the crisis.  “When looking back on the accident, the problem was that
preparations were not made in advance,” the company said in a
document released yesterday by an internal nuclear reform special
task force. “It was possible to diversify safety systems by
referencing severe accident measures taken in other countries.”  The accident in March last year occurred when a tsunami
knocked out power supply to Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
disrupting the cooling process that led to reactor meltdown. The
accident necessitated mass evacuations and led to long-term
environmental damage.  While the Tepco leadership was aware of shortcomings in its
safety preparedness and disaster-response procedures, it failed
to take action, concerned it may create anti-nuclear sentiment
among the public, bring on lawsuits or force a temporary
shutdown of some nuclear plants.  “After completing severe accident measures in 2002
including containment venting and power supply cross-ties
between units, no further measures for severe accidents were
taken,” the company said. The management was lulled into
thinking “that severe accidents have very low chance of
occurring in  Japan ,” according to the document.  Share Information  Tepco management also turned out to be “unable to share
information on status of important equipment which did not lead
to prompt and adequate action” and there was confusion over how
to handle communication between company headquarters and the
prime minister’s office due to an “ambiguous chain of
command,” the company said. As a result, the on-site crew,
already short on equipment, ran out of supplies, according to
the document.  Japan plans to scrap atomic power by the end of the 2030s
as a result of the Fukushima disaster, according to a new  energy
policy  approved last month by Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .
Japan will join  Germany  in abandoning the  power source  that
helped both countries build world-beating economies and models
for development from the destruction of World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  