-- Terrorist Yousef Offered to Cooperate With U.S., Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/terrorist-yousef-offered-to-cooperate-with-u-s-judge-says.html
A U.S. judge said Ramzi Yousef,
convicted mastermind of the 1993 World Trade Center bombings,
sought to cooperate with the government in 2010 while his uncle
was awaiting trial on charges he orchestrated the Sept. 11,
2001, terror attacks.  Yousef later reneged, U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy, who
presided over his case, said in an Oct. 5 ruling disclosed
yesterday. The ruling, which explains why the Manhattan judge
refused to allocate additional court funds for Yousef’s lawyer
after December 2010, is the first public account of Yousef’s
offer to help prosecutors since he was convicted in 1997.  In the ruling, Duffy denied the lawyer’s request for
payment, saying he only agreed to pay the attorney so that
Yousef would be represented by counsel during his cooperation.  “Ramzi Yousef is a cold-blooded killer, completely devoid
of conscience,” Duffy said in the ruling, while noting that
Yousef was linked to earlier terrorist plots, including
assassination schemes targeting the Pope and President Bill Clinton in the  Philippines .  Yousef was sentenced to life in prison in 1998 after he was
convicted of the the 1993 bombing as well as a plot to blow up a
dozen U.S. airliners over the Pacific. His uncle, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who was charged in New York with Yousef in the
jetliner bomb plot, has yet to tried on charges that he was the
architect of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and
the Pentagon.  Yousef’s Convictions  Duffy said that in early 2010, after Yousef’s convictions
were upheld by an appeals court, he consented to pay Kleinman to
represent Yousef solely for the purpose of determining if he’d
cooperate with the U.S. The judge said he didn’t attempt to find
out any details about Yousef’s cooperation offer to the
government because of the jetliner bombing plot indictment
against Mohammed pending in his court.  “Yousef had requested the opportunity to cooperate with
the government,” Duffy wrote in his ruling. “I was about to
refuse the request but, remembering the KSM-Yousef connection, I
confirmed with the government that Yousef had made such an
offer, and then signed the authorization.”  U.S. prosecutors have since abandoned plans to try Mohammed
and his alleged co-conspirators in civilian court in in New York
in favor of a trial before a military tribunal in Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba. Charges against Mohammed for the so-called Bojinka
plot to blow up planes over the Pacific were dismissed in April
2011 when Mohammed’s prosecution was transfered to the military
court.  Kleinman told a federal appeals court in August that Duffy
hasn’t allotted funds to pay for his post-conviction work on
Yousef’s behalf.  Prison Restrictions  The ruling by Duffy made public yesterday indicates that he
didn’t intend for court funds to be paid to Kleinman for
Yousef’s legal challenge to the conditions of his confinement in
a federal so-called super-maximum security prison in Florence,
 Colorado .  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York in September rejected
Yousef’s appeal of the restrictions on his contact with other
inmates and with people outside prison. The three judge-panel
told Yousef take to his challenge the federal appeals court in
Colorado. The panel also questioned why Duffy had refused to
allocate more funds to pay Kleinman, who said he hadn’t been
paid for his work since December 2010.  Duffy said in his ruling that Yousef and his uncle had a
close relationship. While Yousef was in  Manila  working on the
Bojinka plot, he was visited by Mohammed, the judge said.
Evidence provided by the U.S. showed Yousef became interested in
the movements of the Pope and Clinton and had even acquired a
Catholic priest’s garb and rosary beads, Duffy said.  ‘Entertaining Thoughts’  “Some have conjectured that Yousef and KSM were
entertaining thoughts of assassinating one of both of the
visiting dignitaries,” Duffy said. “One thing is clear: Yousef
was close to his relative KSM both in blood and in mental desire
to wreak havoc on civilized society.”  David Nevin, a lawyer for Mohammed, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Duffy’s ruling.  Kleinman filed a letter with the appeals court in New York
last night saying that Yousef’s alleged cooperation offer to the
government “was a matter that has been under seal in both the
district court and the court of appeals to date.”  “It is inexplicable, and wholly improper for the district
court to now make this a matter of public record,” Kleinman
said,  Six people were killed in the 1993 bombing of the World
Trade Center and more than 1,000 were injured. A Japanese man
was killed during a trial run of the airliner plot, witnesses at
Yousef’s 1996 trial testified.  The cases are U.S. v. Ramzi Yousef, 93-cr-180, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ); and
11-3920, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Romano at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net  