-- Euro Weakens as Growth Concern Overshadows Central-Bank Efforts
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/euro-weakens-as-growth-concern-overshadows-central-bank-efforts.html
The euro declined against most of
its major counterparts as concern that the global economy is
slowing overshadowed policy makers’ efforts to contain  Europe ’s
three-year-old debt crisis.  The shared currency touched its lowest versus the dollar in
almost two weeks as the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
growth forecasts. It also said  Greece  should get more time to
meet fiscal targets. The euro fell after Standard & Poor’s cut
 Spain ’s credit rating, then rose on bets the move will pressure
the nation to seek aid, unlocking a stimulus program. European
Union leaders meet next week.  Singapore ’s dollar climbed as its
central bank unexpectedly left monetary policy unchanged.  “You had the sentiment around Spain where the S&P
downgrade evolved from being a concern to a potential benefit,”
Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million, said in a telephone interview.
“The IMF news was ugly at first and then better at second as
they backed off on austerity demands. If you follow the slope of
where the euro went this week, that seems to generalize the
path.”  The euro depreciated 0.7 percent to $1.2951 this week in
 New York , halving last week’s 1.4 percent gain. It touched
$1.2826, the lowest level since Oct. 1, almost falling below its
200-day moving average of $1.2824. The 17-nation currency fell
0.9 percent to 101.61 yen. The Japanese currency gained 0.3
percent to 78.44 yen per dollar.  Net Shorts  Futures traders increased their bets that the 17-nation
currency will decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 72,570 on Oct. 9,
compared with net shorts of 50,265 a week earlier.  The Swedish krona was the biggest loser against the euro as
inflation abated more than forecast, raising the possibility of
an interest-rate cut before year-end. A Statistics Sweden report
showed consumer price growth slowed to an annual 0.4 percent in
September, from 0.7 percent the prior month. A Bloomberg survey
projected a decline 0.6 percent.  The currency fell 0.7 percent to 8.6737 per euro and slid
1.4 percent to 6.6975 to the greenback.  The krona will probably decline as European asset prices
stabilize and investors unwind their bets on haven currencies
including Sweden’s, according to Morgan Stanley.  “We would expect the Swedish krona to lead the way with
the current round of position-unwinding,” Morgan Stanley said
Oct. 11 in a research report.  Aussie Strengthens  The Australian dollar gained against 14 of its 16 most-
traded peers this week amid speculation that  China , the nation’s
biggest trader partner, will take steps to stimulate flagging
economic expansion. The Aussie rose 0.5 percent to $1.0233.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years. Growth may have
slowed to 7.4 percent in the third quarter, according to the
median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The euro region’s economy will expand 0.4 percent this
year, 0.1 percentage point less than forecast in July, and grow
0.2 percent in 2013, versus 0.7 percent predicted three months
ago, the Washington-based IMF said in a report. The world
economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the slowest pace since
the 2009 recession, compared with a July forecast of 3.5
percent, it said.  Central Banks  The projections came even after the  Federal Reserve  began a
third round of debt purchases to spur the  U.S. economy  and the
 European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-purchase
program to stem its region’s financial turmoil.  “The IMF’s report, which obviously concerns the
fundamentals and what central banks can do about fundamentals,
brings everyone back down to reality,”  Stephen Gallo , foreign-
exchange strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London , said in a
telephone interview.  The euro pared its weekly loss amid optimism that Spain
will request an aid package, which would unlock the ECB’s bond-
buying plan to reduce borrowing costs in debt-strapped nations
on its periphery. New York-based S&P said Oct. 10 it had cut
Spain’s rating two levels to BBB-. Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  has held off on deciding whether to request a
bailout, a condition the ECB insists on.  EU leaders open a two-day  summit  in Brussels on Oct. 18.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said Greece should
get two years to meet fiscal targets and suggested debt
reductions are needed before a 130 billion-euro ($167 billion)
bailout of the nation where the debt crisis began can proceed.  ‘Supportive’ Comments  “Those types of comments reduce the risk of European
lenders allowing a nation like Greece to default because it
can’t meet its fiscal targets,”  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a
currency brokerage, said in a telephone interview. “Those types
of comments are supportive of the euro.”  The euro will strengthen to $1.35 in the next three to six
months, with the dollar weakened by the Fed’s latest round of
asset purchases, which may debase the currency, according to
Danske Bank A/S.  “We expect the unwinding of short euro positions to
continue, and we also expect the Fed’s open-ended easing program
to support euro-dollar going forward,” Morten Helt, a senior
analyst based in Copenhagen, wrote in a report. “We still like
to buy euro-dollar on dips.” A short position is a bet that a
currency or security will fall.  Yen Gains  The yen rose this week against 13 of its 16 major peers.
Japanese Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said Oct. 11 that he
told his Group of Seven counterparts the currency’s strength is
hurting the nation’s economy and that countries should cooperate
on foreign exchange if necessary. A stronger yen makes Japanese
products pricier overseas and erodes domestic exporters’
earnings when repatriated.  The Japanese currency appreciated 3.7 percent over the past
six months, the best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes and
more than twice the 1.8 percent gain of the second-biggest
winner, the Canadian dollar. The euro fell 1.8 percent, and the
dollar rose 0.2 percent.  Singapore’s currency climbed after the central bank said it
would leave monetary policy unchanged as inflation risks trump
worries over a shrinking economy.  “This policy stance is assessed to be appropriate in
containing inflationary pressures and keeping the economy on a
path of restructuring toward sustainable growth,” the Monetary
Authority of Singapore said in a  statement  following its semi-
annual exchange-rate review.  The  Singapore dollar  strengthened 0.6 percent to S$1.2222
per dollar and rallied 1.3 percent to S$1.5830 per euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  