-- Greece, Troika in Talks as Summit Deadline Looms
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-10-13T21:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/greece-troika-in-talks-as-summit-deadline-looms-correct-.html
(Corrects timing of comment in final paragraph.)  Greece and its international
inspectors are racing to find agreement on economic policies
ahead of the Oct. 18 summit of European Union leaders, where
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras will seek more time to implement
the budget cuts required to keep funds flowing.  Fiscal and structural policies will be decided at the
summit, a Greek Finance Ministry official told reporters in
Athens yesterday after talks between the so-called troika from
the  International Monetary Fund , the  European Central Bank  and
European Commission, and Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras.
Another meeting will be held today.  Samaras is seeking to spread pension and wage cuts over
four rather than two years to meet deficit-cutting targets and
smooth the impact on an economy set to shrink for a sixth year.
The official said yesterday the downturn next year, forecast at
3.8 percent in a draft budget presented earlier this month, is
being worsened by health fund debts and poor implementation
sparked by a political impasse in May and June.  A primary surplus, or a surplus before interest payments,
is projected to be 1.5 percent of GDP in 2014, instead of 1.1
percent next year as forecast in the budget, said the official,
who asked not to be identified, in line with ministry policy.
Without the additional two years Samaras is seeking,  Greece 
would need to take 18 billion euros of budget measures to meet a
goal of a surplus of 4.5 percent in 2014 instead of the 13.5
billion euros it’s currently working on identifying, he said.  Installment Plan  A deal with the troika is needed to unlock a 31 billion-
euro aid installment that the Greek government needs to
recapitalize its banks and pay debts.  Speculation in  Europe  about a Greek exit from the euro has
grown this year as public opposition in Greece to spending cuts
widened, authorities stalled on slashing the budget, and the
country held an inconclusive election in May and a rerun the
following month. The June vote produced a pro-euro coalition led
by Samaras of the New Democracy party.  Greece also needs to commit to a list of 89 policy steps
before the Oct. 18-19 leaders’ summit. The official said
yesterday a tax system overhaul will be one of the policy
actions that needs to be approved by Parliament before the
tranche can be paid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  