-- Greece Will Probably Abandon Euro Within Six Months, Borg Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-13T12:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/greece-will-probably-abandon-euro-within-six-months-borg-says.html
As European Union leaders prepare
for a summit next week devoted to saving the euro, Swedish
Finance Minister Anders Borg said Greece may quit the common
currency within the next six months.  “It’s most probable that they will leave,” Borg said
today on a conference call from  Tokyo , where global finance
officials have gathered for the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund . “We shouldn’t rule out this
happening in the next half-year.”  Borg’s warning comes a day after the EU was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize amid a financial crisis now in its third year
and four days after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  encountered
rioters and anti-Nazi taunts on a trip to  Athens . Merkel said
she wants Greece to remain in the euro.  The so-called troika that oversees euro-area bailouts,
comprised of officials from the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and IMF, has resumed talks with Greek officials
after a pause that provided Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
three-party coalition with backing to continue efforts to carve
out 13.5 billion euros ($17.5 billion) of new budget cuts needed
to unlock aid payments.  EU leaders meet in Brussels Oct. 18-19 to  discuss  their
efforts to make the ECB  Europe ’s chief bank supervisor and plans
to tighten economic and monetary ties within the bloc.  Aid Payment  Euro-area finance ministers on Oct. 8 saluted  Greece ’s
determination to trim its budget and reshape its economy, while
demanding that the government in Athens commit to a list of 89
policy steps before the summit and leaving open whether the next
31 billion-euro aid installment will be paid out in one go or
dribbled out in smaller pieces.  Borg said a Greek euro exit probably wouldn’t have a major
impact on the financial system, “since in practice everyone
already understands which way the wind is blowing.”  Given Greece’s lack of competitive industry and their
inability to implement necessary reforms, “it’s a little bit
hard to see how they’ll resolve this situation without
stimulating competitiveness through a significantly lower
 exchange rate ,” Borg said.  Citigroup’s Juergen Michels said in a note to clients
yesterday that the likelihood of Greece quitting the euro in the
next 12 to 18 months has dropped to 60 percent from 90 percent.
He cited a change in attitude among core euro-area states.  Many investors “are betting that we won’t have the
political strength” to defend the euro, Merkel said today in a
speech to a regional convention of her Christian Democratic
Union party held at Celle in the northern state of  Lower Saxony .
“I am determined to make the effort, even if it’s hard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  