-- IMF Committee Calls for Decisive Action on Global Economy: Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-13T05:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/imf-committee-calls-for-decisive-action-on-global-economy-text.html
Following is a reformatted version
of a statement by the International Monetary Fund’s steering
committee released today. The International Monetary and
Financial Committee met in  Tokyo .  Global growth has decelerated and substantial uncertainties and
downside risks remain. Key policy steps have been announced, but
effective and timely implementation is critical to rebuild
confidence. We need to act decisively to break negative feedback
loops and restore the global economy to a path of strong,
sustainable and balanced growth. Advanced economies should
deliver the necessary structural reforms and implement credible
fiscal plans. Emerging market economies should reserve or use
policy flexibility as appropriate to facilitate a response to
adverse shocks and support growth.  Advanced economies: There is a need to secure a sustained
recovery from the crisis. Further monetary easing has created
more accommodative financial conditions. The implementation of
credible medium-term fiscal consolidation plans remains critical
in many advanced economies. Fiscal policy should be
appropriately calibrated to be as growth-friendly as possible.
In the euro area, significant progress has been made. The ECB’s
decision on Outright Monetary Transactions and the launch of the
European Stability Mechanism are welcome. But further steps are
necessary. We look forward to timely implementation of an
effective banking and a stronger fiscal union to strengthen the
monetary union’s resilience, and structural reforms to boost
growth and employment at the national level. In the  United
States , resolving the fiscal cliff, raising the debt ceiling,
and making progress toward a comprehensive plan to ensure fiscal
sustainability are essential. In Japan, securing funding for
this year’s budget and further progress in medium-term fiscal
consolidation are needed.  Emerging market and  developing countries : Activity is slowing in
emerging market and developing economies, reflecting weaker
external and domestic demand and, in some cases, policy
tightening to address inflationary pressures. Risks are
compounded for some countries by falling prices for non-food
commodities and upward price pressures on some food items. These
economies will need to ensure flexibility in policy
implementation to support growth, consistent with global
rebalancing. The potential impact from large and volatile cross-
border capital flows should be closely monitored. The Fund has
increased its support for Arab countries in transition and
continues to work with these authorities as they develop home-
grown national reform strategies to deliver inclusive growth and
jobs. We call on the international community to provide broader
support for this region. We welcome the increased engagement of
the IMF with small states and look forward to further work in
this area.  Low-income countries: While growth remains buoyant in most low-
income countries, fiscal and reserve positions have weakened and
buffers need to be restored. In the near term, the Fund is
adequately resourced to provide additional financial support to
low-income countries, should the need arise. We welcome the IMF
Executive Board’s decision on the use of US$2.7 billion in
remaining windfall gold sales profits as part of a strategy to
ensure the long-term sustainability of the Fund’s concessional
financing facilities. This comes on top of the receipt of the
assurances needed for the use of US$1.1 billion in resources
linked to gold sales profits to bolster PRGT resources in the
near term. We call on members to expedite the unlocking of this
financing.  Global Policy Agenda: We welcome the directions set forth in the
Managing Director’s Global Policy Agenda and share its emphasis
on the need to address the current crisis and build a strong
foundation for future growth. Policies for jobs and growth, debt
sustainability, repair of financial systems, and reducing global
imbalances are key priorities. We will review progress on
implementing these measures at our next meeting. We are
committed to strengthening domestic sources of growth in surplus
economies, boosting national savings while enhancing export
competitiveness in deficit countries, and fostering greater
exchange rate flexibility, where appropriate. We reaffirm our
commitment to avoid any form of trade and investment
protectionism.  Surveillance: We welcome the strengthening of the IMF’s
surveillance framework through the adoption of a new Integrated
Surveillance Decision, a Financial Surveillance Strategy as well
as the launch of a pilot External Sector Report. These
initiatives will bring together bilateral and multilateral
perspectives in the Fund’s policy advice and support better
assessment of global and country-level risks and spillovers to
economic and financial stability. We look forward to the
evenhanded and effective implementation of the strengthened
surveillance framework and will assess progress at the next
Annual Meetings.  Resources: Members have significantly augmented Fund resources.
Pledges have been received from more members since April to
increase the borrowed resources available to the Fund by US$461
billion. We welcome the signing of the first batch of bilateral
borrowing agreements and encourage the conclusion of the
remaining borrowing agreements soon.  2010 Quota and Governance Reforms: We have made considerable
progress in ratifying the 2010 quota and governance reforms.
Most of the conditions required for the entry into force of the
reforms have been achieved. We reaffirm the urgency of making
these important reforms effective and call on members who have
yet to complete the necessary steps to do so.  Quota Formula Review: The comprehensive review of the quota
formula is well underway. The key issues and differences have
been clearly identified. We call on the membership to develop
the consensus needed through further engagement of the IMF
Executive Board, with input from the IMFC Deputies after their
meeting in December, to complete the review by January 2013. We
reaffirm our commitment to conclude the Fifteenth General Review
of Quotas by January 2014.  IMFC meeting: We would like to express our gratitude to the
government of  Japan  for hosting these meetings. The next IMFC
meeting will be held in Washington D.C. on April 19-20, 2013.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  