-- Mizuho CEO Said to Meet With Asia Banks for Bond Business
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-10-13T08:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/mizuho-ceo-said-to-meet-with-asia-banks-for-bond-business-1-.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  Chief
Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  will meet with counterparts from
seven Asian lenders in Tokyo today for talks on how they might
ally to win more bond business in the region, said two people
with knowledge of the meeting.  Sato, who heads the No. 4 bond underwriter in Asia,
including Japan, will discuss Mizuho’s expertise in the market
with lending executives from countries including Singapore,
India and Vietnam, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Mizuho’s Tokyo-based
spokeswoman  Masako Shiono  declined to comment.  Mizuho is looking for ways to boost its share of the
market, currently dominated by U.S. and European banks, as
demand for equity underwriting and acquisition advising in Asia
wanes. Asia bond underwriting, led by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co., has risen to $911 billion
this year from $844 billion in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Mizuho and Bank of China Ltd. are the
only Asian firms ranked among Asia’s top 10 debt underwriters,
including self-led offerings, so far this year, the data show.  Global banking executives are congregating in Tokyo this
week for the annual meeting of the Institute of International
Finance, which is being held in conjunction with gatherings of
the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. The IIF
represents more than 460 banks and financial companies.  Also taking advantage of the gatherings in the capital,
Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  and
 Katsunori Nagayasu , president of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., planned to meet today to discuss deepening their global
tie-ups including Japan investment ventures, two people with
knowledge of the meeting said on Oct. 10.  Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ, whose joint venture
ranks No. 1 in Japan bond underwriting this year, aim to boost
investment banking business as the nation’s companies look
overseas to tap faster-growing markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  