-- Japan Said to Plan 200 Billion Yen Rescue of Renesas
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/japan-said-to-plan-200-billion-yen-rescue-of-renesas.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the
world’s largest maker of microcontrollers, may be acquired for
about 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) by a group led by  Japan ’s
state-backed fund as early as November, two people familiar with
the matter said.  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan  may be joined by private
companies, the two people said on Oct. 13, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. The parties
involved and the breakdown of investment are under negotiation,
they said.  Renesas, whose customers include Apple Inc. and Nintendo
Co., forecast a 156 billion yen  loss  this fiscal year and
recorded cumulative losses of 472 billion yen in the previous
seven years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company has cut jobs to reduce costs by 54 billion yen annually
and may close or sell factories to end losses exacerbated by
falling demand for its system LSI chips.  State-run Innovation Network will ask Renesas to sell the
LSI division in a further restructuring, a condition the
chipmaker may reject as overly strict, one of the two people
said.  The fund will inject 150 billion yen in return for two-
thirds of Renesas’s shares, and a group of about 10 companies
will invest about 50 billion yen in total, the Nikkei newspaper
said Oct. 13.  Toyota Motor Corp., Panasonic Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and
Denso Corp. are among those involved, according to one of the
people familiar with the talks. Calls for comment to the
companies and Renesas outside business hours were not answered.  Global Slowdown  KKR & Co. withdrew its bid for Renesas, the Yomiuri
newspaper reported on Oct. 13. The New York-based private-equity
firm offered about 100 billion yen for control of Renesas to the
chipmaker’s banks and three main shareholders -- NEC Corp.,
Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp., a person with
knowledge of the matter said in August.  The global chip industry has been roiled as a slowdown in
economic growth erodes demand, with personal-computer shipments
falling 8.3 percent in the quarter ended September, research
firm Gartner Inc. said last week. Advanced Micro Devices Inc.
cut its sales forecast on Oct. 12 and said it will eliminate
about 20 percent of its workforce. Applied Materials Inc., the
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, has announced plans to
trim its payroll by as much as 9 percent.  Renesas on Oct. 12 announced the sale of its Renesas High
Components Inc. subsidiary to Aoi Electronic Co. Financial terms
of the deal were not disclosed in the statement. The company
eliminated about 7,500 jobs, or about 17 percent of its
workforce, through an early retirement program and has said as
many as eight of 18 domestic factories may be closed or sold.  Chipmakers Struggle  Japan’s chipmakers have struggled as  South Korea ’s Samsung
Electronics Co. extended its dominance. Boise, Idaho-based
Micron Technology Inc. agreed in July to buy Elpida Memory Inc.
after the Tokyo-based maker of memory chips filed for  bankruptcy
protection .  Renesas held a 27 percent share of the global
microcontroller market last year, making it the world’s largest
supplier of the devices used in automobiles and televisions. It
plans to raise that share to 35 percent in five years by
targeting  emerging markets , and extended its alliance with
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., a move that will help
cut costs and widen profit margins, Renesas said in June.  The company was formed in 2010 through the merger of money-
losing chipmakers NEC Electronics Corp. and Renesas Technology
Corp., a venture between Hitachi and Mitsubishi Electric.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  