-- New England Compounding Sued Over Shot Meningitis Risk
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-13T17:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/new-england-compounding-sued-over-shot-meningitis-risk.html
New England Compounding Pharmacy
Inc. was sued by a woman who received a steroid shot that was
recalled because it was potentially contaminated with a fungus
putting recipients at risk for meningitis.  The lawsuit in federal court in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , was
filed by Barbe Puro, who received injections of the steroid
methylprednisolone acetate, made by Framingham, Massachusetts-
based New England Compounding, to ease chronic back pain,
according to the complaint.  About 14,000 people who received pain-relieving steroid
shots may be at risk for meningitis because of a fungal
contamination that has led to the deaths of 14 people, according
to U.S. regulators. There are 184  confirmed infections  traced to
vials from a pharmacy in Framingham that mixed the steroid and
sold it to 75 hospitals and clinics in 23 states, the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention said yesterday.  The suit seeks compensation for the sale of the “defective
and dangerously contaminated steroid” by New England
Compounding Center, a unit of New England Compounding Pharmacy,
which has caused Puro and others “bodily harm, emotional
distress, other personal injuries, and to incur medical and
other expenses,” according to the complaint filed Oct. 11.
Puro’s lawyers also seek class-action, or group, status to
represent others affected by the contaminated steroids.  Tainted Steroid  Reuters reported today that NECC sold medication without
gaining individual proof of prescriptions, citing e-mails it
obtained. More than a dozen e-mails also showed the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based company sought to win bulk orders from
physicians, the news service said. The company declined to
comment to Reuters.  Injections of the tainted steroid -- an epidural shot used
to treat neck and back pain -- were given starting May 21, the
Atlanta-based CDC said. Meningitis is an inflammation of the
lining of the brain and spinal cord usually caused by an
infection from a virus or bacteria.  The New England Compounding Center, which mixed the drug,
suspended operations last week and recalled 17,676 doses. Twelve
states have reported meningitis infections: Florida,  Indiana ,
 Idaho ,  Maryland , Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey,  North
Carolina , Ohio,  Tennessee , Texas and Virginia.  A representative of New England Compounding Pharmacy didn’t
return a voice-mail message yesterday after regular business
hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Puro v. New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc.,
12-02605, U.S. District Court for Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  