-- Obama Campaign Asks High Court to Allow Ohio Early Voting
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/obama-campaign-asks-high-court-to-allow-ohio-early-voting.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
urged the U.S. Supreme Court to leave intact a ruling that
restored early voting rights in the pivotal state of  Ohio  for
the weekend before the Nov. 6 election.  Ohio Republicans are seeking to cancel early voting that
weekend for everyone except members of the military. A federal
appeals court blocked the plan, saying it probably violated the
constitutional rights of non-military voters. Ohio’s Republican
secretary of state and attorney general this week asked the  high
court  to step in.  Democrats and Republicans have jockeyed in Ohio for months
over early voting, an option used heavily by blacks, women and
elderly and low-income people, according to the appeals court.
No Republican has ever won the White House without capturing
Ohio, which controls 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes
needed to win the presidency.  In previous years, each Ohio county decided whether to
offer voting on the weekend before the election. The state’s
Republican leadership, through a combination of legislation and
a legal interpretation by Secretary of State Jon Husted, sought
to make a statewide change for this year and allow voting that
weekend only by military members.  The Obama campaign and  Democratic Party  say the plan
violated the Constitution’s equal protection clause.  “Nowhere else in the country will an eligible voter be
turned away from a single, open polling place because the
polling place is open for some voters, but not for that
particular voter,” the Obama campaign argued in papers filed at
the Supreme Court.  Public Interest  Husted and Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine say the
changes are warranted to give county boards of election more
time to prepare for Election Day and to accommodate the needs of
military families. The appeals court said neither interest was
sufficient to justify the change.  The public interest “favors permitting as many qualified
voters to vote as possible,” Judge Eric Clay wrote for the
three-judge panel.  Husted and DeWine said in court papers that the appeals
court ruling “will cause wholly unwarranted interference with
and disruption of the state’s administration of elections.”
They said the state was “modestly” reducing early voting to
give counties more time to prepare for Election Day.  Husted said this week that, in the event the  Supreme Court 
rejected his application, he would set up uniform voting hours
for each of Ohio’s 88 counties.  The early-voting clash is one of two Ohio election disputes
with implications for the presidential race between Obama and
former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney . In a second Obama
victory, the same Cincinnati-based appeals court two days ago
barred the state from disqualifying provisional ballots that
voters cast in the wrong precinct because of poll-worker error.  The Supreme Court application is Husted v. Obama for
America, 12A338.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  