-- Providence Said to Sell 10% Hulu Stake for $200 Million
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-13T19:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/providence-said-to-sell-10-stake-in-hulu-com-for-200-million.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc. sold
its 10 percent stake in Hulu.com back to company for $200
million, in a deal that values the video service at about $2
billion, two people with knowledge of the agreement said.  Hulu, based in Los Angeles, is borrowing the money to fund
the repurchase, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms aren’t public. Separately, Hulu
Chief Executive Officer  Jason Kilar  will receive about $40
million, the people said.  The holding’s buyout from Providence, a private-equity
group that also owns a stake in Univision Communications,
consolidates ownership of the video service with  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Hulu, an early entrant in the
online video market, competes with Netflix Inc., which has
increased its focus on TV shows after streaming movies at first.  Elisa Schreiber, a Hulu spokeswoman, and Andrew Cole, an
outside spokesman for Providence, declined to comment. The deal
closed last week, the people said.  Providence Equity Partners, News Corp. and Comcast’s NBC
Universal, then part of  General Electric Co. (GE) , started Hulu in
2007. Disney acquired a stake in April 2009.  Techcrunch reported the deal’s completion yesterday.  The media companies were near agreement to buy out
Providence’s stake for $200 million, people familiar with the
matter told  Bloomberg News  in April. Employees of Hulu,
including Kilar, would be allowed to sell shares, the people
said then.  Providence invested $100 million in Los Angeles-
based Hulu when the venture began in 2007. The service offers
online episodes of television shows such as “30 Rock” from
Comcast’s NBC, Fox’s “Family Guy” and ABC’s “Grey’s
Anatomy.”  In April, Hulu said its $8-a-month Hulu Plus, which lets
users view an expanded library of shows on game consoles and
mobile devices, had more than 2 million subscribers.  Disney, News Corp. and Comcast’s NBC Universal each held
roughly equal Hulu stakes, while employees owned about 10
percent, people said then.  Disney and News Corp. have representatives on Hulu’s board.
 NBC Universal  relinquished its Hulu board seat and oversight as
part of federal approval of its acquisition by Philadelphia-
based Comcast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  