-- RBS Says Santander Drops 1.7 Billion-Pound Purchase
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-13T13:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/rbs-says-santander-drops-1-7-billion-pound-purchase.html
Royal Bank Of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
Chairman Philip Hampton suggested  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s scrapping
of a 1.7 billion pound ($2.7 billion) purchase of some of its
branches stemmed from a waning appetite for expanding in the U.K.  Hampton said technical problems cited by the Madrid-based
lender could have been overcome. Instead, he suggested
Santander’s interest in expanding in the U.K. may have
diminished since the deal to buy 316 branches was agreed two
years ago. The move would have run counter to Santander’s
decision to raise capital in  Latin American (BRLA)  markets.  “People have speculated that it’s not an easy time in
general for banks to take on a lot of risk-weighted assets,”
Hampton told reporters in  Tokyo  today, where he has been holding
meetings on the sidelines of the International Monetary Fund’s
annual gathering. “IT challenges always get overcome.”  Santander’s decision to abandon the purchase coincides with
increasing regulatory pressure on Spanish banks to bolster
capital amid mounting real estate losses at home and pain from
the three-year-old euro-area sovereign debt crisis.  Santander had agreed in 2010 to pay 350 million pounds more
than the branches’ net asset value when the deal was scheduled
to be completed, Edinburgh-based RBS said at the time. That
valued the business at about 1.7 billion pounds. The companies
originally sought to finish the transaction by the end of 2011.
That was later extended to 2012’s fourth quarter, it said.  Pull Back  Since then, Santander,  Spain ’s biggest bank, has sought
ways to boost capital.  The bank  carried out an offering of as
much as $4.09 billion in shares of its Mexican unit  Grupo
Financiero (BSMX)  Santander Mexico SAB last month. Chairman  Emilio Botin  has said that the firm plans to list its biggest units
within the next five years.  Santander U.K. Chief Executive Officer Ana Botin said in a
statement yesterday she had decided to call off the deal given
delays in RBS preparing its systems for the handover.  The
acquisition would have allowed Santander to make out loans to
small and mid-sized businesses, adding to its residential
mortgage business.  Hampton today acknowledged that businesses lending for such
companies had become less attractive recently.  Branches for sale include RBS branded locations in England
and  Wales , and NatWest Bank branches in  Scotland . The unit had a
186 million-pound operating profit in this year’s first half and
holds 21.7 billion pounds in customer deposits, RBS said.
European Union competition authorities had ordered the sale as
part of the state-bailout of the lender in 2008.  One Bidder  “We had only one serious bidder” Hampton said referring to
Santander. “Others took a look and decided it wasn’t for them.”  Still, Hampton suggested today that RBS may get some leeway
from EU authorities when it comes to finding a new buyer for the
branches, which it was required to do by 2014. Hampton said that
the EU Commission has “extended one or two deadlines in other
cases.”  Hampton also left open the possibility that RBS may try and
hold onto the branches, saying the climate of state aid is now
“a lot more flexible” than at the onset of the crisis. It
would be down to the British government to negotiate more
lenient terms with Brussels.  “The Commission has been much, much more flexible,” he
said. “It used to be a pretty severe regime but they are making
different judgments,” said Hampton “As it happens, the UK retail
banking market is more competitive now than it has been for
decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Tokyo at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net 
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  