-- RBS May Seek More Time to Sell Branches as Santander Walks
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-15T07:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/rbs-might-seek-to-keep-branches-after-santander-deal-collapses.html
Banco  Santander (SAN)  SA’s decision to
abandon its 1.7 billion-pound ($2.7 billion) purchase of 316
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  branches may prompt the U.K.
lender to keep them or seek more time to find a new buyer.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, had been
required to sell the outlets by 2014 to comply with a  European
Union  state-aid rules after receiving the biggest banking
bailout in the world in 2008.  “The likely situation is a deadline extension,” Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. Regulators may let RBS delay
the sale by three to five years, said Cormac Leech, a banking
analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London .  Regulators may now be “a lot more flexible” because
Britain’s consumer-banking market has become more competitive,
RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  said in  Tokyo  on Oct. 13.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Money Holdings (U.K.) Ltd., U.S. investor JC
Flowers and  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK)  may all make separate bids to
buy the branches,  Sky News  and the Sunday Telegraph said.
Officials at the companies declined to comment on the reports.  Santander,  Spain ’s biggest bank, which walked away from the
deal saying on Oct. 12 that it was withdrawing because of
completion delays, said later that it remains “committed” to
the U.K. market. The bank’s decision came against a backdrop of
pressure on Spanish lenders to bolster capital amid mounting
real estate losses at home and pain from the three-year-old
euro-area sovereign debt crisis.  Brussels Talks  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said today that
the bank will seek other ways to dispose of the branches.
Chairman Hampton said it would be down to the British government
to negotiate better terms with Brussels. A European Commission
spokesman, Patrizio Fiorilli, said that the body doesn’t “have
any comment at this stage.”  “RBS will commence a new process of disposal following
discussion with the European Commission and will provide a
further update on this in due course,” Hester said.  RBS fell as much as 4 percent in London trading and was
down 2.2 percent at 265 pence as of 8:03 a.m. in London trading.
The stock has climbed 31 percent this year.  Potential buyers including  Virgin Money  and NBNK
Investments, who were interested in a larger Lloyds Banking
Group Plc-owned package of branches, may see RBS’s branches as
attractive, analysts Greenwood and Leech said. Still, any bids
now are likely to be for far less than the unit’s book value of
1 billion pounds, according to Greenwood.  Northern Rock  “Virgin and NBNK are credible,” said Leech. “The
question for NBNK is would they be able to raise the cash. I
would have thought the answer to that would be yes.”  Simon Hall, a spokesman for Virgin Money, and an official
at NBNK declined to comment.  Virgin Money agreed to buy part of  Northern Rock  Plc in
November for 747 million pounds and moved its headquarters to
Newcastle, the bank’s base. JC Flowers & Co. and NBNK also
submitted bids for the bank, which the U.K. government took over
in February 2008.  In June, Lloyds Banking Group Plc resumed exclusive talks
to sell 632 branches to Co-Operative Group Ltd., prompting
competing bidder NBNK to disband. More branches available may
tempt NBNK to rethink its dissolution, said Leech.  RBS’s Hampton said the bank might try to see if the
European Commission will let it keep the branches.  ‘Pretty Severe’  “It used to be a pretty severe regime but they are making
different judgments,” Hampton told reporters in Tokyo, where he
held meetings on the sidelines of the International Monetary
Fund’s annual gathering. “The U.K. retail banking market is
more competitive now than it has been for decades.”  While aid to banks such as the  European Central Bank ’s
longer term refinancing operations mean most banks have received
some assistance, the similarity between the sale by Lloyds and
RBS may make it difficult for RBS to keep the branches.  “The branches are profitable with a return on equity
greater than cost of equity, and they are making good money,”
Greenwood said. “Given the opportunity you’d want to hold on to
the assets. The only problem is if they cave in on RBS and let
them keep them, if you were Lloyds you’d ask why you can’t keep
Verde.” Lloyds calls its branch-sale plan “Project Verde.”  RBS branches for sale include locations in England and
 Wales , as well as a business in  Scotland . The unit had a 186
million-pound operating profit in this year’s first half and
holds 21.7 billion pounds in customer deposits, RBS said. The
sale also includes RBS’s National Westminster Bank branch
network in Scotland, which the lender purchased in 2000.  Boosting Capital  Santander had agreed in 2010 to pay 350 million pounds more
than the branches’ net asset value when the deal was scheduled
to be completed, Edinburgh-based RBS said at the time. That
valued the business at about 1.7 billion pounds.  Since then, Santander has sought ways to boost capital.  The
bank (BKIR)  carried out an offering of as much as $4.09 billion in
shares of its Mexican unit  Grupo Financiero (BSMX)  Santander Mexico SAB
last month. Chairman  Emilio Botin  has said that the bank plans
to list its biggest units within the next five years.  The Spanish bank’s purchase of RBS’s branches would have
taken until mid-2014, or a year later than the February 2013
date set by the two banks for the completion of the deal, the
Sunday Times said yesterday, citing a report by consulting
company Accenture, which had been commissioned by the lenders.  U.K. Market  The acquisition would have allowed Santander to make loans
to small and mid-size businesses, adding to its residential
mortgage business. RBS’s Hampton acknowledged that lending to
such companies had become less attractive recently.  “One of the reasons why Santander may have abandoned this
deal is because overall profit expectations for banks in the
U.K. aren’t as great as the market had forecast because of
regulatory pressure,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage
about $400 million at Abaco Financials Fund in London.  “Additionally, banks are being requested to boost their
capital all around the world, and Santander may find some
savings by pulling out of this deal at a very little cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  