-- Treasuries Gain as Signs of Slowdown Boost Refuge Appeal
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/treasuries-gain-as-signs-of-slowdown-boost-refuge-appeal.html
Treasuries rose, pushing the 30-year
bond yield down the most in almost a month, as the International
Monetary Fund’s forecast for slower global growth boosted demand
for the refuge of  U.S. government debt .  The  yield  on the 10-year note dropped from the highest
level in two weeks as investors sought a haven from  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, leading to higher-than-average demand for
debt at three- and 10-year note auctions this week. The U.S.
will sell $7 billion in 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities next week.  “The IMF brought everybody back to the global economic
situation,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “We went through roughly six
weeks where everything looked more attractive than Treasuries.
The auction will do well -- there’s never a sense that people
own too many TIPS.”  The yield on 30-year bonds fell 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 2.83 percent this week in  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, the biggest drop since
the week ended Sept. 21. The benchmark 10-year note yield fell
nine basis points to 1.66 percent.  The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at
the  Federal Reserve  that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation, was negative 0.90 percent
yesterday. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent. The all-time low was
negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  IMF Forecast  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said Oct. 9. That compares with July predictions
of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-
based lender said it sees a one-in-six chance that growth will
slip below 2 percent, signaling “alarmingly high” risks of a
steeper slowdown.  The so-called  break-even rate , which measures how much
traders anticipate consumer prices will rise over the life of
the debt, for 30-year securities dropped to 2.42 percentage
points after touching 2.69 percent in September, the highest
since August 2011.  “There may not be as much inflation as people feared
earlier,” Vogel said.  The U.S. will sell inflation-indexed securities on Oct. 18.
At the previous auction of the debt on June 21, the U.S. sold $7
billion of the securities at a record low yield of 0.520
percent.  Debt Auctions  The U.S. sold $66 billion in debt this week, with a $32
billion auction of three-year notes on Oct. 9 yielding 0.346
percent with a record 3.96 bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered.  A $21 billion sale of 10-year debt Oct. 10 yielded 1.7
percent with higher-than-average demand, and a $13 billion
auction of 30-year bonds on Oct. 11 yielded 2.904 percent.  Treasuries extended gains yesterday as the Fed bought some
of the 30-year bonds auctioned the day before as part of a
$1.889 billion purchase of Treasuries maturing from February
2036 to August 2042. The central bank is replacing $267 billion
of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries
in an effort to reduce borrowing costs and counter risks of a
recession.  ‘Very Powerful’  “These buybacks are very powerful,”  Ray Remy , head of
fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc.,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed, said
yesterday “There’s no supply next week and we’re through supply
this week. If nothing else happens in a vacuum, you’re going to
move to lower yields because of that.”  Thirty-year bonds have returned 3.3 percent this year,
compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the broader U.S. Treasuries
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  A report Oct. 15 is forecast to show U.S. retail sales rose
by 0.8 percent in September, after a 0.9 percent raise in the
previous month, according to 63 economists in a  Bloomberg News 
forecast.  The  producer price index  rose 1.1 percent after a 1.7
percent gain in August, the Labor Department reported yesterday
in  Washington . A Bloomberg survey of 76 economists called for a
0.8 percent increase. Core producer inflation, which excludes
volatile food and energy prices, held steady for the first time
since October 2011.  Spain Bailout  Treasuries extended gains yesterday after Reuters reported
that the European Stability Mechanism lacks the cash to bail out
 Spain  if the country asks for help before the end of the year.
However, guidelines obtained by Bloomberg News last month showed
the fund has the authority to raise cash through the sale of
fixed-income securities.  While the  European Central Bank  announced an unlimited
bond-purchase program on Sept. 6 to stem financial turmoil,
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has held off on deciding
whether to request aid, a condition the bank insists on.
European Union leaders will meet in a two-day summit in Brussels
next week.  “The market doesn’t want the Europeans to wait too long to
find an ultimate solution, but they keep on procrastinating,”
said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at primary dealer
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  