-- Romney’s Crowds Grow as Obama Prepares for N.Y. Debate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-10-13T23:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/romney-s-crowds-grow-as-obama-prepares-for-n-y-debate.html
Mitt Romney  welcomed fresh
enthusiasm for his campaign at events in  Ohio  today, as
President  Barack Obama  hunkered down at a resort in Virginia to
prepare for their debate next week.  Crowds for the Republican presidential candidate have grown
since his performance in the Oct. 3 debate. Nowhere is that
surge of energy clearer than in Ohio, a state where several
public opinion polls show Romney gaining ground.  “His campaign is about smaller and smaller things and our
campaign is about bigger and bigger crowds fighting for a bright
future,” the former Massachusetts governor told several
thousand supporters gathered at Shawnee State University in
Portsmouth, Ohio.  Obama arrived today in Williamsburg, Virginia, where he
will be spending the weekend practicing for the town-hall style
debate on Oct. 16 in Hempstead, New York. The president doesn’t
plan to hold any public campaign events until then, an
indication of how seriously his campaign is taking the face-off.
Obama’s debate performance -- panned by Democrats and
Republicans alike, paired with slipping poll numbers, has
sparked criticism from inside his party about the management of
his campaign.  Over the next few days, the president and his top advisers
plan to spend much of their time at a golf resort along the
James River in rehearsal sessions, with Democratic Massachusetts
Senator  John Kerry  playing the role of Romney.  Romney’s Debate Practice  Romney also spent several hours this morning practicing for
the debate with top aides, including Republican Senator  Rob Portman , who is playing Obama in the sessions. Tonight, he’ll
fly to his home in Bedford, Massachusetts, to continue his
preparations.  He concluded a week of campaign rallies today, several of
which drew crowds of more than 10,000, numbers which are some of
the largest of his fall campaign.  “I’ve had the fun of going back and forth across Ohio, and
this week I was also in Florida and  Iowa . I was in  North
Carolina  and Virginia. And you know what? There is a growing
crescendo of enthusiasm,” Romney told a crowd of thousands that
flowed from a town square to the surrounding streets at an
outdoor rally in Lancaster, Ohio, yesterday, where he appeared
with vice presidential running-mate  Paul Ryan .  With less than four weeks remaining until the election, the
campaign has entered a phase where the electoral map has
narrowed to as few as nine states -- Ohio, Virginia, Florida,
Wisconsin, Iowa, North Carolina, Nevada, Colorado and New
Hampshire -- with two debates remaining between Obama and
Romney.  Focus on Ohio  This week, Romney’s efforts were focused on Ohio, where his
campaign spent four of the last five days in the state. No
Republican has won the White House without winning Ohio, which
has voted for the victor in the last 12 presidential races.  Speaking in Portsmouth today, Romney said Obama will allow
unfair trade practices by China that cost jobs in manufacturing
states, including Ohio.  “It’s time for us to stand up to China for their
cheating,” he said.  Obama was trying to reach Ohio voters today, too, focusing
his weekly radio and Internet address on the  auto industry  -- a
sector that accounts for one in eight jobs in the state.  “We refused to throw in the towel and do nothing,” Obama
said. “ GM (GM)  is back.  Ford (F)  and Chrysler are growing again.
Together, our auto industry has created nearly a quarter of a
million new jobs right here in American.”  Auto Industry  Romney opposed using government funds to help the auto
industry go through bankruptcy, a decision many industry
analysts and economists have said would have been the end of the
three largest auto companies.  Ohio’s jobless rate was 7.2 percent in August, according to
the most recent state figures available from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, below the national rate of 7.8 percent in September.
The state’s improvement in economic health ranks sixth in the
U.S. from the first quarter of 2011 through the first quarter
this year, based on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States.  The Obama campaign also released several new advertisements
in the last 24 hours, including one featuring actor  Morgan Freeman . The 30-second ad, running on national  cable television ,
notes the challenges faced by the president and highlights he
successes, including killing  Osama bin Laden , ending the  Iraq
war  and rescuing the auto industry.  Hollywood Ad  “There are still challenges to meet,” Freeman says in the
ad. “The last thing we should do is turn back now.”  Obama’s campaign is also dispatching one of their top
surrogates -- former President  Bill Clinton  -- to hold a rally
in Parma, Ohio, with rock star  Bruce Springsteen  two days after
the debate. This is the first Obama event this cycle for the
musician, who campaigned with Obama four years ago. He will also
appear on Oct. 18 in Ames, Iowa.  At Romney’s final even today in Lebanon, Ohio, the campaign
counted 10,700 people. Romney spoke in front of the historic
Golden Lamb Inn.  Afterwards, he toured the hotel, which is owned by Portman,
and visited a room named after President John Quincy Adams.  “"He calls it the Golden Lamb, but I think when you look
at the prices you’ll determine it’s the Golden Fleece,” Romney
said. “Actually, it’s a modest price point -— I mean this like
$130 a night? — for history!”  Portman quickly clarified:
“This is about $140, I think, $150.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Lebanon, Ohio at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Williamsburg, VA at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  