-- Science Lab Beats Koolhaas, Olympic Stadium to Stirling Prize
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/science-lab-beats-koolhaas-olympic-stadium-to-stirling-prize.html
A  Cambridge University  science
laboratory last night won the U.K.’s top architecture award, the
 RIBA Stirling Prize , beating projects by  Rem Koolhaas  and the
London 2012 Olympic Stadium.  Architects Stanton Williams took home the trophy and 20,000
pounds ($32,144) in prize money for the Sainsbury Laboratory, a
plant research compound located in the University of Cambridge
botanic gardens. The laboratory was funded by the Gatsby
Charitable Foundation, set up by David Sainsbury, who last year
was elected Chancellor of Cambridge University.  The Sainsbury Laboratory sits “within a highly sensitive
site, one overlooking the woods where Darwin walked with his
tutor and mentor (John) Henslow, discussing the origin of
species,” said the judges in an e-mailed media release.  “The project seems simple, and this hides the fact that it
was a hugely difficult building to achieve,” they said. “It
needed to provide flexibility for future changes in scientific
practice, and it has achieved this brilliantly.”  Koolhaas’s Office for Metropolitan Architecture ( OMA ) was
nominated on two counts: for its New Court headquarters of the
Rothschild Bank in the  City of London  (completed with Allies and
Morrison), and for a Maggie’s Centre cancer-care facility in
Glasgow, Scotland.  The other contenders were: the London Olympic Stadium by
Populous; the Hepworth Wakefield museum by David Chipperfield
Architects; and the Lyric Theatre in  Belfast  by O’Donnell +
Tuomey.  Past Winners  Another Cambridge building, the Accordia housing project,
won in 2008. Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners took the prize for
a Maggie’s Centre for cancer patients in Hammersmith, London, in
2009.  Iraqi-born architect  Zaha Hadid  won for her MAXXI Museum in
Rome in 2010. She succeeded for the second straight year in
2011, as judges praised her school in Brixton, south London, the
Evelyn Grace Academy.  RIBA stands for Royal Institute of British Architects. The
award was named after architect Sir James Stirling and goes to a
project that is either built in the U.K. or by a practice based
in Britain. This year’s awards ceremony was held in Manchester.
The announcement was made live on the RIBA website
 http://ribastirlingprize.architecture.com .  Muse highlights include  New York   Weekend ,  Lewis Lapham  on
history and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 