-- SNB’s Jordan Says Franc Continues to Be Very Strong, Overvalued
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-13T11:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/snb-s-jordan-says-franc-continues-to-be-very-strong-overvalued.html
Swiss National Bank Chairman Thomas Jordan said that while he welcomes the franc’s recent weakening,
the Swiss currency remains “overvalued.”  The SNB’s policy “is the right one at the moment and we
will continue to defend this minimum exchange rate with the
utmost determination,” Jordan told reporters in  Tokyo  today
after attending a meeting of global officials. “The franc
continues to be a very strong currency and in that sense an
overvalued currency. It’s right for the central bank to continue
this monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”  The Swiss National Bank has amassed foreign-currency
reserves worth 429.3 billion francs ($460 billion), with policy
makers on Sept. 13 reiterating their pledge to defend the franc
ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro. Pressure on the cap eased over
the past two months after the European Central Bank announced
plans to buy bonds of distressed nations in tandem with the euro
area’s rescue fund to overcome the sovereign debt crisis.  “Decisions taken in  Europe  helped markets calm down,”
Jordan said. “Financial market sentiment has improved and
reduced pressure on the franc.”  Eroding Competitiveness  The Zurich-based central bank introduced the ceiling in
September 2011 after the Swiss currency surged to near-parity
with the euro, eroding exporters’ competitiveness and
threatening to spark deflation. The franc weakened 0.7 percent
versus the euro over the past two months.  Still, the economy may struggle to regain strength after
shrinking 0.1 percent in the second quarter. The SNB last month
lowered its 2012 growth projection to 1 percent from a June
forecast of about 1.5 percent, saying downside risks remain high
“in the near term” and that it’s ready to take further
measures if needed to counter a renewed surge in the franc.  Expansive monetary policies of central banks around the
world are currently the exclusive driver of the global economy,
Jordan said.  “In the course of the past 12 months, the global economic
outlook clouded,” he said. “The development of the global
economy must be assessed as being subject to uncertainty and
prone to set-backs.”  Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf today said
the euro area “remains the epicenter of risks and uncertainty
and much more remains to be done to restore market confidence
and reverse capital flight from the periphery.”  Jordan told reporters that “it would be helpful if there
were clarity” about the conditionality of the ECB’s new bond-
purchase program and new governance structures in Europe.  The SNB will hold its next quarterly monetary assessment in
December. It held borrowing costs at zero last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Tokyo at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  