-- U.K. Economic Forecasts Cut as E&Y Sees Osborne Missing Target
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-10-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/u-k-economic-forecasts-cut-as-e-y-sees-osborne-missing-target.html
Britain’s economy will shrink this
year as weakening global demand offsets an improvement in
 consumer spending , hampering the government’s deficit-reduction
plans, the Ernst & Young ITEM Club will say.  Gross domestic product  will fall 0.2 percent this year and
rise 1.2 percent in 2013, the London-based group will say in a
report to be published tomorrow. It previously forecast
stagnation this year followed by 1.6 percent expansion. While
consumer spending will propel growth in the second half, the
euro-area crisis remains a threat, it will say.  Britain is struggling to recover from a recession, which
has reduced tax receipts and put pressure on Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget plans. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 global growth forecast to 3.3 percent
last week, which would be the weakest since 2009.  “With exports being battered by the euro-zone crisis and a
weakening outlook in markets such as the U.S.,  India  and  China ,
the U.K. is relying heavily on the high street to come to the
rescue,”  Peter Spencer , chief economic adviser to ITEM Club,
will say. While the fundamentals “are in place,” it’s “not
the balanced, long-term sustainable growth we were hoping for.”  Consumer spending will rise 0.6 percent this year and 0.8
percent in 2013 as disposable income increases, ITEM Club will
forecast. Exports will rise 0.6 percent in 2012, though net
trade will subtract from GDP.  Credit Conditions  The report will note the signs that credit conditions are
easing after the  Bank of England  and the government introduced
their Funding for Lending program to boost lending in August.  “One of the biggest headwinds facing the U.K. has now
begun to ease -- lending has started to loosen up,” Spencer
will say. “The big question is the extent to which consumers
will choose to grasp the opportunity or continue to deleverage
and to pay down their debts.”  The ITEM Club will also forecast that Osborne is set to
miss his borrowing target this year. The deficit will decline at
a slower pace in the coming years than the Office for Budget for
Responsibility has projected, it will say. Osborne is due to
publish the Autumn Statement, in which the government updates
its fiscal and economic forecasts, on Dec. 5.  If the OBR judges this shortfall to be structural it would
“effectively compel the chancellor to introduce further
austerity in order to comply with his fiscal mandate,” ITEM
Club will say. “However, in our view this would be difficult to
justify and we would argue that any shortfall is more likely to
be a function of weak demand than any damage to the supply side
of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  