-- U.S. Won’t Retreat From Mideast Transitions, Clinton Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/u-s-won-t-retreat-from-mideast-transitions-clinton-says.html
The U.S. won’t be intimidated by
terrorists and unrest into pulling diplomats and aid workers
from troubled regions, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said
amid a political storm over security during the Sept. 11 attack
that killed the American ambassador in Libya.  “Supporting democratic transitions is not a matter of
idealism,” she said yesterday. “It is a strategic necessity.”  In a speech laying out the Obama administration’s vision of
the Middle East and North Africa almost two years after the so-
called Arab uprisings began in Tunisia, Clinton said the U.S.
will remain engaged in the region’s newly democratic countries
while acknowledging the U.S. can’t control the outcomes there.  “These transitions are not America’s to manage, and
certainly not ours to win or lose,” she  said  at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “But we have
to stand with those who are working every day to strengthen
democratic institutions, defend universal rights, and drive
inclusive economic growth.”  Clinton said it’s unrealistic to expect the U.S. can
“prevent every act of violence or terrorism or achieve perfect
security.” Diplomats and aid workers “can’t live in bunkers
and do their jobs,” and the U.S. “will not retreat” from
dangerous places, she said  As for the investigation into the Sept. 11 attack at the
Benghazi consulate, Clinton said the administration will be “as
thorough and expeditious as possible” in reviewing the security
measures that failed to thwart it, and “we are sparing no
effort to track down the terrorists who perpetrated this
attack.”  Republican Criticism  Congressional Republicans have challenged whether there was
adequate diplomatic security in Libya as well as the
administration’s initial explanations of what led to the attack.
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  yesterday said Vice
President Joe Biden was “doubling down on denial” after the
issue flared during the Oct. 11 vice presidential debate with
Republican nominee Paul Ryan.  During the debate, Biden said “we did not know” of a
request for additional security at the mission in Benghazi a
month before the incident. The State Department had rejected
such a request by security officers in Libya.  Clinton’s larger point was that the U.S. “will not pull
back our support for emerging democracies when the going gets
tough. That would be a costly strategic mistake that would
undermine both our interests and our values.”  Clinton sought to dismiss an argument during the early days
of the Arab uprisings that U.S.-allied authoritarian leaders
such as  Egypt ’s President  Hosni Mubarak  would ensure American
strategic interests in a way that elected governments might not.  ‘False Choice’  “We will not return to the false choice between freedom
and stability,” she said.  The U.S. has made clear to Egypt’s elected leaders from the
Muslim Brotherhood party -- a group that has in the past
questioned Egypt’s peace treaty with  Israel  -- that Egypt’s
standing “does depend on peaceful relations with its
neighbors,” Clinton said.  Over the last year, elected or transitional governments
have replaced entrenched dictatorships in Egypt, Libya, Tunisia
and Yemen, and all four nations have struggled against efforts
by extremists to exploit the demise of authoritarian regimes.  “A year of democratic transition was never going to drain
away reservoirs of radicalism built up through decades of
dictatorship,” Clinton said, referring to pockets of extremism
and disparate armed groups that have continued to hold sway in
Libya, among other places. “Nor was it enough time to stand up
fully effective and responsible security forces to replace the
repressive ones of the past.”  Libya’s People  At the same time, Clinton sought to dispel any notion that
the elected governments of North Africa or the people had been
co-opted by radicals seeking to destroy the democratic project.  “The terrorists who attacked our mission in Benghazi did
not represent the millions of Libyan people who want peace and
deplore violence,” she said.  She cited public demonstrations by Libyans condemning the
attack and swift government action to fire security officials
and disarm militias in the days after Ambassador Chris Stevens
and three other U.S. officials were killed.  Likewise in Tunisia, she said, the government officials
increased security at the U.S. embassy and pledged to confront
violent groups and to prevent their country from becoming a
haven for terrorists.  Mob Tyranny  “Last month’s violence revealed strains of extremism that
threaten these nations,” she said. At the same time, “we’ve
seen actions that would have been hard to imagine just a few
years ago: Democratically elected leaders and free people in
Arab countries standing up for a peaceful, pluralist future.”  “I remain convinced that the people of the Arab world do
not want to trade the tyranny of a dictator for the tyranny of a
mob,” she said.  The transitions now need to enter “a phase that must be
marked more by compromise than by confrontation, by politics
more than protests,” while delivering economic improvements and
jobs, she said.  In her 40-minute speech, Clinton described in detail Obama
administration initiatives in the region, including $1 billion
in assistance and a pending request to Congress for $770 million
more. She said the U.S. is training security officials, border
guards, prosecutors and forensic specialists, as well as
supporting enterprise and investment programs.  “We will keep leading, and we will stay engaged,”
including in hard places “where America’s interests and values
are at stake,” she said. “That’s who we are. That’s the best
way to honor those whom we have lost. And that’s how we ensure
our country’s global leadership for decades to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  