-- Yankees, Cardinals Advance in Playoffs With Game 5 Wins
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-13T13:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-13/yankees-defeat-orioles-3-1-in-game-5-to-advance-in-mlb-playoffs.html
CC Sabathia pitched a four-hitter as
the  New York Yankees  beat the Baltimore Orioles 3-1 to wrap up
their division playoff and advance to the American League
Championship Series beginning today against the  Detroit Tigers .  In the National League, the  St. Louis  Cardinals scored four
runs with two outs in the ninth inning to beat the Washington
Nationals 9-7 and win that playoff series.  The Yankees, with  Alex Rodriguez  on the bench, won their
best-of-five Major League Baseball series three games to two.
Sabathia also won the first game of the series.  “It is what I am here for, it is what I play the game
for,” Sabathia, who had nine strikeouts, said in a news
conference. “Right now it ranks at the top. So I will go out
and hopefully keep it rolling the next time out.”  The opening game of the New York-Detroit series is set for
8 p.m. Eastern time at Yankee Stadium. The Tigers beat the
 Oakland Athletics  in five games to win their division series.  The defending World Series champion Cardinals, who were
down to their last strike before rallying to eliminate
Washington, begin their NL Championship Series tomorrow night at
the  San Francisco  Giants, who beat the  Cincinnati Reds  in a
five-game division series.  Daniel Descalso and Pete Kozma had two-out, two-run singles
as the Cardinals rallied in the ninth inning. St. Louis trailed
6-0 after three innings and was behind 7-5 entering the ninth
inning.  “When we were down 6-0, we could have rolled over,”
Descalso said in a television interview. “But we have grinders
on this team, and we just ground it out.”  Betting Odds  The Yankees are the 5-2 favorite to win the  World Series ,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The Tigers and
Giants have 11-4 odds, with the Cardinals at 3-1.  The Yankees and Nationals began the postseason as 5-1 co-
favorites to win the championship. The Orioles, who ended a run
of 14 straight losing seasons in 2012, were given the worst
chance of winning the World Series at 18-1, meaning a winning
$10 bet on Baltimore would have yielded a $180 profit.  The Yankees, who did not have a baserunner in the first
four innings, scored in the fifth when  Mark Teixeira  led off
with a single, stole second and scored on  Raul Ibanez ’s single.  Ibanez was the hero of the Yankees’ Game 3 win against
Baltimore with a game-tying pinch-hit homer in the ninth inning
and game-winning homer in the 12th.  Ichiro Suzuki  added a run-scoring double in the sixth to
give New York a 2-0 lead, and  Curtis Granderson  hit a solo home
run in the seventh.  The Orioles, who had only one hit in the first seven
innings against Sabathia, finally scored in the eighth on three
singles and a walk. Designated hitter Lew Ford drove in the run
for Baltimore, which had the bases loaded with one out and
failed to score again.  Showalter’s Lament  Baltimore manager Buck Showalter sounded wistful when asked
in a news conference about his team, which went 93-69 this
season after a 69-93 record in 2011.  “They’re a special group, you don’t know how many times
you’re going to pass this way,” he said. “It’s been about as
much fun as I’ve had in the big leagues seeing how they play the
game every day.”  Rodriguez, 37, who was taken out of the starting lineup
because he is 2-for-16 with nine strikeouts this postseason, did
not play. The three-time Most Valuable Player, who is fifth on
the MLB career home run list with 647 and has the highest salary
in the majors this season at $29 million, was replaced by  Eric Chavez .  Girardi avoided a question about whether he plans to return
Rodriguez to the starting lineup against Detroit.  “I am going to worry about tonight,” he told reporters.
“And I’ll have a lineup for you tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  