-- Abe Says BOJ May Miss Price Target If Global Economy Changes
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-04-02T11:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/abe-says-boj-may-miss-2-price-goal-should-global-economy-change.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
said that the central bank shouldn’t pursue a 2 percent
inflation target “at all costs” and may fail to achieve it
should global conditions change.  “The economy is a living thing and we don’t know what will
happen around the world,” Abe said today, answering a question
from opposition lawmaker Seiji Maehara in parliament. “What is
important is to aim steadily for the target.”  Abe was speaking two days before the first monetary
decision due under Haruhiko Kuroda, the new  Bank of Japan (8301) 
governor, who has pledged to step up easing to defeat deflation
and spur growth in the world’s third-biggest economy. Kuroda
also spoke to lawmakers today, reiterating that he aims to
achieve the 2 percent price goal within two years.  “Though Kuroda has pledged to achieve 2 percent inflation,
given  Japan ’s reality, this is an extremely tough goal” and Abe
is aware of that, said Mikihiro Matsuoka, chief economist at
Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Under the target, the BOJ
will keep expanding stimulus and its actions will help to weaken
the yen, boost profits and stimulate economic growth - that’s
what Abe may want to see ultimately.”  The yen today strengthened past 93 per dollar for the first
time in a month, before paring gains to weaken 0.1 percent to
93.29 as of 7:58 p.m. in  Tokyo . Japan’s currency has weakened
about 14 percent since mid-November on expectations of more
monetary easing.  “We intend to make it easier for the market to understand
our stance on monetary easing by combining” an asset purchase
fund with monthly bond purchases, Kuroda said during a
parliamentary hearing in Tokyo today. The central bank must ease
boldly to back up inflation expectations, Kuroda said.  Yen Correction  “Thanks to the yen having corrected properly, the break-
even point for export industries has been substantially
improved, and stocks have risen,” Finance Minister Taro Aso
said in parliament today in response to a lawmaker’s question.  Kuroda last week said the central bank will consider
combining its monthly bond purchases and asset-purchase fund, as
well as buying more debt with longer maturities.  Maehara asked Abe whether the price target had to be
reached within two years even if it created distortions in long
term interest rates and currencies. Abe replied that while there
has been talk of a two-year timeframe, “we are not advocating
doing this at all costs.” Maehara afterwards said the answer
was different from what Abe had said in the past.  Kuroda tomorrow convenes the two-day meeting, with former
BOJ Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata predicting he will fail to
achieve the inflation target within two years.  Lingering Pessimism  The central bank’s quarterly Tankan survey yesterday showed
confidence among big manufacturers improving by less than
estimated, bolstering Kuroda’s case for more stimulus. Lingering
pessimism may make it harder to boost wages and spending,
impeding the BOJ’s inflation goals.  The Topix Index fell 3.3 percent yesterday after the Tankan
the most since March 2011. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was down
1.1 percent today after falling 2.1 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  