-- Tableau Software Files to Raise as Much as $150 Million
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-04-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/tableau-software-tk-ipo.html
Tableau Software Inc., the developer
of software that turns complex databases into graphics and maps,
is seeking to raise as much as $150 million in an initial public
offering.  The Seattle-based company used the amount as a placeholder
that’s subject to change, according to a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are the
lead underwriters, and the company is applying to list its
shares on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
DATA.  Tableau was  co-founded  in 2003 by Pat Hanrahan, an Academy
Award-winning Stanford University professor whose software has
created movie special effects and animations. The company’s
products are designed to integrate with a customer’s databases
or spreadsheets and help users without programming skills turn
columns of numbers into interactive graphics and maps.  More than 10,000 companies, including Bank of America
Corp.,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , have used Tableau’s
products. Competitors include International Business Machines
Corp., Microsoft Corp., Oracle Corp. and Qlik Technologies Inc.  The market for business analytics software may grow at a
compound annual rate of almost 10 percent through 2016, when it
will total  $50.7 billion globally , according to researcher IDC.  Tableau’s revenue more than doubled last year to $127.7
million, with 70 percent coming from licenses and the rest from
maintenance and services. Almost half of the company’s revenue
was spent on sales and marketing expenses and Tableau recorded a
$2.88 million provision for income taxes, contributing to a 53
percent decline in profit. Net income fell to $1.6 million, or 1
cent a share, from $3.38 million, or 4 cents, in 2011.  Making Money  Even with a drop in profit, Tableau is making money, in
contrast to other business-software makers that have gone public
in the past year.  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , ServiceNow Inc., Splunk Inc. and
Model N Inc. all reported annual losses before selling shares.  Tableau’s biggest shareholder is venture capital firm  New
Enterprise Associates , with a 38 percent stake. Hanrahan owns 18
percent, while co-founders Christopher Stolte and Christian Chabot, who is also chief executive officer, each own more than
15 percent. Meritech Capital Partners controls 6.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  