-- Adcock Board Says It Can’t Back Bidvest’s $670 Million Offer
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-04-02T17:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/adcock-board-says-it-wont-back-bidvest-6-2-billion-rand-bid.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  said it
had “legal and material” concerns with  Bidvest Group Ltd.’s (BVT) 
offer to raise its stake in the drugmaker to 60 percent and
would not recommend it to shareholders in its present form.  “No firm intention announcement has been made and no
regulated timetable has been initiated,” Johannesburg-based
Adcock said in a statement today. “No guidance has been
provided by Bidvest regarding the potential benefits and areas
of synergy that may arise.”  Bidvest offered to pay 6.2 billion rand ($673 million) to
increase its stake in Adcock to a controlling 60 percent, Adcock
said in a statement on March 22. The offer was half in cash at
65 rand a share and half in stock at a ratio of one Bidvest
share for every four Adcock shares.  The offer values Adcock at 62.69 rand a share, 4 percent
higher than the 60.24 rand price at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg and an 11 percent premium to the closing price on
March 20, the last trading day before the offer.  “We are just about to enter a new phase of the company
where  shareholder value  will be unlocked,” Adcock Chairman
Khotso Mokhele said in a phone interview. The maker of Panado
painkillers and Corenza cold medicine has “highly reputed
brands” and would be increasing its geographic reach into
countries including  Nigeria , he said.  ’Not Over’  “The opportunity for Adcock shareholders to consider the
offer” doesn’t depend on a recommendation from the board,
Johannesburg-based Bidvest said in a statement earlier today,
before the Adcock board had announced its decision.  “It’s not over yet,” said Mark Hodgson, an analyst at
Cape Town-based Avior Research Pty Ltd., in a phone interview.
“Bidvest has management that moves fast. They are experienced
dealmakers. They aren’t going to give up unless they see they
won’t have enough support from minority shareholders or are
forced to pay high prices.”  Adcock’s shares fell 2.2 percent after the announcement
that it would not recommend the offer, its biggest intraday
declines in more than two weeks, and closed down 0.6 percent,
valuing the company at 10.6 billion rand. Bidvest fell 0.4
percent.  Bidvest, a conglomerate with interests from car sales to
food services and coal export terminals, operates across  Africa ,
 Asia , and  Europe . The company earned 57 percent of its trading
profit in  South Africa  in the six months through December,
according to an earnings report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  