-- Maduro Says Chavez as a Bird Blessed His Bid to Head Venezuela
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-04-02T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/maduro-says-chavez-as-a-bird-blessed-his-bid-to-head-venezuela.html
Acting President  Nicolas Maduro  said
 Hugo Chavez  gave his blessing through a small bird on the first
day of his official campaign for the presidency as he looks to
capitalize on the popularity of the former socialist leader.  Maduro, speaking from Chavez’s home state of Barinas one
month after the ex-president’s death, said he went to a chapel
to pray when the bird appeared and circled him three times
before whistling to him.  “I felt his spirit,” Maduro said in a televised speech
broadcast from Chavez’s former home in the town of Sabaneta. “I
felt him there as though he were giving us a blessing, saying to
us: ‘Today the battle begins. Onwards to victory. You have our
blessing.’”  Maduro, whom Chavez named as his successor days before
flying to Cuba for an operation to treat an undisclosed form of
cancer, is pitted against opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski. The former bus driver and union leader who served as
foreign minister for six years has called Chavez the “redeemer
of the poor” and that he had earned a place in heaven alongside
Jesus Christ.  “It is very clear what’s going on here,” said Washington-
based  Eric Farnsworth , vice president at the Council of the
Americas. “He’s trying to claim the mantle of divinity, of
being touched by the departed Chavez. The message is anyone who
doesn’t vote for Maduro is voting against the wishes of the
departed leader.”  Maduro has 55 percent support against 35 percent for
Capriles, according to a poll by Caracas-based Hinterlaces. The
survey of 1,100 people was carried out between February and
March and has a margin of error of 3 percent, the agency said in
an e-mail yesterday.  Chavez defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points in an
election in October. Maduro is capable of continuing Chavez’s
socialist work,  Brazil ’s former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva  said in a video broadcast yesterday by Venezuelan state
television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 