-- After Debut Album, Mercury, Alt-J Fills Terminal 5: Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-04-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/after-debut-album-mercury-alt-j-fills-terminal-5-music.html
Cheers built as Alt-J’s keyboardist,
Gus Unger-Hamilton, played the opening notes to “Intro” from
the striking  debut album  “An Awesome Wave.”  A double dose of guitars and the ghostly vocal of Joe
Newman joined in as the English quartet built their pop-rock
world at  Terminal 5  on March 24.  The brief “Interlude I” followed, with a minute of
folkish lyrics. The band’s distinctive musical delivery was
emerging as the players crossed into “Tessellate.”  Unger-Hamilton’s piano meshed with the syncopated drumming
of Thom Green. Gwil Sainsbury kept up a circling bass line and
the crowd swayed as if rocking in the ocean. The song’s clutch-and-release patterns drifted effortlessly to its soothing end.  In “Something Good,” Green’s rhythmic drumming and
Newman’s hushed vocals escalated with Unger-Hamilton’s ascending
keys. The marching beat infused fans with an urge to hop around
during the bouncy chorus.  As the band thanked the 3,000-strong audience for attending
their biggest headline show to date -- all three levels of
Terminal 5 were filled -- they could look back on a remarkable
12 months or so.  The debut album came out last May in the U.K. and in
September Stateside, shortly after an August gig in the small
 Mercury Lounge . The band won the U.K.’s 2012 Barclaycard Mercury
Prize in November.  The band managed this rapid rise without getting pigeon-holed. All night, they shifted genres, from the playful
“Dissolve Me,” fueled by upbeat trumpet synths, to the dark
“Fitzpleasure,” with rattling bass and cutting guitar.  Slower Pace  “Bloodflood” slowed the pace, with a breezy guitar scale
subduing the audience. The set-closing “Breezeblocks” erupted.
Newman traded lyrics with the crowd. The music snaked and flowed
from thumping bass lines to pounding drums to simple xylophone
notes.  Newman and Unger-Hamilton returned for a stunning version
of “Hand-Made.” After a cover of College’s “A Real Hero,”
the rest of the group joined for the genre-bending “Taro.”  The group remains busy on a global tour for most of 2013.
Their next local appearance is at the Governors Ball Music
Festival on Randall’s Island, June 7-9.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in April. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  and Philip Boroff on
 theater , Daniel Akst on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 