-- Allianz Fund Unit Criticizes Banks for Share Sales
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-04-03T10:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/allianz-fund-unit-criticizes-banks-for-mishandled-share-sales.html
Allianz Global Investors, the fund
management unit of Europe’s largest insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
criticized investment banks for share sales it deemed
“mishandled” and threatened to stop participating in so-called
block sales, according to a letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “I am writing to express our growing frustration and
investment anger at the way in which many equity placings are
being handled, or more directly, mishandled,”  Neil Dwane , chief
investment officer for Europe, said in the letter, which was
sent to brokers yesterday. “We have tolerated as much as we
can.”  The complaint comes as banks have been left holding stakes
in companies after failing to find buyers, which can weigh on
share prices and cause investors losses. In March,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
disclosed it was stuck with a 697 million-euro ($894 million)
stake in Dutch cable television operator  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  after managing
a share sale for owners Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd. Ziggo
shares fell to the lowest in more than a month after Bloomberg
News reported the failure to find enough buyers.  “AllianzGI has a constructive and active engagement with
its brokers on behalf of the clients we serve,” said spokesman
 John Wallace . “As a matter of policy, though, we do not comment
on private correspondence.”  ‘Excessive Competition’  Companies in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised
$24.2 billion in additional share sales including block deals
this year, nearly 40 percent more than they sold in the same
period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are the top five ranked share-sale
managers for such transactions, the data show.  Dwane cited “excessive competition” among banks to win
mandates and league-table credit on block sales as well as
“lack of communication”; for example, brokers failing to
communicate to clients and investors that they were only able to
sell some of the shares.  “Therefore we will take serious trading suspension action
in the future if these transactions do not fulfill our
requirements,” Dwane said in the letter. “Many of my investors
have been disappointed with these transactions and are
increasingly annoyed with the behavior of the broking community
in general.”  Contested Auctions  Investment banks typically bid to manage share sales in
tightly contested auctions, where the bank that bids the
narrowest discount to do the deal usually leads the sale.
Narrowing the discount to shares’ market price increases the
funds to be raised by the company, even as it makes the sale
harder to complete.  In November,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  disclosed a stake worth 400
million euros of  Amadeus IT Holding SA (AMS)  shares after failing to
find buyers for shares in the travel reservations company.  This isn’t the first time that investors have complained
about the way banks handle share sales. Bank of America, the
second-largest U.S. lender, in 2011 urged a review of how
companies, their advisers and underwriters manage initial public
offerings in Europe amid “widespread dissatisfaction” from
clients.  That same year,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  portfolio managers Luke Chappell and James Macpherson wrote a letter to U.K. bankers
criticizing “unrealistic” initial stock-sale values,  Sky News 
reported on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  