-- Almost 20 Percent of U.S. Teen Births Aren’t First Child
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-02T19:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/almost-20-percent-of-u-s-teen-births-aren-t-first-child.html
Almost one-fifth of teenage mothers
in the U.S. give birth to a second child before age 20, limiting
the chances of finishing their educations or landing jobs, a
government report said.  While teen birth rates have been falling in the U.S. for
two decades, more than 367,000 girls ages 15 to 19 had children
in 2010, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in
a report today. About 18 percent of those were repeat births,
the Atlanta-based agency said.  The analysis found that the repeat births are most common
in a band of southern and western states --  Texas ,  Arkansas ,
 Louisiana , Mississippi,  Georgia , Oklahoma,  Nevada  and  Arizona .
Doctors and health-care professionals should discuss birth
control with teenage patients and remind those who are sexually
active to use condoms, the CDC  said .  “When young mothers postpone a second birth, they have
greater educational and job opportunities,” Leslie Kantor, vice
president of education at Planned Parenthood Federation of
America, said in a statement. “The best way to prevent teen
pregnancy across the board is by investing in effective sex
education, encouraging teens to talk to their parents, and
ensuring access to birth control.”  Birth Control  Only 20 percent of teenage mothers use the most effective
birth control available, including hormonal implants and
intrauterine devices or IUDs that don’t require daily
maintenance, the CDC said. Even so, births among teenagers are
waning. The agency said 19.5 percent of teenage births in 2007
were second children or more.  “Teens, parents, health care providers, and others need to
do much more to reduce unintended pregnancies,” Tom Frieden,
the director of the CDC, said in a news release.  The 2010 health-care law, the Affordable Care Act, may help
reduce teen births because it requires insurers to cover
contraceptives without out-of-pocket charges to patients, Kantor
said. In five of the states with the highest rates of repeat
teen births -- Texas,  Oklahoma , Louisiana, Mississippi and
Georgia -- Republican governors have resisted the law, refusing
to build new insurance marketplaces or expand Medicaid to cover
people who don’t get insurance through their jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  