-- Thursby Exit Won’t Derail Asian Growth Strategy, ANZ Says
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-03T01:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/anz-bank-s-alex-thursby-to-leave-to-head-up-middle-eastern-bank.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said the departure of Alex Thursby, who spearheaded
an Asian expansion, won’t alter its growth plans in the region.  “We have the pedal pressed to the ground,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Smith  said in a telephone interview
today. “Nothing has changed in terms of strategy.”  Thursby, chief executive officer for international and
institutional banking at ANZ, will leave at the end of the month
to head a Middle Eastern bank, the lender said in a regulatory
filing today. Australia’s third-biggest bank by market value has
the nation’s most aggressive expansion plans in  Asia , seeking as
much as 30 percent of  profits  from outside Australia and  New
Zealand  by 2017.  ANZ  shares  fell 1.1 percent to A$28.50 as of 12:01 p.m. in
Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.2 percent.  The lender’s earnings from its overseas units increased
three-fold since 2007, the year Thursby joined, it said in
December. The businesses provided 16 percent of earnings in the
last financial year, filings show.  “ANZ is pretty well connected in Asia now and can easily
attract candidates” to replace Thursby, said  Chris Hall , an
Adelaide-based senior investment officer at fund manager  Argo
Investments Ltd. (ARG)  “I don’t think it will hurt their Asian
plans.”  CEO Aspirations  Thursby was seen as having aspirations to lead ANZ when
Smith steps down, Hall said. Smith joined ANZ in 2007.  “Alex Thursby has been one of ANZ’s most senior and highly
regarded executives,” Stephen Ries, a Melbourne-based spokesman
for ANZ, said by e-mail. “His decision to leave ANZ is a
personal one.”  Gilles Plante, CEO for the Asia-Pacific region, and Steve
Bellotti, managing director for global markets and loans, will
take over Thursby’s duties on an interim basis from May 1, ANZ
Bank said. The lender will consider internal and external
candidates to replace him, it said.  Thursby spent 20 years at  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  before
joining ANZ as Group Managing Director of Asia Pacific. He took
responsibility for the bank’s European and American businesses
in October 2008 and was given the international and
institutional banking role in March last year, according to
ANZ’s website.  ANZ did not specify the name of the bank Thursby would
lead. He served as  Standard Chartered ’s CEO of the United Arab
Emirates between 1999 and 2001, according to ANZ’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  