-- Stocks Rally on Cyprus Accord as Italy Yields Decline
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-04-02T20:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/asian-stocks-decline-with-metals-as-yen-touches-one-month-high.html
Stocks (SPX)  rose, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to a record close, as concern over  Europe ’s
debt crisis eased and U.S. factory orders topped forecasts. Gold
fell and Italian and Spanish bond yields slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York . The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  jumped 1.3 percent,
the most in almost a month. The Cyprus General Market Index lost
2.6 percent after a two-week closure. Italy’s 10-year rate fell
14 basis points to 4.62 percent, while  Spain ’s yield slid 12
basis points to 4.94 percent. The euro weakened against most of
its 16 major counterparts. U.K.  natural gas  slumped 15 percent
and gold retreated the most in more than five weeks.  Cyprus was granted two extra years, to 2018, to implement
measures linked to its bailout, government spokesman Christos
Stylianides told reporters. Spain’s unemployment fell in March
and a committee named by Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
started work negotiating a new government. Orders placed with
U.S. factories rose the most in five months in February, boosted
by a pickup in demand for motor vehicles and commercial
aircraft, a Commerce Department report showed today.  “The U.S economy is growing and, relative to the rest of
the world, we’re far more stable,”  Dan Veru , chief investment
officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC, said by phone. The
 Fort Lee , New Jersey-based firm manages about $4 billion. “We
get these little dust-ups whether it’s Cyprus or negative
economic data but then the market comes back to the thinking
that the best game in town is U.S. equities and that’s what is
driving stocks.”  Highest Close  U.S. stocks fell yesterday as a report showed American
manufacturing expanded less than forecast, after the  S&P 500 
climbed last week above its highest  closing level  reached in
October 2007. The gauge rallied 10 percent in the first quarter,
extending a recovery that has added more than $10 trillion of
value to the world’s largest stock market.  BGC Partners Inc. soared 49 percent today after  Nasdaq  OMX
Group Inc. agreed to buy its bond platform. Nasdaq tumbled 13
percent for its biggest drop since 2008. Humana Inc. jumped 5.5
percent as medical insurers won an increase in a key Medicare
payment rate.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s biggest personal-
computer maker, fell 5.2 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
advised selling the shares.  U.S. companies begin releasing their first-quarter earnings
next week, with Alcoa Inc. scheduled to announce results on
April 8. Earnings among S&P 500 companies are forecast to
decline 1.9 percent for the period, for the first retreat since
2009, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In January,
analysts forecast earnings growth of 1.2 percent. Profit
expanded by 8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  European Stocks  European stocks rallied after a four-day weekend. Three
shares gained for each one that fell in the Stoxx 600. Vodafone
Group Plc rallied 2.9 percent as the Financial Times’s
Alphaville blog  reported  that AT&T Inc. and Verizon
Communications Inc. are working on a joint offer for the mobile-
phone company, citing unidentified people. Verizon and AT&T
declined to comment, according to Alphaville.  The  Cyprus General Market Index (CYSMMAPA)  slid on its first day of
trading since March 15. Hellenic Bank Pcl, the nation’s third-
largest bank, plunged 20 percent to the lowest price since at
least 1996.  Trading in Cypriot equities had been halted as the country
faced a banking crisis and ejection from the euro. Shares in
Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl and Bank of Cyprus Pcl, which make up 60
percent of the benchmark gauge’s weighting, will remain
suspended until April 15, according to statement posted on the
Cyprus Stock Exchange’s website.  Cyprus Bailout  The Cypriot government completed talks on the terms for aid
with the so-called troika of officials representing the
 International Monetary Fund , the  European Central Bank  and the
European Union. The accord, granting two extra years to
implement measures linked to the island’s bailout, will be
discussed at a euro working group meeting of finance officials
on April 4.  In the U.S., a 3 percent gain in factory orders followed a
revised 1 percent decline in January, the Commerce Department
report showed. The median forecast of 64 economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for a 2.9 percent rise.  “We’re very confident about the  U.S. economy ,” said
Pierre Mouton, who helps oversee $6 billion as a portfolio
manager at Notz, Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “The U.S. market has
performed better than the European one, but for good reason. The
market isn’t expensive when you consider the growth’.”  The yield on 10-year Treasuries climbed from the lowest
level in two months, rising three basis points to 1.86 percent.
The rate on German bunds added 2 basis points to 1.31 percent.  Oil, Gold  West Texas Intermediate oil fluctuated amid speculation a
report tomorrow will show that U.S. crude supplies rose to the
highest level in more than 22 years. WTI oil for May delivery
added 12 cents to settle at $97.19 a barrel.  Gold futures for June delivery fell 1.6 percent to
$1,575.90 an ounce on the Comex, its biggest drop since Feb. 20.
Global bullion holdings in exchange-traded products tumbled 6.9
percent last quarter, the most since at least 2004.  Gold is in a “bubble” and will head into a so-called  bear
market  as improving U.S. economic growth prompts the  Federal
Reserve  to curb stimulus efforts, Societe Generale SA analysts
including London-based Robin Bhar said in a report today.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.3 percent as
trading resumed in  Hong Kong  and most European markets. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
Hong Kong lost 0.8 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index fell
0.3 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index retreated 1.3
percent, the biggest percentage loss in  Asia , after valuations
rose to an all-time high.  South Korea’s Kospi index slipped 0.5 percent and the won
weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar.  North Korea  said it
will restart all facilities at its Yongbyon nuclear site,
including a uranium enrichment plant and a graphite-rod reactor
mothballed since 2007, the official Korean Central News Agency
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  