-- AstraZeneca May Appeal U.S. Patent Ruling on Pulmicourt
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-04-02T09:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/astrazeneca-may-appeal-u-s-patent-ruling-on-pulmicourt.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, said it may appeal a U.S. court ruling that
invalidated a patent on its Pulmicort Respules asthma treatment
and cleared the way for generic competition.  The drugmaker “strongly disagrees with” the ruling by the
federal court in  New Jersey  that also said a second patent
wasn’t being infringed by producers of a generic version of the
treatment.  Actavis Inc. (ACT) , whose generic form of the
corticosteroid has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, said separately that it will begin selling its
version immediately.  AstraZeneca “has full confidence in the strength of its
intellectual property rights,” Paul Hudson, executive vice
president of  North America , said in the London-based company’s
statement.  The ruling, which AstraZeneca said is restricted to the
U.S., doesn’t change the drugmaker’s forecasts for this year of
a mid- to high-single-digit decline in revenue excluding
currency shifts and core earnings per share to fall
significantly more than revenue, the company said. The
invalidated  patent  covered the drug’s delivery method, while the
second  patent  involved its formulation.  Teva’s Role  Generic competition will mean that royalty payments
AstraZeneca receives from  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
will decline from $260 million last year, the U.K. company said.
AstraZeneca struck an agreement with Teva in 2008 allowing the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company to sell a generic version of
the drug beginning in December 2009 in exchange for an
undisclosed lump sum and royalty payments.  AstraZeneca  rose  as much as 1.1 percent to 3,337 pence and
was trading up 0.7 percent at 10:06 a.m. in  London . The stock
has gained 14 percent this year.  Pulmicort Respules patents expire in 2018, with protection
of the children’s version extending to 2019, AstraZeneca said.  Actavis plans to begin marketing 0.25- and 0.5-milligram
units of its asthma drug immediately, the Parsippany, New
Jersey-based company said yesterday in a statement.  Another generic copy, from Apotex Inc., was approved in the
U.S., though the Toronto-based drugmaker has been blocked from
selling the product after AstraZeneca won an injunction.  AstraZeneca will lose patent protection on some of its
best-selling drugs by 2016, including cholesterol treatment
Crestor, which had sales of $6.3 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  