-- RBA Extends Rate Pause at 3% as Hurdle for Action Rises: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-02T05:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/australia-holds-key-rate-at-3-on-improved-domestic-outlook.html
Australia’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged to match a half-century low in
response to a recovery in household spending as traders pushed
out bets on the next reduction in borrowing costs.  Governor Glenn Stevens left the overnight cash-rate target
at 3 percent, saying “recent information suggests that moderate
growth in private consumption spending is occurring,” according
to a Reserve Bank of Australia statement in Sydney today.
“There are a number of indications that the substantial easing
of monetary policy during late 2011 and 2012 is having an
expansionary effect.” All 28 economists predicted the result.  The decision reflected improved consumer confidence, retail
spending and hiring after 1.75 percentage points of rate cuts in
the 14 months through December. Policy makers are trying to
rebalance growth toward industries including construction as the
RBA predicts mining investment will peak this year and the high
currency hurts manufacturing and slows inflation.  “The tone of the statement indicates the central bank is
becoming more comfortable with keeping the rates where they
are,” said  Kieran Davies , chief economist at Barclays Plc in
Sydney, who forecasts rates will remain unchanged for the rest
of the year. “The inflation reason it gives for maintaining an
easing bias is unchanged. Even though it has kept the bias, its
hurdle toward being prompted into action would be very high.”  Stevens noted the inflation outlook “would afford scope to
ease policy further, should that be necessary to support
demand,” and said an “accommodative stance” is appropriate.  Rate Bets  Traders are pricing in a 55 percent chance the RBA will
remain on hold until August, up from 45 percent yesterday, swaps
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The three-year government bond
yield climbed 1 basis point to 2.89 percent. The Australian
dollar was little changed at $1.0461 at 3:36 p.m. in Sydney,
from $1.0460 before the decision.  “The exchange rate, which has risen recently, remains
higher than might have been expected, given the observed decline
in export prices,” Stevens said in today’s statement. “The
demand for credit has also remained low thus far, as some
households and firms continue to seek lower debt levels.”  Australia ’s household debt-to-income ratio stands at 148
percent, compared with a record 153 percent in late 2006, RBA
data show. A private report today from the RP Data-Rismark home
value index showed dwelling values across Australian capital
cities climbed 2.8 percent in the first three months of this
year, the biggest quarterly increase since 2010.  Further Effects  Stevens, noting the stimulus on the economy from the prior
rate reductions, said “further such effects can be expected to
emerge over time.”  Since the RBA’s last policy meeting, government and private
data showed rate cuts are beginning to bear fruit. The economy
expanded 3.6 percent in 2012; employers added 71,500 jobs in
February, the most since 2000; and  consumer confidence  rose in
March to the highest level since December 2010.  In contrast, business confidence dropped in February, home-
loan approvals fell in January and the trade deficit widened as
exports declined. The global outlook is also more fragile.  Cypriot government officials will seek easier bailout terms
in talks with representatives of the European Union and
International Monetary Fund today, before a meeting of euro-area
finance officials later this week.  Spain and  Italy  will report their latest monthly
unemployment data. Reports on the euro area will probably show
manufacturing contracted in March while the jobless rate rose in
February, according to Bloomberg News surveys before data due
today. U.S. factory orders for February may show an expansion
after a 2 percent decline in January, a separate Bloomberg
survey showed.  ‘Drawing Close’  Australia’s economy and jobs market have been boosted by a
“once-in-a-century” resource investment boom to meet commodity
demand from developing nations including  China . Policy makers
are now trying to revive demand in other industries to avoid a
growth gap.  “Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is drawing
close,” Stevens said today. “While the near-term outlook for
investment outside the resources sector is relatively subdued, a
modest increase is likely to begin over the next year.”  The Australian dollar’s  trade-weighted index  rose to 79.4
on March 27, the highest level since 1985, and climbed 2.6
percent over the past month against Group of 10 currency peers,
the strongest gains across the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The so-called Aussie’s record nine-month stretch above
parity with the greenback is damping import costs, helping keep
inflation below the middle of the range targeted by the RBA.  “If the Reserve Bank was to cut rates in the next few
months it would likely be prompted by fresh global turmoil,
especially combined with evidence of weaker U.S. and Chinese
growth, low domestic inflation and a high Australian dollar,”
said Craig James, a senior economist at a unit of  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  