-- BAE Seeks Work on Boeing 737 as Defense Budgets Shrink
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-02T12:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bae-seeks-work-on-boeing-737-as-defense-budgets-shrink.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s biggest
defense company, is chasing a contract to supply flight-control
gear to  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737 Max jetliner as it seeks to boost civil
sales amid declining military spending in the U.K. and U.S.  BAE’s electronic-systems plant in Rochester, 30 miles east
of  London , is bidding to provide equipment that adjusts the
plane’s flaps and rudder to dictate its movements, Michael
Tierney, who is in charge of the site, said in an interview.  BAE, which quit large-scale civil aerospace manufacturing
with the sale of its stake in Airbus SAS to  European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in 2006, currently supplies controls only to
the  Boeing 777  in the civil market and will also bid to do so on
the upgraded 777X. That plane is slated to enter service around
the end of the decade, with the Max, a re-engined version of the
world’s best-selling airliner, due for first delivery in 2017.  “We’re in a transition,” Tierney said. “Historically we
have done a lot of control systems for the Typhoon fighter. Now
we are concentrating on growing other parts of the business.”  BAE is targeting work with Boeing following the failure
last year of a planned merger with EADS that would have boosted
its chances of winning contracts from Airbus, in which it once
had a 20 percent holding. The London-based company stopped
making its own  civil aircraft  in 2001 and also tried to sell its
U.S. commercial aerospace unit, Platform Controls, in 2010.  ‘Strategic Conundrum’  Without contracts on new planes, the flight-control
business risks entering permanent decline, according to
 Nick Cunningham , a London-based analyst at Agency Partners, who
says BAE’s civil policy is a “strategic conundrum.” Work on the
existing 777 model is guaranteed through 2019, Tierney said.  The production of controls for the Eurofighter Jagdflugzeug
GmbH Typhoon warplane, in which BAE is a partner, may also begin
to tail off from 2016 in the absence of further export orders.  BAE is looking to secure flight-control work with  Embraer
SA (EMBR3)  as the Brazilian company introduces upgrades of its regional
jets at the end of the decade, Tierney said. It’s also in talks
to equip the Chinese MA700 turboprop after failing to secure a
position on Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China Ltd.’s C919
narrow-body jetliner.  BAE could also adapt military technologies for commercial
applications, including head-up displays which provide Typhoon
pilots with information without having to look down at their
instruments and which are also made at the Rochester site.  Bus Push  There may also be an opening to supply the C919 with active
control sticks giving pilots more tactile feedback, Tierney
said. BAE provides the devices for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
Joint Strike Fighter and the CH-53K troop-transport helicopter,
and has developed a more compact version of civil use.  A review is also under way to assess how BAE can extend the
market for hybrid power-plants used to propel buses, the third
main business focused on Rochester.  While about 3,000 buses use the  HybriDrive technology  in
the U.S. and more than 500 in the U.K., European penetration is
relatively low at around 180 vehicles, giving “huge growth
potential,” according to Tierney.  BAE builds 300 hybrid systems annually and that output
reach 800 units in a few years, he said, adding that the
technology, which relies on power cells charged via an internal
combustion engine, could qualify for state funding in  France 
through the establishment of supplier relationships there.  In a reversal of the usual military-to-civil development of
BAE’s programs, the engines may also transition to defense use
via the company’s bid for the U.S. Army Ground Combat Vehicle
contest, in which it’s competing with  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The program is under review as part of a wider strategy
update ordered by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  