-- Bain Bets on Consumption Growth to Spur Buyouts: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-04-03T08:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bain-bets-on-consumption-growth-to-spur-buyouts-southeast-asia.html
Thailand ,  Vietnam  and the
 Philippines  will see the strongest increase in private-equity
transactions in  Southeast Asia  this year as buyouts in the
region struggle to recover, according to Bain & Co.  A growing middle class will push up demand for  consumer
goods  such as food, fashion and banking services in those
countries, which have experienced fewer deals compared with the
more saturated markets in Singapore and  Indonesia , said
Sebastien Lamy, a partner at Bain, which provides management
consulting services to the private-equity industry.  “Especially in Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines,
private equity will be surfing on the wave of the consumer
story,” Lamy, a Singapore-based private-equity specialist for
Southeast  Asia , said in an interview yesterday. “The growing
middle class is set to push up investments in companies focusing
on those areas.”  Private-equity investors are counting on consumption growth
in the three countries to deploy capital and aid a revival in
transactions in Southeast Asia. The value of buyout deals in the
region fell more than 50 percent to $4.9 billion last year from
a peak of $12.7 billion in 2007 as credit slowed following the
2008 global financial crisis, according to Bain.  Thailand last week increased its gross domestic product
growth forecast for 2013 to 5.3 percent from 5 percent, while
Vietnam approved a master plan in February to revamp the
economy. The Philippines achieved investment grade for the first
time as  Fitch Ratings  raised its assessment last week, rewarding
President  Benigno Aquino  for leading a growth resurgence after
the nation lagged behind peers for decades.  ‘Big Story’  “The rise of the middle class will continue to be the big
story for Southeast Asia’s economies over the coming years,”
said Gareth Leather, a London-based Asia economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. “More and more people have more money in their
pockets so that they don’t only spend on surviving goods, but
also in a more discretionary manner on consumer goods.”  Buyout firms bought companies in Malaysia, Singapore and
Indonesia valued at a combined $2.7 billion in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than 12
times the value of transactions with targets in Thailand,
Vietnam and the Philippines.  The main sectors for private-equity deals in Southeast
Asia, where most of the region’s 650 million people will be
middle class by 2020, will be consumer goods like food and
beverage, consumer finance, health care and industrials, Lamy
said.  Still Underpenetrated  Consumer spending  on food and beverage in the region that
also includes Cambodia and Myanmar will jump to about $350
billion in 2020 from less than $200 billion in 2000, according
to a 2011 analysis by consulting firm  Accenture Plc. (ACN)  Food and
drink spending surpasses every other category, including housing
and transport, according to Accenture.  “The economic outlook for the region is good,” Lamy said.
“Compared to other parts of the world, the Asia-Pacific region
is still underpenetrated in terms of private-equity
investments.”  Lamy said in November that Southeast Asia’s private-equity
investments will pick up this year or next, reversing a half-
decade slump as the region’s improving economic outlook attracts
funds.  “The first quarter doesn’t seem to have been extremely
active,” Lamy said yesterday. “However, the market will
rebound. The question is when and at what pace. It’s not a given
that the rebound will be this year.”  Top Performers  Obstacles include differing views on valuations from buyers
and sellers, and competition from non-private-equity firms, he
said.  The stock markets of Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines
are among the 10 best performers this year among 94 global
equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  had the
biggest gain in Asia, advancing 22 percent in U.S. dollar terms,
while benchmark gauges in the Philippines and Thailand climbed
about 16 percent.  Transaction prices have gained because companies have been
more aggressive in Southeast Asia, “snapping deals” from
private-equity firms last year, Lamy said.  Expecting higher offers was the biggest impediment to
private-equity deals in the region this year, according to about
85 percent of respondents in an Ernst & Young LLP survey
released in January. Competition from cash-rich companies was
the most significant challenge over the next 12 months across
the Asia-Pacific region, according to 79 percent of respondents
in the Ernst & Young survey.  Dry Powder  The industry-wide internal rate of return in Southeast Asia
will be between 15 percent and 25 percent over the next five
years, Nicholas Bloy, managing partner at Navis Capital Partners
Ltd., said in January. Navis Capital, which manages more than $3
billion, said at the time it will open offices in Vietnam and
Indonesia.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and
 George Roberts , opened its seventh office in the Asia-Pacific
region in October in Singapore.  Private-equity firms globally are under increasing pressure
to invest capital as the funds committed by investors are at the
highest in at least 10 years, Lamy added. The so-called dry
powder -- money committed but not yet invested -- by funds
focusing on the Asia-Pacific region rose to $131 billion last
year, almost eight times the amount in 2003.  “The private-equity companies in Southeast Asia are on the
starting blocks, waiting for the gun to fire the signal,” Lamy
said. “Still, they might have to wait a bit longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  