-- Banco do Brasil Said Among Bidders for Bankia Florida Unit
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-04-03T12:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/banco-do-brasil-said-among-top-bidders-for-bankia-s-miami-unit.html
Banco do Brasil SA  has emerged as
one of the top suitors for  Bankia (BKIA)  SA’s Florida unit, which may
fetch $800 million, according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  Bankia, the Spanish lender that needed the biggest European
bailout, is working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to find buyers
and has narrowed prospective suitors for City National Bank of
Florida to a handful, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the process is private. Final bids for the 26-branch
bank are due in three to four weeks, they said.  More than a dozen banks expressed interest in Miami-based
City National, which has almost $5 billion in assets, said the
people. Bankia had planned to solicit bids from lenders
including  BankUnited (BKU)  Inc., BB&T Corp., PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , a person with knowledge of
the matter said in December.  Bankia, based in Valencia, Spain, is selling City National
under the terms of its restructuring, which requires the company
to shrink its balance sheet and sell off non-core businesses and
stakes in companies.  Bank Rescue  Bankia, Spain’s fourth-biggest banking group, received 18
billion euros ($23 billion) in aid as part of the bailout of
about 40 billion euros for its financial system that Spain
negotiated with Europe. The company posted a record after-tax
 loss  of 21.2 billion euros last year on charges to clean up a
balance sheet wrecked by losses linked to real estate.  Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said in February he
expected more than 12 bidders for the  U.S. bank . Caja Madrid,
the biggest of the seven former savings banks that combined to
form Bankia, paid $927 million for a majority stake in City
National in 2008.  Spokesmen for Bankia, City National and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment. Banco do Brasil said it won’t comment on
“market rumors,” according to an e-mailed statement. Spokesmen
at BankUnited, BB&T, PNC and Toronto-Dominion also declined to
comment.  Banco do Brasil, based in Brasilia, is Latin America’s
biggest bank by assets. It had $15.4 billion in assets in the
U.S. on Sept. 30, according to the  Federal Reserve . Paulo Rogerio Caffarelli, the company’s vice president for
international business, reiterated in February that his firm is
examining potential acquisition targets in Florida and  New
Jersey  as it seeks to provide banking services to more
Brazilians who live in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  