-- Bank-Muni Rules, Libor Suit Tossed, SAC Probe: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-02T12:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bank-muni-rules-libor-suit-tossed-sac-probe-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will force state and local government bond
underwriters to disclose more information about donations to
election campaigns supporting new debt sales.  Banks will be required to report the timing of their
donations, any work done for campaigns and whether they won the
underwriting after supporting a ballot measure that persuaded
voters to approve debt. The rules, proposed by the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board last year, were approved by the SEC
on March 28.  The requirements for the $3.7 trillion municipal bond
market are aimed at assessing whether public officials are
steering underwriting business to banks in return for support on
ballot campaigns. That could cost taxpayers if banks recover
such donations by charging higher fees.  While underwriters are barred from giving to local
government officials who award them work, there is no such ban
on donating to campaigns supporting bond issues, such as those
proposed by school boards.  Banks are currently required to report contributions to
campaigns. Regulators have said that without information on the
timing of the contributions and whether banks were later hired,
it’s difficult to assess how large a role such donations play.  Compliance Policy  Taiwan to Let Mainland Lenders Own Bigger Stakes in Banks  Taiwan will let Chinese banks own as much as 20 percent of
some financial institutions, raising a limit on mainland
ownership from 5 percent as cross-strait economic integration
deepens.  Taiwan’s  Financial Supervisory Commission  announced the
move yesterday after its Chairman Chen Yuh-chang met his
counterpart from the China Banking Regulatory Commission,  Shang
Fulin , in Taipei in the third gathering of its kind since 2011.  Larger potential investments may turn into partnership
opportunities for Taiwanese banks such as  Fubon Financial
Holding Co. (2881)  and  Cathay Financial Holding Co. (2882) , which are seeking
greater profits outside of a saturated home market. Chinese
President Xi Jinping has pledged to promote cross-strait ties,
continuing efforts of the previous administration.  Mainland China banks will be allowed to take a 10 percent
stake in listed financial institutions, 15 percent in unlisted
firms, and as much as 20 percent of banking units of financial
holding companies, the Taiwan regulator said in a statement.  The higher cap will take effect as soon as possible, Kuei
Hsien-Nung, director general of the FSC’s banking bureau, said
yesterday, and will be completed under the services and trade
pact of the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement signed
between the two governments in 2010.  China will also let its commercial banks invest in Taiwan
stocks under the qualified domestic institutional investor, or
QDII, program. An agreement between the regulators signed
yesterday will take effect within 60 days, the FSC said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.K. Replaces ‘Failed’ FSA With Prudential Regulatory Authority  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will today hail
the “resetting” of the U.K.’s financial services regulatory
system with a new banking agency with greater powers to replace
an “old failed regime” overseen by the Financial Services
Authority.  The new Prudential Regulatory Authority is a subsidiary of
the Bank of England with responsibility for ensuring effective
regulation of firms that manage complex risks on their balance
sheets, Osborne will say. He will reaffirm the government’s
commitment to learning the lessons of the past and protect
taxpayers from bank failures in the future.  The FSA, the brainchild of then-Chancellor of the Exchequer
Gordon Brown, was created in 1997 after scandals in the 1990s
such as fraud cases at Barings Plc and Bank of Credit & Commerce
International dented confidence in London’s finance industry.
The scandals of the 2008 credit crunch undid the FSA, however,
as lawmakers criticized the regulator for failing to prevent the
rescues of Northern Rock Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  The move is part of a new regulatory system introduced this
week which also includes the Financial Policy Committee,
responsible for protecting and enhancing stability as a “macro-
prudential” authority, and the Financial Conduct Authority, to
ensure that financial services businesses advance the interests
of all consumers and market participants.  Steinberg Backed by SAC as Federal Probe Moves Closer to Cohen  SAC Capital Advisors LP is stepping up its public defense
as the arrest of Michael S. Steinberg brings the government’s
probe closer to the billionaire hedge-fund founder.  Within an hour of the accusations, SAC issued a statement
defending the 16-year veteran of the Stamford, Connecticut-based
firm. Steinberg was arrested on the morning of March 29 and
accused of insider trading at Cohen’s $15 billion hedge fund
SAC. It was the first time SAC had come out publicly in support
of an employee who had been charged in the government’s wide-
ranging investigation of insider trading.  “Mike has conducted himself professionally and ethically
during his long tenure at the firm,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman SAC, said in the statement. “We believe him to be a
man of integrity.”  Steinberg, who turns 41 this week, is the longest-serving
SAC employee to be accused of insider trading while at the firm,
and one of Cohen’s most trusted managers, having joined the firm
in 1997.  In an indictment unsealed March 29, Steinberg was charged
by a federal grand jury with five counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud. He is accused of being part of a conspiracy
that began in late 2007 and continued until 2009. The U.S. said
he received and traded on illegal tips from Jon Horvath, a
former analyst at Stamford, Connecticut- based SAC, on
technology companies Dell Inc. and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Steinberg has pleaded not guilty. Barry Berke, Steinberg’s
lawyer, said his client is “caught in the crossfire of
aggressive investigations” and that he did nothing wrong. Cohen
hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Steinberg is one of two portfolio managers who received and
traded on inside information from Horvath, according to a filing
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last month.
Bloomberg News identified the second manager as Gabriel Plotkin.  SAC didn’t issue a statement when Horvath was charged in
January 2012. The firm did defend Plotkin after Bloomberg News
identified him, saying he did nothing wrong and built his career
on legitimate research. Unlike Steinberg, Plotkin hasn’t been
charged by the government.  Steinberg worked at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management unit and
was one of 15 portfolio managers handling technology, media and
telecommunications stocks before he was put on paid leave in
September.  For more, click here.  Airlines Rejected by U.S. High Court on Price Advertising Rules  The U.S. Supreme Court turned away an airline-industry
challenge to federal requirements that carriers display the
total cost of a ticket more prominently than the pretax price on
Web pages and in advertisements.  The justices yesterday left intact Transportation
Department rules that were put in place last year to reduce
consumer confusion about ticket charges. Airlines said the rules
violate speech rights by preventing companies from emphasizing
the impact of fees and taxes.  The department is trying to block companies “from drawing
clear and conspicuous attention to truthful information about
the significant tax burden on airline tickets, at a time when
the administration is pushing to raise those taxes even
higher,”  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and
Allegiant Air LLC argued in court papers.  The court also let stand a Transportation Department
requirement that airlines either allow penalty-free cancellation
of reservations for 24 hours or let customers hold seats for a
day without payment. The airlines said the rules amount to re-
regulation of the industry.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration argued the rule is
“a quintessential consumer-protection regulation.”  The case is Spirit v. U.S. Department of Transportation,
12-656, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  SEC’s Dodd-Frank Advisory Panel to Hold Meeting April 11  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank
Investor Advisory Committee’s meeting will be open to the
public, according to the agency’s website. The SEC didn’t post a
meeting agenda.  The SEC will make a webcast of the meeting available on its
 website .  Panasonic Avionics Under U.S. Bribery Probe, WSJ Reports  A  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  unit that makes inflight entertainment
and communications systems for airlines is under a bribery
investigation by U.S. regulators, the Wall Street Journal
reported.  The legal department of Panasonic Avionics, based in Lake
Forest, California, told executives and employees to preserve
documents that may be relevant to the government investigation,
the newspaper said yesterday, citing company documents. Chieko
Gyobu, a spokeswoman for the Osaka, Japan-based  parent company ,
declined to comment when reached by phone yesterday.  Employees were asked to preserve documents related to gifts
or benefits offered to airline employees or government
officials, as well as any that reported rumors, concerns or
complaints of alleged bribery or corruption, the report said,
citing a Jan. 20 company notice. Panasonic Avionics received a
subpoena from government investigators last month, the Journal
said, citing a March 25 company notice.  Both notices reference the 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, which bars U.S. companies and those listed on U.S. stock
exchanges from paying bribes to foreign government officials,
the report said. Spokesmen for the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Justice Department, which enforce the act,
declined to comment.  The January notice said Panasonic intends to cooperate with
the investigation and that the existence of any inquiry doesn’t
mean the company broke the law, the newspaper said.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier and a customer of Panasonic Avionics’ satellite wireless
Internet technology, declined to comment on whether it was
involved in the probe, Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for the
Chicago-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  Other customers including  Latam Airlines Group SA (LFL) , Emirates
and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  didn’t immediately return calls or
e-mails seeking comments.  Courts  Libor Claims by Bondholders Tossed Over Lack of Damage Evidence  Banks including  Bank of America Corp. ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won dismissal of antitrust lawsuits by
plaintiffs claiming they were harmed by the rigging of the
London interbank offered rate.  In more than two dozen interrelated cases before U.S.
District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in New York, the banks were
alleged to have conspired to depress Libor by understating their
borrowing costs, thereby lowering their interest expenses on
products tied to the rates.  While potential damages were estimated to be in the
billions of dollars, the judge ruled the cases must be dismissed
because of the inability of litigants to show they were harmed.
Buchwald, whose March 29 ruling allowed some commodities-
manipulations claims to proceed to a trial, said that, while
private plaintiffs must show actual harm, her ruling didn’t
impede governments from pursuing antitrust claims tied to
attempts to manipulate Libor.  Buchwald dismissed the antitrust claims because the
plaintiffs didn’t allege enough facts to show that they were
harmed by the alleged misconduct. The judge dismissed some
commodities-manipulation claims because they centered on
transactions that were too long ago. Other such claims may
proceed, she said.  Libor is a key metric for setting interest rates for
trillions of dollars in financial instruments. Global
authorities have been investigating claims that more than a
dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives or make
the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, and Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the ruling.  Michael Hausfeld , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the decision.  The consolidated case is In re Libor-Based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11-md-02262, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Cohen’s Recent Personal Purchases ‘Premature,’ Berenzweig Says  Seth Berenzweig, managing partner at Berenzweig Leonard,
talked about the insider trading indictment of SAC Capital
Advisors LP fund manager Michael Steinberg and the outlook for
SAC founder Steven A. Cohen.  He spoke with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.” Bloomberg’s Sheelah Kolhatkar also spoke.  For the video, click here.  Simon Doesn’t Expect SAC’s Cohen Will Be Indicted  Attorney  Bradley Simon , a former federal prosecutor, talked
about the U.S. criminal investigation of SAC Capital Advisors LP
founder  Steven A. Cohen .  The insider trading indictment last week of SAC fund
manager Michael Steinberg, a 16-year veteran of the firm,
involved the most senior member of Cohen’s firm charged so far.
Bradley spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says SAC’s Cohen Is Next Government Target  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the arrest of SAC Capital Advisors LP
fund manager Michael S. Steinberg indicates that the government
now has SAC founder Steven A. Cohen “in its cross hairs.”
Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and Joe Brusuelas on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Buchheit Comments on Why Cyprus Might Need Another Bailout  The sovereign debt crisis in Cyprus marks the fifth
European nation to need a bailout in recent memory, but this
crisis is unique because European Union regulators are taking
the unprecedented step of taxing bank deposits to finance part
of the bailout for the nation’s banks.  Lee Buchheit, sovereign debt guru and architect of Greece’s
bailouts, told Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia that despite the
drastic measures taken, the endgame for Cyprus might be another
round of restructuring. “I’m not sure this is over,” said the
Cleary Gottlieb veteran.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Former SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro Joins Promontory Financial  Mary Schapiro , the former chairman of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, joined Promontory Financial Group as a
managing director and chairman of its governance and markets
practice.  Schapiro will be based in Washington for Promontory, a
compliance and risk-management consulting firm, the company said
today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 