-- Bank of America Finds Profit in Foreign Tax Credit Moves
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-02T15:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bank-of-america-finds-profit-in-foreign-tax-credit-moves.html
Bank of America Corp.  more than
doubled its profits in 2012 -- with some help from the  tax code .  What the bank calls “restructuring” of its non-U.S.
operations yielded $1.7 billion in foreign tax credits, or 41
percent of the $4.2 billion the company reported in 2012
earnings, according to securities documents including the form
10-K it filed Feb. 28. While the maneuvers didn’t provide an
immediate cash tax benefit for Bank of America, the foreign tax
credits count toward net income under accounting rules.  The transactions and the bank’s decision to take some risk
that the credits will expire unused indicate the sometimes
contradictory incentives that companies have under the U.S. tax
code’s treatment of income earned overseas.  Bank of America, the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets,
hasn’t explained in any detail the structure of the transactions
or its reasons for generating foreign tax credits that it can’t
use immediately. None of the other six largest U.S. banks
reported similar tax credit transactions in annual filings for
2012, though  Citigroup Inc. (C)  already had a larger stockpile of
foreign tax credits, which rose during the year.  Bank of America’s $33 billion in deferred tax assets, which
include foreign tax credits, places it second behind Citigroup
among the 2,551 U.S. publicly traded companies with market
capitalizations greater than $500 million. Bank of America’s
ratio of deferred tax assets to market capitalization is 39th
among that group, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High Taxes  For Bank of America, the most likely explanation behind the
foreign tax credits is that the bank had foreign income that had
been previously taxed and later incurred losses, leaving it with
relatively low cumulative profits and high taxes that accompany
such income, said Richard Harvey, a tax professor at Villanova
University’s law school in  Pennsylvania . That’s a typical result
after a financial crisis.  “Obviously, the order of magnitude at BofA was rather
large,” he said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to provide details of the
transactions beyond what the company has said in securities
filings.  Multinational corporations are required to pay U.S. taxes
on their worldwide income with a top rate of 35 percent.
Companies can defer U.S. taxation until they bring profits home,
and they can receive foreign tax credits for payments to other
governments.  Territorial System  U.S.-based multinationals have been lobbying Congress and
the administration to back a so-called territorial system that
would exempt most foreign income from U.S. taxation. Bank of
America supports such a system, Dubrowski said in an e-mail.  “We believe this makes sense from a competitiveness
standpoint, and we also believe reforms can greatly simplify our
current international rules,” he said.  Under a territorial system, companies would have little or
no tax incentive to hold earnings offshore and thus would be
less likely to end up in the situation that Bank of America
encountered.  Without changes, the U.S.  tax system  creates an incentive
for companies to stockpile untaxed profits outside the country.
Over the past year, 83 large U.S.-based multinational
corporations added $183 billion to their untaxed offshore
profits, which now total $1.46 trillion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on U.S. companies with the largest
accumulated foreign assets.  ‘Find a Way’  The system encourages companies to find ways to bring back
their income and tax credits when they can do so with little or
no cost or when they must repatriate earnings for other reasons.  “What you want to do is somehow find a way to bring the
foreign tax credits without bringing the income that would be
highly taxed in the U.S.,” said Douglas Shackelford, a tax
professor at the University of  North Carolina ’s Kenan-Flagler
Business School.  Among the 83 U.S.-based multinationals with overseas
stockpiles exceeding $4 billion in recent years, Bank of America
was one of 12 that had a declining balance of offshore  profits ,
according to Bloomberg data. As of the end of 2011, Bank of
America had $18.5 billion in untaxed offshore profits. The
company reported that repatriating all of the money would have
cost $2.5 billion in taxes.  By the end of 2012, after the transactions, the company had
$17.2 billion in accumulated offshore earnings, which would cost
$4.3 billion in taxes to repatriate.  Credits Stockpile  Bank of America almost tripled its stockpile of foreign tax
credits to  $6.2 billion in 2012 . The credits sit on its books as
deferred tax assets. They can be used to reduce future U.S. tax
bills only after the company generates enough taxable income to
exhaust $4.9 billion in U.S. deductions for losses.  Those numbers show that what the company effectively did
through the transactions was bring home tax credits and income
that had already been taxed while isolating lightly taxed income
outside the U.S. Repeating that pattern this year would require
finding more foreign tax credits within a pool of income that
has a lower overall  tax rate .  Bank of America’s Dubrowski wouldn’t say how much money the
company repatriated or whether the company will undertake
similar future transactions.  Routine Audit  The largest U.S. companies, such as Bank of America, are
under routine audit by the IRS, which analyzes tax-related
transactions and their legality. Those audits can take years.
The company and the IRS are still trying to resolve Bank of
America’s taxes from as far back as 2001, according to the
bank’s securities filings.  Bank of America hasn’t filed its  tax return  for 2012,
Dubrowski said.  The company provided no detail in securities filings or an
investor call on exactly how it generated the tax credits.  Bruce Thompson , the company’s chief financial officer,
referred to the transactions as “restructurings” during a
January call with investors.  As part of a companywide reorganization, Bank of America
has been divesting businesses outside its core mission and
trying to bolster its  capital cushion  to satisfy regulators.  Brian Moynihan, the company’s 53-year-old chief executive
officer, has presided over the sale of more than $60 billion in
assets since taking over in 2010. Businesses that were sold or
shuttered included the company’s Canadian and European credit-
card units, Merrill Lynch wealth management units in  Europe ,
 Asia , the  Middle East  and  Latin America , and stakes of Chinese,
Brazilian and Mexican lenders.  Shifting Rules  The moves helped the company focus on core customer groups
and boost capital to conform to shifting international rules,
Moynihan has said. His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , spent more
than $130 billion for acquisitions that gave Bank of America
leading positions in deposits, credit cards, mortgages and
 investment banking .  Outside the U.S., some of those businesses may have
recorded gains with attached foreign tax credits and others may
have had losses. When combined, they may have created a
situation in which the bank received relatively little net
income and was able to obtain the foreign tax credits.  As a simplified example, if the company had $100 of income
in a country with a 20 percent tax rate, it would have a $20
foreign tax credit and would still have to pay $15 in tax to the
U.S. if the profits were repatriated.  Repatriating Income  If that income were combined with $90 of losses, then the
company would have $10 of income to repatriate and a U.S. tax
liability of $3.50. The company would still have paid $20 in
taxes, creating $16.50 of excess foreign tax credits.  The bank can start using the foreign tax credits it has
stockpiled only after it generates enough U.S. taxable income to
exhaust its net operating loss deductions. Deductions are
subtractions from taxable income. Credits, which are typically
more valuable, offset tax payments.  The transactions started a 10-year clock, after which the
tax credits expire.  “What you want to make sure is you always get to fully
utilize all those foreign tax credits,” Shackelford said.  The loss carry-forwards start expiring after 2027 and the
foreign tax credits begin expiring after 2017, according to
securities filings. The filings show that Bank of America has
taken a $271 million valuation allowance against the foreign tax
credits, which means that executives think it is likely that the
company will generate enough income to use up almost all of the
credits before they expire.  ‘Potentially Detrimental’  Typically, Harvey said, companies don’t want to trigger
foreign tax credits any earlier than necessary because of the
10-year clock.  “It’s sad that in order to get a financial statement
benefit, Bank of America may have needed to do something that
was potentially detrimental to them,” said Harvey, who was a
senior adviser to former IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman .  In addition, Bank of America has $8.5 billion in U.K. net
operating losses and $3.3 billion in other credits.  Bank of America’s net deferred tax assets are more limited
than those of competitor Citigroup, which has exhausted its net
operating loss carry-forwards and now has $22 billion in foreign
tax credits.  In securities filings, Citigroup said it will be able to
use all of the credits and provides details of several maneuvers
available to increase taxable income before the credits begin to
expire. For example, the company could accelerate recognition of
U.S. taxable income, defer deductions and replace tax-exempt
assets with taxable ones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  