-- Creditors Seek to Seize Mallya’s Villa, Shares Amid Lawsuit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-04-02T12:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/banks-seek-to-seize-luxury-villa-shares-as-mallya-files-lawsuit.html
State Bank of India , the biggest
lender to grounded  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , said it will seize
collateral pledged by the company after the carrier’s Chairman
Vijay Mallya filed a lawsuit to stop the creditors.  Mallya on March 26 filed a case against State Bank, the
nation’s biggest lender, and 17 other creditors, according to a
 filing  on the Bombay High Court’s website. The court today
declined to stop banks from selling shares of  United Spirits (UNSP) 
Ltd. that have been pledged as collateral, Bloomberg TV  India 
reported.  The liquor baron offered shares of United Spirits and
 Mangalore Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. (MCF) , his luxury villa in the
beach resort of Goa as well as the Kingfisher brand as
collateral for loans raised to expand his  airline . Kingfisher,
the only Indian carrier to order Airbus SAS A380s, has halted
flights since October after struggling with a 86 billion-rupee
($1.6 billion) debt pile and five years of losses.  “The bank has called up the loan and has asked the company
to repay,” State Bank Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said in an
interview in Mumbai today. “We will invoke all the guarantees
and securities that we hold including shares of United Spirits
that is pledged as collateral and personal assets of the people
who have given the guarantee.”  Kingfisher, named after Mallya’s beer brand, rose 3.6
percent to 8.70 rupees in Mumbai. United Spirits dropped 1.6
percent to 1,859.7 rupees, while  State Bank of India (SBIN)  gained 2.4
percent.  Two Helicopters  A luxury villa in the western Indian state of Goa, two
helicopters, a building in Mumbai and shares have been used as
collateral for loans as of November 2011, Namo Narain Meena,
junior finance minister, said that month. The total value of the
guarantees, including furniture and fixtures worth 3.3 billion
rupees ($61 million), was 52.4 billion rupees, he said.  Selling the shares of companies controlled by Mallya can
help recover as much as 10 billion rupees, Chaudhuri said in
Mumbai on Feb 14.  The lender today sold shares of Mangalore Chemicals and
730,000 shares of United Spirits, Bloomberg TV India reported,
citing an unidentified State Bank official. Zuari Fertilisers &
Chemicals Ltd. bought 9.72 percent of Mangalore Chemicals today,
according to an exchange filing.  Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman for Kingfisher Airlines,
didn’t immediately respond to a call and a text message to his
mobile phone.  Mallya is also selling a stake in United Spirits to  Diageo
Plc (DGE)  as he seeks funds to pare Kingfisher Air’s debt. Diageo in
November agreed to pay 111.7 billion rupees to acquire a 53.4
percent holding in India’s biggest whiskey maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  