-- Bankrupt Stockton May Seek Higher Taxes to Combat Crime
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-04-02T02:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bankrupt-stockton-may-seek-higher-taxes-to-combat-crime.html
The City Council of Stockton,
California, the biggest U.S. city to file for bankruptcy, may
boost its  sales tax  to add police as it faces a violent crime
rate that jumped 25 percent last year.  A plan to be considered today would raise the  tax rate  to
8.75 percent from 8.25 percent, generating about $18 million a
year that would be restricted from its creditors, according to
 the proposal . As many as 100 additional police would be hired,
about 30 percent more than the 344 now authorized.  “Creditors don’t have a right to tell the municipality how
to govern,” said Jim Spiotto, a partner who leads the
bankruptcy group at Chapman & Cutler LLP in Chicago, when asked
whether the city could keep the funds separate from payments to
its creditors.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Klein in  Sacramento ,
California, ruled yesterday that Stockton can remain under court
protection. He rejected objections by creditors including
 Assured Guaranty  Corp. and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  who asserted
that the city didn’t qualify for bankruptcy because it isn’t
truly insolvent and didn’t negotiate a potential settlement in
good faith.  Stockton’s violent crime rate jumped 25 percent from 2011
to 2012. In an attempt to stay solvent, the city of 296,000, an
agricultural center about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco , cut 25 percent of its police force, resulting in a
record number of homicides and a surge in property crimes.  ‘Off Limits’  The revenue from the tax increase would be held in a
restricted account “that is off limits to the city’s
creditors,” according to the plan offered by Mayor Anthony
Silva. It would require approval from two-thirds of voters in a
special election to be held between August and November to
qualify as a dedicated special tax.  Silva’s proposal was written with the help of former  New
York  City Police Commissioner Bill Bratton, the former chief of
police in  Los Angeles , who in January was hired as a law-
enforcement adviser by Oakland, California, to boost crime-
fighting efforts.  Stockton “needs enough police officers to respond to
emergency law-enforcement calls and to allow for proactive
patrols that will deter criminal activity and restore public
confidence in the safety of our community,” according to the
plan, called the “Stockton Safe Streets Sales Tax Initiative.”  Bob Deis, Stockton’s city manager, recommended the city
council “vigorously oppose” the mayor’s plan, according to a
city document.  The plan “appears to be ‘bad faith’ with our creditors and
bankruptcy judge” and “greatly harms our negotiating position
with creditors by simply forcing this conversation in public
right now,” Deis said.  Donald Cutler of Kekst & Co., a San Francisco-based
spokesman for  Assured Guaranty (AGO) , said the company had no comment
on the mayor’s proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  