-- Banro Leading Miners in Worst Drop Since 1990
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/banro-leading-miners-in-worst-drop-since-1990.html
Canada ’s raw-materials stocks are
forecast to extend their longest losing streak in more than 20
years, as companies such as  Banro Corp. (BAA)  and  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) 
struggle with falling metals prices and concern  China ’s growth
will slow.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Materials Index of 60 stocks
posted its fifth  monthly  drop in March, the longest string of
declines since April 1990. The index has plunged 18 percent over
that period, led by a 62 percent slump in gold miner Banro.
Teck, the country’s largest diversified miner, has tumbled 22
percent this year.  Producers of raw materials from copper to coal and gold
have slid amid concerns China is settling into a slower growth
path, mining companies face escalating costs and gold’s status
as a safe haven is diminishing as the  U.S. economy  gains
momentum.  “China’s economy is growing, just not fast enough, and
it’s hard to see a lot of upside for mining and materials
companies,”  John Stephenson , a fund manager with First Asset
Management, said April 1 by phone from Toronto. Stephenson helps
manage C$2.8 billion ($2.8 billion), including Teck shares.  Growth in China, Canada’s second-biggest trading partner,
grew at an  average  quarterly pace of 8.5 percent from 2011 to
2012, down from 9.4 percent in the previous eight quarters.
Growth fell to a three-year low of 7.4 percent in September,
before rebounding to 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Commodity prices, as measured by the S&P GSCI  index , have
declined 6.8 percent in the past 12 months. The gauge, which
tracks prices for a basket of materials, has tumbled 27 percent
since reaching an all-time high in 2008.  Worst Performers  The slide in the materials index has dragged on the broad
S&P/TSX Composite index. Its 1.5 percent advance in the 12
months through yesterday is the smallest gain among major equity
benchmarks for the world’s 10 biggest markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Raw-material producers make up 16 percent of the MSCI
Canada Index, the highest weighting among the world’s five
biggest equity markets.  “People’s views have dimmed on the attractiveness of
commodities, of Canada as a proxy for playing China and the
commodity cycle,” said Michael O’Brien, a fund manager with TD
Asset Management in Toronto. He manages about C$3 billion.
“ China’s economy  will slow a bit. People are making their peace
with that and its impact on commodity demand.”  Gold  producers  have weighed most on the  S&P/TSX materials
index (STMATR)  during its five-month losing streak, as nine of the 10
worst performers in that period mine for the precious metal. The
S&P/TSX Gold Index of 30 stocks lost 27 percent in the five
months from November to March.  Gold Drops  The price of gold retreated 4.8 percent in the first
quarter as U.S. data on housing, employment and output have
improved, bolstering confidence that the world’s largest economy
will extend its recovery. The  bull market  for U.S. equities
entered its fifth year last month, reducing the appeal of gold
as protection against stock declines.  “The world isn’t as bad as it was five years ago, so why
do I need gold, which has no purpose but as a hedge?”
Stephenson said.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer of the
metal, fell 14 percent in the first quarter. The Toronto-based
firm has suffered more than $9 billion in writedowns and cost
overruns in the past two years on projects from the Andes to
Zambia.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment yesterday from Bloomberg outside of
normal business hours.  Costs Escalate  Banro, the worst performer in both the gold and materials
indexes in the past two quarters, has dealt with a series of
setbacks that culminated in the unexpected exit of Chief
Executive Officer Simon Village on March 7. The Toronto-based
company operates in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo which is
facing an armed rebellion. Cost overruns of as much as 15
percent and production delays have hampered mining at the
company.  The stock has two buys, three holds and one sell and a 12
month consensus target price of C$3.90, according to analyst
ratings  compiled  by Bloomberg. It closed unchanged at C$1.74
yesterday.  Naomi Nemeth, a spokeswoman for Banro, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment on the company’s stock price.  “The gold miners are fighting geology,” Stephenson said.
“The grades have fallen precipitously and we’re going farther
afield to places like Africa. It’s getting harder to find stuff
worth mining.”  The materials index’s losing streak has damped performance
in the broader S&P/TSX  index, (MXCA)  making U.S. equities more
attractive as Canadian investors turn their attention to an
accelerating economic recovery south of the border.  “The place to be is not in Canada,” said John O’Connell,
chief executive officer and fund manager with Davis Rea Ltd. in
Toronto, which manages C$600 million. “The Canadian market will
continue to underperform the U.S. market.”  Widest Gap  The Canadian gauge outperformed the  S&P 500  for a seven-
year period from 2003 to 2010, fueled by a commodity boom.  “Over the last couple of years the theme has flipped on
its head,” TD’s O’Brien said, pointing to Canada’s
underperformance in 2012 and 2011. “The U.S. economy has turned
the corner, and that’s where the money is flowing.”  Concerns about slower industrial growth in China have
weighed on Canada’s base metals producers, including Teck
Resources. Copper futures slumped to the lowest in almost eight
months yesterday after China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index grew
slower than analyst estimates in March.  Marcia Smith, a spokeswoman for Teck, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Metals Producers  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , based in Vancouver, has
fallen 16 percent in 2013 amid a dispute with the Mongolian
government over a copper-and-gold project. Tony Shaffer, a
company spokesman, declined to comment in an e-mail yesterday.
Turquoise Hill is a unit of  Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)   China’s slower growth won’t hurt all raw-materials
producers. The economy is still expanding, and John Tsagarelis,
a  fund manager  with Manulife Asset Management in Toronto, says
the country’s increasing food needs bode well for fertilizer
producers. He bought shares of Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  and
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., based in Saskatoon, last
year.  “We’re banking on the agricultural business,” said
Tsagarelis, who oversees C$550 million. “Wheat and corn have to
be grown, and the best way to accelerate that is to add
potash.”  Agrium has lost 1.3 percent to C$97.81 this year, and
Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer producer, is down
0.5 percent to C$40.29.  Tsagarelis is keeping an eye on Canada’s gold producers,
saying there is some potential for the metal to rally in the
coming months if the euro-area crisis flares up again. “If the
banking  crisis in Cyprus  hits the mainland, I suspect in the
next month or so there may be more demand for gold,” he said.  Tsagarelis said he is not buying any gold equities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  