-- BBA to Delay Publishing Libor Submissions of Individual Banks
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-04-02T15:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bba-to-delay-publishing-libor-submissions-of-individual-banks.html
The British Bankers’ Association,
the lobby group that oversees Libor, said it will delay
publishing banks’ individual submissions by three months in an
effort to restore confidence in the benchmark rate.  Individual entries of the lenders that contribute to the
London interbank offered rate each day in different currencies
and maturities will no longer be made available on the same day
from July 1, the London-based BBA said in a statement today.
Libor will also no longer be published on U.K. bank holidays.  The measures were ordered by Martin Wheatley, the U.K.
regulator charged with overhauling the global benchmark rate,
after banks around the globe admitted to low-balling their
submissions during the financial crisis to appear healthier than
they were.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds ($439
million) in June for rigging Libor, prompting senior executives
including Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to resign.  “We believe these changes taken together reflect our
commitment to meeting the absolute priority for everyone
involved in this process, from users to regulators,” BBA CEO
Anthony Browne said in the statement. They’re a “provision of a
reliable benchmark which has the confidence and support of all
users.”  Libor, a benchmark for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is calculated by a poll carried out daily on
behalf of the BBA that asks firms to estimate how much it would
cost to borrow from each other for different periods and in
different currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are
excluded, and those left are averaged and published for
individual currencies before noon in  London .  The U.K. government is preparing to select a new operatior
for Libor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  