-- BGC Partners Jumps as Lutnick Sells ESpeed Unit
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-04-02T20:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bgc-partners-jumps-as-lutnick-sells-espeed-unit.html
BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  jumped the most
since its initial public offering after the interdealer broker
part-owned by  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP said it would sell its eSpeed
bond unit.  BGC climbed 49 percent to $5.72 at 4 p.m. in New York, the
biggest gain since it went public in December 1999. The company
said yesterday in a statement it will sell the electronic U.S.
Treasury trading platform to  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  for $750
million in cash, or $1.2 billion if sales goals are met. Nasdaq
OMX Group fell 13 percent to $27.91, its largest drop in more
than four years.  Howard Lutnick , 51, chief executive officer of  New York- 
based BGC and Cantor Fitzgerald, has been diversifying into
commercial real estate as bond trading slows. The brokerage may
end up receiving as much as yesterday’s market value of the
entire company for the unit, which generated about 6 percent of
BGC’s revenue last year, Lutnick said in the statement.  “For BGC, this is a huge deal because their all-in price
was higher than the market capitalization was,” Jillian Miller,
an Atlanta-based exchange analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
in a telephone interview. “BGC saw this as an opportunity to
sell off this piece that isn’t affected by the regulatory
environment and realize some value for it.”  Nasdaq OMX Group as a whole must generate $25 million of
revenue a year for BGC to receive the additional payments,
Lutnick said last night in a conference call to discuss the
sale. The firm’s revenue last year was $3.12 billion, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  BGC’s stock  declined  59 percent over the past two years
through yesterday. It will keep its voice and hybrid brokerage
and electronic business for off-the-run Treasuries and other
fixed-income products, the company said. On the conference call,
Lutnick declined to specify how he’ll use the cash, saying
“nothing is off the table.”  “Today is the day that you take a look at how much we’ve
invested and say, ‘Wow, these guys actually have tremendous
assets,’” Lutnick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  