-- MBIA Wins Ruling on Loan Buybacks in Bank of America Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/mbia-wins-ruling-on-loan-buybacks-in-bank-of-america-lawsuit-1-.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI) , the bond insurer suing
 Bank of America Corp . to recover losses tied to mortgage loans,
won an appeals court ruling that the lender could be required to
repurchase securitized loans even if they aren’t in default.  MBIA is entitled to have Bank of America buy back a
performing loan that it can prove “materially and adversely”
affected its interest, the New York state appeals panel said in
a decision yesterday, reversing part of a ruling by a lower
court. The panel also reversed a decision that MBIA could seek
so-called rescissory damages.  “Plaintiff is entitled to a finding that the loan need not
be in default to trigger defendants’ obligation to repurchase
it,” the court said. “There is simply nothing in the
contractual language which limits defendants’ repurchase
obligations in such a manner.”  The decision stems from MBIA’s lawsuit against Bank of
America and its Countrywide Financial unit. MBIA, which sued
Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments to investors that
bought securities backed by pools of the lender’s loans. The
insurer says the loans were riskier than represented by
Countrywide, and as the loans went into default, the Armonk, New
York-based company was forced to pay investors.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten denied
a pre-trial ruling in MBIA’s favor last year on the repurchase
issue saying there were varying interpretations of contract
language at issue in the case.  ‘Conclusively Resolve’  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for MBIA, said rulings in the
appeals court’s decision “conclusively resolve any lingering
questions over the strength of MBIA’s legal positions on the
most significant issues in this case.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said the lender was reviewing
the decision and had no further comment.  The appeals panel also upheld the lower court’s decision in
MBIA’s favor that the insurer doesn’t need to establish a
“direct causal link” between alleged misrepresentations by
Countrywide about the loans and claim payments made by MBIA.
Bank of America had argued that MBIA must prove its payments
were directly caused by any misrepresentations.  The ruling is “bad news” for Bank of America, Mark Palmer, an analyst for BTIG LLC, said in a blog post. Palmer has
a “buy” rating on MBIA shares, no rating on Bank of America
and said he doesn’t own stock in either company.  Loss Reserve  “The bank in its SEC filings has acknowledged that its
current reserve against mortgage putback-related losses may be
insufficient if the courts uphold the loss causation argument,”
Palmer said. “And now we have an appellate court ruling that is
binding on lower  New York  state courts.”  Bank of America said in an annual  report  filed Feb. 28 with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that its estimates
of potential future losses on putbacks on mortgages not sold to
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were based on a
belief that “repurchase claimants must prove that the alleged
representations and warranties breach was the cause of the
loss.”  When making that assumption and others, lender said that it
estimated its reserves could only need to grow by as much as $4
billion over time. That figure could be too low, though,
depending on how courts rule, Bank of America said.  ‘Significantly Impact’  “For example, if courts, in the context of claims brought
by private-label securitization trustees, were to disagree with
our interpretation that the underlying agreements require a
claimant to prove that the representations and warranties breach
was the cause of the loss, it could significantly impact the
estimated range of possible loss,” Bank of America said.  The appeals panel reversed Bransten’s ruling that MBIA
could seek rescissory damages, or the amount it has been
required to pay less premiums it has received.  Brown, the MBIA spokesman, said the ruling on damages
“does not limit our ability to achieve or change our
expectation of a full recovery of all our losses.”  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  