-- Bird Flu Mystery Recalls Chinese SARS Coverup
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-02T17:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bird-flu-mystery-recalls-chinese-sars-coverup.html
For residents of Nanjing,  China ,
perhaps the only thing worse than learning that the new,
apparently virulent strain of H7N9 bird flu had infected someone
in their city was learning it via a  document  leaked to Sina
Weibo, China’s most popular Twitter-like microblog, by a
hospital administrator.  Unfortunately, that’s precisely the  chain of events  that
took place this morning, just two days after Chinese health
authorities  announced  that they’d confirmed three cases of a new
strain of bird flu -- two of which were found in Shanghai and
resulted in fatalities. This evening, health authorities in
Jiangsu  confirmed  the Nanjing case and three more, for a total
of seven cases.  For those (like me) who lived in China during the 2002-2003
SARS epidemic, today’s events feel eerily familiar. Back then,
Chinese officials  covered up SARS  for months, suppressing data,
the location of outbreaks and access to patients by the World
Health Organization, all in the hope of preventing public panic
and, many presumed, preserving promising public-health careers.
The result was a widespread epidemic (both domestically and
internationally), international embarrassment and substantial
economic damages.  In the wake of this catastrophe, China  increased spending
on  health care, committed to increased transparency and
established emergency plans in the case of a new epidemic. In
2009, some of those plans were tested during the  worldwide
swine-flu pandemic . But that didn’t originate in China, nor did
it prove to be the fatal threat that many feared -- and for
which those plans were devised.  Is the new variety of  bird flu  that threat? So far, there
are simply too few known cases to judge the virulence of the
virus. Neither the  World Health Organization  nor the Chinese
authorities  yet know  how the virus is spreading. Based on
Chinese authorities’ observations of those who have associated
with infected patients, it appears unlikely that human-to-human
transmission is the likely vector. That’s a reassuring claim.  Nonetheless, for a Chinese public and international
community that’s grown accustomed to less-than-total
transparency from Chinese public-health authorities, it lacks
credibility. That credibility gap has only been widened over the
last 48 hours as Chinese learned that public-health authorities
 waited nearly three weeks  before informing them of the Shanghai-area infections. (Actual confirmation of the precise virus
didn’t happen until March 29, but authorities were aware they
had something serious and new in their midst weeks before).  Fortunately, the odds are that the 2013 bird-flu outbreak
will turn out to be not much of a crisis at all. But that’s
little consolation to Chinese wondering about their odds in a
pandemic. This evening, H7N9 is a  top trending topic  on Sina
Weibo, with  many voices  openly doubting the public information
about the virus and the speed at which it was disseminated. If
the Chinese government hopes to cool the nerves of its netizens,
it’d be well-advised to remember the lessons of SARS before it’s
too late to act on them.  (Adam Minter is the  Shanghai  correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 