-- BlackRock Japan’s Endo Says No Point Betting Against BOJ Pledge
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-04-02T00:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/blackrock-japan-s-endo-says-no-point-betting-against-boj-pledge.html
Shigeru Endo, a Tokyo-based  fund
manager  at BlackRock  Japan  Co., a unit of the world’s largest
money manager, comments on Japanese  government bonds  and the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s monetary policy.  The 10-year rate touched 0.51 percent on March 28, the
lowest since June 2003, when an all-time low of 0.43 percent was
reached. The 20-year and 30-year yields also dropped to the
least in almost a decade last week.  Endo spoke in an interview in Tokyo on March 26, declining
to comment on a specific investment strategy.  On BOJ policy:  “There’s no point in betting against a central bank that
is pledging aggressive policy no matter what.”  “There’s hardly any yield on the short end, so Governor
Kuroda’s stance is that the BOJ must buy assets with a little
more  risk premium  for the easing to have any significance. The
BOJ will probably increase buying of longer-dated bonds.”  “The BOJ’s purchases of debt of more than one year will
probably increase about 20-25 percent. The central bank’s
stimulus would not seem aggressive unless it also increases bond
buying of more than 10 years’ maturity.”  On Japan’s bonds:  “While the 10-year yield has had a sharp surge from a
record low in 2003, it may be different this time around. The
BOJ will continue to buy and a sudden surge in inflation is
unlikely.”  “The 10-year yield has not risen above 1 percent and the
range has been grinding lower since last spring when the BOJ
under Governor Shirakawa expanded the maturity of bonds it
purchases under its asset purchase fund to three years. If we
assume that QE expansion had an impact on the market, it’s
possible yields will stabilize at very low levels going
forward.”  “The actual effectiveness of Kuroda’s policy doesn’t
really matter as it’s solely aimed at driving up people’s
expectations.”  On bank-note rule, fiscal health:  “The new BOJ regime is likely to abolish the bank-note
rule. If the BOJ does so and buys large amounts of long-term
securities, some of those would also be funded by the central
bank’s excessive reserve deposits, not only by cash currency in
circulation on its balance sheet.”  “When we enter a policy tightening phase, the BOJ may have
to sell JGBs because of tighter funding conditions, even if they
raise the  interest rate  on excessive reserves.”  “Given Japan’s high debt-to-GDP ratio, the market would be
in a big mess if the central bank has to sell JGBs. There’s a
risk that the BOJ would not be able to exit from QE even if they
want to.”  “The deficit in Japan’s primary balance will only decrease
by a half in 2015-2016, even with the planned sales tax increase
to 5 percent unless social security costs are cut. The
government is walking on a tight fiscal rope.”  “The best scenario would be for tax income to increase and
the nation’s fiscal position to improve.”  On inflation target:  “We can’t deny the fact that achieving a 2 percent
inflation target in two years accompanied by wage growth will be
very difficult.”  “I hope that the market will not judge the inflation rate
falling short of 2 percent in two years as a failure. If the BOJ
becomes too fixated on CPI alone, there is a risk that they have
to continue easy monetary policy when there are market
imbalances. There’s a risk that the flexible discretion of the
traditional central bank will be lost.”  “The risk is that even if there is inflation, price
increases will be limited to import costs and hurt growth.”  “Inflation-linked bonds are being squeezed as continued
buying by the BOJ and the Ministry of Finance reduces liquidity
and ‘Abenomics’ drive up inflation expectations.”  “The breakeven rate doesn’t necessarily represent the
consensus view on inflation in the market.”  On yen:  “Should the Fed exit from QE earlier, that will lead to
widening of U.S. and JGB yield spreads and that will drive
further yen weakness. That’s one of the risks in the coming
12-18 months that could change the JGBs’ trading range.”  “An excessive artificial weakening of the yen could
trigger capital outflows if households panic that the yen will
become dirt cheap.”  “The JGB market has been stable because 91 percent is
owned by domestic investors. I don’t think that is going to
change dramatically, but it’s essential to keep confidence in
JGBs and the yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  