-- BlackRock Says Trend Is Friend as Yield Gap Slides: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-04-02T06:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/blackrock-says-trend-is-friend-as-yield-gap-slides-japan-credit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s  largest 
asset manager, says don’t fight the Bank of Japan’s efforts to
drag long-term interest rates beyond a four-year low relative to
shorter yields.  The  premium  investors demand to hold 20-year Japanese
government bonds over 2-year notes shrank to 1.34 percentage
point on March 29, the least since December 2008. JGBs with more
than 10 years of maturity handed investors 6.4 percent in the
first quarter, the best performance since the last three months
of 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. That compares
with a 2.35 percent loss on U.S. Treasuries.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last week he’ll consider
all possible measures to influence the so-called yield curve,
including extending bond maturities in its asset-purchase fund
and scrapping a limit on JGB holdings. The 10-year and 20-year
rates dropped to the lowest in almost a decade before the
central bank’s two-day policy meeting starting tomorrow.  “There’s no point in betting against a central bank that
is pledging aggressive policy no matter what,” Shigeru Endo, a
fund manager at BlackRock  Japan  Co., said in an interview in
Tokyo on March 26. “The BOJ will continue to buy and a sudden
surge in inflation is unlikely.”  The benchmark  10-year bonds  yielded 0.56 percent today,
according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest
interdealer debt broker. The rates touched 0.51 percent on March
28, the least since June 2003, when the all-time low of 0.43
percent was set. About a month later, the rate shot up to 1.4
percent and ended the year at 1.36 percent.  Yield Surge  “While the 10-year yield had a sharp surge from the record
low in 2003, it may be different this time around,” said Endo,
whose parent company manages about $3.7 trillion. He declined to
comment on specific investment strategies.  Kuroda told lawmakers last week that he doesn’t see signs
of a bubble in the JGB market. He has said he’ll consider
abolishing the BOJ’s self-imposed bank-note rule that its
government bond holdings don’t exceed the value of all yen in
circulation. Kuroda said in parliament today that he wants the
policy board to discuss the rule.  “The governor himself admits that the theme in the market
is flattening of the yield curve,” said Satoshi Yamada, a
Tokyo-based manager of debt trading at Okasan Asset Management
Co., which manages the equivalent of $12 billion. “While it’s
uncertain how far the BOJ will go, investors are more inclined
to go longer as they don’t expect an exit from deflation any
time soon.”  Toyota Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Toyota Finance Corp.
hired banks for a bond sale this month, according to a statement
yesterday from Mizuho Financial Group Inc., which is managing
the offering with Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,
Nomura Holdings Inc., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Tokai  Tokyo 
Financial Holdings Inc.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. plans to price 30 billion yen
($323 million) of three-year notes for individual investors on
April 5, according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry of
Finance.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Japanese
corporate bonds rather than sovereign debt was at 38 basis
points yesterday, after sliding to 37 on March 31, the lowest
since August 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. The so-called spread for company notes worldwide was
149 basis points, the data show.  The yen rose 0.4 percent to 92.85 per dollar at 3:21 p.m.
in Tokyo, after dropping 7.9 percent in the first three months
of the year. The currency reached 96.71 on March 12, the weakest
since August 2009.  Lowest Rates  Japan has the world’s lowest interest rates even with the
biggest public debt burden globally. Liabilities may grow to 245
percent of economic output this year, according to the
International Monetary Fund. Former BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa warned of a surge in interest rates and inflation if
there’s a perception the central bank is financing government
deficits, a phenomenon known as monetization.  The JGB market is showing few signs of concern the widening
debt pile will lead to a collapse in bond prices.  While the cost to insure Japan’s sovereign notes has
climbed to 75 basis points as of yesterday, that’s still less
than half of last year’s high of 154, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. An
increase in credit-default swaps signals worsening perceptions
of creditworthiness, while a decrease suggests the opposite.  The 20-year yield slid to 1.36 percent on March 29, a level
unseen since July 2003. Its  spread  over the 10-year rate last
week was at 84 basis points, or 0.84 percentage point, the least
since August.  Goldman’s Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects higher global interest
rates to “gradually” drive Japan’s 10-year rate higher to 0.75
percent by the end of the year, flattening the spread with the
20-year rate to 65 basis points.  “The ultra-long end of the curve, which is currently very
steep, should flatten in reaction to the additional monetary
policy easing that we and the market expect from the BOJ,”
Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of macro and markets research at
Goldman Sachs, wrote in a report on March 27. “For moderate
increases in yields, the fiscal risk would actually decline, as
achieving an inflation rate in line with the BOJ’s new target
would improve the debt outlook.”  A government auction of 2.2 trillion yen of 10-year bonds
today drew bids valued at 3.22 times the amount on offer, higher
than last month’s so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.37 times and
the average of 3.15 times at the 10 previous sales, according to
Ministry of Finance data.  BOJ Policy  The BOJ now buys government bonds with maturities of one to
three years through its 76 trillion-yen asset-purchase program
set up in October 2010. The buying has dragged market rates on
those notes below 0.1 percent, or the upper end of the BOJ’s
 policy rate . The 10-year yield has stayed below 1 percent since
April, when the BOJ  lengthened  the maximum maturity of JGBs it
purchases to three years from two years.  A separate outright purchase operations known as rinban
soaks up 21.6 trillion yen each year in bonds due in as long as
30 years, with 90 percent allocated to securities maturing in 10
years or less.  “If we assume that the QE expansion had an impact on the
market, it’s possible yields will stabilize at very low levels
going forward,” BlackRock’s Endo said, referring to so-called
quantitative easing. The BOJ’s expansion of stimulus steps
“would not seem aggressive unless the BOJ also increases bond
buying of more than 10 years of maturity by combining the APP
and the rinban.”  Two Years  Kuroda said in parliament on March 26 that he envisages
achieving the BOJ’s 2 percent inflation target in two years.
Economic reports so far have shown few signs of an economic
pick-up or a return to rising prices.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  slid  0.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, data showed last week, the fourth-
straight month that the cost of living fell.  The BOJ’s quarterly  Tankan sentiment index  for large
manufacturers recovered to minus 8 in March from minus 12 in
December, a report showed yesterday. While that was the steepest
gain since September 2011, it was below the minus 7 reading
expected by economists in a Bloomberg survey. A negative figure
means pessimists outnumber optimists.  “The actual effectiveness of Kuroda’s policy doesn’t
really matter as it’s solely aimed to drive up people’s
expectations,” Endo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  