-- BofA Sets $165 Million Accord With NCUA on Mortgages
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-02T15:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bofa-sets-165-million-accord-with-ncua-on-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp.  and the
 National Credit Union Administration  reached a $165 million
accord to cover losses on purchases of residential mortgage-
backed securities by credit unions that failed, the agency said.  The bank didn’t admit fault in the agreement, according to
a statement today from the NCUA. Bank of America, the second-
largest U.S. lender by assets, ranked as the biggest mortgage
provider before the housing market bubble burst.  Federal agencies and government-backed lenders such as
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  have been demanding refunds on home loans and related
securities bought from banks after discovering false data about
the borrowers and properties. Bank of America has spent more
than $40 billion to settle claims tied to flawed loans and
foreclosures.  “We have a statutory obligation to secure recoveries for
 credit unions  and ensure that consumers remain protected,” NCUA
Chairman Debbie Matz said in the  statement  from the Alexandria,
Virginia-based agency. “We will continue to expend every
possible effort to fulfill that important responsibility.”  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
settlement. The firm said in a February regulatory filing it
agreed to a preliminary settlement on Jan. 11 that will be
covered by existing reserves.  The NCUA, which insures deposits for more than 94 million
account holders, said it has obtained $335 million from home
lenders in settlements including the Bank of America accord,
with more still pending.  Countrywide Accord  The agency’s board said March 29 it’s withdrawing from
efforts to scrutinize an $8.5 billion  settlement  between Bank of
America and bond investors that would resolve claims on mortgage
securities issued by the company’s Countrywide unit. A May 30
hearing is scheduled in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific Investment Management Co. are
among institutional investors supporting the Countrywide deal,
while American International Group Inc. has said Bank of America
is “drastically underpaying.”  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  