-- BP Decision Prompted Cement-Mixture Changes, Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-02T21:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bp-decision-prompted-cement-mixture-changes-witness-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s rejection of calls for more
stabilizers in the  Deepwater Horizon  rig’s drilling operations
prompted last-minute changes in the cement mixture that’s
designed to seal the well, a witness testified.  Jesse Gagliano , a Halliburton Co. engineer who oversaw the
Macondo well’s cement work, said testing showed the mixture was
stable when it was pumped into the hole hours before a fatal
blast ripped through the offshore rig and sent millions of
barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico in 2010.  When Gagliano learned BP ran six stabilizers into the well
rather than the 21 he had recommended, he adjusted “the recipe
of the cement design,” the engineer told a judge in  New Orleans 
today at a trial to determine liability for the disaster. The
stabilizers center the drilling pipe in the well and help the
cement seal it against blowouts.  The testimony comes as BP starts its sixth week of trial
over claims by  oil spill  victims and the U.S. that the London-
based oil company was grossly negligent in its handling of the
well and was responsible for the April 20, 2010, explosion that
caused the worst offshore spill in U.S. history.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and sent waves of oil into the Gulf, killing
fish and waterfowl. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits
against well-owner BP; Houston-based Halliburton; and Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Deepwater Horizon’s
owner.  Liability Issues  The liability trial began Feb. 25. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for more than $17 billion in
Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion settlement the
company reached with most private-party plaintiffs last year.  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner.  Lawyers for the U.S. and spill victims have argued BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the deep-water Macondo well
off the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the  oil company  to cut
corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  Foaming Cement  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
that Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Gagliano originally declined to testify at a 2011 pre-trial
deposition by invoking his constitutional rights against  self-
incrimination . He later changed his mind and agreed to appear
before Barbier.  Gagliano, who graduated from  Louisiana State University 
with an industrial engineering degree, testified he recommended
using a special type of foaming cement in the well after
learning cracks were developing in the underwater reservoir.  Technical Adviser  The  Halliburton (HAL)  technical adviser said he adjusted the
cement mixture April 19, 2010, after learning BP officials
decided to forgo the well’s extra stabilizers. The new mixture
was designed to seal the brittle rock formation without
worsening cracks from drilling, he added. The rig crew finished
pumping the cement into the hole in the early hours of April 20,
according to testimony in the case.  Earlier witnesses said BP officials on the rig praised the
cementing job in e-mails immediately after it was completed the
day of the blast.  Nathanial Chaisson, a Halliburton manager who oversaw
cementing work at the Deepwater Horizon, testified last week
that BP’s decision to cut down on the number of stabilizers
might increase the risk of a blowout.  Even though he didn’t agree with BP officials’ call on the
extra stabilizers, Gagliano said today he didn’t believe that
decision put the rig crew’s lives in jeopardy.  Recommendation Ignored  Did BP managers’ decision to ignore his recommendation on
the stabilizers put workers’ “lives in danger?”  Donald Godwin ,
a Halliburton lawyer, asked the engineer.  “No,” Gagliano replied.  Lawyers for spill victims are seeking to convince Barbier
that BP’s decision to forgo the extra 15 stabilizers was
evidence of the company’s push to cut corners at the Macondo
well because of project delays.  On cross-examination, Gagliano said even with the hindsight
of the Deepwater Horizon disaster, he wouldn’t have changed the
cement mixture used at the installation.  Paul Sterbcow , a New Orleans-based attorney for spill
victims, questioned whether Gagliano was asked to conduct
stability tests on the cement mixture in the wake of the
explosion.  “Nobody asked me” for such testing, Gagliano said.  “Bingo!” Sterbcow replied.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  