-- Bumi Resources Swings to $666.2 Million Net Loss on Coal Prices
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-04-02T13:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/bumi-resources-swings-to-666-2-million-net-loss-on-coal-prices.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) ,  Indonesia ’s
biggest coal producer, swung to a wider-than-expected net loss
last year as lower coal prices hurt sales and non-operating
costs jumped on derivate transactions.  Bumi posted a net loss of $666.2 million compared with net
income of $216.3 million in 2011, it said in a statement
published in the Suara Pembaruan newspaper today. That missed
the  median loss estimate  of $238 million in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven analysts.  “Of all Indonesian coal companies, Bumi requires a higher
coal price to break even,” Wilianto Ie, head of research at PT
Nomura Indonesia in Jakarta, said by telephone today. “Bumi has
a higher cost of funding; its leverage is higher.”  The price of coal at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, a
benchmark for  Asia , has fallen 17 percent in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of Jakarta-
listed Bumi sank 73 percent last year amid falling coal prices
and concerns it may struggle to repay its debt. Bumi owes $1.3
billion to China Investment Corp., and the company said Feb. 1
that plans to repay the debt ahead of schedule are unchanged.  Shares of Bumi rose 5.6 percent to close at 760 rupiah in
Jakarta trading today. Bumi Director Dileep Srivastava couldn’t
be reached on his mobile phone today.  Sales Fell  Sales fell to $3.78 billion from $4 billion a year earlier,
Bumi said. The company also posted a derivative transaction loss
of $344.9 million compared with a $66 million gain a year
earlier, it said.  London-listed  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , which owns 29 percent of Bumi, is
working to separate from the Indonesian unit and its founders,
the Bakrie Group, after shareholders in February defeated an
attempt by  Nathaniel Rothschild  to take control of Bumi Plc’s
board.  The Bakries have proposed exchanging their 23.8 percent of
Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Bumi. That plan would also see Bumi
Plc sell the remaining 18.9 percent of its Bumi stake for $278
million to the family.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  