-- Canada Dollar Reaches 5-Week High as China Growth Boosts Demand
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-04-02T21:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/canada-dollar-at-5-week-high-as-data-boost-commodity-exporters.html
The Canadian dollar reached a five-
week high against its U.S. counterpart as Chinese data showed
growth for the world’s biggest consumer of metals and energy and
supported the currencies of commodity-exporting nations.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, pared its advance
as commodities prices erased gains and before employment data
and central-bank policy statements later this week. China’s
 manufacturing  expanded to an 11-month high, according to the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing April 1. Australia’s central bank
kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged to match a half-
century low in response to a recovery in household spending.  “Today’s move was in line with the better performance of
commodity currencies,” Greg T. Moore, currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “There is a
little bit further room for extension before headwinds start to
send it lower.”  The Canadian dollar gained 0.2 percent to C$1.0148 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto, touching the strongest level
since Feb. 20. One loonie buys 98.54 U.S. cents.  The loonie breached its 50-day moving average for the first
time since Jan. 23.  Gold Falls  Gold fell 1.5 percent, pushing the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 commodity prices down 0.2 percent. Crude oil, the
nation’s largest export, dropped 0.2 percent to $96.88 a barrel.  “This market is trying to keep its powder relatively dry
heading into the  Bank of Japan  and employment at the end of the
week,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “That’s why the
Canadian dollar has been fairly volatile within a narrow range.
Weakening commodity prices haven’t been helping the loonie
either.”  Canadian employers may have added 6,500 to payrolls in
March after a surge of 50,700 new workers in February, according
to a survey of 24 economists by Bloomberg. Ottawa-based
 Statistics Canada  is due to report the data April 5. The
 European Central Bank  and the Bank of  Japan  are scheduled to
release policy statements April 4.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.87
percent, trimming 24 cents from the price of the 1.5 percent
security due in June 2023 to C$96.58.  Sovereign Maturities  The weighted average maturity of Canadian sovereign bonds
fell six months since June, the most in the Group of Seven, to
5.1 years, the shortest in the group, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Maturities shrank last year as debt issued by
 Canada  under its Insured Mortgage Protection Program, designed
to backstop banks during the financial crisis, approaches the
due date.  The U.S. maturity lengthened to 5.4 years from 5.3 years
since June, while Japan’s expanded to 6.3 from 6.1 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among G-7 nations,
Britain has the longest-maturing sovereign debt at 14.5 years.  Cypriot government officials will seek easier bailout terms
in talks with representatives of the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  today, before a meeting of euro-area
finance officials later this week.  The Canadian dollar is up 1.2 percent during the past month
against the currencies of nine other developed nations tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar
lost 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  