-- Capping Low-Skilled Worker Visas Central to Compromise
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-04-02T15:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/capping-low-skilled-worker-visas-central-to-compromise.html
Two years ago, the U.S. certified
about 75,000 low-skilled laborers for guest-worker visas.  Under the first year of a new plan that business and labor
leaders have tentatively approved as part of a Senate proposal
to revise the nation’s immigration laws, employers would be able
to bring in another 20,000 a year. That would gradually rise to
75,000 -- though never exceed more than 200,000 a year.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce wanted to double that number.
In that new “W-Visa Program” envisioned to start in April
2015, labor unions have secured caps on the number of foreign,
low-skilled workers allowed in the U.S., particularly in a
construction industry suffering high  unemployment .  The agreement marked the last major obstacle for a
bipartisan group of eight senators seeking consensus on a
rewrite of U.S. immigration laws, as they prepare to unveil
legislation as soon as next week. Other issues remain, such as
visas for farm workers, as part of a package that would offer a
possible path to citizenship for many of the 11 million
undocumented immigrants already in the U.S.  The lawmakers still face a sales job in the Senate, as well
as reconciliation with the Republican-run House.  Perhaps more than the details of a still tentative
agreement among union, business and Senate leaders, observers
say, politics brought the two sides together.  ‘Prisoners’ Dilemma’  “It was a prisoners’ dilemma,” said Chris Newman, legal
director for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network in Los
Angeles. “Both the chamber and organized labor stood to be
accused of the crime of killing comprehensive immigration
reform.”  The chamber backed down on its demand for more visas as the
AFL-CIO maintained that many immigrants, once given legal
working status, may start competing with Americans for higher-
paying jobs in construction, where the  unemployment rate  is 15.7
percent. Visas for construction work would be capped at 15,000 a
year in the W-Visa plan, which labor says is not a true
temporary worker program like the H2-B visa used by many
seasonal workers because participants could petition for
permanent status after one year.  The business lobby is concerned that the caps may be too
low to meet the demands of a growing U.S. economy.  2012 Election  The compromise reached March 29 shows how quickly the
immigration debate is advancing after an election in which the
Hispanic vote was so crucial to President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election that interest groups are as concerned as the political
parties about standing in the way of a broad new immigration
law.  Conflicts between business and labor over a temporary
worker program helped scuttle a 2007 attempt at an immigration
overhaul. Labor wanted any guest worker program to expire after
five years.  Just as the chamber has relented on the numbers, the unions
are engaging on an issue they have fought in the past.  “Unions are opening the door” to a program they’ve long
opposed, said Roberto Suro, director of an immigration studies
program at the University of Southern California. “Once you
start doing temporary workers, where does it stop? If it’s
successful, the market’s going to keep wanting more,” he said.
“Business has had to accept limits.”  Groundskeeping, Forestry  Among businesses most reliant on lower-skilled guest
workers under a current program known as H-2B visas are
groundskeeping, forestry and landscaping, cleaners and
housekeeping, amusement parks, animal caretakers and meat
trimmers, according to the latest  U.S. Department of Labor
report . Groundskeepers accounted for more than 35 percent of
those visas in fiscal year 2011, when the government certified
74,473 guest workers under the program.  That included companies such as Bio Landscape and
Maintenance Inc. in Houston, certified for 314 guest workers
that year, and Superior Forestry Service of Tilly,  Arizona ,
certified for 708 under the H-2B program.  The 74,473 visas approved in 2011 marked a 14 percent
decrease from 2010, according to the Congressional Research
Service. As many as 250,343 had been approved in fiscal 2008 and
254,615 in fiscal 2007, according to a  CRS report .  Texas led the nation in H-2B visas certified in 2011,
according to the Labor Department, with 12,344 certified.
Louisiana and  Florida  ranked second and third.  These non-farm visas are separate from an agricultural
program known as H-2A that remains to be negotiated. And they
are apart from a program of  H-1B  visas for skilled workers, with
technology firms seeking a near-doubling of those numbers.  Visa Numbers  Under the agreement negotiated by business and labor and
accepted in a conference call with Senator Charles Schumer of
New York, a Democratic member of the eight-senator group, the
new low-skilled worker program would start with 20,000 visas in
the first year, 35,000 in the second, 55,000 in the third and
75,000 in the fourth. In year five, the number would increase or
shrink based on a formula taking into account the unemployment
rate, the number of job openings and other factors.  A Bureau of Immigration and Labor Market Research would be
created to monitor labor market and demographic information and
identify labor shortages. It would help set an annual visa cap
not to exceed 200,000.  “This is a structure we can move forward with,” Randy
Johnson, senior vice president of labor, immigration and
employee benefits at the Chamber, said in an e-mailed statement.  Wage System  The business lobby secured a basic wage system it had been
seeking. U.S. companies will be able to expand the program to a
number of industries that don’t typically require four-year
bachelor’s degrees, including home health-care aides and
industrial equipment repair technicians, he said.  “On the other hand, in search of a compromise, certain
limitations on the program had to be adopted,” Johnson said.  The unions were concerned about any visa program that would
give immigrants working illegally in the U.S. something that
troubles labor: job mobility.  “We’re going to have labor mobilization for a community
that has not had mobilization until now -- folks will want to
pursue other occupations” displacing native workers in
occupations with high jobless rates, said Sonia Ramirez,
director of government affairs for the Building and Construction
Trades Department of the AFL-CIO.  “Once people have their status regularized it will be
easier to get a handle on where people are working and where
there are jobs that need to be filled,” Ramirez said.  Tracking Patterns  From 2003 to 2011, there was just one year in which the
estimated number of undocumented immigrants entering the U.S.
was less than 200,000, according to the Mexican Migration
Monitor, a project at USC that tracks illegal immigration
patterns.  During 2006 and 2007, amid the height of the U.S. housing
boom, the number was 665,755 and 682,561 respectively. In 2008
the number was 498,445 and has declined to 165,769 as the U.S.
steps up its commitment to border security and deported a record
number of illegal immigrants.  The visa program is viewed as a measured alternative. It is
“not big enough to replace the illegal flow,” said Tamar Jacoby, president at ImmigrationWorks USA, a group of pro-
immigration business coalitions.  “Construction is poised to be the engine bringing the
nation to full economic recovery in the next two to three years
and it’s not going to get enough workers,” Jacoby said.  Labor officials say the figures don’t provide the full
picture.  “Even though it looks like the chamber has been talked
down, the reality is that, overall, the number of guest workers
arriving in this country increases,” said Saket Soni, executive
director of the National Guest Worker Alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  