-- Chamber Seeks Corporate Tax Rate Cut With Expanded Breaks
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-02T21:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/chamber-seeks-corporate-tax-rate-cut-with-expanded-breaks.html
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce called
for reducing the corporate tax rate while keeping or expanding
several of the tax breaks that lawmakers have considered
trimming to pay for a rate cut.  In comments submitted today to the House Ways and Means
Committee, the largest U.S. business lobbying group said a
rewrite of the individual and corporate tax systems should
expand incentives for corporate research, create faster write-
offs for  capital investment , maintain incentives for retirement
savings and make it easier for companies to bring home overseas
profits.  The breaks in those areas are among the 10 largest in the
corporate part of the U.S. tax code, according to the
nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Lawmakers in both
parties have said they want to limit breaks to make any
corporate tax changes revenue-neutral for the government.  In its comments, the chamber pointed to how the individual
and corporate tax codes are intertwined and urged lawmakers to
change both of them at the same time. Most businesses are taxed
through their owners’ individual tax returns and not through the
corporate side of the tax code.  “We also understand the challenges presented by this kind
of reform but urge the committee to continue its work to reform
the code as soon as possible,” the chamber said.  Tax Analysts  Marty Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts in  Falls
Church ,  Virginia , said the chamber’s comments don’t move the tax
debate forward, in part because the group is trying to avoid
offending large portions of its membership.  “It is amazing that an organization that claims to speak
for America’s business leaders can show so little leadership,”
he wrote in an e-mail. “Of course we want lower rates and a
more competitive tax system. But when it comes to the hard part
-- how to pay for these improvements -- the 18-page chamber
document offers no suggestions.”  The  chamber  urged lawmakers not to raise taxes on  capital
gains  or dividends or raise effective tax rates for top earners.
The chamber endorsed so-called dynamic scoring, which would
allow Congress to consider projected economic growth caused by
tax-rate cuts to partially pay for the reductions. Congressional
estimators don’t use such an approach.  “Our higher-income earners and successful small businesses
already shoulder more than their fair share of the income tax
burden,” said the chamber. Its board of directors includes
executives from State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and
Amway Corp.  The Ways and Means Committee, divided into 11 bipartisan
working groups, is considering a rewrite of the individual and
corporate tax codes.  Representative  Dave Camp , the Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the committee, has said the panel will approve a
bill this year. He wants to cut the corporate tax rate to 25
percent from 35 percent and hasn’t said how he would broaden the
tax base to pay for that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  