-- China Repo Rate Rises on Holiday Demand, Property Curb Concerns
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-04-02T02:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/china-repo-rate-rises-on-holiday-demand-property-curb-concerns.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose toward a one-month high as cash demand increased ahead of a
holiday and on speculation the central bank will tighten policy
to cool the  property market .  The People’s Bank of China will offer 30 billion  yuan  ($4.8
billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  today, according to a
trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The
PBOC’s branches could “appropriately” raise requirements for
down-payments and interest rates on second-home mortgages,
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing a person it
didn’t identify.  “Money rates are higher ahead of the short week” and
concern about potential measures to cap housing prices, said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Societe
Generale SA. China’s financial markets will be shut Thursday and
Friday for a public holiday.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability in the  interbank market , climbed three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.45 percent at 10:02 a.m.
in Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It touched 3.47 percent
yesterday, the highest since March 5.  Former central bank adviser Yu Yongding said China may face
“relatively large” capital inflows, the China Securities
Journal reported today. Funds may flow to countries with higher
yields because of a U.S. loose monetary policy, Yu said.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, was steady at 3.28
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  