-- Christie Helicopter Use Rises for N.J. Town-Hall Meetings
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-02T02:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/christie-helicopter-use-rises-for-n-j-town-hall-meetings.html
Flights in state police helicopters
by New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  and Lieutenant Governor
Kim Guadagno have cost at least $390,200 since they took office
in January 2010, according to records released yesterday.  Christie has increasingly relied on the aircraft to reach
town-hall meetings, making six such trips at a cost of $11,750
in the past 12 months. By comparison, in the more than two years
from January 2010 through February 2012, the governor used the
helicopters for eight such appearances.  State Senate Majority Leader Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat
from Teaneck, said the governor appears to be riding to events
that are less about public business and more about campaigning.
Christie, 50, a Republican in his first term, is running for re-
election in November. Polls show his voter-approval ratings at
record levels for his handling of  Hurricane Sandy .  In the past year Christie has been a helicopter passenger
65 times, and Guadagno, also up for re-election, has been aboard
twice without him. The charges from March 2012 through February
2013 amounted to $172,500, based on a rate of $2,500 an hour, as
calculated by the state police in March 2012.  Christie and Guadagno, 53, have flown 164 times during
their time in office, according to documents released by the
state Law and Public Safety Department in response to a
Bloomberg News request. Most flights were aboard one of New
Jersey’s $12.5 million Agusta helicopters, which also are used
for  law enforcement  and  homeland security .  Flight Destinations  According to a list supplied by  Michael Drewniak , a
Christie spokesman, the flights have been taken to events such
as an announcement that WrestleMania,  World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc. (WWE) ’s biggest annual event, would take place at
MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford  in February 2012. The
aircraft have also been used to reach the funeral of Democratic
congressman Donald Payne in March 2012, as well as media
interviews and news briefings.  The governor has presided over 104 town-hall meetings, in
which he speaks and answers questions from local audiences
around the state. Staff members record some of the appearances
for the governor’s channel on Google Inc.’s YouTube.com website.
Fourteen of those events involved state police-piloted aircraft.  “With all use of the helicopter, the dictate is the
governor’s schedule and the simple logistics of getting from
point A to point B,” Drewniak said by telephone. “It’s just a
matter of how the schedule falls into place. The town halls
don’t dictate when we use the helicopter.”  Reimbursed State  The governor has reimbursed the state for all political and
personal helicopter use, Drewniak said. The state  Republican
Party  repaid the government for appearances in  Stone Harbor  on
July 23, in Saddle River on Sept. 12 and in  Pennsylvania  on Oct.
18. Chris Christie for Governor, his re-election fund, covered
the cost of reaching an event in  New Brunswick  on Feb. 4, all
according to the list sent by Drewniak.  Taxpayers bear no additional expense for transporting
governors because the crews fly training or security missions
daily, according to statements from the State Police last year.  Christie was in the air nine times in the week after
Hurricane Sandy struck Oct. 29, devastating some coastal towns.
The cost of the 11.3 hours of flight time involved was $28,250.  “ New Jersey  had experienced its greatest natural disaster
ever and to have a full scope of the devastation, there was no
better viewpoint than to see it from the air,” Drewniak said.  Questions Raised  Democrats, who control the Legislature, chided Christie in
June 2011, after he used the aircraft to attend political and
personal events, including two high school baseball games in
which his son was a player. The state Republican Party and
Christie reimbursed the government for $3,383.79 to cover the
flight time over the fifth-smallest U.S. state.  As governor, Christie should use the helicopter when there
are safety issues or when there’s a public interest in doing so,
Weinberg, the Senate Democrat, said yesterday. Yet recent town-
hall meetings appear to be political rallies, she said.  “The town halls have really become campaign events --
there’s no doubt about it,” she said by telephone. “Town halls
are great and it’s good that the governor is out there meeting
with constituents, but it seems to me to be less about questions
and answers and more about a campaign.”  Christie’s predecessor, multimillionaire Democrat  Jon Corzine , personally paid for his  air travel . In April 2007,
Corzine almost died in a crash of his state trooper-driven
sport-utility vehicle, which was going 91 miles (146 kilometers)
an hour on the Garden State Parkway.  A panel that reviewed the crash suggested that state
helicopters be used more often to cut the security and safety
risk to the governor in motorcades that traveled about 100,000
miles a year through the nation’s most densely populated state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  