-- Citic Bank Falls After Earnings Miss Estimates: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-02T05:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/citic-bank-falls-after-earnings-miss-estimates-hong-kong-mover.html
China Citic Bank Corp. (998)  shares fell
the most in more than 10 months in Hong Kong trading after 2012
earnings missed analyst estimates, as the market reopened after
a two-day holiday break.  Citic Bank fell as much as 6.9 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since May, and traded at HK$4.35, a loss of 6.7
percent, at 1:35 p.m. The benchmark Hang Seng Index lost 0.1
percent. Citic posted 2012 net income of 31 billion  yuan  ($5
billion) on March 28 after the market closed, missing the 33.5
billion-yuan average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  A “massive” 6.35 billion-yuan provision charge in the
fourth quarter pushed earnings below the estimate, Sheng Nan, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at CCB International Holdings Ltd., said
in a note today. The shares fell in Shanghai yesterday and on
March 29, when Hong Kong’s market was closed.  “The uncertain asset-quality outlook remains a major
concern,” Sheng said. Formation of non-performing loans “may
continue to take place at an accelerating pace leading to
elevated credit costs for the near term.”  Mirae Asset Securities HK Ltd. analyst Stanley Li
downgraded Citic Bank to the equivalent of sell from hold after
the earnings.  Citic led declines among Chinese bank shares on March 28,
falling in  Shanghai  by as much as the daily limit of 10 percent
after the China Banking Regulatory Commission said it would
tighten rules on lenders’ wealth-management products business.  The regulator told banks to limit investments of client
funds in credit assets that aren’t publicly traded, and to
isolate the risks from their operations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  