-- Climate Change Fueling Extreme Australian Weather, Group Says
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-02T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/climate-change-fueling-extreme-australian-weather-group-says.html
Australia  is facing increased risks
of extreme weather events such as heatwaves, wild fires and
drought spurred by  climate change , according to a report
released today by the nation’s  Climate Commission .  Key food-growing regions across Australia’s southeast and
southwest are likely to experience more droughts in the future,
the commission said in a statement accompanying the report.  The number of record hot days in Australia has doubled
since the 1960s and a long-term drought is affecting the
southwest corner of  Western Australia  state, which has recorded
a 15 percent drop in rainfall since the mid-1970s, according to
the commission. There’s a high risk that heatwaves, heavy rains,
droughts and cyclones will become more severe over the coming
decades, increasing the chances of adverse consequences to human
health, agriculture, infrastructure and the environment, it said.  “Records are broken from time to time, but record-breaking
weather is becoming more common as the climate shifts,” Chief
Commissioner Tim Flannery said in the statement. “Only strong
preventative action, with deep and swift cuts in emissions this
decade, can stabilize the climate and halt the trend toward more
intense extreme weather.”  Record temperatures triggered wildfires in southern and
eastern Australian states in January. In the same month, the
 Insurance Council  of Australia declared a catastrophe for parts
of Queensland and New South Wales, which together account for
half the nation’s economy. The severe weather left six people
dead, disrupted mining operations in Queensland and caused an
estimated A$187 million ($196 million) in insurance losses.  Sea levels have risen 20 centimeters globally, increasing
the risk of flooding, according to the statement. For instance,
Fremantle in Western Australia has experienced a three-fold
increase in inundation events since 1950, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  