-- Coeure Says ECB Accepts Swiss National Bank’s Franc Cap
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-03T08:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/coeure-says-ecb-accepts-swiss-national-bank-s-franc-cap.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to add dropped word in
fifth paragraph.)  European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said policy makers “are not worried
by the Swiss interventions” in  currency markets .  “We don’t see negative spillovers on the euro area” from
the  Swiss National Bank ’s currency moves, Coeure said today in a
 panel discussion  in  Washington . “It’s OK as long as it doesn’t
disturb the other regions.”  The SNB’s cap on the franc is essential given that there is
no threat of inflation, SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine
said last month. He said the cap of 1.20 per euro is an
“absolute necessity.” The Swiss franc was little changed
against the euro, decreasing  0.05 percent  to 1.2166 per euro as
of 4 p.m. in  New York .  Coeure, 44, also said that large-scale asset purchases
similar to those being used by the  Federal Reserve  and the  Bank
of England  aren’t a “valid option” for ECB policy makers.  “I don’t see a scope in the euro area to engineer the same
kind of balance sheet expansions through outright purchase that
we’ve seen in the U.S. or, say, in the U.K. in the face of
fragmented financial markets, in the face of less deep and
liquid mortgage markets, etc.,” Coeure said following his
speech at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.  Coeure said in his remarks it would be a worry if nations
openly pursued weaker currencies to bolster their economies.  “It would be a matter of concern if countries were to
directly pursue overt competitive devaluations, particularly by
resorting to large purchases of foreign assets,” Coeure said.
“The economic literature highlights the dangers of individual
countries pursuing beggar-thy-neighbor or burden-shifting
policies. I believe this message is well understood by central
bankers.”  ‘Serious Risks’  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said in February that
buying bonds to weaken the yen won’t be necessary as the nation
battles deflation, backing away from an initial proposal that
prompted global concerns about currency manipulation. Coeure
said such policies could “expose global markets to serious
risks of an escalation of trade and financial protectionism.”  While the  exchange rate  isn’t a target for the ECB, the
Frankfurt-based central bank takes it into consideration and
could take measures to offset currency moves if they affected
the inflation outlook, he said.  The exchange rate “matters for  price stability  and growth
and, as such, it is part of the overall assessment of the
appropriateness of the policy stance,” Coeure said. If it is
“contrary to the objective of medium-term price stability, it
may thus trigger offsetting policy actions.”  Currency Wars  Coeure spoke on a panel titled “Currency Wars and the G-
20’s Goal of Strong, Sustainable, and Balanced Growth”
moderated by Peterson Institute President  Adam Posen , a former
Bank of England policy maker.  Prior to Coeure’s appointment to the central bank, he was
chief economist at the French Treasury and its No. 2 official.  Coeure joined the Treasury in 1995 after working for Insee,
 France ’s national statistics office. By 1999, he became head of
the ministry’s foreign-exchange market and economic-policies
unit, before moving on to Agence France Tresor, the nation’s
debt-management body. He became its deputy chief executive in
2002 and chief executive in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  