-- CommVault Growth Seen Trumping Price for Buyers: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-03T20:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/commvault-growth-seen-trumping-price-for-buyers-real-m-a.html
CommVault Systems Inc. (CVLT) ’s sales
growth from data-management software could be enough to spur
companies such as International Business Machines Corp. to
pursue what would be the industry’s most expensive deal in a
decade.  The software provider’s sales are  projected  to rise 33
percent in the next two years, faster than 81 percent of
similar-sized peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Raymond James  Financial Inc. says those growth prospects could
attract suitors to a $3.7 billion company that trades at a
higher earnings multiple than 96 percent of the infrastructure
software industry, the data show.  CommVault’s foothold in data management may lure IBM,
according to Royal Bank of Canada, while Piper Jaffray Cos. says
competitor  EMC Corp. (EMC)  also could seek a deal to bolster its
backup and recovery software offerings. Even without a premium,
CommVault’s enterprise value relative to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is already higher
than the multiple paid for any similar-sized U.S. data-
management company since 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The growth is one of the more appealing parts to it,”
Eric Martinuzzi, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Lake Street
Capital Markets LLC, said in a telephone interview. “That
accretes so well for big companies looking to grow their
earnings next year and the year after. If the technology is
compelling enough, the earnings multiple paid or even the
revenue multiple paid, can be thrown out the window.”  Stock Surge  David West , senior vice president for worldwide marketing
and business development for Oceanport, New Jersey-based
CommVault, said the company doesn’t comment on deal speculation.  “Our mission is to drive financial performance by
consistently providing the industry’s most innovative products,
services and support,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “It
is clear that the industry continues to validate our strategy.”  CommVault,  formed  in 1988 as a development group within
Bell Labs, sells software that helps  customers  including Dell
Inc., Levi Strauss & Co. and medical-record provider  Cerner
Corp. (CERN)  store and handle large amounts of data.  Shares of CommVault have risen more than fivefold since the
company’s September 2006 initial public offering and reached a
record $84.20 last month as the software provider’s sales gained
every year and investor speculation mounted that it could become
a takeover target.  Today, CommVault shares fell 5.4 percent to $76.41.  ‘Attractive Technology’  Analysts project CommVault, which completed its fiscal year
on March 31, will report annual revenue of $491 million when it
 releases  its results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s more than triple what it generated the year it went
public, the data show.  Sales are  projected  to increase another 33 percent during
the next two years, according to analysts’ estimates. That will
outpace growth at 81 percent of infrastructure software
companies valued at more than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  CommVault is “growing faster than the market they’re
playing in,”  Rajesh Ghai , a Dallas-based analyst at Craig-
Hallum Capital Group LLC, said in a phone interview. “It’s got
some pretty attractive technology.”  While a purchase of CommVault “wouldn’t be cheap,” larger
technology companies could still be attracted to its expertise
in data management and the growth potential in storing and
analyzing large batches of information, said Michael Turits, a
New York-based analyst at Raymond James.  Data Focus  “Data and analytics are becoming increasingly more
strategic to companies” as they grapple with floods of
information, Turits said in a phone interview. “This is a
pretty complex area, not one where it is easy to build and enter
yourself.  “For a number of other large technology companies, this is
a hole in their portfolio,” he said.  For an acquirer, CommVault is also attractive because its
products have been built internally with a single code source,
in contrast to companies such as Autonomy Corp., which grew
through acquisitions, said  Robert Breza , a Minneapolis-based
analyst at RBC.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which purchased Autonomy in
2011 for $10.3 billion, took an $8.8 billion write down on the
deal last year, citing accounting missteps including premature
or improperly recorded revenue.  A takeover of CommVault would be “less complicated to go
through because it is an organic-driven company,” Breza said in
a phone interview.  Likely Suitors  Suitors for the software maker may include IBM, said Breza
and Andrew Nowinski, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper
Jaffray.  Ginni Rometty, chief executive officer of Armonk,  New York- 
based IBM, said last month that so-called big data services
would be a top priority this year.  James Sciales, a spokesman for  IBM (IBM) , said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation when asked whether it would be
interested in taking over CommVault.  EMC, which sells  products  that compete with CommVault,
still lacks software that’s as comprehensive as that of its
smaller rival and could also be interested in buying the
company, Nowinski said.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if EMC also entered the mix and
said they need to improve their own back-up product or
portfolio,” he said in a phone interview. CommVault has
“arguably the best product in this space.”  Expensive Target  Lesley Ogrodnick, a spokeswoman for Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC, said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation when asked whether it could be interested in a deal
for CommVault.  While larger companies may covet CommVault’s technology,
the company’s steep price tag would likely deter buyers, said
Craig-Hallum’s Ghai.  CommVault’s  enterpise value  yesterday was 43 times the
software maker’s Ebitda in the last 12 months, higher than 96
percent of infrastructure software peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That multiple is already triple the median of 14 paid in
U.S. data-management software deals valued at more than $500
million and would be the highest since EMC’s 2003 purchase of
Legato Systems Inc., the data show. Even based on estimated
profit for the year that ends in March 2014, CommVault is valued
at 25 times Ebitda.  “Valuation is probably the only stumbling block as far as
buying these guys is concerned,” Ghai said.  Still, a buyer eager to obtain CommVault’s technology and
growth prospects might be willing to pay a high multiple to
secure a deal, said Martinuzzi of Lake Street.  When EMC -- a potential buyer for CommVault -- purchased
Legato 10 years ago in an all-stock deal, the $1.3 billion price
valued the software maker at 75 times Ebitda, the data show.  In CommVault, “what you’ve got is this wonderful company
that’s grown organically,” Martinuzzi said. In terms of price,
“if somebody wants this asset bad enough, that is not going to
be a barrier.”  -- With assistance from Sarah Frier in  New York . Editors: Beth
Williams, Sarah Rabil  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  