-- Congress Can Still Mess Up Immigration Reform
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-02T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/congress-can-still-mess-up-immigration-reform.html
It’s looking pretty good lately for
immigration reform. Big Business and Big Labor, represented by
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO, say they have
reached a deal to regulate the flow and status of temporary work
visas. Democrats and Republicans, represented by Senators
Charles Schumer of  New York  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina , say they may have legislation as early as next week.  Or maybe not. Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida,
another member of the bipartisan “Gang of Eight” that has been
working on immigration reform, called reports of progress
premature. Rubio is at the center of the action on comprehensive
immigration reform for one reason only: He placed himself there.
But unlike Graham or Schumer -- or, for that matter, the
consistently anti-reform Republican from  Alabama , Senator  Jeff Sessions  -- it’s not entirely clear from day to day whose
interests Rubio represents.  If Rubio’s presidential ambitions are genuine, he surely
has more on his mind than his  Florida  constituents. The fear is
that Rubio will use his pivotal position in negotiations not to
advance immigration reform but to win the loyalty of
conservatives who are implacably opposed to it. Despite the
progress made so far, opportunities for mischief abound. Three
major obstacles remain to viable legislation.  The first is temporary work visas. The two sides appear to
have an agreement in principle, but mutual suspicions remain.
The interests of labor and capital are simply not well aligned
on this issue. The AFL-CIO, especially its construction trades,
fears that businesses want to import a flood of cheap labor to
drive down wages. The Chamber of Commerce fears that labor wants
to strangle work visas in red tape, leaving businesses unable to
find workers at reasonable rates.  Second is the fate of the estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants already in the country. There has been no softening
against “amnesty” in some quarters. Some hardliners oppose a
path to citizenship under any circumstances. Others want to
place so many obstacles -- years as resident noncitizens, fines,
back taxes, etc. -- in the path that they would transform
amnesty into purgatory. The U.S. can’t create an official
noncitizen underclass without doing permanent damage to both its
ideals and its identity.  Third is the issue of border security. One of the more
pernicious notions circulating Washington is a proposal to make
citizenship for undocumented immigrants contingent on reaching
certain  benchmarks  in border control. In effect, 11 million
people would be held hostage to circumstances beyond their
control. What’s more, the reliability of the benchmark data --
illegal border crossers don’t generally submit to a census in
transit -- would be as dubious as the incentives for cooking the
numbers are vast. Sometimes very bad ideas enjoy very broad
support. This is one.  Opponents of immigration reform will use each of these
vulnerabilities to try to bring the legislation crashing down.
They may yet succeed. Even modest legislative encumbrances in
the Senate could be sufficient to scuttle reform altogether in
the House, where it will need significant momentum to overcome
the Republican majority.  All of which is to say that supporters of an immigration
overhaul can’t afford to relax. Their opponents make up in
intensity what they lack in numbers. Despite the jovial mood on
the Sunday talk shows, Rubio is right: Reform still faces real
enemies, real obstacles and, as a result, potentially fatal
delays. A march scheduled for April 10 in  Washington  is a good
opportunity for reformers to show strength in numbers. But while
90 percent of life may be just showing up, passing difficult
legislation requires considerably more.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 