-- Connecticut Gun Stores Draw Crowds as Vote on Ban Nears
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-04-02T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/connecticut-gun-store-draws-crowd-as-vote-on-ban-nears.html
Only a few parking spaces were free
and customers lined up 50-deep today at Hoffman’s Gun Center in
Newington,  Connecticut , on what may be one of the last days that
stores are allowed to sell assault-style weapons and high-
capacity ammunition magazines.  “Whenever the government tells me I can’t do something, I
want to do it,” John O’Lenechuck, 32, said after he bought a
part for a semiautomatic AR-15 rifle, which would be banned
under a proposed bill that could be approved as soon as
tomorrow. “I need to get it while it is still legal.”  Legislative leaders in Connecticut yesterday announced a
bipartisan  gun-control  accord that would expand an existing
assault-weapon ban to include more than a hundred additional
firearms, require universal background checks for purchases and
eliminate the sales of magazines that hold more than 10 bullets.
Gun owners would need to undergo a background check to secure a
certificate that would be required for buying ammunition.  The lawmakers hailed their proposal as the strongest and
most comprehensive law in the U.S. and a fitting response to the
Newtown school massacre in December, which left 20 children and
six educators dead and sparked a national debate on gun control.  “This is an historic moment,” Governor  Dan Malloy  said
today at a news briefing at the Capitol in Hartford. “This
package of laws is a very strong statement.”  Malloy’s Backing  Malloy, a 57-year-old Democrat, said he believed the
package would pass by wide margins and pledged to sign it.
Connecticut would join  New York  and  Colorado  in approving gun-
control legislation in the wake of the Newtown tragedy. Maryland
is also considering a measure this year.  The Connecticut bill doesn’t include a key element that
some families of the Newtown victims wanted: an outright ban on
possession of magazines with more than 10 bullets. Malloy has
called for a separate up-or-down vote on that proposal, though
he said today it was unlikely.  “It does not seem like that is going to happen,” he said.  The Newtown shooter, Adam Lanza, carried 10 30-round
magazines into the school, court documents show. Each of the
victims died from multiple wounds, according to Wayne Carver,
the medical examiner. Lanza reloaded six times and fired 154
bullets from his Bushmaster AR-15-style semiautomatic rifle in
less than five minutes, according to the documents. The proposed
measure would ban Bushmaster sales.  Stocking Up  Connecticut State Police had authorized 1,200 gun sales by
4 p.m. today, compared with a daily average of 500, said
Lieutenant Paul Vance, a spokesman.  “It is a little busier today,” Vance said, noting that
the state office would be open for three more hours.  Bob Montlick, the owner of Bob’s Gun Exchange in Darien,
was among those getting busy signals when calling for permission
to go ahead with sales.  “People are buying guns they might not be able to buy
anymore,” Montlick said in a telephone interview. He said he’s
far busier today than usual and is selling “anything that takes
more than 10 rounds.”  Malloy said he wasn’t surprised that local gun stores are
crowded with buyers stocking up on weapons that could be illegal
in days.  “There is not anything I can do about that,” he said.  Common Use  Robert Crook, executive director of the Coalition of
Connecticut Sportsman, a trade group, said passage of the
legislation will do little to discourage crime. About 4 million
AR-15 rifles have been sold in the past decade.  “How many criminals are going to register their 30-round
magazines?” he asked. “Guns in common use should not be
attacked.”  At Hoffman’s, which has the motto “guns for the good
guys,” a mass of people crowded around a central counter
waiting to be served. Bill Misenti, 69, of Middletown bought
some high-capacity magazines while they’re still legal.  He shook his head in disgust about the proposed law.  “I’m going to be a felon because of the guns I own,” he
said. “I said to myself, I better buy them now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  