-- Corn Belt Seen Remaining Cold by Martell After Sixth Chilly Week
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-02T16:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/corn-belt-seen-remaining-cold-by-martell-after-sixth-chilly-week.html
The U.S. Midwest corn belt was
colder than usual for a sixth week, with temperatures last week
an average 36.2 degrees Fahrenheit (2.3 degrees Celsius),
Martell Crop Projections said.  Temperatures, which were 5.5 degrees Fahrenheit below
average last week, are forecast to remain “much colder” than
normal this week, Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin-based  Martell  wrote
in an e-mailed report today.  March temperatures in the corn belt averaged 37.3 degrees
Fahrenheit, 4.5 degrees below the long-term mean and among the
coldest 10 percent for the month on record, according to the
forecaster.  “Abnormal and extreme weather is always bad for crops,”
Martell wrote. “Late April and early May is the ideal time for
corn planting, but is not apt to happen this spring.”  Severe planting delays for corn would create a potential
threat of freeze damage, and farmers in the northern Midwest
would have to substitute short-cycle corn for higher-yielding
full-season corn, according to Martell.  “The common belief among producers is that early seeding
dates provide the best chances for a bumper yield,” Martell
wrote. “The new forecast perpetuates the cold in the U.S.
heartland and  Canada .”  Temperatures are predicted to be 6 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit
colder than normal in the Upper Midwest and Great Lakes area,
while “less extreme cold” is expected in Iowa and  Nebraska  in
the western corn belt, Martell said.  Iowa and Nebraska may get more than 1 inch (2.54
centimeters) of rain in the six days through April 11 from a wet
pattern caused by a low-pressure area, the forecaster said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  