-- Credit Suisse Sued by Financial Guaranty Over Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-02T22:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/credit-suisse-sued-by-financial-guaranty-over-mortgages.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, was sued by Financial
Guaranty Insurance Co. for allegedly misrepresenting the
attributes of  mortgage loans .  Financial Guaranty Insurance’s suit, filed today in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan , accused Zurich-based
Credit Suisse of making the misrepresentations to induce the
insurer to guarantee payments due on certain securities issued
in a Credit Suisse residential mortgage-backed securitization
transaction.  The bank said it had selected about $250 million in “prime
residential mortgage loans” for the securitization, including
loans issued to borrowers with a low risk of default, good
credit records and enough income to meet monthly obligations,
according to FGIC’s complaint.  “Credit Suisse’s pre-closing representations were
fraudulent, the warranties it made in the insurance agreement
were false, and it willfully disregarded and frustrated its
contractual covenants,” FGIC said in the complaint.  Mortgages in one group that backed two classes of the
securities have defaulted at a “remarkable rate,” resulting in
losses of more than $67 million, and FGIC has paid or is
obligated to pay more than $41 million in claims under its
policy, according to the complaint.  State Takeover  Financial Guaranty Insurance, based in  New York , agreed in
June to be taken over by the state’s Department of Financial
Services, which regulates insurers.  “FGIC was a sophisticated multibillion-dollar insurance
company that received full disclosure about the securities it
chose to insure,” Drew Benson, a New York-based spokesman for
Credit Suisse, said in an e-mail.  The case is Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. Credit
Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, 651178/2013, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  