-- Cyprus to Swear in Finance Minister as Bank Controls Ease
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-04-03T08:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/cyprus-to-swear-in-finance-minister-as-bank-controls-ease.html
Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades
swore in a new finance minister today, the second of his six-
week-old administration, after the government took more steps to
ease banking restrictions in the island nation.  Haris Georgiades, 40, a graduate in economics from the
University of Reading and a lawmaker with Anastasiades’s Disy
party, was appointed the new finance chief at a ceremony in the
divided capital of Nicosia, according to an e-mailed statement
from the president’s office. He succeeds Michael Sarris, a
former banker, who resigned yesterday to aid a probe into the
collapse of the country’s two biggest lenders.  “The responsibilities are great and the expectations of
our compatriots are even greater,” Georgiades said after the
ceremony. “I will do my utmost for the good of the country.”  Georgiades takes over an economy bearing the euro area’s
first  capital controls  to stem deposit outflows and amid
uncertainty about how Cyprus will recover from the hit to its
reputation as a financial center. His predecessor’s departure
came eight days after the government clinched a bailout to stave
off collapse after an initial abortive attempt to tax all savers
at the nation’s banks led to protests and political turmoil.  Economic Impact  “We know the impact on the economy will be bad,” said
Lefteris Farmakis, an analyst at Nomura International in  London .
“It remains to be seen how quickly capital mobility and normal
business can be reinstated so we can gauge how badly the economy
will be affected.”  Cyprus was granted two extra years, to 2018, to implement
measures linked to its bailout, government spokesman Christos Stylianides told reporters yesterday after the government wound
up talks with the so-called troika of officials representing the
 International Monetary Fund , the  European Central Bank  and the
European Union.  The accord, which details the fiscal terms and structural
measures required for the 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion)
rescue, is due to be discussed at a euro working group meeting
of finance officials tomorrow.  Before leaving his post, Sarris said that he couldn’t give
an estimate for this year’s economic contraction and that the
beginning of 2014 will be equally hard. The European Commission
predicted before the rescue that the island’s economy would
shrink 3.5 percent this year.  Bonds Maturing  Successfully winding up the bailout agreement, pending
since June last year, will secure financing for Cyprus from May,
Sarris said. The government has 1.4 billion euros of bonds
maturing on June 3.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Cypriot covered bonds
to Caa2.  The agreement with the troika targets a primary deficit of
2.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and includes 351
million euros, or 2.1 percent of GDP, of expenditure cuts and
revenue increases, the Phileleftheros newspaper reported on
April 1, citing a draft. The rescue loans will carry an interest
rate of between 2.5 percent and 2.7 percent and will begin being
repaid after 10 years, Stylianides said yesterday.  Bank Deposits  Cyprus reached an agreement with euro-area governments on
March 25 to impose losses on uninsured depositors at the
country’s two biggest banks,  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , which has been wound down, in return for the
international aid. The government had closed all banks to
prevent deposit flight following the March 16 decision to levy a
tax on all savers.  Cyprus eased capital controls on some transactions
yesterday, the third tweak since a decree on the controls issued
by the  Finance Ministry . Banks reopened on March 28 under tight
restrictions, including a limit on daily withdrawals of 300
euros per person. The EU has said it will continue to monitor
the controls.  “It’s obvious the EU will push Cyprus to lift the
restrictions as soon as possible,” said Farmakis. “In a
monetary union capital controls are a bad thing if they are more
than temporary.”  Sarris, who was chairman of Cyprus Popular Bank last year,
submitted his resignation after Anastasiades, elected Feb. 24,
established a commission to investigate the reasons for Cyprus’s
banking crisis and identify those responsible.  Zeta Emilianidou was also sworn in today to replace
Georgiades as labor minister. Anastasiades is due to meet with
his new Cabinet in Nicosia after the ceremony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  