-- Cyprus Finance Minister Sarris Quits After Brokering Rescue
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-04-02T14:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/cyprus-finance-minister-sarris-resigns-after-brokering-rescue.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris quit amid a probe into the island nation’s economic
crisis, leaving the government eight days after helping it
clinch an international bailout to stave off financial collapse.  Sarris told reporters in Nicosia today he was resigning
because a government committee had been set up to investigate
the country’s woes, including his time as chairman of  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  last year. His replacement is Labor Minister
Haris Georgiades, who will be sworn in at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow,
according to a statement from the president’s office.  Sarris, 66, announced his decision as the Cypriot
government completed talks on the terms for the aid with the so-
called troika of officials representing the  International
Monetary Fund , the  European Central Bank  and the European Union.
The accord will be discussed at a euro working group meeting of
finance officials on April 4.  “The negotiations were completed today with significant
success in reaching the desired goals,” President Nicos Anastasiades said in an e-mailed statement.  Cyprus was granted two extra years, to 2018, to implement
measures linked to its bailout, government spokesman Christos Stylianides told reporters. Sarris said that he couldn’t give an
estimate for this year’s economic contraction.  Difficult Months  “This agreement is very important” as it secures
financing for Cyprus from May, Sarris said at a press conference
with Stylianides held before he announced his departure. “The
next few months will be difficult for everyone.”  The Cyprus General Market Index fell 2.6 percent to 99.46
at the close in Nicosia. The exchange opened for trading today
after shutting for more than two weeks.  Hellenic Bank Pcl (HB)  shares
dropped 20 percent to 13 euro cents, the biggest decline since
at least 1996. Cyprus Popular and  Bank of Cyprus  are suspended
through April 15 in both Nicosia and Athens.  Cyprus reached agreement with euro governments on March 25
to impose losses on uninsured depositors at the country’s two
biggest banks,  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and Cyprus Popular in return
for 10 billion euros ($12.8 billion) of aid from the IMF, ECB
and EU.  22-year Loans  Cyprus’s 10 billion euros of loans will have a 2.5 percent
interest rate and be repaid over a 22 year period, state-run
Cyprus News Agency said today, citing Stylianides.  The agreement with the troika targets a primary deficit of
2.4 percent of gross domestic product this year and includes 351
million euros, or 2.1 percent of GDP, of expenditure cuts and
revenue increases, the Phileleftheros newspaper said yesterday,
citing a draft of the document.  Anastasiades established a commission today to investigate
the reasons for the crisis, especially in Cyprus’s banking
industry and identify those responsible. Sarris last year served
as chairman of Cyprus Popular, which has been shut as part of
the financial rescue.  Economists including Gabriel Sterne at Exotix Ltd. in
 London  have said the government’s measures to secure the bailout
will hurt the  economy . The European Commission predicted before
the rescue that it would shrink 3.5 percent this year.  “An early agreement on a program that gives Cyprus time to
correct its fiscal problems can support business confidence and
help to dampen the deep recession a bit,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  Capital Controls  Sarris said  capital controls , adopted to avert a bank run
after Cyprus agreed to impose the losses on deposits, should be
lifted gradually to avoid destabilizing lenders.  Cyprus eased capital controls on some transactions today,
according to an e-mailed copy of the third amendment to a decree
issued on March 29 by the  Finance Ministry .  The decree, which will apply for two days, allows financial
transactions of up to 25,000 euros a day to be carried out
without regulatory approval, compared with 5,000 euros
previously, and payments of up to 9,000 euros a month to be made
by check. The EU said it will continue to monitor the controls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  