-- Dalian Soy Meal Premium to Corn May Rebound: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-02T04:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/dalian-soy-meal-premium-to-corn-may-rebound-technical-analysis.html
Soybean meal futures in China, the
biggest user of the feed ingredient, are trading at below-
average premiums to corn, indicating opportunities for arbitrage,
according to Yongan Futures Co.  The spread, or difference, between the most-active soybean
meal futures contract against China’s corn benchmark averaged
about 1,100  yuan  ($177) per metric ton over the last 10 years,
according to data from the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  compiled by
 Bloomberg News . The difference for September deliveries, the
most widely traded, fell to 770 yuan at 11:19 a.m. near the
lowest this year.  Soybean meal, the main protein ingredient in  animal feed  in
China, has a “balanced price advantage against corn,” the main
energy ingredient, Gong Ping, an analyst at Yongan Futures, said
in a telephone interview today. “When that balance is lost, the
preference for the cheaper commodity will increase its
consumption, causing the balance to return,” she said.  Expectations for a record soybean harvest in South America
this year and a larger U.S. crop in the autumn led to a slump in
the price of soybeans on the Chicago Board of Trade this year,
hurting soybean meal futures in China, which uses mostly
imported beans to produce the ingredient. China is the world’s
biggest buyer of the oilseed.  The cheaper soybean meal relatively to corn will encourage
more of it to be used, pushing the spread back to the historical
balance, Gong said.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  