-- Dart Scraps IPO, Cuts Jobs on Australian Gas Restrictions
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-02T07:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/dart-scraps-ipo-cuts-jobs-on-australian-gas-restrictions.html
Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) , a coal-seam gas
and shale explorer, fell to a record low in Sydney trading after
scrapping an initial public offering of its international assets
and cutting staff by 70 percent.  The shares  slumped 44 percent to 5.9 cents in Sydney,
valuing the company at A$52 million ($54 million). Dart sold
shares to institutions at 69 cents each in July 2010. The
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent.  Dart’s decision follows moves by governments in  Australia 
to introduce stricter controls for development of coal-seam gas
projects. The Singapore-based company will focus on CSG and
shale assets in the U.K., according to the statement.  The rules mean that “investment is leaving the country,
field operations are being suspended, Australian jobs are being
lost and the impending energy crisis in New South  Wales  is not
being addressed,” Chairman Nick Davies said in the statement.
“This is in direct contrast to the United Kingdom.”  Dart had planned to sell shares in its international unit
in November in London, the company said last year without saying
how much it planned to raise. This follows a decision by the
company in May to defer the proposed IPO after market conditions
deteriorated and its shares plunged.  Robbert de Weijer, chief executive officer of the
Australian business, will leave as part of the job cuts,
according to the statement. The company said it may seek
partners or sell some assets in  India ,  Indonesia , China and
parts of  Europe  as those operations are scaled back.  John McGoldrick, CEO of Dart Energy International, will
become CEO of Dart Energy, the company said.  The federal government in Australia plans to tighten the
approval process for coal-seam gas projects to ensure protection
of water resources, while New South Wales, the country’s most
populous state, moved last month to restrict access to some
areas for drilling in response to environmental concerns.  AGL
Energy Ltd. (AGK)  has said that New South Wales needs to develop the
resources to address a looming gas shortage and that the new
state rules may force it to write down the value of two
projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  