-- DBS CEO’s $7.5 Million Exceeds Pay for Deutsche Bank Bosses
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-04-02T08:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/dbs-ceo-s-7-5-million-pay-tops-deutsche-bank-barclays-chiefs-.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. boosted
Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta ’s total compensation by 15
percent to S$9.3 million ($7.5 million) last year, exceeding CEO
pay at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Pay for the head of Southeast Asia’s largest lender,
released yesterday in its annual report, compares with 4.8
million euros ($6.2 million) for Deutsche Bank co-CEOs Anshu
Jain and Juergen Fitschen, and 2.6 million pounds ($4 million)
for Barclays chief  Antony Jenkins , according to the companies.  Gupta’s increase coincides with last year’s record profit
of S$3.8 billion and DBS’s plans to expand in fast-growing Asian
markets, including the pending  takeover  of PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia. Asia’s growth contrasts with a recession in  Europe ,
where banks are retrenching to meet tightened capital
requirements and coping with a debt crisis.  “For senior executives at banks, remuneration is pegged to
performance, and for  DBS (DBS)  that clearly seems to be the case,”
said Stella Tang, a Singapore-based director at recruitment
company Robert Half International Inc.  Gupta, who oversaw a 29 percent jump in DBS shares last
year, was awarded a S$3.5 million cash bonus and company stock
valued at S$4.6 million as part of total compensation, according
to the annual report. His base salary totalled S$1.2 million.  DBS was little changed at S$15.90 as of 3:37 p.m. in
Singapore, where it’s based, and touched a four-and-a-half year
high last week, as it withstands shrinking interest  rates  at
home in search of growth elsewhere in the  region .  European Rivals  Jain and Fitschen, who took over as co-chiefs of Germany’s
biggest  bank  in June, saw profit after tax last year erode to
291 million euros after setting aside additional money to cover
legal costs linked to U.S. mortgage lawsuits and other
regulatory probes, a 93 percent drop from the previous year.  Jenkins, who became CEO of Britain’s second-biggest bank by
assets on Aug. 30, said in February that he didn’t wish to be
considered for a 2012 bonus. The lender on Feb. 12 posted an
annual net loss of 1.04 billion pounds, its first in two
decades, after setting aside an additional 1 billion pounds for
compensating clients wrongly sold  interest-rate swaps  and loan-
repayment insurance.  In the Asia-Pacific region, four of the top five banks by
market value are Chinese. Of those, only  Bank of China Ltd. , the
country’s fourth largest, has published its annual report,
revealing Chairman Xiao Gang was paid 1.1 million  yuan 
($178,000) last year. Xiao stepped down last month.  Ian Narev, CEO of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
fifth-largest in the region, earned A$5.7 million ($6 million)
for the year ended June 2012, according to its annual report.
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and United Overseas Bank Ltd.,
Gupta’s domestic rivals, haven’t released CEO pay for last year.  “If other regional banks can capitalize on Asian growth
and deliver this type of performance, they too can possibly
start compensating” at DBS’s level, Tang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  