-- HSBC Joins Deutsche in Betting Swedish Krona Gains Not Over
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-04-03T07:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/deutsche-bets-sweden-s-krona-still-cheapest-aaa-after-advance.html
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s
biggest currency trader, and HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest
bank by assets, are both predicting  Sweden ’s krona has further
to rise.  A 6 percent gain in the past year against the euro has
still left the krona undervalued, according to Henrik Gullberg,
a London-based  exchange-rate  strategist at Deutsche. While some
measures show the currency is expensive, it enjoys a community
of loyal investors eager to hold assets backed by stable AAA
governments, said  Daragh Maher , a strategist at HSBC in  London .  The krona is proving irresistible as accelerating economic
growth and policy makers’ near-indifference to the exchange rate
support its ascent. And as the euro area sinks deeper into its
debt crisis, the relative appeal of anything sold out of AAA
rated Scandinavia’s largest economy is growing, HSBC and
Deutsche say.  “The market is happy to buy an over-valued currency
because it’s AAA,” Maher said in an e-mailed reply to questions
yesterday. HSBC estimates the krona will reach 8.10 against the
euro by the end of the year, compared with a high of 8.3059
yesterday. The currency gained 0.1 percent against the euro to
8.311 as of 8:59 a.m. in  Stockholm .  According to Gullberg at Deutsche, the krona is the only
currency backed by a AAA government that still looks cheap. He
estimates “valuation won’t become an issue” until it reaches
as strong as 7.75 to 8 per euro. That’s unlikely to happen until
“sometime in the second half of the year,” he said.  Manufacturing Rebound  The krona soared as much as 0.8 percent against the euro
yesterday following a stronger-than-estimated manufacturing
survey that supported the central bank’s projection it won’t
need to cut  interest rates  again. Manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace since June 2011, according to a purchasing
managers’ index published yesterday by  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   Sweden’s Riksbank left its main rate unchanged in February
at 1 percent and signaled no more easing, following four cuts
since December 2011. The bank estimates the economy will grow
1.2 percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2014. The 17-member
euro area will contract 0.3 percent this year and grow 1.4
percent in 2014, the European Commission said on Feb. 22.  “There’s limited room for the Riksbank to cut rates
further,” Gullberg said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The
krona boasts “an attractive valuation,” he said. “It’s the
only undervalued AAA rated developed-market currency.”  Too Expensive?  The krona has gained 5.9 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months, the best performance in the period of a major
currency after the  Mexican peso  and the  New Zealand dollar ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those gains have left the krona too expensive according to
some measures, said Maher. It’s 24 percent overvalued versus the
euro this year, topping 12 major currencies, according to
calculations from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. Maher argues that makes the krona less appealing
than  Norway ’s krone, which is backed by the world’s largest
sovereign-wealth fund, the biggest budget surplus of any AAA
nation and faster economic growth rates. Norway’s krone has
gained 1.3 percent against the euro in the past year.  “My concern regarding the Swedish krona is a relative
one,” Maher said. “It strikes me that the krona’s gains
against the Norwegian krone, for example, look rather overdone.
I like the Swedish krona, but would need to be a little
selective about which currencies I would buy it against.”  Fear Itself  Yet other measures show the krona is still cheap. The
Sweden Purchasing Power Parity Exchange Rate CPI index suggests
the krona is 21 percent undervalued, relative to average values
between 1982 and 2000.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB said in a note today that Sweden
can cope with a stronger currency and the krona has “nothing
to fear but itself.” It’s “hard to argue” that the krona is
overvalued, the Stockholm-based bank said, citing Sweden’s
current account surplus and trade-weighted measures.      While the central bank of neighboring Norway has shown it’s
willing to cut rates to stem currency appreciation, Riksbank
Governor Stefan Ingves said in an interview earlier this year
he’s “happy” with the krona’s appreciation. Prime Minister
 Fredrik Reinfeldt  has said he welcomes the krona’s gains,
arguing they make traveling cheaper for Swedish tourists.  There is “no sign that officials, politicians or central
bankers are worried about krona strength, which I believe is a
result of the fact that in real terms the krona is not
particularly strong,” Gullberg said.  “On all our longer-term valuation metrics, the krona is
still undervalued,” he said. “This is also backed up by the
real effective exchange rate, which only now is back at pre-
crisis levels, and still about 5 percent to 6 percent weaker
than it was 10 years ago, despite stronger fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  