-- Dish Says $1 Billion Debt Offering May Fund Transactions
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-02T22:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/dish-says-1-billion-debt-offering-may-fund-transactions-1-.html
A unit of  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the
third-largest U.S. pay-TV provider, said it will seek to raise
$1 billion in debt for purposes that may include wireless
transactions or acquisitions of airwaves.  Dish is seeking to forge a partnership or acquire a company
in the wireless industry to add mobile capabilities to its
satellite-TV product. The company made an offer to buy all of
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s outstanding shares for $3.30 each on Jan. 8.
Clearwire said last month it’s still weighing that offer as well
as a $2.97-a-share bid from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   “Dish’s first preference is probably to buy some divested
spectrum as part of a Clearwire deal with Sprint,” Shing Yin,
an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in New York, said in an
interview. “If that doesn’t happen, maybe Dish considers PCS or
T-Mobile.”  The senior notes will be offered through subsidiary Dish
DBS Corp., the company said today in a statement. Dish DBS
intends to issue five- and seven-year securities, according to a
person familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Dish also unsuccessfully bid to acquire  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  for about $4 billion in August, according to
company filings. MetroPCS and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA
Inc. agreed to merge in October, although the transaction must
pass a shareholder vote on April 12.  MetroPCS Signal?  Today’s offering can be interpreted as a signal that Dish
could make a competitive bid for MetroPCS if the merger with T-
Mobile is voted down by shareholders, Tim Farrar, an analyst
with TMF Associates Inc. in Menlo Park,  California , said in an
interview.  “Dish wants to use MetroPCS as leverage to get to T-Mobile
because Dish needs a national network,” Farrar said. “Buying
MetroPCS would be a message to T-Mobile that it’s so screwed it
needs to do a deal with Dish on Dish’s terms.”  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , raised an additional
$1.5 billion in debt in December, an offering that also could
also be used for “spectrum-related strategic transactions,”
according to a company filing. Those 5 percent notes are due in
2023.  Negative Outlook  Dish’s credit profile has “weakened considerably” through
last year with rising debt levels helping to limit the company’s
financial flexibility at its current rating, David Peterson, an
analyst at Fitch Ratings, said today in a report that ranked the
new debt BB- with a “negative” outlook. The rating is three
levels below investment grade.  That outlook “encompasses the lack of visibility as well
as the potential capital and execution risks associated with
Dish’s wireless strategy,” Peterson said.  Lending Dish more money without more clarity on the
company’s options is “dangerous,” according to Chris Ucko, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc.  Owning Dish shares instead of debt is a safer option
because with the stock, “interests are more closely aligned”
with those of co-founder and chairman Charlie Ergen, Ucko said
in a report. Ergen is Dish’s controlling shareholder.  Dish was little changed at $38.07 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 4.6 percent this year, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has risen 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  