-- EADS Board Approves $4.8 Billion Buyback, Names Ranque Chairman
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-02T17:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/eads-board-approves-4-8-billion-buyback-names-ranque-chairman.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’s new board appointed Denis Ranque as chairman and backed a
3.75 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) stock buyback to support its
share price during an ownership transition.  Ranque, the 61-year-old former chief executive officer of
French avionics supplier  Thales SA (HO) , is being elevated to the new
role after being appointed to the board of EADS last week.  The purchase of as much as 15 percent of stock at a maximum
price of 50 euros a share will ease the biggest change to EADS’s
corporate structure since its formation in 2000, curbing state
influence and allowing founding investors  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  and
 Daimler AG (DAI)  to exit. The buyback will stretch over 18 months,
Toulouse, France-based EADS said in a statement today.  “The share buyback program represents good use of company
funds in the interest of EADS and its shareholders and it
preserves, at the same time, our strategic flexibility and a
sound balance sheet,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  said.  Shares will be acquired through private purchases, using
derivatives or on the stock exchange, and then canceled,
Europe’s largest aerospace company said.  Under the new structure, EADS’s free float will increase,
even with the introduction of the German state to replace
Daimler.  France , which has a 15 percent stake, will see that
drop to 12 percent, matching the German holding.  Spain will be allowed to sell 1.15 percent of stock before
April 10 to cut its holding to about 4 percent. An initial
agreement allowed no disposal until Jan. 1.  Chief Financial Officer Harald Wilhelm told investors at a
meeting that appointed the new board on March 27 that EADS would
preserve its capital spending ability and future dividends.  John Parker , an incumbent board member, heads the company’s
remuneration and nomination committee, with Hermann-Josef Lamberti, the former Deutsche Bank AG chief operating officer,
given oversight of the  audit committee , today’s statement said.  EADS shares rose 3.6 percent to 41.12 euros in Paris before
the announcement. The stock has advanced 39 percent this year,
valuing the company at 34 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  