-- Legg Mason’s Ron Dewhurst to Leave After Losing CEO Bid
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-02T13:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/legg-mason-s-ron-dewhurst-to-leave-after-losing-ceo-bid.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the money manager
that named Joseph A. Sullivan its chief executive officer in
February after a five-month search, said Ron Dewhurst, who was a
candidate for the position, is leaving the firm.  In addition to Dewhurst, the former head of global
investment managers, Thomas Lemke, general counsel and head of
governance, will also be leaving the firm, the Baltimore-based
firm said today in a statement. Legg Mason will take an $8.5
million charge in the first quarter for the cost of their
separation agreements, according to a regulatory filing.  Sullivan, who had served as interim CEO since Oct. 1, is
looking to reverse five years of client redemptions and calm
restive fund affiliates. The firm, whose assets swelled to a
peak of $1 trillion in 2007 as investors flocked to funds
managed by top-ranked managers such as Bill Miller, slumped to
$661 billion at the end of February as performance declined and
investors pulled money.  Sullivan today named the members of his executive committee
including Pete Nachtwey, chief financial officer, Terry Johnson,
head of global distribution, and Jennifer Murphy, chief
administrative officer. The firm is looking for an executive to
lead an expanded business and product development role,
according to the statement.  “These leadership changes reflect the way I plan to manage
Legg Mason to deliver on our key business objectives of
maintaining a relevant and comprehensive product set, delivering
compelling investment performance, and creating a world class
institutional and retail distribution platform,” Sullivan said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  