-- Egypt’s Brotherhood Slams U.S. ‘Interference’ on Arrest
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-02T16:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/egypt-s-brotherhood-slams-u-s-interference-on-satirist-arrest.html
U.S. criticism of an arrest warrant
issued for  Egypt ’s top television satirist is a “blatant
interference” in the country’s internal affairs, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s political arm said.  Prosecutors ordered Bassem Youssef, known as Egypt’s  Jon Stewart , to be detained after complaints that he insulted Islam
and Islamist President Mohamed Mursi. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  joined Mursi’s secular opponents in
criticizing the decision, saying yesterday that it raised
concerns about the government’s commitment to basic freedoms.  Nuland’s comments implied that the allegations focused on
slights to the president, the Freedom and Justice Party,
previously led by Mursi, said in an e-mailed statement. In fact,
they mostly addressed charges of expressing contempt for the
Islamic faith, which if substantiated would be a “grave
transgression of the law” and of “social and cultural
principles in the Egyptian society,” it said.  The action against Youssef adds to tension in a country
struggling to revive an economy growing at the slowest pace in
nearly two decades and end the polarization and protests that
have recurred since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in 2011.  The U.S. has raised concerns over potential threats to
civil liberties since Mursi’s election in June. That echoes the
views of secularists and rights groups in Egypt, a key U.S. ally
for three decades under Mubarak and the recipient of billions of
dollars in American aid, mostly military.  Insulting Religion  The Islamist president has said he respects the freedom of
the press and the right to free expression, while stressing
there must be accountability, particularly at a time when state
institutions are being targeted during the daily protests.
Islamists have also criticized independent media and satellite
channels for fomenting unrest.  Egypt’s investment authority has received many complaints
about Youssef’s show, including “mockery” of “state symbols
and prominent personalities” and “sexually suggestive”
language, state-run Ahram Gate reported today, citing the
authority’s deputy head, Abdel Moneim El-Alfy. The channel
broadcasting the show, CBC, has been warned that this violates
licensing conditions the program must abide by, he said,
according to Ahram Gate.  Not Insulting  Youssef, who hosts “Al-Bernameg,” or the Program, on a
satellite channel, was released on bail on March 30 hours after
he turned himself in to prosecutors for questioning.  “We are not the ones who insult religion,” the satirist
said in a phone interview on CBC television. “If there is
anyone who has insulted religion, it is those who use Islam as a
weapon for political reasons.”  His arrest is “evidence of a disturbing trend of growing
restrictions on freedom of expression” in Egypt, Nuland said
yesterday in  Washington .  The FJP said the case is still in the investigative stage
and that it will be handled through “legitimate” legal
channels.  Mursi, who has said he will be a president for all
Egyptians, has said he will not allow anyone to interfere in
Egypt’s affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  