-- TeliaSonera Halts Sale of Spain’s Yoigo on Low Offers
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-02T08:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/teliasonera-halts-sale-of-spanish-carrier-yoigo-on-low-offers.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone operator, halted the sale of Spanish wireless carrier
Yoigo after failing to attract high enough offers from bidders
including  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   TeliaSonera will instead continue to develop the Spanish
unit, according to a  statement  today from the Stockholm-based
company. Analysts had valued Yoigo, the fourth-biggest mobile
operator in Spain, at about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion).  A failure to find a buyer shows the challenges faced by
wireless operators in Spain, a contracting economy where record
unemployment and intensifying competition are hurting carriers’
earnings. TeliaSonera began to look for a buyer for Yoigo last
year, with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  also among companies considering
bids, people with knowledge of the matter said in September.  “The Spanish telecom market is already too crowded and
companies are very cautious on any deal because growth prospects
aren’t great,” said Luis Benguerel, an equity trader at
Interbrokers in Barcelona. “Additionally, phone operators have
learnt the lesson from previous years and they don’t want to
overpay for an asset anymore.”  TeliaSonera shares  rose  0.5 percent to 46.77 kronor at
10:36 a.m. in  Stockholm . France Telecom gained 1.2 percent to
7.98 euros and Vodafone advanced 3.6 percent to 193.40 pence.  ‘Great Potential’  Yoigo has grown in Spain by stealing customers from rivals
such as market leader  Telefonica SA (TEF)  through its cheap offerings
for voice and data. The euro region’s fourth-largest economy is
trying to recover from a six-year economic slump and a 26
percent unemployment rate.  In January, Yoigo gained 85,340 mobile-phone customers,
bringing its market share to 6.55 percent, according to latest
data available by telecom regulator CMT. Bigger rivals
Telefonica, Vodafone and France Telecom’s Orange Spain lost
customers that month.  “Yoigo has great potential for further development, but as
its market strategy does not quite match our other operations,
we have been prepared to divest it if we were offered a price
which fully reflects its future potential,” TeliaSonera Chief
Executive Officer Per-Arne Blomquist said in today’s statement.
“As this requirement has not been met, we have discontinued the
sales process and look forward to continue developing the
company.”  Growth Projected  Fernando Castro, a spokesman for Orange Spain, confirmed
France Telecom had submitted a bid, declining to elaborate on
the details. Pepe Romero, a spokesman for Vodafone in Spain,
declined to comment.  Masha Lloyd, a spokeswoman for Yoigo in  Madrid , declined to
comment on which companies had submitted bids. “We are very
happy to be able to end this process and now will focus on
carrying out our project on our own,” she said.  Yoigo Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Taulet said in
February the company seeks to add 500,000 mobile-phone customers
this year to reach a total 4.2 million, and to boost revenue by
11 percent and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by 48 percent.  In 2012, Yoigo reported a 12 percent jump in sales to 8.38
billion kronor ($1.3 billion), while Ebitda climbed 49 percent
to 627 million kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  