-- Emaar Rises Most in Three Weeks on Iraq Project Bid: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-04-02T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/emaar-rises-most-in-three-weeks-on-iraq-project-bid-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the United
Arab Emirates biggest publicly traded developer, surged the most
in three weeks after bidding to build apartments in  Iraq .  The shares rose 3 percent, the biggest gain since March 10,
to close at 5.24 dirhams in Dubai, taking this year’s jump to 40
percent. Before today, the shares had lost 8.5 percent since
March 10. The benchmark DFM General Index rose 1 percent, with
Emaar leading gains by index points. About  12.2 million   shares
traded compared with this year’s daily average of 18.9 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai-based Emaar is among companies that have bid for a
project to build as many as 80,000 housing units in  Baghdad ,
Salar Mohammed Ameen, vice chairman of the National Investment
Commission, said in an interview yesterday. Emaar Chairman
 Mohamed Alabbar  told Arabian Business this week that the company
is considering building the world’s tallest tower in Asia, for
which it has identified sites and completed preliminary
drawings.  The rise is because of “a combination of consistently good
news, the bid on the Iraqi project being the latest in a string,
and Emaar having pulled back to levels which attracted bargain
hunters,” Amer Khan, a Dubai-based  fund manager  at Shuaa Asset
Management, said in an e-mail. “Emaar still trades below book
value so there is definitely a lot of value in the name.”  Emaar trades at 0.98 times its  book value  compared with an
average of 1.6 times for members of the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  company’s profit  is forecast to rise 5 percent to 2.22
billion dirhams ($591 million) in 2013, according to the mean
estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten analysts  have
a buy recommendation on the stock, five have a neutral rating
and one a sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  