-- Emerging Stocks Drop on China Earnings as Brazil Tumbles
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-02T21:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/emerging-stocks-drop-a-second-day-on-china-earnings-north-korea.html
Emerging stocks fell a second day as
disappointing Chinese earnings and tensions on the Korean
peninsula overshadowed gains in eastern European equities.
Brazilian shares slumped the most in six weeks.  China Citic Bank Corp. (998)  dropped the most since June in  Hong
Kong  as earnings missed analyst estimates. STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. tumbled 15 percent in Seoul as it’s seeking to
restructure debt. The won weakened a second day after  North
Korea  said it will restart nuclear facilities. Benchmark gauges
in the  Czech Republic  and  Hungary  rallied, while homebuilder
Brookfield Incorporacoes SA paced losses in  Brazil .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,029.10 in New York. More than 55 percent of companies on the
index that reported annual earnings this year trailed analysts’
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. North Korea will
restart all facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear site, according
to the official Korean Central News Agency.  “Chinese companies have had some negative earnings
surprises as they adjust to a more moderate growth
environment,”  Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at
Solaris Group LLC in New York, which manages about $2 billion,
said by phone. “Korea has a geopolitical issue that’s adding to
the risk sentiment for emerging markets in general.”  Commodity and industrial companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index slid the most among 10 groups. The broader measure
has slipped 2.5 percent this year, compared with a 7.2 percent
gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The
developing-nations gauge trades at 10.7 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained less
than 0.1 percent to $42.33. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, fell 2.3
percent to 17.77.  Brazil’s Bovespa index dropped 1.8 percent, the steepest
decline since Feb. 20. Brookfield tumbled 9 percent to a four-
year low. Steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA fell
4.1 percent.  The Mexican IPC Index  gained  0.4 percent as U.S. stocks
rose amid data showing factory orders at the world’s largest
economy advanced the most in five months in February.  Russian shares advanced on speculation the country’s
depositors won’t suffer severe losses in Cyprus’s debt crisis
and as the central bank signaled it may cut its main rates. The
Micex Index added 0.1 percent. OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest
lender, rose 0.9 percent.  Hungary, Turkey  Benchmark gauges in Hungary and the Czech Republic gained
at least 1.3 percent, as trading resumed after a holiday
weekend. Istanbul’s ISE National 100 Index fell 0.1 percent.  Chinese stocks fell to a three-month low as health-care
companies slumped. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong slid 0.8 percent. China
Citic Bank tumbled 6 percent.  Angang Steel Co. (000898)  shares gained 13
percent in Hong Kong, the most since December 2011 for the
biggest advance in the emerging markets gauge.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 0.5 percent. STX Offshore
slumped by its 15 percent daily limit, the biggest decline since
its listing in October 2003.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 304 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  