-- Eni Seen Paying Mozambique $538 Million or More on Capital Gains
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-02T13:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/eni-seen-paying-mozambique-538-million-or-more-on-capital-gains.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , the oil company that agreed
to sell a stake in its Mozambique gas assets last month, is
likely to pay the government $538 million to $1.4 billion in
capital gains tax, according to analysts at Eurasia Group.  “The Mozambican government is likely to insist on some
kind of capital gains on the transaction before giving its
approval,” Eurasia said in an e-mailed note. Uncertainty
surrounding the country’s tax code will probably allow for
negotiation, the analysts said.  Eni plans to sell a 20 percent stake in the Area 4 block to
China National Petroleum Corp. for $4.2 billion, allowing it to
spread development and construction costs. An agreement on
capital gains, subject to discussion after Mozambique altered
tax laws last year, will be watched by other companies studying
assets in the country including OAO Gazprom and  Inpex Corp. (1605)   The African nation, site of the world’s largest gas
discoveries in the past decade, has increased capital gains tax
to 32 percent as it seeks to reap greater revenue from its
natural resources. That compares with the 12.8 percent levied on
 PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ’s June purchase of Cove Energy
Plc, a rate that would translate into $538 million for Eni.  “The lower half of the range is more likely given the
PTT/Cove precedent,” Mark Rosenberg, an analyst at Eurasia,
said in an e-mail. “At the same time the government will want
to demonstrate that it got a higher rate this time so as not to
invite a rush of transactions and/or show a weak hand.”  Tax Talks  The government has declined to specify the tax rate it’s
seeking on Eni’s sale. The levy is open to negotiation because
President Armando Guebuza didn’t announce the 32 percent rate
before the Jan. 1 deadline for 2013 laws, according to Eurasia.  The amendments “may be unconstitutional and thus have not
been promulgated by President Guebuza,” Rosenberg said.  Eni should share some of its proceeds with the government,
Energy Minister Salvador Namburete said when the CNPC deal was
announced. Finance Minister Manuel Chang said in an interview
last week that he wanted to see talks “taking an easy way, but
unfortunately this is not what is happening now.”  Eni has discovered 75 trillion cubic feet of gas in Area
4’s offshore fields, more than  Norway ’s current reserves. No one
at the Rome-based company was immediately available for comment
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  