-- Yen Climbs on Speculation BOJ Will Disappoint; Sterling Advances
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-03T21:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/euro-trades-near-five-week-low-against-yen-before-ecb-meeting.html
The yen climbed versus all of its 16
most-traded peers amid speculation a decision tomorrow by the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  will signal its monetary-easing efforts will fall
short of its goals and fail to reignite inflation.  The dollar weakened against the euro as reports on U.S.
service industries and employment trailed forecasts. The pound
gained from a two-week low on bets the  Bank of England  won’t
extend monetary-stimulus tomorrow. Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe said yesterday the BOJ may fail to achieve its target
of boosting inflation to 2 percent.  “ Japan  tends to move a little bit more slowly than
markets, and that’s the risk we face tomorrow,”  Daragh Maher , a
London-based currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
Julie Hyman. “Therefore I think you’re long yen, you’re selling
dollar-yen because of that scope for disappointment, for being
underwhelmed.” Long positions are bets a currency will gain.  The yen climbed 0.4 percent to 93.04 per dollar at 5 p.m.
in  New York  after losing 0.2 percent yesterday. The U.S.
currency weakened 0.2 percent to $1.2850 per euro.  Europe ’s
shared currency fell 0.2 percent to 119.54 yen and touched
119.11, the lowest level since Feb. 26.  The JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , based on three-month
futures options on Group of Seven nations’ currencies, fell to
8.92 percent, a two-month low. It reached a 2013 high of 10.26
percent on Feb. 26.  Biggest Loser  The ruble was the biggest loser against 31 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen spurred the strongest capital outflow from
 Russia  in a year. The currency slid 0.9 percent to 31.5949 per
dollar and touched 31.6219, the weakest level since Nov. 19.  The pound strengthened against the dollar amid speculation
the Bank of England at a meeting tomorrow will maintain its
asset-purchase target at 375 billion pounds ($568 billion),
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Sterling rose 0.2 percent to $1.5130 after dropping earlier
to $1.5076, the weakest level since March 20.  The rand rallied after a gauge of South African business
confidence rose.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated 0.3 percent
to 9.2275 to the dollar.  The Bank of Japan will say tomorrow after a two-day meeting
it will boost monthly bond purchases by about 50 percent to 5.2
trillion yen ($56 billion), according to the average forecast in
a survey of economists by Bloomberg.  ‘Very Nervous’  “The market is very nervous given positioning and
uncertainty ahead of the meeting,” said  Sebastien Galy , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York.
“The moves could be extremely wild both ways before we settle
on a new trend that makes stop-loss management a nightmare.” A
stop-loss order is an automatic instruction to buy or sell a
currency at a certain level to limit losses.  The yen has tumbled 16 percent against the dollar and slid
15 percent versus the euro during the past six months.  Japanese two-year  government bonds  yielded 0.06 percent
today, or six basis points, compared with 0.23 percent for
similar-maturity Treasuries. Japan’s five-year securities yield
0.137 percent, compared with 0.11 percent on March 18, while
U.S. five-year notes yielded 0.72 percent.  If Japan’s central bank drives two-year yields lower than
five basis points and five-year yields lower than 13 basis
points, “we are likely to see significant weakness” in the yen
versus the dollar, Steven Englander, a currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in a report.  Bond Purchases  The BOJ’s new governor,  Haruhiko Kuroda , has indicated that
expanded purchases of government bonds will be the main tool for
easing.  He has said the bank will consider combining monthly
purchases and an asset-purchase fund, as well as buying more
debt with longer maturities.  Kuroda, who has given himself two years to do “whatever it
takes” to end deflation, is running his first policy meeting.  “While the Japanese are serious about combating deflation,
they would need to perform extraordinary measures, like buying
foreign bonds, to justify the market’s perception of what they
may do,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed
income and currencies at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto. “They are more likely to be more
cautious, preferring to save their bullets instead of using them
all at once.”  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, declined 0.2 percent to 82.763.  The U.S. currency extended losses against the euro and yen
after the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S.  non-
manufacturing  businesses, which covers almost 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 54.4 in March from 56 in the prior month. The
median forecast of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 55.5.
Readings above 50 signal expansion.  American companies added 158,000 jobs last month, the least
since October, Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research Institute
reported. A Bloomberg survey forecast an increase of 200,000.  The euro weakened 1.5 percent over the past month among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar was little changed and the yen
gained 0.6 percent.  The European Central Bank’s Governing Council meets
tomorrow to decide on  interest rates . Of 56 economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News , 54 expect the ECB to keep its  key rate  at a
record-low 0.75 percent, while two predict a cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  