-- Mexico Peso Gains Before Senate Telecommunications Bill Debate
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-02T13:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/mexico-peso-gains-before-senate-telecommunications-bill-debate.html
Mexico’s peso rallied the most in a
week as the Senate prepared to debate a bill designed to boost
competition in the telecommunications industry, fueling optimism
about the outlook for foreign investment.  The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 12.3323 per  U.S.
dollar  at 7:30 a.m. in Mexico City, the biggest gain on a
closing basis since March 22. It’s rallied 4.2 percent this year
against the dollar, the most among the greenback’s 16 most-
traded counterparts.  Senate lawmakers are set today to begin discussing the
legislation, which cleared the lower house last month, that
seeks to foster investment in the $30 billion-a-year
telecommunications industry. Lawmakers from parties opposing
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party 
are seeking to change some aspects of the proposal. While
voicing concern about parts of the bill before the Senate, Jesus
Zambrano, head of the opposition Democratic Revolution Party,
said yesterday he’s confident it will pass this month.  The peso is gaining as “momentum on the reform front
appears to remain positive,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin America
currency strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “Lower telecom costs are
positive for all industries” and “a country with a lower cost
structure is more attractive to invest in.”  Pena Nieto said March 11 that “this reform allows growth
possibilities, but to achieve this companies will have to invest
and innovate, offer better prices and improve their quality of
service.”  Yields on peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 were little
changed at 5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price fell 0.05 centavo to 144.26 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  