-- Exxon Expects Australia Floating LNG Project Start by ’21
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-02T07:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/exxon-expects-australia-floating-lng-project-start-by-21.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to develop
the world’s biggest floating liquefied natural gas project off
the coast of Western  Australia  as costs to build onshore plants
in the country surge.  Exxon, the largest U.S. oil company, and partner  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  expect to decide whether to go ahead with the
Scarborough floating LNG venture in 2014 or 2015, with the
project starting production in 2020 or 2021, documents lodged on
the Australian Environment Department’s website show.  Energy companies from Royal Dutch Shell Plc to  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. want to turn natural gas into liquid at
sea. In Australia, Shell is developing the Prelude floating LNG
vessel -- expected to be as long as the Empire State Building
and weigh six times as much as the biggest  aircraft carrier  --
after companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  experienced budget
overruns at onshore LNG projects in the country.  A floating LNG facility has the potential to lower costs by
eliminating the need for pipelines to the coast and reduce the
venture’s “environmental footprint,” Jessica Warne, a
Melbourne-based spokeswoman for Exxon, said today by phone.  Exxon’s Plans  The Exxon project is expected to cost more than Deutsche
Bank AG’s $12 billion estimate for Prelude,  John Hirjee , a
Melbourne-based analyst at the bank, said today by phone.  Exxon’s plan, which may change, would be to produce about 6
million metric tons to 7 million metric tons of LNG a year,
Warne said. Prelude is expected to produce at least 3.6 million
tons of LNG annually, according to its website. The development
is due to start in about 2017, Shell said in 2011.  Exxon’s floating plant in the Carnarvon Basin off northwest
Australia is expected to be about 495 meters (1,624 feet) long
and 75 meters wide, according to the  filing . Prelude, expected
to be the world’s largest vessel, will be 488 meters long and 74
meters wide, Shell’s  website shows .  About 12 production wells will be drilled in two phases,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said in the documents.  The Hague-based Shell’s floating LNG venture will cost
$10.8 billion to $12.6 billion, according to figures the  oil
company  provided when it approved the project in 2011. Exxon’s
Warne declined to provide a cost estimate for Scarborough.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  