-- Fannie, Freddie Don’t Deserve Capital Punishment
-- B y   J a m e s   F e n k n e r
-- 2013-04-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/fannie-freddie-don-t-deserve-capital-punishment.html
The rebound in the real estate
market has breathed some life back into Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac , the giant mortgage financiers that have been wards of the
state since their near-collapse in 2008. The government should
seize the opportunity to put them on a path to recovery, rather
than killing institutions that, properly managed, could help
stabilize U.S. housing finance for generations to come.  This week, Fannie Mae reported net income of $17.2 billion
for 2012, the largest annual profit in company history. Freddie
Mac earned $11 billion over the same period. Oddly, not a dime
of that money will go toward paying back the $188 billion the
federal government has lent the two companies over the past
several years. Instead, at the government’s behest, about $11
billion will go toward sky-high interest payments on the debt,
which the Treasury holds in the form of preferred shares. The
onerous payments will leave the mortgage giants  thinly
capitalized  and undermine the investment of U.S. taxpayers, who
hold 80 percent of the companies’ stock.  How did we reach this absurd state of affairs? For
perspective, turn the clock back to 1937, when  Fannie Mae  was
founded. Mortgages were harder to get and more vulnerable to
busts. One bad year and families could get booted from their
homes and wake up in the poor house. Fannie Mae and later
Freddie Mac made the mortgage market more resilient, engineering
30-year loans with predictable payments, pooling risk and
attracting a wide range of investors. For almost five decades,
they helped establish a culture of middle-class  home ownership 
that was regarded as a bedrock of American values.  Special Treatment  The system worked so well that politicians couldn’t leave
it alone. Steady demands for greater home ownership, lower
mortgage fees and, that Beltway delight, special treatment
gradually gutted what risk acumen Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
could muster. By 2006, both companies were barely profitable.
Rather than maintain credit standards in the face of a housing
bubble, they blindly repackaged billions of dollars in risky
mortgages that by September 2008 forced them into government
conservatorship.  The government bailout placed an unusually heavy burden on
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Under terms negotiated by the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , the Treasury received a 10
percent interest rate on the preferred shares it received in
return for injecting enough money to cover the companies’
losses. That’s double the 5 percent rate initially paid by Bank
of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, AIG and other financial
institutions that received Treasury funding.  For Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the deal worked like the
worst of the negative-amortization loans made in the run-up to
the crisis. When they couldn’t afford to pay the interest, the
Treasury lent them more money to make up the difference. The
result is a debt of $188 billion. As conservator, the FHFA did
nothing to offer a debt restructuring, a workout or any other
relief along the same lines that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
themselves were doing for tens of thousands of homeowners who
owed more than they could pay.  Now the times have changed. As evidenced by the record
profits at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage market is
once again lucrative, and big U.S. banks have taken notice. The
combined 2012 net interest income at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
represents over 70 percent of that of JPMorgan, the largest U.S.
bank by assets. With such mouthwatering returns on display, what
self-respecting banker wouldn’t want to kick Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac out of the securitization market and eat their
lunch? The question is whether the government is helping them do
so.  Usurious Rates  So far, the government’s approach has been highly
inequitable. It has encouraged the banks to pay back their
bailout money, and most have done so. At the same time, the FHFA
is forcing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to pay usurious rates, and
plans to ratchet up the payments sharply from 2013. Instead of
using their profits to rebuild their capital and prepare for the
next housing downturn, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will send all
the money back to the Treasury, without paying down their debt.
With a conservator like the FHFA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
will eventually need an undertaker.  The demise of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would mean a
drastically different marketplace for mortgage securities. It
would be dominated by large banks that already have far more
sway over the Washington bureaucracy than Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac ever did. Many are the same financial institutions that
misbehaved so egregiously during the housing boom that Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac successfully sued them for tens of billions
of dollars in damages. If they ran into trouble, the potential
repercussions would be so threatening to the economy that
taxpayers would have little choice but to bail them out again.  A better option would be to give Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
a chance to get out from under their debt burden. If the
government reduced the rate of interest, it’s possible that the
two companies could redeem the $188 billion in preferred shares
in four to five years. The Treasury would receive the same
amount of money whether it comes in payment of dividends or
principle. If the companies’ market values then recovered to
just half the historic peak, the U.S. government’s stake would
be worth more than $70 billion.  How the government acts will be a crucial test of its
loyalties. Whose interests is it serving, those of the country’s
biggest banks, or those of American taxpayers and homeowners?  (James Fenkner is a certified financial analyst living in
 Santa Barbara ,  California . He was a Moscow-based managing
partner at Red Star Asset Management LP from 2005 to 2009. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
James Fenkner at  fenkner@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 