-- Fed’s Lockhart Says QE May Be Needed Into Next Year
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-02T19:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/fed-s-lockhart-says-qe-may-be-needed-to-spur-jobs-into-next-year.html
Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the Fed will probably need to
strengthen the U.S. labor market by pressing on with asset
purchases later into this year or into 2014.  “The decision to curtail asset purchases ought to be
forward-looking and, in my judgment, that point could come later
this year or early next year without harm to the momentum of the
economy,” Lockhart said today in a speech in Birmingham,
Alabama.  Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
has supported the central bank’s monthly purchases of $85
billion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities to reduce
7.7 percent unemployment. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
month the Fed would alter the size of its monthly buying in
response to changes in the job market, including wages, jobless
claims and payrolls.  “There are encouraging developments in the economy, to be
sure, but the evidence of sustainable momentum that will deliver
‘substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market’ is
not yet conclusive,’’ Lockhart said in the text of remarks to
the Kiwanis Club of Birmingham, citing criteria used by the
 Federal Open Market Committee .  “I favor a wait and watch mode for the time being,” he
said. “Several more months of positive data -- especially in a
range of employment data -- would give me confidence that the
economy has real traction and is unlikely to backslide.”  Continued Growth  The Atlanta Fed chief said his outlook is for “continued
moderate growth.” Inflation has been running close to the Fed’s
2 percent rate, with some measures below it, he said.  While some economists estimate first quarter growth will be
around a 3.5 percent annual rate, that pace reflects a rebound
from a sub-par fourth quarter and can’t be sustained for the
full year, Lockhart said to reporters after the speech. He
forecasts economic growth this year ranging between 2 percent
and 2.5 percent.  Lockhart said it’s hard to pinpoint the impact of  asset
purchases  on the economy, while estimating the third round of
bond buying has pushed down Treasury note yields by about 0.2
percentage point.  U.S. stocks rose today, with the  Standard & Poor’s  500
index rising 0.4 percent to 1,569.01 at 3:34 p.m. in New York,
after orders placed with U.S. factories increased in February
and Cyprus received easier bailout terms. The 10-year Treasury
yield rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.86
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  A former Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
Alabama,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
 Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  