-- FedEx Loses Bid to Shield Papers in Overbilling Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-04-02T23:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/fedex-loses-bid-to-shield-papers-in-overbilling-lawsuit.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  lost a bid to shield
some corporate documents from public disclosure by lawyers suing
two units of the package delivery company for knowingly
overbilling customers for commercial deliveries.  The ruling today by U.S. Magistrate Judge Charmiane Claxton
in  Memphis , Tennessee, came in a 2011 lawsuit filed by two law
firms -- one in  California , the other in  Georgia  -- claiming the
company has been intentionally charging higher residential rates
for deliveries made to unmistakably commercial recipients. The
suit could be worth tens of millions of dollars to the
plaintiffs.  The effect of the ruling will be delayed to give Memphis-
based FedEx the opportunity to object to it, Claxton said at
today’s hearing. FedEx has 10 days after Claxton signs a written
order to lodge an objection with U.S. District Judge John T. Fowlkes, who is overseeing the lawsuit.  “I don’t believe that the items that are highlighted are
confidential,” Claxton said, adding that she didn’t think they
met criteria set by Fowlkes in prior orders concerning sealed
material. He said the company couldn’t seal material that was
damaging to its reputation, as opposed to being confidential.  FedEx has denied the overcharging allegations and said
customers can avail themselves of a procedure for challenging
the charges. Company attorney Justin Ross opposed the lawyers’
request, telling the judge that with only one major U.S.
competitor,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , any disclosures can
potentially harm FedEx.  “Every little thing that you can get on us is a
competitive advantage,” Ross said.  “If you get to trial, at some point evidence must come
out,” the judge replied.  Many Deliveries  The plaintiffs claim FedEx units levied residential
surcharges of as much as $3 a package for tens of thousands of
deliveries to destinations including the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Office in  Chicago , a  Bank of America Corp.  facility
in Tampa,  Florida , and the Safariland Group body armor company
in Jacksonville, Florida, according to an amended complaint
filed in December.  “Defendants’ own internal documents prove that defendants
have known for years that they are unlawfully charging
residential delivery surcharges when they do not apply,”
according to a revised complaint filed by the firms in December.  FedEx has let these practices continue “because they
generate substantial illicit profits,” the law firms alleged,
accusing the carrier of racketeering and breach of contract.  Internal company e-mails unsealed in December revealed that
some FedEx officials were aware of the situation and chose not
to remedy it.  All Customers  The plaintiffs are seeking to proceed on behalf of all
customers of the company’s FedEx Express unit since 2010 who
paid the alleged overcharges and those who were overcharged by
its FedEx Services unit after August 2008.  An award of damages could be tripled under U.S.
racketeering laws. The plaintiffs are also seeking a court order
blocking the practice.  FedEx in December asked the court to throw out the
racketeering claim.  “If the plaintiffs believed that a residential surcharge
was inappropriately applied to their shipments, then the
contract provides a procedure for challenging that surcharge,”
the shipper said, referring to its customer service guide.  Claxton today heard almost two hours of oral argument over
the confidentiality of documents that plaintiffs’ lawyer Steven
Rosenwasser seeks to include in papers opposing the motion to
dismiss the racketeering claim and over the lawyer’s demand that
FedEx concede the commercial nature of some delivery
destinations he contends are beyond dispute.  Questions, Answers  While Rosenwasser argued that FedEx’s responses to his
demands for those admissions were improper, Claxton countered
that the company had made concessions and that if they weren’t
in the form he demanded the fault may lie in the formulation of
his questions, not their answers.  “You’re not guaranteed to get the smoking gun,” the judge
said.  Rosenwasser said the defendants were limiting their
admissions of commercial status to present day, citing a federal
Department of Homeland Security facility, something he said
shouldn’t have to be proven at a trial.  “Everybody knows that,” he said.  FedEx attorney Colleen Hitch Wilson told Claxton that some
of the company’s responses were dictated by judgment calls
concerning large office buildings.  Not Simple  “It’s not as simple as counsel suggests,” she said,
adding later, “The determination is ultimately going to need to
be made by a jury.”  “Really?” Claxton responded. “That’s going to make it
hard to do business in the future, don’t you think?”  While the judge struck several objections lodged against
the admission demands by FedEx, she told Rosenwasser that the
company’s use of “currently” in response to his questions was
reasonable.  “I cannot rewrite the request or response,” she said.  The case is Gokare PC v. Federal Express Corp., 11-cv-
02131, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Tennessee 
(Memphis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Memphis federal court at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  