-- FIFA Picks GoalControl to Help Prevent Soccer Goal-Line Errors
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-02T17:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/fifa-picks-goalcontrol-to-help-prevent-soccer-goal-line-errors.html
GoalControl GmbH may be the  World
Cup ’s first goal-line technology supplier after soccer’s
governing body selected the  Germany  company to provide
assistance at this year’s Confederations Cup in  Brazil .  FIFA  was seeking help in deciding contentious line calls
following controversy at the 2010 World Cup when officials
failed to spot a shot from  England ’s  Frank Lampard  had crossed
the line in his team’s 4-1 defeat to Germany. Until then FIFA,
and its president Sepp Blatter, had rejected requests to
introduce technology.  FIFA started a tender process in February following a vote
last year by the  International Football Association Board ,
soccer’s lawmaking body, in favor of goal-line technology. Four
companies vied for the role, three of which traveled to Brazil
for testing in local conditions.  “As part of the tender, GoalControl GmbH is also set to be
GLT provider for the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil provided that
the performance of the system during this year’s Festival of
Champions meets all necessary FIFA requirements,” FIFA said in
a  statement .  The Confederations Cup, also known as the Festival of
Champions, is considered a warm-up for the World Cup, sport’s
most-watched event. The eight-team tournament, which will be
played June 15 to 30, features host Brazil and regional
titleholders including world and European champion Spain,
Uruguay and  Nigeria .  First Trials  FIFA handed its first goal-line technology trials to  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s Hawkeye and Fraunhofer IIS’s GoalRef at December’s Club
World Cup. It later licensed the two, along with Germany-based
Cairos Technologies AG and GoalControl, meaning the companies
could be suppliers to leagues around the world. England’s
Premier League said it plans to hire a partner next season.  “While all four companies had previously met the stringent
technical requirements of the FIFA Quality Program, the final
decision was based on criteria relating more specifically to the
tournaments in Brazil, including the company’s ability to adapt
to local conditions and the compatibility of each GLT system in
relation to FIFA match operations,” FIFA said. “The respective
bids were also judged on cost and project management factors
such as staffing and time schedules for installation.”  GoalControl uses 14 high-speed cameras around the field as
part of its GoalControl-4D system, FIFA said in a statement. The
use of the system in Brazil is subject to a final test at each
stadium where it will be installed and further checks before
each match by officials, FIFA said.  Platini Critical  The issue of bringing technology into soccer remains
contentious. European soccer head  Michel Platini  is a vocal
critic, and said last week he won’t sanction the use of
artificial goal-line aids in UEFA’s Champions League and Europa
League competitions because it would be too expensive.  UEFA will continue to use additional officials placed
behind goals to help referees make correct calls.  “Honestly I prefer to put more money into youth football
and infrastructure than spend it on technology when there’s a
goal in a blue moon that hasn’t been seen by the referee,”
Platini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  