-- First Pitch Ceremony in MLB Runs Gamut From Piscopo to Piniella
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-02T18:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/first-pitch-ceremony-in-mlb-runs-gamut-from-piscopo-to-piniella.html
Singers, season-ticket holders,
soldiers and second-basemen were among those honored this year
with throwing the first pitch, a tradition that marks the
opening of the baseball season in parks across America and
 Canada .  Here’s a list of those who threw, with many opening game
participants still to be determined:  Arizona Diamondbacks -- April 1 -- Brandon Webb, former
National League Cy Young Award winner.  Atlanta Braves -- April 1 -- Chipper Jones, recently
retired Braves third baseman.  Baltimore Orioles -- April 5 -- To be determined.  Boston Red Sox -- April 8 -- TBD.  Chicago Cubs -- April 8 -- TBD.  Chicago White Sox -- April 1 -- Bo Jackson, former National
Football League and MLB player.  Cincinnati Reds -- April 1 -- Joe Torre, former major-
league player and manager now MLB’s executive vice president of
baseball operations.  Cleveland Indians -- April 8 -- Steve Swisher to first
baseman Nick Swisher, Mickey Brantley to outfielder Michael Brantley, Steve McAllister to pitcher Zach McAllister, Sandy
Alomar Sr. to bench coach Sandy Alomar Jr., and Tito Francona to
manager Terry Francona, simultaneous first pitches thrown by
former baseball-player fathers to their sons on the Indians.  Colorado Rockies -- April 5 -- TBD.  Detroit Tigers -- April 5 -- Willie Horton will throw to
his 1968 World Series championship teammate Jim Price.  Houston Astros -- March 31 -- J.J. Watt, Houston Texans
defensive end.  Kansas City Royals -- April 8 -- TBD.  Los Angeles Angels -- April 9 -- TBD.  Los Angeles Dodgers -- April 1 -- Sandy Koufax, Hall of
Fame pitcher.  Miami Marlins -- April 8 -- TBD.  Milwaukee Brewers -- April 1 -- James Beckum, former Negro
Leagues player who is founder of the Beckum-Stapleton Little
League, joined by Milwaukee youth-league players Titus Brown and
Paniya Stewart.  Minnesota Twins -- April 1 -- Family of Tom Decker, a Cold
Spring, Minnesota, police officer killed in the line of duty in
December  New York  Mets -- April 1 -- Rusty Staub, former player.  New York Yankees -- April 1 -- Lou Piniella, former player,
manager and broadcaster.  Oakland Athletics -- April 1 -- Barbara Angellar, season
ticket-holder, as part of 2012 AL West Championship celebration.  Philadelphia Phillies -- April 5 -- Mike Schmidt and George Brett, Hall of Fame players; Joe Piscopo, comedian. Phillies
play the Royals.  Pittsburgh Pirates -- April 1 -- Jim Rohr, retiring
chairman/chief executive officer, PNC Bank.  San Diego Padres -- April 9 -- TBD.  San Francisco Giants -- April 5 -- TBD.  Seattle Mariners -- April 8 -- TBD.  St. Louis Cardinals -- April 8 -- TBD.  Tampa Bay Rays -- April 2 -- Don Zimmer, former major
league player, coach and manager.  Texas Rangers -- April 5 -- Family of Emilie Parker, killed
in the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
 Connecticut .  Toronto Blue Jays -- April 2 -- Geddy Lee, lead singer of
Rush.  Washington Nationals -- April 1 -- Clint Romesha, recipient
of the Medal of Honor, the highest U.S. military honor. The
former U.S. Army staff sergeant served four tours of duty in
Kosovo, Iraq and  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  