-- FirstGroup Jumps Most in 4-Years on BofA Upgrade: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-04-02T17:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/firstgroup-jumps-most-in-11-months-on-bofa-upgrade-london-mover.html
FirstGroup Plc (FGP) , the U.K.’s largest
rail operator, jumped the most in four years after Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts said that contract extensions and
divestments may give the shares a 20 percent boost.  The stock rose 7.5 percent to close at 216.1 pence in
London trading, after earlier rising as much as 8.1 percent, the
biggest advance since April 2009 and the second-biggest gain
among the 602 companies on  FTSE All-Share Index. (ASX)  About 5.3
million shares traded, or 2.8 times the three-month daily
average for the Aberdeen, Scotland-based company.  FirstGroup, which carries more than 2.5 billion passengers
a year, said last week that it’s in talks to extend three rail
franchises after the U.K.’s Department of Transport announced a
program meant to provide longterm certainty to the franchising
market and bring more trains and services to its network.  “The probability of an equity-raising has faded in our
view given the rail franchise extensions” and disposals in bus
operations, analysts Mark Manduca and Joel Spungin wrote in a
note today. They raised their  recommendation  to buy from
underperform and said the shares may rise to 240 pence.  Disposals in FirstGroup’s U.K. bus division may yield 100
million pounds ($152 million) by fiscal year 2015, and give the
company “significant opportunity” to boost  profit margins , the
analysts said. An anticipated  dividend  cut will probably be
viewed by investors “as a sign of management taking action,”
they said.  FirstGroup is in discussions to extend contracts on its
First Capital Connect service, as well as the First Great
Western and First TransPennine Express franchises, the company
said March 26. The rail operator’s stock  remains down  about 12
percent since October, when it was stripped of the West Coast
rail contract after the government found “serious flaws” in
the assessment process.  Cash Flow  Investors have been wary of the stock because of
predictions for weak  cash flow , the BofA analysts said.  “We no longer share this bearish stance” because the rail
extensions mean there won’t be “significant rail-related
working capital outflow for the next two years” and the bus
disposals will bring in money, they said.  BofA also cut its recommendation on  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  to
underperform from buy, citing lower-than-anticipated profit in
 North America  and a weak valuation versus its peers. Stagecoach
shares rose 0.7 percent to 312.8 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  