-- France to Apply 75% Tax to Soccer Players’ Compensation
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-04-02T09:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/france-to-apply-75-tax-to-soccer-players-compensation.html
Paris Saint-Germain,  France ’s richest
soccer club, will have more on its agenda than controlling
Lionel Messi when it takes on Barcelona, the world’s best team,
tonight.  PSG’s Qatari owners also have the tax man to think about.
After conflicting messages by government officials, Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault’s office issued a statement today
confirming that a 75 percent surcharge on salaries above 1
million euros ($1.3 million) will apply to soccer clubs.  “This new tax will cost first-division teams 82 million
euros,” France’s Football League said in a statement. “With
these crazy labor costs, France will lose its best players, our
clubs will see their competitiveness in Europe decline, and the
government will lose its best taxpayers.”  At least 12 members of the Paris team make more than 1
million a year, according to France Football magazine. They
include Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, 15 million euros a
year, and Italian coach  Carlo Ancelotti , at 12 million euros.  Former England captain  David Beckham  would escape the tax
because his five-month stint at PSG doesn’t qualify him as a
French tax resident. While Beckham is soccer’s best-paid player
with 36 million euros this year, only 5 percent of that comes
from salary, according to France Football.  President  Francois Hollande  made the 75-percent tax a
cornerstone of his successful presidential campaign last year,
saying the wealthiest had to make a special contribution toward
cutting France’s deficit.  Many soccer players would already be taxed at France’s top
marginal rate of 49 percent, which kicks in at 500,000 euros a
year. Teams would then pay a surcharge to bring the effective
 tax rate  on salaries above 1 million euros to 75 percent.  Court Ruling  A first attempt to put the tax into law was shot down by
the constitutional court last December because the tax applied
to individuals and not households. While the government then
said it would rewrite the tax for 2014, the country’s top
administrative court said any rate above 66 percent could be
rejected as confiscatory.  In a television interview last week, Hollande revived the
tax, saying the rate would remain 75 percent, though it would be
paid by corporations, not individuals, circumventing the courts’
objections.  That solution left open the question of whether self-
employed artists and athletes would be taxed, as well as whether
a football team is a company.  In an interview with Journal du Dimanche March 31, Ayrault
avoided the question, saying that some companies paid
“indecent” salaries and joking that actor  Gerard Depardieu ,
who has left France for  Belgium , thought taxes are already too
high in France.  Contradictions  “The assurance has been given that only salaried workers
will be affected,” Small Industry Minister Fleur Pellerin said
on France Inter radio today. “Football clubs are a bit above
the revenue that one would use to define a small business. But
non-salaried artists and non-salaried athletes won’t be
affected.”  Qatar Sports Investment, a Qatari government fund, bought
PSG in 2011, and spent 200 million euros to lure Ancelotti and
Ibrahimovic, as well as other Brazilian, Argentinian, Italian
and French stars.  Tonight’s PSG-Barcelona match is the first leg of the
Champions League quarterfinals. The second leg will be played in
Barcelona on April 10, with the winner on aggregate goals going
on to the semi-finals.  Barcelona, with World Player of the Year Messi in its
ranks, is a four-time European champion, while PSG has never
gone beyond the semi-finals and last appeared in the quarter-
finals in 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  