-- Fuel Fights Expose Egypt’s Depleted Cash as Mursi Seeks Loan
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-03T13:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/fuel-fights-expose-egypt-s-depleted-cash-as-mursi-seeks-imf-loan.html
For most of the past three months,
Hamdi Othman’s days have begun like this: He gets up at dawn,
lines up for hours for diesel, argues with fellow drivers and
watches the occasional fight that breaks out.  “Our lives have become unbearable,” Othman, 54, who works
for the state, shouted from his white bus. Around him were 16
other vehicles all waiting for diesel, a commodity in as short
supply as patience in Egypt. “I’ve been a driver for the past
40 years, and I’ve never seen any crisis like this.”  More than two years after Cairo captured the world’s
attention with the protests that led to the overthrow of former
President  Hosni Mubarak , the grievances that triggered them in
the most populous Arab nation are stronger than ever.  Complaints about the fuel shortage, rising cost of food and
electricity blackouts have replaced the initial hope of
prosperity since Islamist leader Mohamed Mursi, 61, took power
last year and promised to raise wages and end the cronyism and
economic inequalities under his predecessor.  Instead, a shortage of hard currency and a widening budget
deficit are undermining the economy and forcing the government
to target the subsidies Egyptians rely on to afford basics.  “The social cost of any subsidy reform is going to be
high,” said Hany Genena, head of research at Pharos Securities
Brokerage in Cairo. “Consumers across the board, from
households to companies, are going to be hurt.”  IMF Visit  An International Monetary Fund team arrived in  Egypt  today
to discuss the $4.8 billion loan sought by the government. Prime
Minister Hisham Qandil said in an interview in Cairo he hopes an
initial accord will be completed before the end of the visit.  As the talks began, criticism surfaced, with a protest
planned against the loan. The Popular Current, one of the
parties in the opposition National Salvation Bloc, said in a
statement that the “vast majority of Egyptians are going to
bear” the consequences of the cost cuts linked to the loan.  The government is reducing spending in a plan outlined as
part of an effort to secure the funds, which it sees as key to
unlocking other aid. The  budget deficit  is projected at 10.9
percent of gross domestic product in the current fiscal year and
at 9.5 percent the following, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Gas, Bread  Egypt subsidizes everything from gasoline to bread to keep
prices lower than if they were exposed to the effect of import
costs. The program consumes roughly a quarter of state spending.  Foreign-currency reserves have plunged by more than 60
percent since December 2010 to $13.5 billion at the end of
February, according to the central bank. At about 2 percent in
2012, economic growth is at its slowest pace in two decades. GDP
rose 5 percent in 2010, the year before Mubarak was ousted,
while unemployment is at 13 percent.  Inflation meanwhile is accelerating as the Egyptian pound
weakens and daily protests mushroom into violence. The pound has
lost 6.6 percent of its value against the dollar this year, more
than any other Middle Eastern currency, doubling the cost of
diesel based on black-market prices.  Protesters, including butane dealers, demonstrated outside
the Supply Ministry yesterday, hours after the Oil Ministry
doubled the price of the subsidized canisters used by households
to 8 Egyptian pounds ($1.18) and for businesses to 16 pounds.
The increases prompted some distributors to refuse to accept
their quotas, fearing public backlash when they sell them at the
new price, the Al-Shorouk daily reported yesterday.  ‘Paupers’  Much of the criticism against Mursi has been about the lack
of tangible improvements in daily lives since the uprising. His
critics contend that Mursi has focused on bolstering the  Muslim
Brotherhood  that fielded him for office, and is seeking to
replace one authoritarian regime with another.  Salah Fouad, a 53-year-old minibus driver, said he’s often
forced to park his vehicle because he can’t get the needed fuel.
Each day he is unable to work, Fouad said he can’t bring home
money for his seven children.  “We are almost starving,” said Fouad, putting the blame
on Mursi. “We are going to become paupers.”  The ill-tempered lines aren’t limited to demand for fuel.
Bakers of subsidized bread have protested against a government
push to keep them producing the low-cost loaves on which the
majority of the country’s more than 84 million people rely,
while their costs are rising. The Supreme Constitutional Court
ruled in March that it was illegal for the bakeries to turn
their operations into private businesses.  Vicious Circle  At the heart of the strife, like under Mubarak’s 30-year
rule, is the government’s ability to pay.  Rolling blackouts in Cairo and elsewhere in the country
have already begun, an omen for the peak summer months when air
conditioning drives up demand.  The Electricity Ministry has said part of the blame lies
with the Oil Ministry, which it maintains has failed to deliver
the needed fuel to power the plants. The Oil Ministry, in turn,
has said it is owed billions of pounds for fuel already supplied
and that it, too, has bills to pay.  State-run Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. is struggling to
pay foreign energy companies, while also trying to cope with the
cost of fuel imports.  “The most important thing is to cover our essentials,”
central bank Governor Hisham Ramez told reporters yesterday.
“Once things start moving, the market will go back to normal
and supply and demand will be met.”  Draining Money  The Egyptian General Petroleum Authority got about $6.45
billion in funds from the central bank in 2012, more than twice
the amount it received a year earlier, according to a table
posted on the bank’s website outlining foreign funds it provided
to the government. The amount provided to the  General Authority 
for Commodities, which imports wheat for the subsidized bread,
dropped 12 percent last year to $2.52 billion.  It’s money Mursi’s government can ill afford when
investment and tourism, two key sources of foreign revenue, have
yet to rebound to anywhere near their pre-uprising levels.  The country’s political battle the past two years
contributed to a decision by Moody’s Investor’s Service to lower
Egypt’s credit rating to Caa1 on March 21, putting it on par
with  Pakistan , while the central bank raised its deposit and
lending rates by 50 basis points for the first time since
November 2011.  The request for the IMF loan was again delayed late last
year amid mounting outrage over both Mursi’s attempt to impose
new taxes and fallout from his efforts to temporarily shield his
decisions from court review in a bid to push through a
contentious, Islamist-backed constitution.  Running Dry  The charter was approved and the president pushed ahead
with new parliamentary elections initially planned for this
month. That effort has also run aground amid court challenges to
his decree setting the date for the vote, which opposition
parties had said they would boycott.  “Within three months, things in Egypt may come to a head
as foreign reserves are depleted and the country needs to
purchase more wheat,” Hani Sabra, a Mideast analyst at Eurasia
Group in  New York , said in an e-mail. “Egypt’s currency
reserves, already less than ‘critical,’ may run dry.”  Fuel is particularly touchy for the government because it
accounts for almost 85 percent of total subsidies, according to
Hossam Arafat, head of the Federation of Chambers of Commerce’s
Petroleum Products Division in Cairo.  Diesel subsidies account for as much as 55 billion Egyptian
pounds of the spending, compared with 20 billion pounds each for
gasoline and butane gas, Arafat said.  Cash Crunch  Arafat attributes the shortage to a cash crunch, while Oil
Minister Osama Kamal has said that smuggling is a factor.  Sayed Adel, who drives a pick-up truck delivering milk,
said he’s been routinely offered fuel on the black market, at
almost double the rate at gas stations. Officials have been
struggling to deal with the issue, though their efforts have
been impeded by worries over popular backlash.  “For those who can’t take the fights, they just have to go
and buy it on the black market,” Adel said.  Egyptian police arrested the manager of an oil-product
company after initial investigations showed he sold 5.53 million
liters of diesel on the black market since the start of the
year, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said yesterday.  The government has discussed possible ways of revamping the
subsidy system, including introducing smart cards or coupons
with quotas for commodities like fuel and bread.  Smart Cards  The parliament’s upper house, the de facto legislature
until new elections are held, rejected Mursi’s proposal to
ration fuel with smart cards, the Al-Borsa newspaper reported on
March 21. The legislature said it would have “dangerous
consequences.” It suggested handing out cash instead of the
subsidies, the daily reported.  That would mirror  Iran , which in December 2010 introduced a
five-year program to cut food and energy subsidies while trying
to offset the impact by handing out cash to those in need.  The second phase of the program was put on hold as the
currency weakened and inflation quickened. The IMF said in a
July 2011 report the implementation of Iran’s first stage
lowered the incidence of poverty to 2 percent of people from 12
percent on the basis of a $2 per day poverty line.  Egypt, though, doesn’t have the financial resources of oil-
producing Iran, albeit a country subject to international
sanctions. The government also must contend with a society
that’s becoming increasingly agitated.  Street Risk  The smart card technology can be activated within days,
“but it’s a matter of whether the street is ready for such a
thing,” Kamel, the oil minister, told reporters on March 25.  Even Mubarak’s government “didn’t dare approach this
issue,” even though they had the full backing of the police and
ruled with an “iron fist,” he said.  What’s also needed are “safety nets, either in the form of
foreign aid, good economic conditions or a popular government,”
said Genena, the analyst at brokerage Pharos. “Any reform
program executed in the absence of safety nets will backfire at
a time when people are facing real income compression. The
timing cannot be worse.”  Back at the fuel line in the working class Cairo
neighborhood of Shoubra, Othman blasts his horn and shouts to
stop other drivers from cutting in front.  “We’ve never witnessed anything like this,” he said.
“Even at the time of Mubarak, there wasn’t such a crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  