-- Futura Finds a Partner to Develop Its Gel-Filled Condom
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-04-02T15:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/futura-finds-a-partner-to-develop-its-gel-filled-condom.html
Futura Medical Plc (FUM)  agreed to work
with Church & Dwight Co. to bring an erection-enhancing condom
to market after talks with Durex condom-maker  Reckitt Benckiser
Group Plc (RB/)  collapsed in August.  Church & Dwight, the maker of the Trojan brand of condoms,
will have the rights to manufacture, market and distribute the
CSD500 condom in North America and European territories that the
company isn’t disclosing, Guildford, England-based Futura said
today. Futura will receive an undisclosed upfront payment and
royalties on sales as well as “certain minimum performance
guarantees.”  The CSD500 condom contains Futura’s Zanifil gel and is
designed to produce firmer, larger and longer-lasting erections
for men who find wearing condoms difficult. Futura is also
seeking the regulatory approval that would enable the product to
be sold in  Europe . The company  has said  it expects to submit a
revised file of information on CSD500 to European regulators in
the first half of 2013 and is aiming for approval by year-end.
Futura Chief Executive James H. Barder said in a telephone
interview that plan is “on track.”  “CSD500 is a genuinely novel condom that marks a major
breakthrough in condom technology,” Adrian Huns, the president
of international consumer products at Princeton, New Jersey-
based Church & Dwight, said in a statement. “We look forward to
working with Futura on the successful completion of the required
approvals necessary ahead of the launch in Europe and North
America.”  Futura’s Strategy  The agreement shows the board’s preferred strategy of
licensing the product on a geographic basis to distributors who
are the leaders in their regions, Barder said in the statement.
The U.K. company is negotiating rights for other territories, he
said.  “We’ve had a huge amount of interest from a number of
different condom distributors,” Barder said by phone. “We took
the decision that we were looking to work with a number of
different players.”  Futura rose 11 percent to close at 62 pence a share, the
biggest gain since Jan. 7, in  London . That gives the company a
market value of 48 million pounds ($72.6 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  