-- German Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Held Steady in March
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-02T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/german-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-held-steady-in-march.html
German inflation held steady at a
two-year low in March.  The inflation rate in Europe’s largest economy, calculated
using a  harmonized  European Union method, remained at 1.8
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
That’s the lowest since November 2010. Economists had forecast a
decline to 1.7 percent, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices rose 0.4 percent from
February.  While the 17-nation euro area remains mired in recession,
the Bundesbank predicts the German economy returned to growth in
the first quarter after a 0.6 percent contraction in the final
three months of 2012. At the same time, consumption and prices
may get a boost from higher wages. German workers won deals of
as much as 6.5 percent last year and the IG Metall labor union
is seeking pay increases of 5.5 percent in 2013.  “Inflation isn’t a concern at the moment and there’s not
much to suggest this will change anytime soon,” said Jens- Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
in Stuttgart. “In the long run, the wage demands by the unions
may put upward pressure again on German inflation.”  Non-harmonized inflation slowed to 1.4 percent in March
from 1.5 percent in February, today’s report showed, with prices
increasing 0.5 percent in the month. The Bundesbank forecasts
inflation will average 1.5 percent this year and 1.6 percent in
2014.  Car Sales  The sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, Germany’s
biggest export market, has forced some companies to reduce
prices.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  last month
predicted a “difficult” 2013 as the European auto market
contracts, vehicle prices in the region drop and growth in China
slows.  In the euro area, inflation probably slowed to 1.6 percent
in March from 1.8 percent in February, according to a separate
 survey  of economists. The European Union statistic’s office in
Luxembourg will publish that report at 11 a.m. tomorrow.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi last month
said the region’s inflation outlook is “broadly balanced,”
even though the risks to the economy are on the downside.  The Frankfurt-based central bank on March 7 cut its
inflation projection for 2014 to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent
and predicted annual consumer-price gains will average 1.6
percent this year. It aims to keep inflation just below 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  