-- Italian Bonds Advance Amid Attempts to End Political Deadlock
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-04-02T15:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/german-10-year-bunds-rise-as-cyprus-seeks-easier-bailout-terms.html
Italian bonds advanced, pushing 10-
year yields down from the highest level in four weeks, as
President Giorgio Napolitano sought to end a political stalemate
and start negotiations on a new government.  Spain ’s securities also rose as the number of people
registering for jobless benefits fell, fueling optimism the
economy is stabilizing. German 10-year bonds pared declines as
Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris resigned. The
Netherlands sold 1.27 billion euros ($1.63 billion) of three-
month bills at a negative yield. Italy has had a political
deadlock since February when the  Democratic Party  led by Pier Luigi Bersani fell short of winning both houses of parliament.  “Italian bonds are a bit more underpinned,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London . “Maybe there’s hope that there can
be an end to this impasse. We need to hear something more
conciliatory from Bersani in terms of potentially forming a
government. That seems to be the key.  Italy’s  10-year yield  fell 14 basis points, or 0. 14
percentage point, to 4.62 percent at 4:49 p.m. London time. It
climbed to 4.86 percent on March 28, the highest level since
March 5. The 5.5 percent bond due in November 2022 rose 1.12, or
11.20 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 107.165.  Napolitano said yesterday he would hold meetings today in
 Rome  with a 10-person committee of advisers, including members
of the coalitions headed by Bersani and ex-Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . The committee will have to overcome ‘‘irreconcilable
positions” among the political blocs, Napolitano said on March
30 as he appointed the advisers to carry on the search for
common ground.  Italy Deadlock  Italy’s government bonds fell last quarter, snapping two
quarters of gains, as the deadlock arising from the Feb. 24-25
election fueled concern that efforts to fix the nation’s debt
crisis would be derailed.  Spain’s 10-year yield dropped the most in more than a week
as a job report spurred optimism the outlook for the euro
region’s fourth-largest economy is improving.  The number of people in Spain registering for jobless
benefits fell by 4,979 from February to 5.04 million, the Labor
Ministry said in  Madrid . The  unemployment rate  surged to a
record 26 percent in the fourth quarter, the national statistics
agency INE reported on Jan. 24.  Spain’s 10-year yield dropped 12 basis points to 4.94
percent, the biggest decrease since March 21.  Bunds Decline  German bunds fell for a second day as signs the euro-area
outlook is improving sapped demand for the region’s safest
securities.  They trimmed losses after Sarris told reporters in Nicosia
that he resigned due to a committee set up today to investigate
the reasons that led to Cyprus’s economic crisis. Sarris has
served as chairman of  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB)  which has been
shut as part of the financial rescue.  German 10-year yields increased two basis points to 1.31
percent after rising by as much as three basis points. The yield
fell to 1.25 percent on March 28, the lowest since Aug. 3.  “You do have these bursts of  risk aversion  and this of
course is weighing on markets but longer term we do expect bund
yields to head higher again and normalize,” said Rasmus Rousing, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “We are monitoring what’s happening on the data side.”  Cyprus agreed last month to impose losses on uninsured
depositors at the country’s two biggest banks,  Bank of Cyprus
Plc  and Cyprus Popular Bank in return for 10 billion euros in
international aid from the  International Monetary Fund , the
 European Central Bank  and the European Union.  Bill Sales  The Netherlands sold 85-day bills at a yield of minus 0.025
percent, along with 1.32 billion euros of 270-day securities at
zero percent.  France  and  Belgium  also auctioned bills. A
negative yield means investors who hold the security until it
matures will receive less than they paid to buy it.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Ireland and Spain, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds have returned 8.7 percent over the past year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
gained 8.1 percent, while German bonds rose 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  