-- German Stocks Rise Most in a Week as EON, Siemens Advance
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-04-02T14:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/german-stocks-rise-most-in-a-week-as-eon-siemens-advance.html
German stocks  advanced the most in
more than a week as reports showed euro-area manufacturing
contracted less that estimated last month and U.S. factory
orders increased in February.  EON SE rallied to a 10-week high after HSBC Holdings Plc
raised its rating on  Germany ’s biggest utility.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Europe’s largest engineering company, rebounded from a five-day
decline.  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, headed for
the highest close in a decade.  The  DAX (DAX)  climbed 1.3 percent to 7,894.29 at 4:41 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge has advanced 3.8 percent this year as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a budget and optimism grew that central
banks around the world will continue stimulus measures to
support the economic recovery. The broader HDAX Index also added
1.3 percent today. Western European markets were closed
yesterday and March 29 for the Easter holiday.  “It’s clear that the global economy bottomed some time
towards the end of last year,”  Joachim Fels , head of global
economics at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television with  Guy Johnson . “We’re still in the
twilight zone for global growth; it’s neither a recession nor is
it a strong recovery. Conditions in the U.S. are now in place
for a vigorous recovery in the second half of this year.”  The volume of trades on DAX-listed companies was 26 percent
less than the average of the past 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  European Manufacturing  A gauge of  manufacturing  in the 17-nation euro bloc
declined to 46.8 last month from 47.9 in February, London-based
Markit Economics said today, compared to an initial estimate of
46.6. Figures lower than 50 signal a contraction.  Manufacturing in Germany also contracted less than forecast
in March, final figures from Markit showed. A gauge of activity
slipped to 49 from 50.3 in February, which was the highest
reading in 13 months. A previous estimate called for a reading
of 48.9.  U.S. factory orders rose 3 percent in February after a
revised 1 percent drop the previous month, Commerce Department
 data showed . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists had called for a 2.9 percent gain.  EON advanced 3.2 percent to 14.05 euros. HSBC upgraded its
recommendation on the stock to neutral from underweight, citing
the company’s increasing exposure to businesses outside the
European Union.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest utility, gained 1.5
percent to 29.52 euros. A gauge of utilities climbed 1.5 percent
for the fourth-biggest gain among the 19 industries in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Siemens, the biggest stock on the DAX by  weighting , added
1.4 percent to 85.22 euros, rebounding from its first weekly
decline in seven weeks.  Munich Re rose 3 percent to 150.30 euros. A close at that
level would be the highest since September 2002.  Symrise AG (SY1) , the flavors and fragrance supplier, rallied 3.5
percent to 32 euros, the highest price on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  