-- Glencore Extends Xstrata Takeover Deadline Amid China Talks
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-04-02T09:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/glencore-extends-xstrata-deal-deadline-again-amid-china-talks.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, pushed back the
deadline to complete its $33 billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for
a fifth time because it’s yet to secure approval from  China .  Talks with the nation’s regulator have been
“constructive” and are in their final stages, Glencore said
today in a statement. A decision isn’t expected before the
planned April 16 deadline so the companies have agreed to extend
the so-called long stop date for the acquisition to May 2.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is seeking
to buy Xstrata to create the world’s fourth-largest mining
company by adding coal, copper, nickel and zinc operations to
its cotton-to-crude-oil trading empire. Gaining Chinese
endorsement is the final hurdle for a takeover that after 14
months has won approval in  Europe ,  Australia  and South Africa.  The combined company would be the world’s third-largest
producer of mined copper, a metal used in pipes and wires.
China’s Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, is responsible for the
decision to sign off on the takeover.  The “positive commentary from Glencore points to
confidence in near-term deal success, and we remain of the view
that the final hurdle of MOFCOM approval will be granted,” Ash Lazenby, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote in a note to
clients.  Copper Market  The Chinese regulator had focused its review on the new
company’s influence in the copper-concentrate market, Glasenberg
said March 6. China named Gao Hucheng commerce minister on March
16 after the National People’s Congress approved his appointment
as a once-a-decade power handover concluded.  Dentsu Inc. said March 26 that the nation’s regulator had
cleared its 3.2 billion-pound ($5 billion) takeover of  Aegis
Group Plc. (AGS)   Glencore may have offered to sell Peruvian copper mines
owned by Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata amid other concessions
to win Chinese approval, according to a March 31 report in the
London-based Times. The mines may include the $5 billion Las
Bambas and $1.5 billion Antapaccay projects, the newspaper said,
without saying where it got the information.  A spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore yesterday
declined to comment on the report.  The delay follows previous extensions in March and January
to allow for the completion of regulatory reviews.  Glencore announced the acquisition in February 2012 and
raised its all-stock bid in September to win shareholder
approval. The stock rose 0.7 percent to 358.5 pence at 10:08
a.m. in London trading. Xstrata  advanced  1.1 percent to 1,079.5
pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  