-- Libyan Senior Official Kidnapped Amid Crackdown on Militias
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2013-04-02T16:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/libyan-senior-official-kidnapped-amid-crackdown-on-militias.html
A senior aide to Libyan Prime
Minister Ali Zaidan is missing for a third day after being
kidnapped amid a crackdown by the government on militias.  Mohammed Ghatus was returning from his home in the western
city of Misrata on March 31 when he was seized at a checkpoint
in Tripoli, the prime minister’s office said in a statement
today. There has been no contact from him since though his car
has been found, according to the statement.  As news of the kidnapping broke, Zaidan and Justice
Minister Salah Maraghni announced the seizure by government
forces of 36 compounds and bases in the capital used by militias
during a crackdown that began last week.  “They are terrorising the state,” Zaidan said during a
news conference. “We will not surrender.”  Intra-militia violence has been a constant in  Libya  ever
since the capture and death of  Muammar Qaddafi  in 2011, though
it has intensified in recent months with groups refusing to heed
government calls to disband, threatening local officials and
storming government buildings. The unrest is undermining Libya’s
aim to attract foreign investment.  Ghatus was probably kidnapped as a result of the crackdown,
said Anthony Skinner, director at U.K.-based risk analysis
company Maplecroft, adding that he’s unsure of Zaidan’s ability
to rein the militias in.  “The authorities in Tripoli don’t have the manpower to
bring all the militias under control,” Skinner said. “One
needs to be cautious about the chances of success.”  Illegal Prisons  During the news conference, Justice Minister Salah Maraghni
said illegal prisons are being closed as part of the campaign.
An estimated 8,000 war prisoners are being held in detention by
militias and the justice ministry, according to  Human Rights
Watch .  Maraghni also said he wasn’t concerned about a militia raid
on his ministry, which took place hours before the kidnapping.  “You can bring down a building,” he said. “You can kill
the justice minister, but you cannot kill justice itself.”  There are about 500 militias in Libya, with 230 registered
in Misrata alone. The government campaign is targeting those not
sanctioned by the state in Tripoli and will soon extend to the
eastern city of Benghazi, Zaidan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  