-- ICBC Seeks Sinopac Stake in China’s First Bid in Taiwan
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-04-03T01:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/icbc-seeks-sinopac-stake-in-china-s-first-bid-for-taiwan-bank.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  plans to buy 20 percent of Bank Sinopac in the first
mainland investment in a Taiwan lender, pushing the parent
company’s share price up the most in more than three years.  Sinopac Financial Holdings Co. (2890)  jumped as much as 7 percent
in Taipei, the biggest gain since August 2009, and traded at
NT$15 at 9:17 a.m., a gain of 4.9 percent. The sale is valued at
about NT$20 billion ($670 million), the publicly traded
company’s Chief Financial Officer Michael Chang said at a press
conference in the island’s capital yesterday.  Sinopac and other banks stand to benefit from partnerships
with mainland lenders such as ICBC, the world’s largest bank by
market value, as they seek to expand outside Taiwan’s saturated
market. Chinese President Xi Jinping has pledged to promote
cross-strait ties, continuing efforts of the previous
administration.  “The deal is positive for Sinopac as there are too many
banks in such a small market as  Taiwan ,” Michael On, president
of Beyond Asset Management Co., said by phone after the
announcement. “Banks in Taiwan can expand in the China market
through mutual investment with Chinese banks. There will be more
deals like this.”  Sinopac Financial’s rally compares with a 0.3 percent gain
in the benchmark Taiex index today. The MSCI Taiwan Financials
index has gained 11 percent this year.  Rule Changes  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said April 1
mainland China banks will be allowed to take a 10 percent stake
in listed financial institutions, 15 percent in unlisted firms
and as much as 20 percent of banking units of financial holding
companies, compared with a previous 5 percent across-the-board
cap. The announcement followed a meeting between China Banking
Regulatory Commission Chairman  Shang Fulin  and FSC Minister Chen Yuh-chang.  Regulatory changes allowing for the higher limits will take
effect as soon as possible pending final approval by the
Cabinet, Kuei Hsien-Nung, director general of the FSC’s banking
bureau, said by phone yesterday.  In another industry,  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  has been waiting
four years for a change in Taiwan’s rules to allow its planned
purchase of 12 percent of Far EasTone Telecommunications Co. to
proceed. Far EasTone Chairman Douglas Hsu said in January a
loosening of restrictions is “a matter of time.”  ICBC said in yesterday’s statement the deal will “deepen
financial cooperation and promote economic and trade exchanges
across the strait.” The purchase price will be between NT$18.7
billion and NT$23.5 billion, and either party can cancel the
agreement after a year, according to the statement.  Tensions Ease  China  and Taiwan have been ruled separately since 1949,
when the Kuomintang government fled to the island during a civil
war against Communist forces. Tensions eased after Taiwan
President Ma Ying-jeou took office in 2008 and worked to
strengthen economic ties with the mainland.  Xi said in February that Communist Party leaders have a
duty to seek peaceful reunification with Taiwan and pledged to
uphold the one-China principle, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported after a meeting between the mainland leader and the
Kuomintang’s Honorary Chairman Lien Chan.  Taiwan banks began taking  yuan  deposits on the island in
February, as well as underwriting debt in the mainland’s
currency, after a clearing agreement was signed last year.
China, with a population more than 50 times bigger than
Taiwan’s, is the island’s largest trading partner.  Sinopac’s Chang said the partnership will allow the bank to
“make progress” with its yuan business and hopes to help ICBC
clients issue offshore yuan bonds and new shares in Taiwan.  Overseas Purchases  The April 1 meeting between cross-strait banking regulators
was the third since regular contact started in 2011.  ICBC Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  has spent more than $6 billion
on acquisitions in regions from Asia to South Africa and the
Americas over the past five years as he seeks to triple the
share of profit coming from abroad to 10 percent.  The lender completed a purchase of 80 percent in Standard
Bank Group Ltd.’s Argentine unit last year and acquired control
of Bank of East Asia’s U.S. unit for $140 million in July. Its
2007 purchase of a 20 percent stake in Johannesburg-based
Standard Bank Group for $5.4 billion was the China’s biggest
overseas purchase at that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  