-- Michigan Debt Rating Raised to Third-Highest by Fitch
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-04-02T19:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/michigan-debt-rating-raised-to-third-highest-by-fitch.html
Michigan  had its general-obligation
debt raised one step to AA by Fitch Ratings, which cited the
state’s economic rebound.  The move today affects $2 billion of securities that were
graded AA- by Fitch. It gives the eighth-most populous U.S.
state the New York-based company’s third-highest score. The
outlook on Michigan debt was changed to stable from positive.  Separately, Standard & Poor’s revised its view of the
state’s general-obligation bonds to positive from stable, also
citing an improving economy in a report released today. S&P
maintained its AA- rating for the debt. The change followed a
similar move by Moody’s Investors Service on March 29.  “The upgrade is based on the state’s rebounding economic
performance, including the improved competitive posture of the
state’s auto industry after its restructuring,” Fitch analysts
including Douglas Offerman said in a statement. Michigan “has
used the economic and revenue momentum of the last two fiscal
years to stabilize state finances,” including balanced budgets
and increases in its reserves, the analysts said.  The AA rating applies to $200 million in general-obligation
school-loan bonds that Fitch said the state plans to offer in a
competitive sale on April 10.  Automakers Gain  Revenue and profit have risen at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC, controlled by Italy’s  Fiat SpA (F) , since
bankruptcies and restructurings hobbled the industry. The big
three U.S. automakers, including  Ford Motor Co. (F) , earned a
combined $13.5 billion last year. The number of related jobs in
Michigan has risen 34 percent from a January 2009 low, according
to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor.  Michigan’s  unemployment rate  in February fell to 8.8
percent, the lowest since 2008, though above the 7.7 percent
 national average , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
state jobless figure peaked at 14.2 percent in August 2009.  Fitch also raised some state revenue bonds and school-
related securities to AA- from A+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  