-- Milk Powder Climbs to Fresh Record as Drought Hits N.Z. Supply
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-02T19:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/milk-powder-climbs-to-fresh-record-as-drought-hits-n-z-supply.html
Whole milk powder climbed to a
record as New Zealand’s most widespread drought in at least 30
years curbs supply in the world’s largest exporter, according to
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   Powder for June delivery gained 12.8 percent, according to
a trade-weighted index on the company’s  GlobalDairyTrade 
website. The near-term contract for New Zealand product rose to
$5,998 a metric ton. The previous record was $5,313 on March 19.  A drought declared across the entire  North Island  including
Waikato province, the country’s biggest milk producer, may cost
NZ$2 billion ($1.7 billion) as the dry conditions threaten
economic growth, the government estimates. Growth in milk
volumes will probably be unchanged this year after expanding 6
percent in the six months through January as the drought hurts
production, Fonterra chief executive officer Theo Spierings said
March 27.  Fonterra last month raised its forecast payout to farmers
for the current season citing rising global demand at a time of
restrained supply. Prices have surged 74 percent since Feb. 5.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade auctions. The Auckland-based company offers
monthly contracts with delivery starting from two months after
the sale. Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for July delivery rose 10.7 percent while
prices across all five product contracts out to October rose 7
percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for June  delivery of milk fat,
casein, cheddar, skim and butter-milk powder also increased.
Butter fell. Lactose and milk protein concentrate weren’t
offered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  