-- The IMF Shouldn’t Abandon Austerity
-- B y   A n d e r s   A s l u n d
-- 2013-04-02T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/imf-shouldn-t-abandon-austerity.html
For years, the  International
Monetary Fund  helped to ensure global financial stability.
Lately it has changed its mind on what used to be a core
principle -- and, strangely enough, it appears to have done so
on the basis of a single far-from-convincing working  paper .  The IMF is probably the most powerful international
organization in the world. It has been effective not just
because of the resources at its disposal but also because it has
focused on one issue: financial stability.  Critics pay it a backhanded compliment when they say its
initials stand for, “It’s mostly fiscal.” In fact, when it comes
to the crises that the IMF is asked to manage, it really is
mostly fiscal. If the IMF  forgets  that, it becomes part of the
problem.  For decades, the IMF demanded that countries in crisis cut
their government budgets. In the East Asian crisis of 1997-98,
many complained that it went beyond its usual financial mandate
in demanding broader structural reforms. Sensibly, it got back
to basics afterward.  In the current global financial crisis, the IMF has
deviated in a new way. In 2008-09, Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  advocated fiscal stimulus for all countries that
had “fiscal space.” In that list he included  Spain , Slovenia and
Cyprus. All of them followed his advice and ended up in worse
trouble.  Policy Shift  Last October, the IMF published a note in its authoritative
semi-annual  World Economic Outlook , arguing that fiscal
multipliers -- the change in output induced by a change in the
government’s budget deficit -- were larger in current
circumstances than previously thought. Tight fiscal policy, in
other words, would squeeze output more than economic modelers
had typically supposed. The implication was that fiscal
adjustment should be delayed.  In January, the IMF’s chief economist,  Olivier Blanchard ,
and his colleague Daniel Leigh explained this finding in a
 working paper . The authors wisely end the study with a series of
caveats, emphasizing that their “results should not be construed
as arguing for any specific policy stance in any specific
country.”  Indeed they shouldn’t be so construed -- for at least four
reasons.  First, the whole paper is based on forecasts of economic
growth. In the early stage of a crisis, forecasts tend to be
widely off the mark. Until the bottom has been reached, they
tend to be too optimistic. In December 2008, the IMF  forecast 
that  Latvia ’s gross domestic product would fall 5 percent in
2009; it plummeted 18 percent. The cause wasn’t austerity but a
complete liquidity freeze. Since state revenue collapsed along
with output, fiscal restraint was unavoidable -- a matter of
financial survival.  Toward the end of a crisis, however, forecasts usually
underestimate growth. My favorite example is  Russia  in 1999. In
December 1998, the IMF predicted that Russia’s GDP would fall
8.9 percent in 1999; it rose 6.4 percent. Other forecasters were
no better.  Attributing forecast errors to unexpectedly large fiscal
multipliers implies that the models are otherwise reliable --
that they aren’t systematically flawed in some other way. This
assumption is unwarranted. The performance of the forecasts is
just too poor to support it. The study by Blanchard and Leigh
fails on this single objection. There’s more.  Second, the argument presumes that a country has access to
the  capital market . But countries in crisis often lose access to
private international funding -- sometimes suddenly and
unexpectedly, despite having little public debt. In late 2008,
 Latvia  lost its access although its public debt was less than 20
percent of GDP. Slovenia was shut out of the international  debt
market  for most of last year with a debt ratio of only 50
percent. When  Argentina  defaulted in 2001, its public debt was
just 50 percent of GDP.  Third, in the midst of a crisis, people are often ready to
accept radical budget reform and severe belt-tightening. Later,
it’s much more difficult to convince them of the need. A crisis
is a terrible thing to waste.  Fourth, and relatedly, the Blanchard-Leigh paper is
entirely short-term. It studies GDP in the year after a fiscal
adjustment, but what matters is long-term economic growth, and
that depends on structural reforms. A fiscal crisis rarely has
exclusively financial causes. Normally, labor-market reform,
deregulation of monopolized markets, and other far-reaching
reforms are needed, as well. Again, a crisis helps.  Blanchard and Leigh wisely  concluded  by saying, “The short-
term effects of fiscal policy on economic activity are only one
of the many factors that need to be considered in determining
the appropriate pace of fiscal consolidation for any single
country.” Yet the IMF management has gone ahead and made fiscal
forbearance its official policy.  Lagarde’s Warning  At the annual meeting of the IMF in October 2012, Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  urged countries to refrain from new
austerity measures. Warning against front-loading spending cuts
and tax increases, she stated: “It’s sometimes better to have a
bit more time,” and she named  Portugal , Spain, and  Greece  as
instances. Remarkably, she  added :  “We do not think it is
sensible to actually stick to nominal targets.”  The very essence of IMF programs has been to hold crisis
countries to nominal targets, extending IMF credits when the
countries comply and withholding them when they don’t. Today,
the fund is doing the opposite: It’s helping the opponents of
fiscal reform. Its calls for a loosening of fiscal policy have
been used to attack governments conscientiously pursuing
financial stability. Recently,  Bulgaria ’s finance minister at
the time,  Simeon Djankov , complained that the IMF had abandoned
its disciples; the next week, the Bulgarian government was
ousted after public protests against austerity.  Until now, the IMF’s raison d’etre has been to support
financial stability through hard-headed analysis and strict
demands. Lagarde and Blanchard have undermined their institution
and set back the cause of economic reform.  (Anders Aslund is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics. He is co-author with Valdis Dombrovskis, the prime minister of Latvia, of “How Latvia Came
Through the Financial Crisis.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Anders Aslund at  Aaslund@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 