-- India’s Nifty Futures Drop, Signaling Shares May Snap 3-Day Gain
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-04-02T01:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-signaling-shares-may-snap-3-day-gain.html
Indian stock-index futures declined,
signaling benchmark indexes may snap a three-day gain.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery fell 0.3
percent to 5,705 at 9:38 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  index rose 0.4 percent to 5,704.40 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex index added 0.2 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon
India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares slumped 1.4 percent, the
biggest loss since March 21.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped after data on U.S.
manufacturing missed estimates, prompting concerns the global
economy is slowing. The Sensex slid 3 percent in the three
months through March, the first drop in five quarters, amid the
nation’s  weakest  economic expansion in a decade, widening
deficits and the highest  inflation  among major  emerging markets .
India’s manufacturing growth slowed to a 16-month low in March,
according to a report yesterday.  “Markets need the support of positive economic data for
further action,” K.K. Mital, a  fund manager  at Globe Capital
Market Ltd., said by phone from  New Delhi  yesterday. “The
markets will continue to be range-bound until we see some policy
initiatives from the government to revive investment and
economic growth.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has since
September pursued reforms to revive faltering growth, including
opening up aviation and retail industries to attract more
overseas capital, cutting subsidies and easing rules on foreign
investment in rupee bonds. India may need more than $75 billion
of foreign capital this year and next to fund the deficit,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in March.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record $32.6
billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, data showed on March
29, as oil and gold imports surged, adding pressure on the
government to extend its policy overhaul.  Foreign funds bought a net $104 million worth of  Indian (SENSEX) 
stocks on March 26, extending this year’s purchases to $10.2
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Inflows last year
totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  