-- Indonesia Studying New Fuel to Curb Subsidy, Martowardojo Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-02T09:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/indonesia-studying-new-fuel-to-curb-subsidy-martowardojo-says.html
Indonesia may introduce a new type
of fuel that can be sold at a higher price than existing
subsidized products as the government seeks to reduce its energy
budget without exacerbating inflation.  The country is considering having state-owned Pertamina
sell a new fuel as part of plans to limit energy subsidies to
private-owned vehicles, Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo told
reporters in parliament today. A revised fuel policy may be
announced in two weeks, Energy Minister Jero Wacik said.  “Indonesia needs more concrete steps to reduce the fuel
subsidy,” Martowardojo said after winning parliament’s
endorsement to become the next central bank governor. “If we
fail to reduce the fuel subsidy, to guard Indonesia’s fiscal
budget the government is ready to cut goods and capital spending
and if needed, we’ll adjust the fuel price as the last choice.”  The availability of gasoline and diesel below international
market rates has spurred oil imports in Indonesia, contributing
to a record  trade deficit  in October and the worst-performing
Asian currency after the yen and Indian rupee in the past 12
months. Even with one of the region’s fastest growth rates
boosting incomes, policy makers have refrained from raising fuel
prices in a country where riots spurred by soaring living costs
helped oust dictator Suharto in 1998.  Budget Impact  A 2012 plan to ban some private vehicles from using
subsidized fuel wasn’t implemented, Martowardojo said. An
alternative fuel type priced below the current non-subsidized
gasoline products needs to come with other policies in one
package, he said. Pertamina sells subsidized fuel at 4,500
rupiah ($0.46) a liter.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s government allocated
about 300 trillion rupiah for fuel and electricity subsidies in
the 2013 state budget, which is “too much,” Martowardojo said.
Failure to implement concrete measures on the fuel policy will
affect the state budget in the second half of this year, he said.  Indonesia’s fuel and electricity subsidies totaled 306.5
trillion rupiah in 2012 and the government earlier this year
estimated 274.7 trillion rupiah for 2013.  The budget deficit this year may be more than 2 percent of
gross domestic product, exceeding the government’s target of
1.65 percent, Martowardojo said in March. The bigger-than-target
shortfall estimate is due to high subsidy costs, lower tax
revenues and declining exports, he said. Fuel subsidies rose to
211.9 trillion rupiah last year as the country imported about
$29 billion of oil products, based on official data.  Bonds Rise  The yield on Indonesia’s two-year bonds fell by the most
this year today on speculation investors are favoring shorter-
dated notes after inflation accelerated to a 22-month high last
month. The rupiah was little changed at 9,742 a dollar as of
2:21 p.m. in Jakarta.  Consumer prices  rose 5.9 percent in March from a year
earlier, driven by higher foodstuff costs, official data showed
yesterday. The central bank has a 3.5 percent-to-5.5 percent
target range.  The inflation level is a concern, said Martowardojo, who
will replace Darmin Nasution as Bank Indonesia governor when the
latter’s term ends May 23. Indonesia needs a mix of fiscal,
monetary and real-economy policies to curb inflation and
monetary policy alone isn’t enough to contain prices,
Martowardojo said.  Yudhoyono’s office signaled last month the government will
avoid an immediate increase in fuel prices, as the scope for
such moves narrows ahead of elections in 2014. The government is
formulating a more targeted fuel-subsidy policy because the
current one benefits middle to upper-income groups more than the
poor, he said on March 13.  The government may impose a limit on the sale of subsidized
fuel for privately-owned vehicles in “five big cities,” the
finance minister said on March 14, without naming them.  Indonesia limited the use of partially government-funded
diesel in January, after protests in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation derailed plans to raise prices in 2012. The
restrictions limit the use of subsidized diesel by forestry
companies, commercial vessels and government vehicles in several
provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  