-- Tinkler to Sell Patinack Farm Racehorse Business in Australia
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-04-02T00:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/tinkler-to-sell-patinack-farm-racehorse-business-in-australia.html
Nathan Tinkler , the former
Australian mining billionaire under pressure from creditors, is
selling his Patinack Farm thoroughbred breeding and racing
business as he seeks to repay debt.  The sale, including more than 1,000 racehorses, stallions
and broodmares will be conducted through an international
marketing program in conjunction with Magic Millions Sales Pty
and Ernst & Young LLP, Newcastle-based Patinack said today in a
statement.  Tinkler, who last year abandoned a A$5.3 billion ($5.5
billion) bid for  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , is struggling to meet
creditors’ demands, with several of his companies threatened
with liquidation for not paying debts and taxes. Patinack Farm
also has racing and breeding facilities in the Australian east
coast states of New South Wales and Queensland.  “As I am spending more time overseas I do not have the
time to manage the business,” Tinkler, who moved to  Singapore 
last year, said in the statement.  The sale is expected to take several months and it may
attract local and overseas buyers, Tim Bennett, a partner at
Ernst & Young said in the statement. Ernst & Young will set up a
data room and help potential purchasers study the books,
according to the statement.  The horses include stallions Casino Prince and Husson,
racehorses Nechita and Pear Tart, as well as broodmares Sun
Classique and Bel Mer, according to the statement.  Former Electrician  The electrician-turned-entrepreneur was ranked as
Australia’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011. Tinkler said last he’s living on an allowance
he gets from his wife who controls a A$1.4 billion family trust.  He gave evidence last month of his financial position after
being ordered to appear in a Sydney court to account for last
year’s collapse of his planned investment in Brisbane-based coal
explorer Blackwood Corp.  Tinkler lost ownership of his personal jet and helicopter
after GE Commercial Australasia Pty pushed TGHA Aviation Pty
into receivership in November. Tinkler’s Dassault Falcon 900C
jet and AgustaWestland A109S helicopter were put up for sale.  Australia ’s Deputy Commissioner of Taxation applied in
December to liquidate eight Tinkler companies including
Newcastle Jets Football Operations Pty and Newcastle Knights
Pty, Tinkler’s soccer and rugby teams, to recover tax dues.
Tinkler settled most of those cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  