-- Iran Atomic Deal Before June Unlikely, Ex-Obama Adviser Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-04-02T12:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/iran-atomic-deal-before-june-unlikely-ex-obama-adviser-says.html
Iran  and world powers are unlikely
to strike a deal this week that would lift international
sanctions in exchange for a cut in the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear activities, said a former White House adviser.  “I don’t expect there to be an agreement, certainly not
before the presidential elections in Iran in June,” Gary Samore, who advised President  Barack Obama  on nuclear non-
proliferation and arms control until January, said yesterday in
Washington. “There may be some incremental progress in terms of
a slight narrowing of big differences but I don’t think it will
come to an agreement.”  Negotiators from the so-called P5+1 -- comprised of China,
France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S. -- meet their Iranian
counterparts April 5 in Almaty,  Kazakhstan . Iran, with the
world’s fourth-biggest proven oil reserves, said the sides
narrowed differences after their last meeting. Tehran’s
government is under dozens of international sanctions targeting
its energy, financial and nuclear industries.  “Both sides are trying to build up bargaining leverage,”
said Samore, who spoke on a Brookings Institution  panel . “We
haven’t reached the point yet where some point of agreement to
relax the sanctions and the nuclear activities is possible.”  The talks are being complicated by Iran’s presidential
election, pressure by  Israel  and the Syrian insurrection against
President Bashar al-Assad, according to Javier Solana, who led
the European Union’s negotiations with Iran until 2009, and
joined Samore on the panel.  “I don’t think it will be possible to move on Iran without
solving  Syria ,” Solana said. “They have a very intense
relationship. Without solving that problem, it will be very
difficult to get the negotiation moving.”  “The collapse of Assad makes a nuclear deal more likely,”
Samore said. Iran “would feel more isolated, under greater
pressure, more likely to make tactical concessions.”  The  United Nations  estimates at least 70,000 Syrians have
been killed in two years of fighting that has displaced
millions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  