-- J.C. Penney CEO Got $1.89 Million in 2012 Compensation
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-04-03T20:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/j-c-penney-ceo-got-1-89-million-in-2012-compensation.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson , who is struggling to overhaul the
department-store company, had his total compensation cut to
$1.89 million last year.  Johnson, 54, received $1.5 million in salary and $344,000
for personal use of the corporate aircraft, according to a
filing yesterday. The former Apple Inc. retail chief was awarded
$53.3 million in salary, bonus, stock awards and other
compensation in 2011, the year he took over as CEO of the Plano,
Texas-based retailer.  Johnson has come under fire after J.C. Penney’s annual
sales slid 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since at least
1987, during his first year at the company. A shift to everyday
low prices, marketing missteps and an attempt to move away from
sales and coupons have alienated longtime shoppers. Johnson has
been working to improve results by adding boutiques and new
items from brands such as  Martha Stewart  and Joe Fresh.  “He took the appropriate salary cut,”  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld ,
president of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute and a
senior associate dean at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , said yesterday in an interview. “To pay for
performance that was terrible would destroy the credibility of
the incentive system.”  J.C. Penney fell 0.8 percent to $14.43 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 54 percent since Nov. 1, 2011,
the day Johnson took over as CEO. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has gained 28 percent in that time.  Gulfstream Jets  Johnson was recruited to J.C. Penney by billionaire
investor  Bill Ackman , whose Pershing Square Capital Management
LP is the company’s biggest shareholder, with an 18 percent
stake. Ackman waived his compensation for his work as a J.C.
Penney board member last year.  Johnson commutes using corporate aircraft to the retailer’s
headquarters in Plano from California, where he and his wife
have school-age children. J.C. Penney has three jets registered
to it, two Gulfstream G450s and one Gulfstream G-IV, according
to the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s website.  Chief Financial Officer Kenneth Hannah received $5.26
million in total compensation, which included $624,621 in
salary, a $2 million bonus and about $2.5 million in stock
awards, according to the filing.  Last month, Hannah said J.C. Penney was aiming to reverse
its “huge miss” with core customers last year by expanding
private-label lines such as St. John’s Bay and reviving
promotions.  Johnson said last month that 19,000 J.C. Penney employees
have lost their jobs in the past year as his turnaround
struggles to gain traction. The following week, the company said
it was cutting an additional 2,200 jobs to trim costs.  Caribou Coffee Co. announced in March it will no longer
pursue plans to open shops inside J.C. Penney stores, about six
months after Johnson cited the company as a potential partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  