-- Japan’s INCJ Said to Plan Buying Stake in Tech Startup Midokura
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-04-02T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/japan-s-incj-said-to-plan-buying-stake-in-tech-startup-midokura.html
State-backed investment fund
 Innovation Network Corp. of Japan  is planning to buy a minority
stake in three-year-old network software developer  Midokura , two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The fund intends to invest $12 million in Midokura, which
is developing technology to help networks run more efficiently,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the plan has
yet to be completed. Midokura may receive another $5.3 million
from local investors, they said.  The use of smartphones and cloud computing is increasing
demands on networks that link computer systems, and in turn the
value of the technology aimed at helping these systems operate
better. Palo Alto, California-based  VMware Inc. (VMW)  last July agreed
to pay about $1.26 billion for network software developer Nicira
Inc. At the time of the deal, Nicira had only recently shipped
its first production-ready systems.  Spokesmen at INCJ and Midokura declined to comment on the
planned investment.  Co-founded by Tatsuya Kato and Dan Mihai Dumitriu, a former
engineer at  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , in January 2010, Midokura has
offices in  Tokyo ,  San Francisco  and Barcelona, according to its
website. It raised 113 million yen ($1.2 million) in 2011 in a
seed-funding round from investors including  Bit-isle Inc. (3811) , a
Japanese independent data center provider.  Midokura plans to double the headcount of its engineers to
50 as it seeks to develop and commercialize the software, one of
the people said.  With investment capacity totaling about 2 trillion yen,
INCJ was formed in 2009 to invest in technology that would make
Japan more competitive globally, according to its website. In
December, the fund said it would invest 138 billion yen in
 Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the ailing Japanese chipmaker that
supplies Apple Inc. and Nintendo Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  