-- Japan Stock Futures, Australian Shares Gain as Europe Woes Wane
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-02T23:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/japan-stock-futures-australian-shares-gain-as-europe-woes-wane.html
Japanese stock futures and
Australian shares climbed as concern regarding Europe’s debt
crisis eased and better-than-estimated U.S. factory orders added
to optimism the world’s largest economy is growing.  American Depositary Receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , the camera
maker that gets about 80 percent of sales outside Japan, rose 1
percent.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a Japanese maker of construction
equipment that gets a quarter of its revenue in the Americas,
gained 1.3 percent. Alacer Gold Corp. dropped 5.9 percent in
Sydney as the price of the precious metal retreated.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 12,170 in Chicago yesterday, up from 12,030 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,160 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51)  rose 0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index advanced
0.2 percent.  “The U.S. economy does look better and the problems in
Europe look a little less scary,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-
based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which has $126 billion under management. “It’s probably more of
a buying opportunity for equities and I’d caution about getting
too bearish. Fears regarding Cyprus are fading.”  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose the most in five
months in February, boosted by a pickup in demand for motor
vehicles and commercial aircraft, a Commerce Department report
showed yesterday.  Cyprus Bailout  The Cypriot government completed talks on the terms for aid
with the so-called troika of officials representing the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Central Bank and the
European Union. The accord, granting two extra years to
implement measures linked to the island’s bailout, will be
discussed at a euro working group meeting of finance officials
on April 4.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, yesterday traded at 13.3 times average estimated
earnings compared with 14.2 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A two-day Bank of Japan policy meeting begins today, the
first under the leadership of Haruhiko Kuroda as governor.
Kuroda, who said yesterday that bold action is necessary to meet
expectations, has indicated that expanded purchases of
government bonds will be the main tool for monetary easing.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent. The measure climbed 0.5 percent yesterday after the
Commerce Department report showed a 3 percent gain in factory
orders and Italian and Spanish bond yields declined.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.7 percent in  New York 
yesterday.  Gold tumbled 1.6 percent yesterday, the most in at least a
month, as a stronger dollar trimmed demand for the precious
metal as an alternative investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  