-- Jefferies CEO Says He Sued on Tribeca Neighbors’ Behalf
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-04-02T20:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/jefferies-ceo-says-he-sued-on-tribeca-neighbors-behalf.html
  Jefferies Group LLC (JEF)  Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Handler  said he sued to stop construction of a
roof deck across the street from his Tribeca apartment on behalf
of his neighbors, according to an e-mail to employees.  “I took the lead to help our neighborhood oppose what we
know will be a major nuisance and disruption to our lives,”
Handler, 51, said in the March 31 correspondence, the contents
of which were confirmed by a Jefferies spokesman. “You can be
assured we are not going after the city in any way and are only
asking for their help in dealing with a huge potential
problem.”  Handler, who indirectly owns the penthouse apartment at One
York Street, filed a petition in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  on March 25 against the city’s building commissioner,
Robert LiMandri, and the owner of 50 Varick Street, to stop a
construction project there and have its permits revoked.
Residents of the building face “significant noise and light
impingements from the project and future roof deck use as a late
night rooftop bar,” according to the petition.  50 Varick mostly housed fiber-optics networks for
telecommunications carriers until recently. It is being
converted into an outpost for Spring Studios, a London-based
fashion and marketing firm, with spaces for photography studios,
offices, a restaurant and bar and event spaces, according to the
petition.  Apology Offered  The project also includes plans for a 20,000-square-foot
roof deck with a capacity of 729 people. The plan doesn’t comply
with zoning laws and the owner evaded Department of Buildings
review by filing permits for the project as “professional
certifications,” according to the petition.  Bradford Sussman, a lawyer representing Spring Studios,
said the company had no control over the construction process
and that it wanted “to be good neighbors.”  “We have worked with our neighbors and the Community Board
to address any and all concerns,” Sussman said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Spring’s application has not requested a bar
on the roof.”  Handler told employees he wrote the e-mail to apologize for
“recent distractions in the media concerning me,” including
stories that portrayed him as a “tone-deaf one-percenter.”  Here Is The City, a financial news website,  reported  the e-
mail earlier today.  Handler became CEO of  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  last month
when the investment firm finished acquiring New York-based
Jefferies. He still also runs the investment bank.  Jefferies paid Handler $19 million for fiscal 2012 and
approved $39 million in restricted stock awards for the next
three years. The pay package for the year ended Nov. 30 was a 36
percent increase from a year earlier and included a $5 million
cash bonus, $13 million in stock and a $1 million salary, the
company said in January.  The case is Raesky LLC v. LiMandri, 100490/2013, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  