-- Bingham, Sidley, Jones Day, Sullivan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-02T18:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/jones-day-k-l-latham-markun-sedgwick-business-of-law.html
Eleven lawyers said yesterday they
plan to leave Bingham McCutchen LLP for Sidley Austin LLP.  The group includes Susan Merrill, who joined Bingham in
2010 from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and Neal Sullivan, the leader of Bingham’s broker-dealer practice group.  According to the Bingham website, Sullivan represented
Morgan Stanley in obtaining regulatory approvals for its joint
venture with Citigroup Inc.’s  Smith Barney  and has represented
clients in Securities and Exchange Commission investigations.
Merrill heads Bingham’s  New York  securities enforcement practice
and previously was the head of enforcement at Finra as well as
at the New York Stock Exchange.  Carter Phillips , the co-chairman of Sidley’s executive
committee, said in a phone interview today that the hirings
evolved from a few individuals to the larger group.  “It became clear through a headhunter that a more
substantial number might be interested in making the move, and
one thing led to another,” he said. The departures, Phillips
added, had “almost nothing to do with Bingham.”  “Their only concern was that they had gotten as far as
they could in terms of expanding their practice,” he said.
“The partners hope to take on a more global presence in terms
of financial institutions and wanted to expand beyond broker-
dealers to more issuer work, which is our bread and butter.”  Ten of the lawyers are joining as partners; one is joining
as counsel. While no associates are moving at this time,
Phillips didn’t rule it out, saying a decision would only be
made after the partners arrive on April 5.  Last week, four partners specializing in  patent law  left
Sidley to start the Los Angeles office of Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati LLP.  Bingham has approximately 1,000 lawyers, according to
Claire Papanastasiou, a spokeswoman for the firm.  “We wish them well,” she said in a phone interview
yesterday. She otherwise declined to comment on the departures.
Merrill and Sullivan didn’t respond to e-mails, and Bingham
Chairman Jay Zimmerman didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment
on the departures.  The New York Times Dealbook reported the moves late
yesterday.  Deals  Five Law Firms Work on Take-Private Deal for American Greetings  Jones Day, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP, Baker & Hostetler LLP and Latham & Watkins LLP
each worked on the deal to take private  American Greetings
Corp. (AM) , the biggest publicly traded greeting-card maker.  The deal’s total value of about $878 million includes the
$524 million purchase price, the assumption of the company’s
notes due in 2021, the settlement of some  stock options  and the
repayment of borrowings under a credit facility.  The group taking the company private is led by American
Greetings’ Chief Executive Officer Zev Weiss, as well as
Chairman Morry Weiss and Chief Operating Officer Jeffrey Weiss,
all part of the family that founded the company in 1905.  The group has offered $18.20 a share in cash, and a 15
cent-a-share dividend may also be offered, which would give
stockholders $18.35 a share, the Cleveland-based company said
yesterday in a statement.  The Weiss brothers had made an offer of $17.18 a share in
September, saying that they wanted to return American Greetings
to family ownership. They raised that offer to $17.50 in
January.  The acquisition is being financed by the Weiss family, cash
funded by a $240 million non-voting preferred stock investment
by a unit of Koch Industries Inc. and $600 million in debt
financing, the company said.  Jones Day  is acting as legal counsel to the Weiss family.
The Jones Day deal team advising the family is led by  Cleveland 
partner James Dougherty and includes partners Lyle Ganske in
Cleveland and Robert Profusek in New York.  Sullivan & Cromwell represented the special committee of
the board of directors of American Greetings evaluating the
offer. New York partners H. Rodgin Cohen, Joseph B. Frumkin and
Brian E. Hamilton represented the special committee.  Willkie Farr & Gallagher represented Peter J. Solomon, the
financial adviser to the special committee of the board. The
Willkie team was led by New York partners Steven Seidman and
Laura Delanoy.  Baker & Hostetler is legal adviser to American Greetings,
with Cleveland/Chicago partner Robert Weible, and Cleveland
partners John Gherlein and Kathleen O’Connor.  Latham & Watkins advised Koch AG Investment. Latham’s team
was led by Chicago partner Bradley Faris, Chicago/New York
partner Mark Gerstein and Chicago partner Shaun Hartley.  Law Firm News  K&L Gates Opens Delaware Office With Four Partners  K&L Gates LLP has opened an office in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
with four partners who previously worked at Potter Anderson &
Corroon LLP in the same city.  Joining K&L Gates are Scott E. Waxman, Eric N. Feldman,
Nicholas I. Froio, and Christina M. Houston. The Wilmington
office is K&L Gates’ 26th in the U.S. and 48th worldwide, and
marks the firm’s seventh new office in 2013, following openings
in  Seoul , Houston and four locations in  Australia  through the
Jan. 1 combination with Middletons.  “Delaware continues as the national center for formation
of business enterprises, and these days newly formed alternative
business entities outnumber traditional corporations by three to
one,” Peter J. Kalis, K&L Gates’ chairman and global managing
partner, said in a statement.  The lawyers in K&L Gates’ Wilmington office have experience
advising clients on Delaware’s alternative entities, including
limited liability companies, general and limited partnerships,
statutory trusts, and special purpose corporations, in a broad
range of general commercial and financing transactions,
including mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures,
securitizations, structured financings,  venture capital  and
private equity funds.  The firm said that the four also advise financial
institutions and service providers in a wide variety of
capacities, such as collateral agent, servicer, trustee,
securities intermediary, and independent manager/director.  Markun Zusman Freniere Adds Office in Boston Area  Markun Zusman Freniere & Compton LLP is opening an office
in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , near  Boston . David J. Freniere has
joined the 18-attorney firm as a partner.  Freniere specializes in broker-dealer business operations,
supervision, compliance, risk management, regulation and
litigation. He previously was deputy general counsel and head of
litigation for LPL Financial LLC, an independent brokerage and
investment advisory firm. Prior to that, he was an enforcement
attorney with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Freniere will focus on representing financial planners,
brokerage firms and investment advisers before regulatory
agencies, disciplinary authorities, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority arbitrations and administrative
proceedings.  Sedgwick Opens Miami Office with Addition of Trial Attorneys  Sedgwick LLP opened an office in Miami with attorneys from
Abadin Cook. Founding partners Ramon Abadin, Kimberly Cook and
three associates will join Sedgwick, establishing the firm’s
16th office worldwide and its second in  South Florida . Sedgwick
has an existing office in  Fort Lauderdale .  The new hires are trial attorneys and represent clients in
complex personal-injury and commercial litigation.  “The attorneys of Abadin Cook share our commitment to
client service and focus on complex litigation and trial
skills,” Sedgwick chairman Michael Tanenbaum said in a
statement. “They will make a great addition to our firm and
their presence in Miami will complement the services we
currently provide to our clients in the region and open a
gateway to the Central and South Americas.”  Three associates, Erin Dardis, Suzette Russomanno and
Viviana Varela, will also join Sedgwick.  Sedgwick has more than 370 attorneys.  Top Dealmakers Named by American Lawyer for 2012  The American Lawyer, in its April issue, named 14 lawyers
as the top dealmakers for 2012.  Those on this year’s list, complied by the publication’s
editorial staff, are Stacy Kanter and Nancy Lieberman of
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP; Jerry Marlatt of
 Morrison & Foerster LLP ; Paul Shim of  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP ; Bruce Gilchrist of Hogan Lovells LLP; Susheel Kirpalani of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP; Nicholas Kronfeld of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP; David Lam of Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz; Mark Menting and William Torchiana of
 Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP; Charles Ruck of Latham & Watkins LLP;
William Sorabella and Stephen Fraidin of Kirkland & Ellis LLP;
and Stephen Venuto of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP.  The 14 were named for their work on 12 deals, and according
to a statement by the trade publication, inclusion was based on
“innovation and creativity” in a range of deals. For 2011, the
magazine named 12 lawyers for 10 deals.  Moves  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara yesterday announced
the appointment of Joon H. Kim as his office’s chief counsel.  Kim returns to the U.S. Attorney’s Office from Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, where he was a partner in the
litigation and enforcement group. From 2000 to 2006, Kim was an
assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of New York,
where he investigated and prosecuted crimes including
racketeering, murder,  money laundering ,  securities fraud ,
firearms and narcotics offenses,  tax evasion , and terrorism.  He prosecuted violent organized crime syndicates, including
Asian gangs and the Mafia. Kim convicted high-ranking organized
crime figures, including Peter Gotti, then boss of the Gambino
Family, for conspiring to kill Salvatore “Sammy the Bull”
Gravano.  At Cleary Gottlieb, Kim’s practice focused on white-collar
criminal defense and regulatory enforcement, as well as
commercial civil litigation and international arbitration. He
has also represented corporations and individuals in a wide
range of investigations and disputes, including securities
fraud,  insider trading  and accounting fraud.  Morrison & Foerster Adds Privacy and Cybersecurity Lawyers  Privacy and consumer-protection attorney Andrew B. Serwin
joined Morrison & Foerster LLP as a partner, along with of
counsel Peter F. McLaughlin and associate Daniel Muto.  Miriam Wugmeister, head of the firm’s Global Privacy and
Data Security Group, said in a statement that the additions come
at an important time for the privacy field.  “All indications are that compliance and enforcement
actions in the United States will increase at both the federal
and state levels,” Wugmeister said.  Prior to joining Morrison & Foerster, Serwin was a partner
in the San Diego and Washington offices of Foley & Lardner. He
has written a number of books, including “Information Security
and Privacy: A Guide to Federal and State Law Compliance” and
“Information Security and Privacy: A Guide to International Law
and Compliance.”  Serwin will divide his time between the firm’s Washington
and San Diego offices, while McLaughlin will be in New York and
Muto will be in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  