-- Julius Baer Absorbs More Units Amid Merrill Integration
-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 2013-04-02T07:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/julius-baer-absorbs-more-businesses-amid-merrill-integration.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  absorbed
businesses in  Uruguay ,  Chile ,  Monaco  and Luxembourg as
Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager integrates the
Merrill Lynch operations acquired last year.  While the financial advisers and customer relations of
those entities were transferred yesterday, client assets will
only be moved in a “staggered manner,” the Zurich-based bank
said today in a statement. Julius Baer expects to transfer the
Hong Kong,  Singapore  and U.K. businesses later this year.  “With the addition of Uruguay, where we are now one of the
biggest players, and Chile, we have expanded our business
massively in the fast growing market of Latin America,” Chief
Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said in the statement. “We
enter the market in the important financial centre Luxembourg
with a substantial client base.”  Julius Baer said in October it may cut more than 1,000 jobs
after purchasing Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch wealth
management units outside the U.S. While the deal may boost
client assets by as much as 72 billion Swiss francs ($76
billion) by 2015 as Julius Baer makes purchases to compete with
larger rivals UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, the
unprofitable Merrill business may increase pressure on the
bank’s margins.  Julius Baer  rose  0.3 percent to 370.2 francs as of 9:33
a.m. in Zurich. The shares have increased 14 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 8.3 billion francs.  The bank had assets under management of more than 200
billion francs as of Feb. 1, up from 189 billion francs reported
at the end of December. It started absorbing Merrill Lynch units
last quarter, beginning with the 11 billion francs of assets
under management at the Swiss business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  