-- Nasdaq Falls Most Since 2008 as ESpeed Buy Adds Credit Risk
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-04-02T20:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nasdaq-declines-most-since-2011-as-espeed-buy-raises-credit-risk.html
Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. shares
declined the most since November 2008 after the acquisition of
eSpeed, an electronic platform for trading U.S. Treasury bonds,
raised concern about its credit rating.  Shares of the second-biggest  operator  of U.S. equity
exchanges fell 13 percent to $27.91. The company agreed
yesterday to acquire eSpeed from  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  for as much
as $1.23 billion, depending on sales goals. Moody’s Investors
Service and Standard & Poor’s warned the debt rating may be
lowered.  Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq’s chief executive officer, is
joining other exchange executives using takeovers to boost
profit amid declines in stock trading. While Nasdaq has long
sought to expand into interest rates, the purchase will limit
its ability to do other things such as buybacks, according to
Paul Gulberg, a New York-based analyst at Portales Partners LLC  “It’s strategically positive but financially questionable
in the near term,” Gulberg said in a telephone interview.
“That’s why the stock is reacting.”  BGC shares  rose  49 percent to $5.72, the biggest gain since
its initial public offering in 1999. Nasdaq will pay $750
million in cash for eSpeed and exchange about 15 million common
shares over 15 years, it said yesterday. ESpeed, founded by
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in 1996, is used by banks worldwide to
trade bonds and currencies.  Adding Debt  The transaction, along with the purchase of a shareholder-
relations unit of Thomson Reuters Corp. in December, will add
about $1 billion to  Nasdaq OMX’s debt , according to the
statement by Moody’s. It placed Nasdaq’s senior rating of Baa3
on review for a possible downgrade.  “Moody’s will examine the capacity of Nasdaq OMX to reduce
leverage which is partly a function of the execution risks
facing the firm as it integrates these two acquisitions at
virtually the same time,” Moody’s wrote. The company has
“repeatedly shown a willingness to increase leverage” and will
face more such decisions “in an industry prone to
consolidation,” it wrote.  S&P put Nasdaq’s BBB rating on CreditWatch negative, the
New York-based firm said today.  Moody’s and S&P “will come to their own conclusions” and
Nasdaq has “communicated our commitment to maintaining our
investment grade status,” Lee Shavel, the chief financial
officer, said in a conference call with analysts yesterday. The
company plans to reduce leverage over time and suspended
guidance on its share buyback program, he said.  ‘Operationally Strong’  “We also get credit for being operationally strong and for
integrating our transactions well,” he said. “Hopefully all
these elements will come into play here.”  The acquisition price is about 10.9 times eSpeed’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
past 12 months, compared with Nasdaq’s valuation of 8.1 times,
Shavel said. The multiple is similar to exchange companies with
the fastest growth, such as derivatives venues, he said.  Swings in government bonds have been “artificially
depressed” by Federal Reserve asset purchases, Nasdaq said in
the release. Volatility in Treasuries as measured by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  has averaged 58.74 this year,
down from 79.42 in the first three months of 2012.  Fully electronic volume on the eSpeed and BGC Trader
system, including new products, was $48.2 trillion for the year
ended December 31, 2012, down 15.7 percent from $57.2 trillion
for 2011, BGC said in an annual regulatory filing. Combined
voice-assisted and screen-assisted volume for the year for 2012
was $190.7 trillion, down 1.8 percent from 2011.  Core Asset  ESpeed will be a core asset for Nasdaq and allow the
exchange operator to expand into other areas of fixed income,
Greifeld said on the conference call. While the company expects
the transaction to add to earnings in a year, that wasn’t the
rationale for buying it, he said.  “We have a tremendous opportunity to cross-sell within our
existing customer base that did not exist as eSpeed is buried
into BGC,” he said. “The margins are high, so we don’t have to
grow revenue by some ungodly amount to have a tremendous return
for our shareholders.”  The company will move the eSpeed platform into its data
center in Carteret, New Jersey, to reduce technology and
operational costs, Greifeld said. It will continue to use the
platform’s technology for Treasuries, he said.  Equity Trading  Nasdaq OMX’s share of trading in equities has fallen since
2007, when 46.1 percent of volume in Nasdaq-listed companies
occurred on its main market. About 23.3 percent was done on its
main market in the last quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Altogether, Nasdaq OMX had 18.4 percent of U.S.
equities trading across its three exchanges in the first three
months of this year.  While shares of Nasdaq climbed 41 percent since the end of
2009, they remained down 44 percent from their 2007 high of $50
on Dec. 26, 2007.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York cut its
rating on Nasdaq shares to equal-weight, the equivalent of
neutral, from overweight, according to a report dated yesterday.  The deal is a departure from the company’s effort to reduce
its reliance on volume-based businesses, Chris Allen, an analyst
at Evercore, wrote in the report. While the purchase may benefit
Nasdaq over the longer term, the stock is “likely to be dead
money in the near-term,” he wrote.  Cantor Fitzgerald LP founded eSpeed during the dot-com
rally of the late 1990s and took it public in 1999. BGC Partners
was created in April 2008 when Cantor combined eSpeed with its
London-based broker-assisted bond trading unit.  BGC’s stock dropped 46 percent over the last two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Electronic Trading  The electronic trading platform for on-the-run U.S.
Treasuries, including related market data and co-location
businesses that Nasdaq is buying, generated about $100 million
of revenue last year, less than 6 percent of BGC’s total, Howard Lutnick, its chief executive officer, said in the company’s
statement yesterday. The total sale may be about as large as
BGC’s fully-diluted market value, he said.  “We think that the market was clearly under-valuing the
assets of the company,” Lutnick said. “This transaction should
better enable investors and analysts to place an accurate
valuation on BGC’s assets post-closing.”  BGC, part-owned by Cantor Fitzgerald, has been diversifying
into commercial real-estate by buying a series of brokerages as
bond trading slows. It will keep its voice and hybrid brokerage
and electronic business for off-the-run Treasuries and other
fixed-income products, the company said.  ‘Huge Deal’  “For BGC, this is a huge deal because their all-in price
was higher than the market capitalization was,” Jillian Miller,
an Atlanta-based exchange analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
in a telephone interview. “BGC saw this as an opportunity to
sell off this piece that isn’t affected by the regulatory
environment and realize some value for it.”  Fully electronic volume in the rates market, which includes
Treasuries and European and Canadian sovereign debt as well as
overnight repurchase agreements,  interest-rate swaps  and futures
on eSpeed, declined 19.8 percent for the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before to $9.7 trillion,
according to BGC’s 10-K report filed March 12.  Total volume, including electronic and so-called hybrid
volume conducted by BGC brokers, rose 15.6 percent to $44.4
trillion during the same period, the report said.  The number of fully electronic transactions in Treasuries
declined 35 percent to 3.2 million in the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before, while hybrid
transactions grew 15.5 percent to 619,000 during the period.  The purchase comes as Greifeld seeks to push into European
derivatives, dominated by Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
Liffe exchange. The company is setting up a London market called
NLX, buying a 25 percent stake in  The Order Machine , a Dutch
alternative securities-trading system focused on stocks and
equity derivatives, and seeking a greater share of energy
products in  Germany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  