-- Nasdaq Accepts Credit Rating Risk in Quest to Expand
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nasdaq-accepts-credit-rating-risk-in-quest-to-expand.html
For  Nasdaq (NDAQ)  OMX Group Inc., the
benefits of expanding into electronic bond trading justify the
risk of a lower credit rating.  The second-biggest operator of American equity exchanges
agreed yesterday to acquire eSpeed, a platform for U.S.
Treasuries, from  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  for $750 million cash, or
$1.2 billion should sales goals be met. Moody’s Investors
Service said Nasdaq’s Baa3 senior rating may be cut following
the deal.  Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq’s chief executive officer, is
joining other exchange executives using takeovers to boost
profit amid declines in stock trading. Even if Moody’s takes
action, Nasdaq is less vulnerable than rivals CME Group Inc. and
InterContinental Exchange Inc., which depend on higher credit
ratings for their businesses of guaranteeing trades.  “At the end of the day, the credit rating isn’t as vital
as it would be for CME or ICE, which have major
clearinghouses,” according to Chris Allen, a New York-based
exchange analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  “Nasdaq saw an
opportunity to diversify into another asset class, fixed income,
which has potential structural catalysts to drive growth longer-
term.”  BGC shares rose 37 percent in trading after the market
closed, paring a gain that exceeded 90 percent. Nasdaq will also
issue about 15 million common shares over 15 years as part of
the acquisition, pushing the potential value of the transaction
to $1.23 billion, according to e-mailed statements by the two
companies. ESpeed, founded by Cantor Fitzgerald LP in 1996, is
used by banks worldwide to trade bonds and currencies.  Credit Rating  The transaction, along with the purchase of a shareholder-
relations unit of Thomson Reuters Corp. in December, will add
about $1 billion to Nasdaq OMX’s debt, according to the
statement by Moody’s. Nasdaq shares slipped about 0.3 percent in
after-hours trading to $31.91.  “Moody’s will examine the capacity of Nasdaq OMX to reduce
leverage which is partly a function of the execution risks
facing the firm as it integrates these two acquisitions at
virtually the same time,” Moody’s wrote. The company has
“repeatedly shown a willingness to increase leverage” and will
face more such decisions  “in an industry prone to
consolidation,” it wrote.  Rating companies “will come to their own conclusions” and
Nasdaq has “communicated our commitment to maintaining our
investment grade status,” Lee Shavel, the chief financial
officer, said in a conference call with analysts yesterday. The
company plans to reduce leverage over time, he said.  ‘Operationally Strong’  “We also get credit for being operationally strong and for
integrating our transactions well,” he said. “Hopefully all
these elements will come into play here.”  The acquisition price is about 10.9 times eSpeed’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
past 12 months, compared with Nasdaq’s valuation of 8.1 times,
Shavel said. The multiple is similar to exchange companies with
the fastest growth, such as derivatives venues, he said.  Swings in government bonds have been “artificially
depressed” by Federal Reserve asset purchases, Nasdaq said in
the release. Volatility in Treasuries as measured by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  MOVE index  has averaged 58.74 this year,
down from 79.42 in the first three months of 2012.  Fully electronic volume on the eSpeed and BGC Trader
system, including new products, was $48.2 trillion for the year
ended December 31, 2012, down 15.7 percent from $57.2 trillion
for 2011, BGC said in the 10-K. Combined voice-assisted and
screen-assisted volume for the year for 2012 was $190.7
trillion, down 1.8 percent from 2011.  Core Asset  ESpeed will be a core asset for Nasdaq and allow the
exchange operator to expand into other areas of fixed income,
Greifeld said on the conference call. While the company expects
the transaction to add to earnings in a year, that wasn’t the
rationale for buying it, he said.  “We have a tremendous opportunity to cross-sell within our
existing customer base that did not exist as eSpeed is buried
into BGC,” he said. “The margins are high, so we don’t have to
grow revenue by some ungodly amount to have a tremendous return
for our shareholders.”  The company will move the eSpeed platform into its data
center in Carteret, New Jersey, to reduce technology and
operational costs, Greifeld said. It will continue to use the
platform’s technology for Treasuries, he said.  Equity Trading  Nasdaq OMX’s share of trading in equities has fallen since
2007, when 46.1 percent of volume in Nasdaq-listed companies
occurred on its main market. About 23.3 percent was done on its
main market in the last quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Altogether, Nasdaq OMX had 18.4 percent of all
equities trading across its three exchanges in the first three
months of this year.  While shares of Nasdaq have climbed 61 percent since the
end of 2009, they remain down 36 percent from their 2007 high of
$50 on Dec. 26, 2007.  BGC Partners was created in April 2008 when Cantor
Fitzgerald LP combined eSpeed with its London-based broker-
assisted bond trading unit. Cantor founded eSpeed during the
dot-com rally of the late 1990s and took it public in 1999.  BGC’s stock dropped 59 percent over the last two years to
$3.85 at the close of trading today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares jumped as high as $7.57 after exchanges
closed and was trading at $5.26 as of 6:03 p.m. in New York.  Electronic Trading  The electronic trading platform for on-the-run U.S.
Treasuries, including related market data and co-location
businesses that Nasdaq is buying, generated about $100 million
of revenue last year, less than 6 percent of BGC’s total, Howard Lutnick, its chief executive officer, said in the statement. The
total sale may be about as large as BGC’s fully-diluted market
value, he said.  “We think that the market was clearly under-valuing the
assets of the company,” Lutnick said. “This transaction should
better enable investors and analysts to place an accurate
valuation on BGC’s assets post-closing.”  BGC, part-owned by Cantor Fitzgerald, has been diversifying
into commercial real-estate by buying a series of brokerages as
bond trading slows. It will keep its voice and hybrid brokerage
and electronic business for off-the-run Treasuries and other
fixed-income products, the company said.  ‘Huge Deal’  “For BGC, this is a huge deal because their all-in price
was higher than the market capitalization was,” Jillian Miller,
an Atlanta-based exchange analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said
in a telephone interview. “BGC saw this as an opportunity to
sell off this piece that isn’t affected by the regulatory
environment and realize some value for it.”  Fully electronic volume in the rates market, which includes
Treasuries and European and Canadian sovereign debt as well as
overnight repurchase agreements,  interest-rate swaps  and futures
on eSpeed, declined 19.8 percent for the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before to $9.7 trillion,
according to BGC’s 10-K report filed March 12.  Total volume, including electronic and so-called hybrid
volume conducted by BGC brokers, rose 15.6 percent to $44.4
trillion during the same period, the report said.  The number of fully electronic transactions in Treasuries
declined 35 percent to 3.2 million in the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before, while hybrid
transactions grew 15.5 percent to 619,000 during the period.  The purchase comes as Greifeld seeks to push into European
derivatives, dominated by Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
Liffe exchange. The company is setting up a London market called
NLX, buying a 25 percent stake in  The Order Machine , a Dutch
alternative securities-trading system focused on stocks and
equity derivatives, and seeking a greater share of energy
products in Germany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  