-- National Geographic Society CEO Fahey to Retire in 1 Year
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-04-02T20:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/national-geographic-society-ceo-fahey-to-retire-in-1-year.html
The National Geographic Society,
publisher of the 125-year-old magazine, said Chief Executive
Officer John Fahey will retire by April 2014, ending a 15-year
tenure that made cable TV the group’s biggest revenue source.  Fahey, 61, will remain chairman, the Washington-based
science and education non-profit said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The board will immediately start a CEO search.  “John Fahey has led this remarkable institution for a
decade and a half, and in that time, managed it through an
incredible and successful transformation,” the board said in
the statement. The  society  is “well-positioned to fulfill its
mission in the rapidly evolving digital age.”  Fahey oversaw the society’s expansion from magazine
publisher to cable-television programmer with the National
Geographic Channel, a joint venture with News Corp., and to
films, with “March of the Penguins,” the 2005 documentary that
grossed more than $127 million worldwide.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. owns about 70 percent of Nat
Geo and Nat Geo Wild in the U.S., and holds a 52 percent
interest in the international TV division, according to the New
York-based media company’s most recent annual report.  Fahey will remain involved with fundraising, the society’s
educational foundation and with the TV channel joint ventures,
according to a memo distributed yesterday to staff.  Staff Memo  Fahey said he plans to remain CEO until a successor joins
the organization, and will assist with the transition.  “This was a difficult decision for me,” Fahey wrote. “I
love this place and this job.”  Stepping aside will give the organization a “fresh
perspective” and provide Fahey with an opportunity to “engage
in other activities of great interest,” he wrote.  Alan Mairson, a former National Geographic staff writer who
writes a  blog  critical of the society, said the growing reliance
on TV under Fahey has undermined the group’s mission of
cultural, environmental and historical conservation.  “While I’m hoping for big changes at the society, I’m not
betting on them,” Mairson, who worked at National Geographic
magazine from 1990 to 2008, said in an e-mail.  Mairson cited Nat Geo programs like  “Wicked Tuna,”  a
reality show about fishing for Atlantic bluefin tuna, which the
society says is  endangered .  ‘Wicked Tuna’  Shows like “Wicked Tuna” help raise public awareness of
the bluefin tuna’s plight, according to Terry Garcia, a National
Geographic Society executive vice president who is quoted on Nat
Geo’s  website .  Nat Geo is available in more than 84 million U.S.
households, while Nat Geo Wild reaches more than 57 million
homes, according to the  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s filing. A figure wasn’t
provided for Nat Geo Mundo, a Spanish-language outlet started in
July 2011.  The network’s subscriber fees from pay-TV systems rank
among the top 40 on cable, according to SNL Kagan estimates. Nat
Geo receives 24 cents a month per subscriber, while Nat Geo Wild
is paid 12 cents and Nat Geo Mundo gets 20 cents.  News Corp., based in  New York , gained 2.3 percent to $31.03
at the close. The stock has climbed 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  