-- New Bird Flu Virus Kills 2 in China, Sparking WHO Probe
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-03T07:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/new-bird-flu-virus-kills-2-in-china-sparking-who-probe.html
A new strain of bird flu killed two
people among at least seven infected in eastern  China , prompting
officials in Shanghai and Hong Kong to issue alerts and the
World Health Organization to  investigate  whether the virus could
spread more widely.  The two deaths were in Shanghai, and five people in Anhui
and Jiangsu provinces are in critical condition after being
infected with the H7N9 strain, according to China’s official
Xinhua News Agency and Jiangsu’s provincial government website.  No link between the cases has been identified, and no
further infections have been found among 88 contacts of the
first three patients, according to the Geneva-based WHO,
suggesting the virus isn’t easily transmitted from person to
person. One of the other cases is a 45-year-old woman who
slaughters poultry in Nanjing city, Xinhua reported.  “This is of concern,” Gregory Hartl, a WHO spokesman,
said by phone yesterday. “These are the first cases we’ve seen
in human beings. We’re watching this very closely.”  The virus is genetically an avian flu virus, and hasn’t
mixed with human or pig pathogens, Hartl said. The WHO is
looking into whether H7N9 has evolved to become more of a threat
to humans, he said.  The  flu pandemics  of the past century, including the 1918
Spanish flu that killed as many as 50 million people, have all
been triggered by the mixing of human and animal flu viruses to
create new pathogens to which people have no pre-existing
immunity.  Shanghai Alert  Shanghai  issued a level-3 flu alert yesterday, the second-
lowest stage of four levels, following the deaths of the two
men, ages 87 and 27, in China’s financial hub last month.
Municipal authorities will strengthen monitoring of influenza
and will require daily reporting of pneumonia cases where the
causes are unknown, Xu Jianguang, head of Shanghai’s health and
family planning commission, said at a briefing yesterday.  Investigations still haven’t uncovered how the two men
contracted the virus, and tests have yet to prove whether it can
be transmitted among humans, said Wu Fan, head of the city’s
disease control center.  There’s also no evidence that the virus is related to dead
pigs found in a Shanghai river last month, according to Wu. More
than 11,000 hog carcasses were pulled from the Huangpu river,
which supplies about 22 percent of the city’s water, and
thousands more were found in neighboring Zhejiang province.  Poultry Infections  Concerns about the spread of infections among poultry led
soybean meal futures traded in the Chinese city of Dalian to
fall by as much as 2.6 percent today, Alice Xuan, analyst at
Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said by telephone. Soybean meal is
a primary ingredient in chicken feed.  Shares of  Beijing Dabeinong Technology Group Co. (002385) , which
makes animal feed, sank to a more than three-month low in
trading on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  The discovery of the new virus has prompted other cities in
the region to intensify checks. Beijing, the Chinese capital,
started monitoring for H7N9 influenza, Xinhua reported, while
 Taiwan ’s Central News Agency said March 31 the island is on the
alert for the bug. Officials in Hong Kong activated the alert
response level, the lowest of three in the island’s pandemic
preparedness  plan , and advised people to avoid direct contact
with birds.  “Although there is no evidence to show human-to-human
transmission, the mutation potential of the virus is high,”
Leung Ting-hung, controller of Hong Kong’s Centre for Health
Protection, said in an e-mailed statement.  More than  600 people  have been infected with the H5N1 bird
flu strain since 2003, and almost 60 percent have died,
according to the WHO. Most had direct contact with infected
poultry, and the virus hasn’t acquired the ability to spread
easily between people.  The H1N1 virus responsible for the 2009 swine flu pandemic
originated in pigs, then mixed with human and avian viruses,
touching off the first global flu outbreak in more than 40 years
and killing about 284,500 people, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  