-- New U.K. Welfare System at Risk of Fraud, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/new-u-k-welfare-system-at-risk-of-fraud-lawmakers-say.html
The computer system designed to
administer the U.K. government’s new approach to making welfare
payments simpler may be vulnerable to fraud, a panel of
lawmakers said.  Parliament’s cross-party Communities Committee said the
ministry in charge of benefits payments, the Department for Work
and Pensions, must “provide swift assurance” that the switch
to so-called universal credit will be carried out with adequate
information-technology security in place.  The new  universal credit  is designed to be cheaper and
easier to administer and cut back on fraud as benefits claimants
no longer have to apply for as many as six separate types of
benefit. The credit will continue to be available for people as
they move into work, so there is no sudden loss of benefits when
people start to earn.  “We heard evidence that ICT systems for fraud detection
within universal credit were still at an early stage in their
development,” the committee’s chairman, Labour lawmaker Clive Betts, said in an e-mailed statement today. “This is extremely
concerning given the advanced state of implementation.”  The Conservative-led coalition headed by Prime Minister
 David Cameron  is looking to trim welfare costs to help narrow
the  budget deficit  while winning support from voters who resent
the scale of benefit payments.  In an effort that started on April 1, the government is
capping benefit increases at 1 percent a year over the next
three years, below the projected increase in inflation. It also
introduced curbs on housing benefit, including a reduction in
payments for people in rented housing who have bedrooms that
aren’t being used. Church leaders described the plans as
“unjust” over the Easter weekend.  “Universal credit will cut benefit fraud by 200 million
pounds a year and we are confident that our IT systems will be
strong enough to protect us from the threat of fraud,” the
Department for Work and Pensions said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have been running pilot projects with local authorities to
ensure that those people who can’t manage with monthly or direct
payments get the support they need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  