-- N.Y. State Senator Charged With Mayoral Election Bribery
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-04-03T01:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/new-york-state-senator-charged-in-mayoral-election-scheme.html
New York  State Senator Malcolm Smith, a Democrat who represents a Queens district in  New York
City , was among a group of six people charged in a bribery
scheme aimed at getting him the Republican nomination for mayor.  Smith, 56, sought to bribe party officials so that he could
run for mayor of New York City this year, U.S. prosecutors said
today in papers filed in federal court in White Plains, New
York. Also charged were New York City Councilman Daniel
Halloran, a Republican from Queens, and Republican Party
officials Vincent Tabone and Joseph Savino.  “A show-me-the-money culture seems to pervade every level
of New York government,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in a statement, calling the charges “an unappetizing
smorgasbord of graft and greed involving six officials who
together built a corridor of corruption stretching from Queens
and the Bronx to Rockland County and all the way up to Albany
itself.”  The defendants, charged with six counts including fraud and
conspiracy in a complaint unsealed today, face decades in prison
if convicted. They were scheduled to appear today in federal
court in  White Plains .  Smith is among a group of five breakaway Democrats who
helped form a coalition last year with Republicans, marking the
first time power in the chamber has been shared.  Independent Conference  The Democrats created the Independent Democratic Conference
to share power with the Republicans over the senate agenda and
state budget, they said at the time.  Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who heads the IDC and
co-leads the Senate, said in an e-mailed statement today that he
has decided to strip Smith of his committee assignments and
conference leadership position as a result of the charges.  “Given the level of criminality alleged, I believe that
Senator Smith should seriously consider whether or not he can
continue to effectively serve his constituents,” Klein said in
the statement.  Republicans were in the majority the past two years.
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a 55-year-old Democrat, relied on them to
help push through a pension overhaul, budgets that cut more than
$12 billion in deficits and a property-tax cap. He also
persuaded four Republican senators to break from their party to
support the legalization of same-sex marriage in 2011.  It’s not the first time Senate leadership has shifted with
the changing alliances of some Democrats. After taking the
majority in 2008, four Democrats -- Bronx Senators Ruben Diaz
and Pedro Espada, Carl Kruger of  Brooklyn  and Hiram Monserrate
of Queens -- refused to back Smith as the chamber’s leader and
threatened to join Republicans.  The leadership battle lasted through the first half of 2009
and ended with Democrats still in control, and critics calling
it an example of  Albany ’s dysfunction.  ‘Very Serious’  Cuomo called the corruption allegations against Smith
“very serious.”  “We have zero tolerance for any violation of the public
integrity and the public trust,” Cuomo said at a press briefing
in Buffalo. “It is very troubling.”  According to prosecutors, Halloran, the city council
member, told an unidentified cooperating witness on Sept. 7,
2012, that he was seeking money for his campaign to be elected
to the U.S. House of Representatives.  “That’s politics, that’s politics, it’s all about how
much,” said Halloran, according to the government. “Not about
whether or will, it’s about how much, and that’s our politicians
in New York, they’re all like that, all like that. And they get
like that because of the drive that the money does for
everything else.”  Police Cadet  The Police Department today denied published reports that
Halloran had served as a New York City police officer. In an e-
mail advisory, the department said Halloran was a police cadet,
“the equivalent of a college intern,” for three months in 1990
before he quit.  Halloran’s City Council Web page and a site set up to
promote his House candidacy say that Halloran “served in the
NYPD and in three District Attorney offices, helping keep our
communities safe.”  New York City Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  is the majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The case is U.S. v. Smith, 13-00852, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  