-- News Corp. Is Said to Consider Sale of Community Newspapers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-03T20:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/news-corp-is-said-to-consider-sale-of-its-community-newspapers.html
News Corp. is considering the sale
of its  Dow Jones Local Media unit , a group of community papers
such as the Cape Cod Times in  Massachusetts  and Oregon’s Ashland
Daily Tidings, a person familiar with the deliberations said.  The New York-based company has hired the investment bank
Waller Capital to seek potential buyers for the papers, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the plan isn’t public.
Nathaniel Brown, spokesman for News Corp., declined to comment,
as did Ed Adler, a representative for New York-based Waller.  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s founder and chief executive
officer, is grooming the company’s publishing division in
preparation for a spinoff this year. News Corp. is splitting the
business from its entertainment operations, which will be called
Fox Group Inc. The company agreed to the spinoff last year,
bowing to pressure from shareholders who wanted the company to
focus on its more valuable television and film businesses.  The new publishing company reported a pro forma net loss of
$1.89 billion in the fiscal year that ended on June 30, with
sales of $9.14 billion. The loss included $2.6 billion in
writedowns, mostly from reductions in the value of newspapers.  News Corp. originally attempted a sale of its community
newspapers in 2008, at the height of the U.S. credit crisis,
according to another person with knowledge of the matter.  News
Corp. (NWSA)  couldn’t attract any bidders at the time, the person said.  1970 Merger  The community-paper division was formed after Ottaway
Newspapers merged with Dow Jones in 1970. The Ottaway business
was founded in 1936 when James H. Ottaway bought the Bulletin in
Endicott,  New York , according to  Dow Jones’s website . Its papers
now include the Times Herald-Record in Middletown, New York; the
Pocono Record in Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania ; Nantucket Today in
Massachusetts; and the Record in Stockton,  California .  The Wall Street Journal, which is owned by News Corp.,
 previously reported  on the sale discussions.  News Corp. shares fell 0.9 percent to $30.74 at the close
in New York. The stock has climbed 21 percent this year.  Warren Buffett , the world’s third-richest person, has
emerged as one of the biggest acquirers of community newspapers
in recent years. His company,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , has
purchased more than 80 newspapers for more than $342 million.
Local papers that deliver reliable information to “tightly
bound communities” with a sensible Internet strategy will stay
viable, Buffett has said.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  