-- Nissan Wins License to Trade in Japanese Power Market
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-04-04T05:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nissan-wins-license-to-trade-in-japan-electricity-market.html
(Corrects company comment in seventh paragraph to say
Toyota Turbine plans to sell electricity to its retail shops in
story published April 2.)  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co., Japan’s second-
largest automaker, received a license to buy and sell
electricity in the nation’s wholesale power market.  Nissan received the license this year, according to the
Japan Electric Power Exchange’s website. Toshitake Inoshita, a
Nissan spokesman, wasn’t immediately available to comment on the
membership.  Nissan follows  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  and  Nippon Paper
Group Inc. (3893)  among a growing number of non-energy companies
entering the Japanese wholesale power market. Electricity prices
have risen after the 2011 Fukushima disaster resulted in most
nuclear plants nationwide being shut down.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , which supplies power to Japan’s
biggest industrial area, raised corporate electricity rates by
an average of 15 percent from April 2012.  Kansai Electric Power
Co. (9503)  and  Kyushu Electric Power Co. (9508)  said they’re planning to raise
rates for companies by 17 percent and 12 percent, respectively,
from May 1.  The power exchange, established in 2003, had 61 trading
members including  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Fujifilm, gas utilities,
refiners and trading companies as of March 19. It had 59 members
at the beginning of the year.  Separately, a  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  unit may be preparing to
sell electricity. Toyota Turbine & Systems Inc. submitted a
registration form yesterday to the trade and industry ministry
to start retail power distribution, said Shohei Kanasugi, an
official at the ministry’s electricity market division,
confirming part of a Yomiuri newspaper report.  Toyota Turbine plans to buy tens of thousands of kilowatts
of electricity generated by other companies’ factories or traded
at the wholesale market, then supply the electricity to its
retail shops, the Yomiuri newspaper reported today. Eiji Miura,
a sales manager at the Toyota unit, confirmed the reported
plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  