-- Nova Kreditna Rating Cut at S&P on Slovenia Bank’s Asset Quality
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 2013-04-02T12:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nova-kreditna-rating-cut-at-s-p-on-slovenia-bank-s-asset-quality.html
Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. ’s
credit rating was lowered by Standard & Poor’s, which cited a
deterioration in the quality of the Slovenian state-owned bank’s
assets.  The unsolicited public information rating was reduced to
Bpi from BBpi, S&P said in a statement from Paris today. Public-
information ratings are based on published financial information
and information in the public domain. The unsolicited rating was
initiated by S&P and “may or may not involve the participation
of the issuer,” it said.  Slovenia, struggling to avoid becoming the sixth euro
member to ask for a bailout after Cyprus, drafted a 4 billion-
euro ($5.4 billion) bank recapitalization plan that would take
up bad loans from ailing lenders. NKBM, which had a 205 million-
euro 2012 loss, was one of four banks that failed last year to
meet capital targets set by European regulators. Bank of Cyprus
Pcl,  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , known as Laiki Bank, and  Italy ’s
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  were the others.  “Capital has always been one of NKBM’s main rating
weaknesses,” S&P analysts Pierre Gautier, based in Paris, and
Maria Malyukova, based in Moscow, said in the statement. “In
the weak environment and because of the highly leveraged
corporate sector, notably the construction one, NKBM will
continue to accumulate problem loans in 2013.”  NKBM rose 1.5 percent to 76 euro cents as of 1:08 p.m. in
Ljubljana after reaching a record-low 72.2 euro cents earlier
today. It has plunged 41.5 percent this year, compared with a
6.1 percent decline in Slovenia’s benchmark SBITOP stock index.  Recession, Loans  The Adriatic nation’s economy has struggled with  two
recessions  over the past four years, sparking a wave of
bankruptcies. Loan quality worsened at Slovenia’s largest state-
controlled banks, including NKBM and Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d., after the collapse of the construction industry, which
fueled growth before the crisis.  Slovenia’s bank recapitalization proposal has been delayed
by a political crisis that forced former Prime Minister Janez Jansa from office in February. His replacement, Alenka Bratusek,
has pledged to follow through on the plan with unspecified
changes.  NKBM’s non-performing loans surged to 7 billion euros, or
14.4 percent of all loans in Slovenia at the end of November,
according to the central bank.  The downgrade reflects increasing pressure on NKBM’s
solvency following the announcement of the 2012 financial
results, S&P said. The bank’s non-performing loan ratio may
“converge toward 30 percent” this year, it said.  “A surge in credit losses, especially in the fourth
quarter of 2012, largely explains these weak results, but
operating performance showed weaknesses, as well, notably in
falling margins and volumes,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  