-- Novartis, Facebook, Vivendi, Aereo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/novartis-facebook-vivendi-aereo-intellectual-property.html
India’s  Supreme Court  denied
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s request for patent protection for its Gleevec
cancer treatment, allowing the nation’s generic-drug makers to
continue to sell copies of the drug at a lower price.  In a decision watched by non-profit groups seeking to
expand access to medicine and drugmakers concerned about India’s
position on  intellectual property , the court yesterday upheld
regulatory rulings dating to 2006 that the drug wasn’t
sufficiently innovative to merit a patent. Basel, Switzerland-
based Novartis argued that the molecule imatinib, on which
Gleevec is based, required years of research and modification to
make it an effective, safe leukemia treatment.  “Repetitive patent is not permissible on the same drug,”
Justices Aftab Alam and Ranjana Prakash Desai said in the
court’s ruling in New Delhi. “The drug is neither new nor
complies” with provisions of the patent law, they ruled.  The decision may add to concern among Western
pharmaceutical companies that India allows domestic generic-drug
makers to profit from products that deserve patent protection.
Scientists credit Gleevec with turning a deadly blood cancer
into a chronic disease, and the drug was Novartis’s best-selling
product last year with sales of $4.7 billion.  The Indian Patent Office in 2006 denied a patent to
Novartis, a decision upheld by the Indian Intellectual Property
Appellate Board. The board cited a provision of Indian law that
aims to prevent “evergreening,” in which companies make an
incremental change to a drug’s chemical makeup, without any real
medical benefit, to extend its patent life and prevent the
introduction of low-cost generic copies.  Novartis appealed to the nation’s highest court. Generic
versions of the drug are on the market in India.  Novartis and aid groups agree that the drug itself is of
secondary importance in the larger debate over intellectual
property.  Sales of Gleevec in India are negligible, because more than
90 percent of volume in the country is donated through Novartis
programs, available to the poor, Paul Herrling, who heads
Novartis’s Institute for Tropical Diseases in Singapore, said in
an interview before the decision.  Besides denying a patent to Gleevec, India has angered
pharmaceutical companies by allowing generic-drug makers to
produce copies of patent-protected medicines to ensure they’re
available in the country at affordable prices. Drug companies
say they have programs in place to make expensive medicines
available to the poor.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Facebook Must Face Trademark Trial Over ‘Timeline’ Feature  Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s largest social-
networking service, lost bid to end a trademark-infringement
lawsuit over its use of “timeline” and related terms.  Timelines Inc. started a website in 2009 that lets users
create chronologies tracing historical events such as wars,
sporting events and advances in science. It sued Facebook for
infringement and unfair competition in September 2011, a week
after the social-network announced it was adding a “timeline”
feature to its user pages.  Facebook counter-sued, claiming Timelines’ registered marks
weren’t sufficiently distinctive to warrant protection and
asking for judgments of non-infringement and a cancellation of
the registrations.  Facebook “has failed to demonstrate, as a matter of law,
that the marks are generic,” U.S. District Judge John W. Darrah
in Chicago wrote in a ruling yesterday. “At this stage in the
proceedings, it is not unreasonable to conclude that as to this
group of users, ‘timeline(s)’ has acquired a specific meaning
associated with plaintiff.”  The judge said Timelines had “more than nominal” sales
and more than a thousand active users. A  jury trial  is set for
April 22.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook , said in an e-mail that the company declined to comment
on Darrah’s decision.  “We’re happy with the ruling,” Douglas Albritton, an
attorney for Chicago-based Timelines, said yesterday in a phone
interview. His client is seeking damages equivalent to
Facebook’s timeline-derived ad revenue, he said.  The case is Timelines Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-06867,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Swedish Match Unit Can Keep ‘Cohiba’ Trademark, U.S. Board Rules  An appeals board at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
dismissed a request from the Cuban government-owned tobacco
company to cancel the “Cohiba” trademark belonging to  Swedish
Match AB (SWMA) ’s General Cigar unit.  The  board said  that because Cuban Assets Control
Regulations bar Empresa Cubana Del Tabaco from having any
property interest in the mark in the U.S. “at any time, by any
means,” it doesn’t have standing to request cancellation of the
trademark.  The dispute originally played out in U.S. federal courts,
with the state-owned company seeking an order barring Swedish
Match’s use of the name. The Cuban company has registered the
Cohiba trade name in 115 other countries. The name was first
used for a cigar created decades ago for Cuban dictator  Fidel
Castro .  The dispute went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused
in 2006 to hear an appeal of a ruling from the New York-based
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which said the trade embargo
barred the Cuban company from acquiring rights to the mark.  The patent office appeals board said that in light of that
appellate court ruling, the Cuban company lacks a legitimate
commercial interest in the “Cohiba” mark in the U.S. As a
result, the board said, the company’s contention that it’s
harmed by consumer confusion is unfounded.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Vivendi Wins Copyright Ruling in Used-Digital-Song Case  ReDigi Inc., an online service that lets people buy and
sell second-hand digital songs, violates the copyrights of
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Capitol Records, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in Manhattan granted a
motion by Capitol for judgment without a trial. In a filing
dated March 30, Sullivan denied ReDigi’s request to dismiss the
case. The litigation will continue to determine whether the site
will be shut down and monetary damages assessed.  “ReDigi vicariously infringed Capitol’s copyrights,”
Sullivan said in his decision. “ReDigi exercised complete
control over its website’s content, user access and sales.”  Capitol sued ReDigi in January 2012, claiming that it
infringes song copyrights by allowing unauthorized copying of
digital music files. Record companies have sued many online
music services to prevent erosion of sales of CDs and digital
songs.  “ReDigi offers a service whose very economic survival
depends on the unauthorized reproduction and distribution of
copyrighted sound recordings,” Capitol said in its motion for
summary judgment.  ReDigi, which is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, argued
in court papers that it makes no unauthorized copies of songs.
It said it provides digital music storage and a marketplace for
tracks legitimately bought from Apple Inc.’s  iTunes .  “The technology behind our sale process does not involve
the making of even a single copy,” John Ossenmacher, the chief
executive officer and a founder of ReDigi, said in a declaration
filed with the court.  The case is Capitol Records v. ReDigi, 12-cv-00095, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Diller-Backed Aereo Beats Networks’ Bid to Close TV Service  Major U.S. television networks failed to persuade an
appeals court to shut down Aereo Inc., the Barry Diller-backed
online TV service that they claim violates their copyrights.  Broadcasters including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC unsuccessfully petitioned the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in New York to overturn a lower-court order denying a
preliminary injunction that would have put New York-based Aereo
out of business.  The networks sued Aereo in March 2012, claiming that it
infringed copyrights by capturing their over-the-air signals and
retransmitting the programming to subscribers on computers and
smartphones. Aereo’s transmissions are public performances and
require licenses, they said. Its service would devalue their
programming and cut viewership, jeopardizing revenue from  In an earlier case, television networks sued pay-TV
provider  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  for offering subscribers a
remote digital video recording service for TV shows.  The broadcasters said the conditions of the Cablevision
case don’t apply to Aereo. Cablevision provided a storage
service not a retransmission service, they said.  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the industry trade group
National Association of Broadcasters, said in a statement the
NAB was disappointed in the decision and that we “will be
evaluating the opinions and options going forward.”  The decision from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals
“again validates that Aereo’s technology falls squarely within
the law, and that’s a great thing for consumers who want more
choice and flexibility in how, when and where they can watch
television,” Chet Kanojia, the founder and chief executive
officer of Aereo, said in a statement.  Before the service began, Aereo received support from
Diller’s digital media company  IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI) , which led
a $20.5 million round of financing for the startup. Diller, who
is on Aereo’s board, once ran  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting Co.  Other plaintiffs in the Aereo case include News Corp.’s
Fox,  CBS Corp. (CBS) , WNET and the Public Broadcasting Service.  “Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that they are likely to
prevail on the merits on this claim in their copyright
infringement action,” Droney said in the opinion.  The appeals are American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-
02807, and WNET v. Aereo, 12-02786, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court cases are
American Broadcasting Cos. v. Aereo, 12-cv-01540, and WNET v.
Aereo, 12-cv-01543, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Bud Worker Accuses Company of Shakedown Over Diluted Beer  A former  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  employee who claims the
company sells watered-down beer told a judge the beer maker is
out to punish his whistle-blowing with a lawsuit alleging he
divulged  trade secrets .  AB InBev sued James Clark, a former director of operations
support, one week after the company was accused of overstating
the alcohol content in several of its beers. The case, which
accuses Clark of misappropriating trade secrets, should be
dismissed because California law bars using so-called strategic
lawsuits against public participation as a means of
intimidation, Clark said in papers filed March 29 in federal
court in Sacramento.  The lawsuit “is designed to silence Mr. Clark and to
punish him for standing up for consumers,” Clark’s attorney
Robert Carichoff said in the filing. “To allow AB to proceed
with this vindictive litigation would empower all employers to
punish former employees like Mr. Clark for reporting misconduct
and for speaking out on behalf of consumers.”  Beer drinkers have filed at least eight lawsuits accusing
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. of
adding water to several products including Bud Ice, Budweiser,
Busch Ice and Michelob. Lawyers for the consumers are seeking to
have the suits consolidated in federal court in  San Francisco 
and to proceed as group cases on behalf of customers nationwide
who have purchased AB InBev products in the past five years.  Clark worked at Anheuser-Busch from 1998 until June, when
he resigned to become a lawyer. He held several quality-
assurance positions at the company before rising to director of
operations support, according to court papers filed with his
request to dismiss the case.  From 2008 to 2012, Clark said, he complained to about 20
senior managers at Anheuser-Busch about the company’s practices
regarding alcohol content. He became involved in the proposed
class-action complaint shortly after his resignation, Clark said
in court papers. He denied disclosing company trade secrets to
any competitors or in connection with any regulatory approval
process.  Terri Vogt, a spokeswoman for Anheuser-Busch, didn’t return
a phone call or e-mail seeking comment on Clark’s allegations.
Carichoff declined to comment beyond the filing.      The case
is Anheuser-Busch Cos. v. Clark, 13-cv-00415, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  IP Moves  Cooley Expands Technology Transfer Group With Hire From Foley  Cooley LLP hired Matthew A. Karlin for its technology-
transfer practice group, the San Francisco-based firm said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Karlyn, who will be working in the Cooley group that helps
clients develop and manage their IP strategy, joins from
Milwaukee’s Foley & Lardner LLP.  He has an undergraduate degree from Union College, a
master’s degree in business from the  University of Chicago  and a
law degree from Temple University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 