-- NRA Pitches Itself as National Trainer for School Guards
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-04-02T17:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nra-pitches-itself-as-national-trainer-for-school-guards.html
The National Rifle Association today
released a plan calling for more armed personnel in schools and
pitching itself as a school safety trainer.  The Fairfax, Virginia-based group, which claims 5 million
members and lobbies for gun rights, is spending $1 million on
what it calls the National School Shield, said former Arkansas
Representative Asa Hutchinson, a Republican paid consultant to
the NRA and director of its schools project.  In the days after a gunman killed 20 schoolchildren and six
educators at an elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut , NRA
officials said schools should increase security measures,
including arming teachers and hiring more school officers, while
opposing federal legislation such as expanded background checks
for gun-buyers and limits on certain weapons and large-capacity
ammunition magazines.  At today’s press conference in  Washington , Hutchinson
reiterated that sentiment.  He called a package of Connecticut gun-control legislation
on track to pass this week “totally inadequate,” saying its
ban on semiautomatic rifles and expanded background checks do
nothing to improve school safety.  Mark Mattioli, father of a 6-year-old boy killed at the
Sandy Hook elementary school in Newtown, attended the NRA’s
press conference and thanked the the group for its efforts.
Other Newtown families have attended events held by President
 Barack Obama  and others who have called on Congress to pass
stricter gun controls. The president tomorrow will travel to
 Colorado  to highlight the issue.  NRA Training  Among the eight recommendations in a  225-page report 
Hutchinson delivered to the NRA: The group should serve as the
nation’s premier advocate and trainer for school safety while
the federal government should focus on doling out money to
school districts that need it to improve safety.  “The NRA has the nationally recognized expertise to
develop and implement the stringent training courses”
recommended by Hutchinson’s team, the report says. Grants to
help pay for new school officers and security measures such as
heavier doors and metal detectors could be administered by the
U.S. Department of  Homeland Security , the report suggests. It
doesn’t recommend a specific dollar amount.  The NRA released a statement after the press conference
saying its officials “need time to digest the full report” yet
is confident that Hutchinson and his team’s recommendations
“will go a long way to making America’s schools safer.”  Laura W. Murphy, director of the  American Civil Liberties
Union ’s Washington legislative office, said in a statement today
that the NRA proposals are “radical.” She asked Congress to
“reject any proposal that militarizes our schools.”  Lost Momentum  The NRA report comes at a time when federal gun legislation
has lost momentum.  The Senate stripped provisions out of its omnibus gun bill
that would have banned the sale of “assault weapons” and
limited the size of magazines. The bill includes expanded
background checks, a measure to curb gun trafficking and one to
increase grants for school safety upgrades.  The school safety legislation would authorize grants for
states and local governments to improve infrastructure,
including new classroom locks, fences and doors. The bill
authorizes $40 million that would be administered by the  U.S.
Department of Justice . Local governments would have to provide a
50 percent match to obtain the funds.  The school safety bill is sponsored by Senators  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican. It probably stands the best chance of passage of any
of the measures under consideration.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  