-- NYSE Plans to End LRP Curbs as New Circuit Breakers Enacted
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-04-02T23:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/nyse-plans-to-end-lrp-curbs-before-new-circuit-breakers-enacted.html
Liquidity replenishment points, the
 New York  Stock Exchange’s system of curbs to slow trading when
prices move rapidly, will be eliminated following instructions
from securities regulators,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said.  The LRPs will begin to be withdrawn next week when new
circuit breakers for individual stocks and the broader market go
into effect across all equity venues, the exchange said in a
 proposal  submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
NYSE objected to ending LRPs, which operate only on its market,
saying they benefited investors, according to the filing.  Regulators have been fine-tuning systems for pausing
trading since the so-called flash crash of May 2010 briefly
erased $862 billion from equity markets. Two initiatives for
curtailing volatility will be implemented April 8 for one-year
pilots: a program known as limit-up/limit-down for individual
shares and a refurbished system for halting all exchange-listed
equity trading in U.S. securities and futures markets during
periods of extreme volatility.  “Market participants want competition in many areas but
post-flash crash it became clear the industry didn’t want
multiple means of addressing volatility through pauses,”  Jamie Selway , head of electronic brokerage and sales at Investment
Technology Group Inc., said in a phone interview. “NYSE found a
technological way to do what the trading floor did, which was to
slow things down when they got volatile, but as a policy matter
people didn’t want exchanges to have idiosyncratic mechanisms.”  Stock Curbs  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,300 brokers, introduced curbs
for individual stocks after the flash crash to halt shares when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent in five minutes. The
limit-up/limit-down system, which will replace that program, is
likely to cause fewer halts, according to the SEC.  More than two dozen companies listed on exchanges owned by
NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets
Inc. will switch to the limit-up/limit-down curbs on April 8.
More will be added each week through mid-May until all Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and Russell 1000 Index companies and several
hundred exchange-traded products are included.  The curbs will operate from 9:45 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. New York
time. Other securities will be added in August to the program,
which will then run the full day from 9:30 a.m. until 4 p.m.  ‘Excessive Volatility’  “The initiatives we approved are the product of a
significant effort to devise a sophisticated, yet workable and
effective, way to protect our markets from excessive
volatility,” former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said last June
in a statement about the new volatility-limiting programs. “In
today’s complex electronic markets, we need an automated and
appropriately calibrated way to pause or limit trading if prices
move too far too fast.”  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, trades won’t be
allowed to take place more than a specified percentage above or
below a stock’s recent average price. If no trades occur within
the band for more than 15 seconds, a five-minute halt will
ensue, according to the SEC.  Trading Pause  The plan will also give the market that lists a security
the discretion to declare a trading pause when a stock has
“deviated from its normal trading characteristics” and the
exchange decides that a halt would curtail excessive volatility,
the SEC said. This will ensure a company’s shares don’t “remain
impaired” indefinitely, it said.  NYSE and NYSE MKT, the exchange operator’s platform for
smaller companies, will end their LRPs as the new curbs are
introduced for specific stocks.  “Despite the benefits to investors and issuers and our
belief that LRPs would add to the limit-up/limit-down
protections, the SEC has insisted that we eliminate this
valuable functionality,”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE
Euronext, wrote in an e-mail. “We’re reluctantly complying.”  NYSE may seek to reintroduce LRPs after the initial pilot
“if doing so will be beneficial to investors, issuers and our
market,” he said. The exchange will analyze data from before
and during the limit-up/limit-down program to see whether its
own curbs should be tried again, he said.  NYSE Objection  NYSE criticized the SEC for ending the program without an
“impact analysis” study, according to the filing. While the
regulator has said multiple volatility curbs operating together
could create investor confusion, the exchange said it should
have been allowed to test whether its LRPs could run smoothly in
conjunction with the new programs. The Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association and  Deutsche Bank AG  told the SEC
in letters in 2011 that too many different curbs might impair
the effectiveness of single-stock circuit breakers.  “The SEC staff is micromanaging exchange operations
without a really thorough analysis,” James Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in a
phone interview. “On the one hand an individual exchange curb
may merely shunt disturbances to the rest of the market, but on
the other hand exchanges should have the freedom to design their
own trading mechanisms.”  Exchanges and brokers have been testing notifications for
the programs over the last month and scenarios in which trading
is limited or halted in preparation for April 8.  Differing Conventions  The commission has said it expected exchanges to eliminate
volatility curbs that apply only on their own venues. NYSE
Euronext Chief Operating Officer  Larry Leibowitz  credited the
system with preventing stocks his company lists from trading at
aberrant prices such as pennies during the flash crash.  NYSE canceled no trades on May 6, 2010, while other
exchanges voided more than 20,000 transactions totaling 5.5
million shares, according to a report by the SEC and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission published in October 2010. More than
1,000 companies triggered LRPs lasting more than a second
between 2:30 p.m. and 3 p.m. on May 6, compared with 20 to 30 on
most days, the report said. Some exchange and brokerage
executives said NYSE’s actions may have caused liquidity to move
to other venues and created confusion in the market.  The SEC also altered the marketwide circuit breakers that
halt all trading, created in the aftermath of the October 1987
crash, because they weren’t triggered during the May 2010 rout.
The alterations will make the curbs “more meaningful and
effective in today’s high-speed electronic securities markets,”
the agency said in its  approval order  last year.  Circuit Breakers  All U.S. securities trading will halt for 15 minutes when
the  S&P 500  falls 7 percent before 3:25 p.m. The trigger is
 currently  a 10 percent drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
The proposal also shortens the length of most halts and modifies
the times when the circuit breaker can be triggered. A plunge of
20 percent will cause all trading to stop for the day. The
marketwide pause has been triggered only once, on Oct. 27, 1997.  These curbs will go into effect for equity index futures on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade on
April 7 to ensure that the related markets remain linked, the
exchanges  told  the CFTC in January.  A 20 percent plunge in the last 35 minutes of trading would
be “extraordinarily disruptive” and could threaten the
market’s infrastructure,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  said in January. Closing
futures trading until 9:30 a.m. New York time the next morning
is excessive and activity should be allowed to resume at 6 p.m.
the same day, it said.  How curbs for individual securities will work with those
that halt all trading is “poorly understood,” CME said.
Staggered halts in multiple stocks in the S&P 500 could prevent
proper calculations of the index and hurt the willingness of
firms to supply liquidity at a time when it’s needed most, the
company said.  CME and Sifma  urged  the SEC to allow marketwide curbs to be
triggered if a sufficient number of individual stocks are  halted 
since that may affect the calculation of indexes. The SEC said
market participants could submit comments about this issue while
the programs are being tested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 