-- Obama Says Singapore Key to U.S. Rebalancing Toward Asia
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-03T00:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/obama-says-singapore-key-to-u-s-rebalancing-toward-asia.html
President  Barack Obama  called
Singapore “one of the most successful countries in the world”
and expressed appreciation for its military and economic
cooperation, part of his administration’s foreign policy shift
toward Asia.  Singapore has provided “a steady vision of how countries
in the Pacific region can cooperate effectively,” Obama said as
he hosted Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong at the White House
yesterday. Lee “has proven to be an outstanding partner for us
on the international stage,” the president said.  Lee praised Obama for putting greater emphasis on Asia and
said Singapore “would like to be of help in furthering this
process,” which includes countering China’s increasing
influence in the region.  Though the White House didn’t issue a statement on the
specifics of a private meeting between the two leaders, they
were to slated talk about economic and security issues,
including the territorial disputes in the East and South China
Seas.  Also on the agenda was discussion of the East Asia Summit
and the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Lee is on a
four-day visit to the U.S. Obama visited  Singapore  in November
2009.  Obama and Lee also planned to discuss progress toward a
Trans-Pacific Partnership trade alliance. If negotiations
succeed, the 11-nation free-trade bloc would be the biggest
trade deal for the U.S. and the first new accord under Obama.
The region represents more than half of global output and more
than 40 percent of world trade, according to the U.S. trade
office.  Engineer’s Death  In their public comments yesterday, neither Obama nor Lee
mentioned the June 2012 death in Singapore of Shane Todd, an
American research engineer. Todd’s family has disputed the
Singapore police department’s conclusion that he committed
suicide.  Singapore police last month said they will share evidence
with the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.  Todd had worked at the Institute of Microelectronics in
Singapore, a unit of the state-owned Agency for Science,
Technology and Research. Todd’s family has suggested his death
may have been tied to a project the institute was working on
with China’s Huawei Technologies Co.  The Todd family has raised the issue with lawmakers
including Montana Democratic Senator  Max Baucus , who met with
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  to discuss the case.  Pacific Partnership  The Trans-Pacific Partnership started in 2005 with Brunei,
Chile, Singapore and  New Zealand  as a pact to open trade in
goods, services and government procurement. Negotiations have
since widened to include Australia, Canada, Malaysia, Mexico,
Peru, Vietnam and the U.S., which looks to complete talks by the
end of this year.  During his four-day visit, the prime minister was to meet
with Kerry, Treasury Secretary  Jacob Lew , Secretary of Defense
Chuck Hagel and World Bank President Jim Yong Kim,  Straits Times 
reported.  In New York, Lee planned talks with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
corporate business leaders, the newspaper said. The mayor is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent company
of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  