-- Obama Control-Tower Shutdowns Spur Mounting Airport Suits
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-04-03T21:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/obama-control-tower-shutdowns-spur-mounting-airport-suits.html
Airports serving  Ohio State
University  and the headquarters of State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. joined a legal offensive aimed at stopping the
U.S. from shutting air traffic control operations as part of
government-wide spending cuts.  Since the first lawsuits were filed last week in federal
appeals courts in  Manhattan  and  Washington , at least eight more
airports have challenged tower closings slated to begin April 7.
They include Central Illinois Regional Airport in Bloomington,
where State Farm is based, which handled more than 579,000
passengers in 2011, and the Ohio State airport in Columbus.  The lawsuits are the first broad-based court challenge to
congressionally mandated reductions in spending, known as
sequestration, that took effect last month. The suits, posing a
clash between administrative law and budget requirements,
highlight potential obstacles faced by the government for plans
to cut $1.2 trillion in spending over nine years.  “This could be the opening wave of considerable litigation
over budget cuts,” said  Darrell West , vice president of
governance studies at the  Brookings Institution , a Washington-
based research and policy organization.  Ripe Targets  Ripe targets for litigation include “the part of the
economy that people can’t do without” such as basic
transportation services, West said in a telephone interview.  Domestic security cuts also might draw challenges because
of public sensitivity to safety, he said.  The shutdown of control towers at 149 small and midsize
airports was ordered by the  Federal Aviation Administration  as
it grappled with a need to trim $637 million from its
$16 billion budget. All of the towers slated for closing are
operated by contractors while facilities at larger airports are
staffed by FAA employees.  “The administration made the closing of control towers the
poster-child for sequestration,” Spencer Dickerson, executive
director of the Alexandria, Virginia-based  Contract Tower
Association , said in an interview.  Peter Kirsch, of the Denver-based law firm Kaplan Kirsch
Rockwell LLP, said one of the airports will probably ask a court
to put the closure plan on hold unless the FAA does so
voluntarily. Kirsch represents six airports in three of the
suits, including one in San Francisco.  Delay Sought  The Bloomington airport authority, in a March 26 letter,
asked FAA Administrator Michael Huerta to delay any action while
the court reviews its petition, arguing that the agency failed
to follow required procedures for analyzing whether an
operational change could affect safety. The facility is slated
to close May 5.  Planes can continue to use airports without working control
towers under FAA procedures. Instead of being guided by
controllers, pilots radio one another to manage takeoffs and
landings.  Laura Brown , an FAA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
under “long-standing procedures for ceasing operations of
towers and the transfer of airspace between facilities” safety
won’t be compromised where on-site air traffic service is cut.  Six cases filed as direct challenges to an agency ruling in
federal appeals courts in Washington and  California  today were
consolidated by a judicial panel that oversees multidistrict
litigation and transferred to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San
Francisco for review.  Basic Package  Suits could be hard to win because lawmakers approved the
basic package of cuts comprising sequestration, something that
requires deference from courts, according to West.  “Congress went through a process,” West said. “I don’t
think courts will find it to be arbitrary and capricious.”  Challenges asserting improper procedures or lack of due
process might fare better, he said.  Airports losing their towers averaged 54,000 flights in
2011, the most recent year for which FAA data are available.
Four had fewer than 20,000 landings and takeoffs, according to
agency data.  During peak operations, the lack of air-traffic control
service will overburden the FAA regional control facility in
 Salt Lake City , said Richard Baird, whose airport, Friedman
Memorial Airport Authority in Hailey,  Idaho , serves the  Sun
Valley  ski resort 13 miles (21 kilometers) to the north and has
about 30,000 operations annually.  Tower Service  He said tower service should be considered security for
high-profile visitors who frequent Sun Valley, where the airport
is in a narrow valley with rising terrain on both sides.  “We have kings, queens, heads of state and people in the
U.S. government far enough up that they require some level of
security,” Baird said.  The lead Washington case is Spokane Airport Board v.
Huerta, 13-1080, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington). The California case is Flathead Municipal
Airport Authority v. Huerta, 13-71133, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ). The  New York  case is Paskar
v. Federal Aviation Administration, 13-1070, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  