-- Money Funds Meet Zero Yields by Breaking Buck Taboo: Euro Credit
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-03T08:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/money-funds-meet-zero-yields-by-breaking-buck-taboo-euro-credit.html
Investors in Europe risk losing a
haven as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Morgan Stanley break a taboo that’s stopped 88 billion euros
($113 billion) of money-market funds from ever losing principal.  The banks are preparing to abandon the policy that
investors get one euro back for every one they put in as
government bond yields near record lows make it harder for the
funds to generate returns.  A money-market fund failing to repay investors in full is
said to “break the buck” and is forced to shut down. To avoid
this, banks propose to change rules governing the investment
vehicles so they can pass on losses to investors by reducing the
number of shares outstanding in a fund, without closing.  “The jury is out on this,” said Bruce Campbell, head of
liquidity sales at Glasgow-based Ignis Asset Management, which
manages about $25 billion of money funds and is weighing options
to cope with negative yields. “Managers’ decisions are being
made to look after the majority of clients, but they’re not
always going to suit them all. Some clients are not happy with
the cancelation mechanism.”  Constant NAV  Banks and institutions such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Northern
Trust Corp. are making the changes to so-called constant net-
asset value funds, which operate by maintaining a value of one
euro per share. The changes will kick in when the European
Central Bank cuts its deposit rate to below zero or yields on
the safest government bonds turn negative for a prolonged
period.  Benchmark German bond yields are close to record lows, with
the rate on  Germany ’s two-year  bond  at minus 0.001 percent, up
from minus 0.023 on March 28, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 France ’s two-year  security  is yielding 0.145 percent, up from a
record-low 0.03 percent in December.  Since the ECB cut the  deposit rate  to zero in July, money-
market funds that are restricted to buying short-term debt
generated almost no extra cash, putting pressure on their goal
to provide a sanctuary for investors. The seven-day yield on
funds that buy euro government securities was zero percent for
the week ended March 22, according to research firm  iMoneyNet
Inc.   Prime funds, which take more risk and can also invest in
bonds issued by the highest-rated banks and companies, made 0.02
percent. Since Jan. 4, euro money funds have seen assets under
management fall by 7.1 billion euros to 87.9 billion euros,
Westborough, Massachusetts-based  iMoneyNet  data show.  JPMorgan Funds  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, said in October
it was replacing two constant NAV euro money-market funds, with
about 16.2 billion euros under management, with new structures
which have shares that can be canceled. All investors will have
their holdings cut if total assets drop, an action that isn’t
allowed under current fund rules.  JPMorgan is the second-biggest provider of money funds with
$241 billion in assets worldwide as of Feb. 28, according to
 Crane Data LLC  in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Sarah Godfrey, a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan Asset Management in  London , declined to
comment.  Goldman Sachs Asset Management followed suit in December,
changing the share class of three of its funds, with about $13.7
billion under management in total, denominated in euros and yen.  ‘Flight to Quality’  “A very high flight to quality in Europe could cause
yields to fall below zero,” said David Fishman, managing
director and co-head of global liquidity management at Goldman
Sachs in New York. “If that happened on a persistent basis, you
could see a situation where you would need to implement this.
We’ve seen crisis-type situations periodically, when short-term
French and German government paper yield below zero, when
there’s a lot of panic.”  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
are also preparing their constant NAV euro funds to pass on
losses by canceling investors’ shares while keeping the net-
asset value at one euro a share, Moody’s Investors Service said
in a March 13 report. While the funds act like bank deposits in
allowing companies, government authorities and pension funds
quick access to cash rather than high returns, they can lose
money.  Negative Yields  “We are now in a position where we can manage through
potential negative yields,” Jonathan Curry, global chief
investment officer of liquidity at HSBC Global Asset Management
with more than $428 billion under management, said in an e-
mailed statement. The changes were put in place on Feb. 22, an
 HSBC (HSBA)  spokesman said.  Stephen White, a London-based spokesman for BlackRock,
declined to comment. Tom Walton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley
and Aoife Reynolds, a spokeswoman for RBS, also declined to
comment.  The managers are trying to avoid the fate of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which was the first fund in 14
years to break the buck when its net-asset value fell below $1 a
share in September 2008 because of its holdings of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. debt. Shareholders couldn’t access their
cash for months as the New York-based fund was unwound and the
collapse triggered a run on money-market funds that worsened the
global financial crisis.  Investor Losses  While the changes may mean losses for investors, the funds
would be saved from having to close and will operate without the
stigma of breaking the buck. Still, clients may choose to redeem
their shares from the adjusted funds and invest in variable net-
asset value vehicles that operate with a flexible price while
guaranteeing investors will keep all their shares.  Northern Trust (NTRS) , the third-largest U.S. independent custody
bank, has prepared to change its 1.2 billion-euro constant NAV
prime fund to variable, allowing investors to know how many
shares they hold while the price can fluctuate, said David Blake, head of international fixed income at the firm’s asset
management unit. Chicago-based Northern Trust’s euro government
fund has been closed to new subscriptions since the ECB’s rate
cut in July.  “The delivery mechanism for money-market funds in a
negative rate environment would be unfit for purpose,” said
Blake in a phone interview. “If the fund’s overall yield falls
below zero, then the constant NAV structure won’t work, it’s
broken.”  Variable Values  About 51 percent of European funds use variable asset
values, according to the European Fund and Asset Management
Association in Brussels.  Europe ’s money market fund industry had
1.02 trillion euros under management in December, according to
EFAMA data in euros, pounds and dollars.  Funds in the U.S. aren’t adopting the changes even as the
Federal Reserve has held its  main rate  at an all-time low 0.25
percent since December 2008. Two-year U.S. treasuries yield 0.24
percent, up from 0.21 in July and compared with a record-low
0.15 percent in September 2011,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We haven’t seen these changes implemented anywhere
outside Europe,” said Yaron Ernst, managing director of the
managed investments group at Moody’s in Paris. “Yields moved
lower in Europe after the ECB’s decision in July. Since U.S.
cash yields are slightly higher, the need for such change is not
as critical.”  Treasurer Survey  The changes are being adopted by more than half the euro
funds represented by the Institutional Money Market Funds
Association in London, with almost 50 billion euros of assets,
Fitch Ratings reported Jan. 28. Half of the 68 European
treasurers Fitch surveyed said the false perception their
investment is guaranteed is a drawback of the funds and 35
percent said they disliked the lack of transparency due to the
accounting method, the rating firm reported Feb. 26.  “Investors like the clear risk profile of constant NAV
funds; that you get one euro in, one euro out,” said Alastair
Sewell, an analyst at Fitch in London. “Without that certainty,
they may consider moving to deposits. Losing a lot of assets to
bank deposits would be a concern for the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  