-- Workers Continue Protests at Li’s Hong Kong Port Operator
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-04-02T19:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/hongkong-intl-terminals-faces-hk-5-million-daily-loss-on-strike.html
Workers at  Hongkong International
Terminals Ltd. , backed by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  port
operator , continued a six-day strike for higher wages after a
court ruling barred them from entering terminals in the city.  The company has lost about HK$5 million ($644,000) a day as
talks between workers and contractors remain stalled, Gerry Yim,
managing director of Hongkong International Terminals, part of
 Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , told reporters yesterday. It may
also face claims from shippers, Yim said.  The time needed for berthing a vessel has lengthened to 60
hours from three hours because of the strike, Hongkong
International Terminals said. Dockers started a sit-in on March
28, demanding a 20 percent pay increase as rising living costs
and  record home prices  spur discontent in  Hong Kong . Protesters
were forced to leave the facility this week after the city’s
 High Court  granted a temporary injunction barring them.  “We are not going to leave until we can talk to Hongkong
International Terminals,” said Ho Wai-hong, a representative of
the Union of Hong Kong Dockers. “We will keep fighting.”  No ships are being diverted to other ports, Hongkong
International Terminals said in a statement yesterday. Hutchison
Port Holdings  rose  1.8 percent to close at 86 Singapore cents.
The stock has risen 9 percent this year.  About 250 protesters, including workers, students and labor
activists, remained on the street outside the entrance of the
port in the Kwai Tsing district, Ho said.  Pay Dispute  Labor discontent in Hong Kong has risen as its wealth gap
widens to the biggest since records started in 1971.  Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  in December agreed on a deal with the
flight attendants union, averting labor disruptions threatened
after disagreements on wage increases and working conditions.  Dock workers, who include crane operators and stevedores,
say they are getting paid less than in 1997, union spokesman Ho
said.  The union, which represents about 500 people working at the
berths of Hongkong International Terminals, has raised about
HK$650,000 since March 29 from supporters, Ho said.  About 3,000 people including truck drivers, dock workers
and clerks work at Hongkong International Terminals, according
to the union.  Hourly Wages  The dock workers are demanding that hourly wages rise by
HK$12.50, the union said last week. In the review with the
contractors coming up on July 1, Hongkong International
Terminals will ask that workers get about a 5 percent pay
increase, Yim said. The strikers won’t accept the offer,
government broadcaster RTHK said on its website today, citing
Lee Cheuk-yan, a lawmaker from Hong Kong’s  Labour Party .  The strike will continue until employers agree to direct
negotiations with the union, RTHK reported.  The laborers received pay increases of as much as 20
percent in 2011, Hongkong International Terminals said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  The court injunction was granted after lawyers from
Hongkong International Terminals said the size of the
demonstration posed safety risks,  Radio Television Hong Kong 
reported April 1, citing the ruling.  Hongkong International Terminals operates 12 berths at four
terminals in the Chinese city and two through a venture with
partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  Hong Kong has nine terminals.  Hong Kong’s consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in February
from a year earlier, exceeding the 4 percent median estimate of
12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  