-- Lonmin Picks Amplats’s Magara to Revive Platinum Producer
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-04-02T13:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/lonmin-appoints-ben-magara-as-chief-executive-starting-july-1.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  appointed Ben Magara as
chief executive officer as the third-biggest platinum producer
seeks to rebuild following last year’s violent strikes.  Magara, who starts on July 1, is currently the executive
head of engineering and capital projects at  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer of the metal, Johannesburg-
based Lonmin said today in a statement. Simon Scott, who had
temporarily taken over the duties of former Lonmin CEO Ian Farmer who was hospitalized in August, will resume his role as
chief financial officer.  The new CEO will be charged with steering Lonmin’s recovery
from last year’s $698 million loss which led it to cut expansion
plans and renegotiate debts. Worker tensions at Lonmin mines
resurfaced last month as labor groups competed to add members,
in an echo of a dispute that resulted in 44 deaths last year.  “It’s difficult to describe him as an obvious choice, but
based on his experience he’s a good choice,” said  Michael Kavanagh , a Cape Town-based metals and mining analyst for Noah
Capital Markets. “His experience in the industry should bode
well.”  Before joining Anglo American Platinum, Magara was CEO of
 Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s South African coal unit.  A six-week walkout last year at Lonmin’s Marikana
operation, about 170 kilometers (106 miles) northwest of
Johannesburg, resulted in the loss of an estimated 110,000
ounces of platinum production, the company said. Marikana is in
the Rustenburg region, site of the world’s largest platinum
reserves. On the same day Farmer was hospitalized, police shot
dead 34 protesting miners at Marikana in the worst mine violence
seen since the fall of apartheid.  Farmer, who had been Lonmin’s CEO for four years, resigned
in December. The company appointed an executive search company
to find a successor.  Lonmin’s pick of Margara is “pretty non-controversial” in
terms of the labor unions, according to Peter Major, head of
mining at Cape Town-based Cadiz Corporate Solutions. “He’s kind
of perceived as neutral.”  It’s cost-effective output that the company will need to
focus on, which could still present a challenge for Magara,
Major said. “He’s not really a production guy. What this place
needs is to get producing.”  Lonmin declined 0.7 percent to 288.80 pence as of 2:26 p.m.
in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  