-- Monte Paschi Says Nomura, Deutsche Bank Helped Mask Losses
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-04-02T16:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/monte-paschi-says-nomura-deutsche-bank-colluded-to-hide-losses.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
alleged  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  colluded with
former managers to devise two derivatives that hid losses and
earned them at least 180 million euros ($231 million).  The world’s  oldest bank  said the two firms were aware Monte
Paschi’s then managers wanted to hide losses and designed with
them two derivatives aimed at achieving that goal, the Italian
lender said in a  74-page report  to shareholders. Monte Paschi,
which last month filed a lawsuit seeking damages from the two
lenders and former executives Antonio Vigni and Giuseppe Mussari, said it will seek compensation if a court finds the
behavior of Deutsche Bank and Nomura employees to be criminal.  Monte Paschi hid as much as 557 million euros of losses
from previous years through the two  transactions  in 2008 and
2009, the lender said. Deutsche Bank earned at least 92 million
euros from Santorini, a deal first reported by Bloomberg News in
January, while Nomura reaped at least 88 million euros from its
transaction, dubbed Alexandria.  Those deals “should never have been put together,” the
Siena, Italy-based lender said in a  report  released on March 29.
Nomura and Deutsche Bank “were perfectly aware of the context,
the illicit objectives” of Monte Paschi’s former executives,
the company said.  As part of the transactions, Monte Paschi made money-losing
bets on the value of Italian government bonds which have forced
the bank to post additional collateral that has cost 173 million
euros, the lender said.  Shares Tumble  Monte Paschi is seeking 500 million euros of compensation
from Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, and 700 million
euros from Nomura. The lender calculated Nomura’s and Deutsche
Bank’s so-called hidden charges on the deals as the difference
between fair value of the new deals at inception and the value
of the original loss, the document shows.  “The transaction was subject to our rigorous internal
approval processes and also received the requisite approvals of
the client who was independently advised,” Deutsche Bank said
in a statement. “We will defend ourselves vigorously against
any claims for damages.”  Redzi Mangwana, a spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to
comment. On March 1, Nomura filed a suit against Monte Paschi in
London seeking confirmation that the agreement with which the
Italian lender hired Nomura is valid. Lawyers for Mussari and
Vigni didn’t return phone calls seeking comment.  Monte Paschi  declined  2.8 percent to 17.98 cents in Milan
today, bringing this year’s drop to 20 percent. Italy’s market
watchdog banned new short sales on the stock today and tomorrow
after it fell as much as 13 percent in earlier trading.  Net Loss  The bank said on March 28 its fourth-quarter net loss was
1.59 billion euros, more than double the 686.3 million-euro loss
estimated by  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey. The lender was
forced to seek a second state rescue in four years and take a
730 million-euro hit to assets after uncovering transactions
that hid earlier losses.  The bank’s capital shortfall contributed to rating
downgrades which have increased the company’s cost of funding,
and the reputational damage includes “several” billion euros
of deposits that clients pulled from the bank, Monte Paschi
said.  Finance Police  Bloomberg News’s Jan. 17 story disclosing that Monte Paschi
had manipulated its earnings in 2008 using derivatives showed
that the lender was losing about 367 million euros on an equity
swap with Deutsche Bank. The Monte Paschi report confirmed the
swap lost 362 million euros when it was closed and replaced by
the fresh transaction that concealed the loss.  Italy’s finance police searched Nomura offices in Milan on
March 27 as prosecutors stepped up their investigation. Nomura,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, isn’t being investigated. Meantime,
Deutsche Bank on March 22 voluntarily submitted documents to
Siena prosecutors that relate to its deal with Monte Paschi,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the case who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  