-- Optimer Said to Draw Takeover Interest From Glaxo
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-02T20:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/optimer-said-to-draw-takeover-interest-from-glaxo-astellas-1-.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) , the
antibiotics maker that’s weighing a sale, drew interest from
drugmakers including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Japan’s  Astellas
Pharma Inc. (4503) , said two people familiar with the matter. The
shares gained the most in more than four years.  The maker of the antibiotic Dificid aims to fetch as much
as $1 billion in a possible auction, said the people, who asked
not to be named because the process is private. Optimer also
attracted interest from  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , said one of the people.  Buying Optimer would enable the drugmakers to generate more
revenue from hospitals, as Dificid, the company’s sole product
on the market, treats a bacterium linked to intestinal
infections in hospitalized patients. The drugmaker, based in
Jersey City, New Jersey, also may prove attractive to peers that
already distribute to medical facilities and could use existing
distribution channels to reduce costs.  While Cubist is ending a sales agreement with Optimer and
developing a competing drug, it may still need the antibiotic in
its portfolio, said Marko Kozul, an analyst with Boston-based
Leerink Swann & Co. “By the time the Cubist drug would even
make it to market, were it to make it to market, Dificid would
have multiple supplemental indications,” Kozul said in a
telephone interview.  Shares Climb  Optimer shares climbed 19 percent to $13.91 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, their biggest one-day increase since November 2008.
The rise gives the company a market value of about $666 million.  Optimer said on Feb. 27 that the board would examine “a
full range” of strategic alternatives. The company is working
with Centerview Partners LLC and JPMorgan Chase & Co. on the
process.  Dificid was approved in 2011 and  sales  last year were $62
million. Optimer’s revenue is projected by analysts to grow to
$310 million by the end of 2017, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Former Chairman Michael Chang left Optimer last year after
the board found that he failed to identify and manage conflict
of interest issues tied to a stock grant. The company also
replaced Chief Executive Officer Pedro Lichtinger in February,
when Optimer disclosed the board’s strategic review.  Representatives for JPMorgan, Astellas, Glaxo, Cubist and
AstraZeneca declined to comment. Optimer spokesman David Walsey
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Strategic Fit  A purchase of Optimer might fit with what large drugmakers
have described as their deal strategy. Pharmaceutical companies
have, for the most part, said they’re uninterested in mega-
deals, preferring to aim for bolt-on acquisitions of a single
product or small portfolio.  AstraZeneca and Glaxo both have antibiotic portfolios in
development or for sale, and AstraZeneca’s new CEO Pascal Soriot
said on a March 21 call with investors that he was interested in
investing more in the area.  Along with Cubist’s experimental drug, other potential
competitors include an injection being developed by
AstraZeneca’s Medimmune unit, according to Leerink’s Kozul. That
drug could cost $10,000 to $15,000, much more than Optimer’s
drug, he said.  “Its use is not going to be cannibalizing a large portion
of the market,” said Kozul. Another potential competitor is
fecal transplant procedures, in which a sick patient gets the
feces of a healthy person inserted into their intestines. It’s
not clear whether the treatment will catch on, said Kozul.  In April 2011, Optimer and Cubist signed a two-year
agreement to jointly market Dificid to doctors and health-care
facilities. The agreement gave Optimer the benefit of Cubist’s
sales force to expand distribution of the drug.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York;
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  