-- U.S. Factories’ February Orders Rise on Car, Plane Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-02T14:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/orders-to-u-s-factories-increase-on-demand-for-autos-planes.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
increased in February, boosted by a pickup in demand for motor
vehicles and commercial aircraft.  The 3 percent gain in bookings, the biggest in five months,
followed a revised 1 percent decline in January, a Commerce
Department report showed today in  Washington . The  median 
forecast of 64 economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 2.9
percent rise. The advance was led by a 5.6 percent surge in
demand for durable goods that was little changed from the 5.7
percent estimate issued last week.  Auto sales that are on pace for the best year since 2007
and gains in  home construction  are helping drive sales and
orders at manufacturers such as  3M Co. (MMM)  and  H.B. Fuller Co. (FUL)  More
corporate investment and inventory rebuilding are also keeping
assembly lines busy, contributing to economic growth as
businesses look beyond  federal budget  cuts.  “Business spending will have another good year,” said
 Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist for IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “There’s demand here in the U.S., and
some return of export growth.”  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,571.33 at 10:04 a.m. in
 New York .  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.8
percent to 4.5 percent. The Commerce Department revised the
January figure from a previously reported drop of 2 percent.  ISM Report  A report yesterday signaled factories took a breather in
March to assess the impact of the automatic federal government
spending cuts, or sequestration, which took effect at the start
of the month.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  fell to
51.3 in March from an almost two-year high of 54.2 in February,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group reported yesterday. A reading of
50 is the dividing line between growth and contraction.  “There is concern that sequestration will weigh on some
sectors,” Josh Dennerlein, an economist at Bank of America
Corp. in New York, said before the report. Over the longer term,
“autos and housing are really kicking in. That feeds into the
rest of the economy.”  Today’s report showed factory orders excluding
transportation equipment climbed 0.3 percent after a 2 percent
increase the prior month.  Durable Goods  Bookings for durable goods, those meant to least at least
three years, make up just over half of total factory demand. In
addition to planes and autos, demand improved for primary metals
and electrical equipment including appliances.  Demand for commercial aircraft, which is often volatile,
jumped 95.1 percent in February after dropping 23.8 percent a
month earlier. Boeing Co., the Chicago-based aerospace company,
said it received orders for 179 aircraft in February, up from
two in January.  Orders for non-durable goods including petroleum, issued
for the first time today, increased 0.8 percent. These bookings
often reflect changes in commodity prices as the figures aren’t
adjusted for inflation.  Bookings for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 3.2
percent after increasing 6.7 percent the prior month, the
biggest gain since March 2010. They were initially estimated to
have dropped 2.7 percent in February, according to data issued
last week.  More Shipments  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 1.9 percent after a drop of 0.7
percent the previous month.  The one weak spot in today’s report were stockpiles.
Factory inventories rose 0.2 percent in February after a 0.6
percent gain the prior month, today’s report showed.
Manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.27 months at
the current sales pace, down from 1.28 in January.  Demand for autos also contributed to the gains. Motor
vehicles and parts orders increased 1.4 percent after a 1.3
percent drop, today’s report showed.  Cars and light trucks sold at a  15.3 million  annual rate in
February after a 15.2 million pace the prior month, Ward’s
Automotive Group data showed. The sales rate may have risen in
March to 15.4 million, the average of 15 analyst estimates, and
if that pace keeps up, it will be the highest total since 2007.  ‘Good Start’  H.B. Fuller, a  St. Paul , Minnesota-based maker of adhesives
and coatings, reported a first-quarter revenue gain that
exceeded analysts’ estimates, and reiterated profits forecasts
for 2013. Chief Executive Officer James Owens said on a March 28
conference call that 2013 is “off to a good start,” as rising
sales in its North American construction products business
indicate “the end markets are gradually improving.”  3M, the St. Paul, Minnesota-based maker of products ranging
from  Scotch tape  to dental braces, is among companies saying
growth in the U.S. will help cushion weakness in markets like
 Europe , especially in consumer electronics.  “We’re operating pretty steady in the U.S. and  Latin
America ,” David Meline, chief financial officer, said at a
March 21 conference. “In  Asia , it’s more mixed. Western Europe
continues to have a number of challenges.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is projected to keep contributing to growth this year.
At the same time, the outlook may be clouded by the automatic,
across-the-board federal spending cuts that began on March 1 as
lawmakers failed to reach a compromise on ways to reduce the
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  