-- Morgans-Yucaipa Swap ‘Insider Dealings,’ Shareholder Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-04-02T14:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/morgans-yucaipa-swap-insider-dealings-shareholder-says.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) ’s largest
shareholder called a swap for a Florida hotel and a $100 million
rights offering “insider dealings” that would benefit board
member  Ron Burkle ’s investment firm.  The agreement with Burkle’s Yucaipa Cos., which would
acquire the Delano South Beach in exchange for interests in
Morgans’s convertible notes and preferred stock, follows a 15-
month strategic review by a special committee of the board, the
New York-based hotelier said yesterday.  The shareholder, OTK Associates LLC, “questions whether
the board’s special committee has appropriately considered, in
earnest, alternatives to consummating yet another ill-timed
transaction with an interested party, especially given that two
of Morgans’s directors have a significant financial interest in
the transaction,” according to a statement today.  OTK Associates said last month it was seeking to overhaul
Morgans’s board, aiming to return the company to  profitability 
or have it pursue strategic alternatives. Morgans, which put the
Delano South Beach on the market last year, has been selling
real estate and using the proceeds to expand its management
operations.  Jason Taubman Kalisman, a Morgans director and a founding
member of OTK Associates, sued the company yesterday, seeking to
block the planned “recapitalization” until the case is heard
before a Delaware judge. Yucaipa was also named in the lawsuit,
which was sealed except for a cover sheet with a brief
description of the claim.  Voting Equity  The rights offering would allow Yucaipa “to amass a
significant voting equity position” because existing
shareholders are “unlikely to want to invest in the policies of
the existing management and board,” OTK Associates said.  Lex Suvanto, a spokesman for Morgans at the Abernathy
MacGregor Group, declined to comment on the statement.  Whether Yucaipa gains or loses  board  seats would depend on
the outcome of the rights offering. Under the deal with Morgans,
the firm would backstop the offering with no fees if the rights
aren’t exercised in full.  The transactions were negotiated through a special
committee of independent directors because Yucaipa is a creditor
with board representation, Morgans Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Gross  said yesterday on a conference call with analysts.
The company also retained its own independent financial and
legal advisers “to ensure we receive fair value for our
assets,” he said.  Morgans said it will continue to manage the Delano South
Beach, in  Miami Beach , under a long-term agreement. The
transactions would reduce the hotelier’s debt and preferred
stock obligations by $230 million, including the elimination of
$113 million of debt maturing in 2014, Morgans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  