-- Rangers’ Darvish Comes Within 1 Out of Earliest MLB Perfect Game
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-04-03T05:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/orioles-beat-rays-in-teams-major-league-baseball-season-opener.html
Yu Darvish came within one out of
pitching the earliest perfect game in a Major League Baseball
season, striking out 14 batters in the Texas Rangers’ 7-0 defeat
of the host Houston Astros.  Darvish, 26, who joined the Rangers last season after a
record $51.7 million transfer from Japan, was on the verge of
throwing the 24th perfect game in MLB history until Houston’s
Marwin Gonzalez singled cleanly up the middle with two outs in
the ninth inning last night.  Darvish flirted with history in the second game of the
season for both teams. The Astros defeated Texas three nights
ago in Houston’s first game since moving to the American League
after 51 years in the National League. The Astros, who had
baseball’s worst record the past two seasons, had an estimated
opening day payroll of $18.7 million that is the lowest in MLB
since the 2006 Florida Marlins, according to ESPN.  The earliest perfect game in a major league season came
last year when Philip Humber of the Chicago White Sox threw the
first of 2012’s three perfect games on April 21.  Darvish struck out five of the first six Astros batters in
the game at Houston’s Minute Maid Park. The right-hander twice
struck out the side -- in the second and fourth innings -- and
struck out at least one batter in each of the first eight
innings.  Darvish went 93-38 with a 1.99 earned run average in seven
seasons with the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters before the Rangers
paid the record transfer fee to bring the two-time Most Valuable
Player in Japan’s Pacific League to the U.S.  $60 Million  After receiving a six-year, $60 million contract, Darvish
had a 16-9 record with a 3.90 earned run average in 29 starts
for the Rangers last season and made the AL All-Star team.  Also yesterday in the AL, Chris Davis and Matt Wieters hit
home runs and the Baltimore Orioles won 7-4 at the Tampa Bay
Rays. Cleveland won 4-1 at Toronto to ruin the Blue Jays debut
of pitcher R.A. Dickey, who won the National League’s Cy Young
Award last year for the  New York  Mets. Michael Morse hit two
home runs as the Seattle Mariners Beat the Oakland athletics 7-1.  In the NL, Troy Tulowitzki and Carlos Gonzalez homered in
Colorado’s 8-4 win at Milwaukee; the St. Louis Cardinals won 6-1
at the  Arizona  Diamondbacks, and Madison Bumgarner allowed two
hits in eight scoreless innings in the San Francisco Giants’ 3-0
victory at the Los Angeles Dodgers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  