-- Osborne to Defend Welfare Cuts, Pledging to Make Work Pay
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-02T08:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/osborne-to-defend-welfare-cuts-pledging-to-make-work-pay.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will today defend an overhaul of Britain’s welfare
system, arguing that tax cuts for people on low incomes will
make them better off.  In an effort that started yesterday, the government is
capping benefit increases at 1 percent over the next three
years, below the projected increase in inflation. It also
introduced curbs on housing benefit, including a reduction in
payments for people in rented housing who have bedrooms that
aren’t being used. Church leaders described the plans as
“unjust” over the Easter weekend.  “We’re trying to make the system fair on people like you,
who get up, go to work, and expect your taxes to be spent
wisely,” Osborne will say in a speech in  London , according to
extracts released by his office. “And we’re trying to restore
hope in those communities who have been let down by generations
of politicians by getting them back into work”  The Conservative-led coalition headed by Prime Minister
 David Cameron  is looking to trim welfare costs to help narrow
the  budget deficit  while winning support from voters who resent
the scale of benefit payments, even as the  economy stagnates .
The opposition  Labour Party  attacked the plans, which are coming
into effect at the same time as the government lowers the top
income-tax rate on earnings of more than 150,000 pounds
($228,000) a year to 45 percent from 50 percent.  ‘Economic Failure’  “George Osborne needs to explain how it can be fair to
give a 3 billion-pound  tax cut  to the very richest, while
millions of working families on middle and low incomes pay the
price for his economic failure,” said  Chris Leslie , a lawmaker
who speaks for Labour on economic affairs.  As well as the 1 percent cap, the government is also
limiting overall benefits to 26,000 pounds a year for individual
households and replacing disability benefits with a new payment.  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll in January found support for capping
benefits at 26,000 pounds was 77 percent of those surveyed,
compared with 11 percent against. A separate poll conducted by
YouGov for the  Trades Union Congress  showed that voters believe
that 27 percent of the welfare budget is claimed fraudulently,
while the government estimates it is 0.7 percent. Cameron
announced plans last week to curb access to welfare, housing and
free health care for immigrants.  Osborne is looking for savings in areas that are hard to
cut. While about a third of  government spending  goes on welfare,
most of that is used to pay state pensions for the elderly.
Jobless benefits account for about 2.6 percent of all
expenditure, while support for those in work accounts for about
20 percent, according to the  Institute for Fiscal Studies 
research group.  Osborne will today highlight the 1,335-pound increase to
9,440 pounds this year in the  allowance  a person can earn tax-
free, saving 24 million taxpayers more than 260 pounds a year.
The chancellor has also frozen local taxes and fuel duty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  