-- Louisville’s Ware Set to Join Teammates on Bench at Final Four
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-02T04:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/louisville-s-ware-set-to-join-teammates-on-bench-at-final-four.html
University of Louisville  guard Kevin
Ware, who broke two bones in his lower right leg during a game
in college basketball’s national men’s tournament two days ago,
will accompany his teammates to the Final Four in Atlanta and
join them on the bench at the Georgia Dome.  Ware was using crutches to get around yesterday, less than
24 hours after undergoing two hours of surgery to have the
broken bones re-set, the wound closed and a metal rod inserted
in his right tibia. His teammates said the injury inspired them
to an 85-63 win against  Duke University  in the Midwest regional
final that sent them to the Final Four.  “He’s in very good spirits and anxious to get out of the
hospital and get back with the guys,” Louisville coach  Rick Pitino  said yesterday on a conference call after spending time
with Ware at an Indianapolis hospital. “We’re going to leave
Wednesday night. Kevin will be with us.”  Pitino said Ware, a sophomore guard, probably will leave
the hospital today and return to Louisville,  Kentucky . The
Cardinals play Wichita State in a semifinal at the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament on April 6, with the
winner advancing to the championship game two days later.  “He’s up and about,” Pitino said. “He’s on crutches
walking. They want his blood flowing. The only thing they’re
concerned about at this point -- because the bone comes out of
the skin -- they’re concerned of a chance of infection.”  Players Crying  Ware was injured when he landed after jumping while
attempting to block a shot during the first half of the Midwest
regional final. His right leg buckled and he immediately
collapsed to the floor near the Louisville bench as the broken
bone protruded from his leg. Pitino and several Cardinals
players wiped away tears as medical personnel attended to Ware,
who was taken off the court on a stretcher after his leg was
immobilized and then to an area hospital for surgery.  Ware, who played high school basketball in Rockdale County,
 Georgia , 24 miles (39 kilometers) east of Atlanta after growing
up in the Bronx, New York, repeatedly implored his teammates to
win the game against Duke as he lay on the court, Pitino said.
The Cardinals outscored the Blue Devils 50-31 after halftime to
pull away for the win and reach the Final Four for the second
straight year.  “He gets to go home and be with his family and be with us
on the bench,” Pitino said.  Ware, who averaged 4.6 points and 1.8 rebounds as a reserve
this season for Louisville, received the team’s trophy from the
Midwest regional yesterday following his surgery.  “He was real excited about it,” Pitino said on a
conference call. “I said to him, ‘You want me to bring it back
or stay with you?’ He said, ‘It’s staying with me.’ I said, ‘All
right, just make sure you don’t lose it.”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  