-- Tour de France Blood-Doping Didn’t Harm Riders, Court Hears
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-04-02T12:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/tour-de-france-blood-doping-didn-t-harm-riders-court-hears.html
Tour de  France  cyclists who paid for
blood transfusions and drugs to boost performance haven’t
suffered repercussions on their health, a defense lawyer said in
closing arguments at a trial of five team managers and doctors
in  Madrid .  Former rider Jesus Manzano, who has blamed a transfusion of
an incorrectly stored blood bag for keeling over on a mountain
climb at the 2003 edition of the elite French race, was affected
by sun stroke, Tomas Valdivielso, the attorney of sports doctor
Eufemiano Fuentes, said.  “Even Manzano hasn’t been affected even though he has
speculated” about the possibility of getting cancer,
Valdivielso told the court.  Prosecutors are seeking a two-year prison sentence for
Fuentes and the four other defendants for a “crime against
 public health ” following a 2006 police investigation into
doping known as “Operacion Puerto,” or Operation Mountain
Pass. Police found 200 blood bags in apartments in Madrid.
Riders testified the blood was often extracted and transfused in
hotel rooms, sometimes at races.  The riders sought to get a performance boost by increasing
their bodies’ volume of oxygen-carrying red blood cells that
boost stamina.  Judge Patricia Santamaria is scheduled to make a ruling in
the case next month, a court official said by telephone
yesterday. At the same time, the official said, she will rule on
a request by the  World Anti-Doping Agency  and cycling’s ruling
body  Union Cycliste Internationale  to release the blood bags.
WADA and the UCI aim to take disciplinary proceedings against
athletes who have yet to face sanctions.  ‘Public Health’  The lawyer of Manolo Saiz, another defendant who was
manager of the Liberty Seguros team, said the trial shouldn’t be
about what some see as a “golden opportunity to clean Spanish
sport” amid criticism it has tolerated doping.  “This isn’t a trial of Spanish sport but a trial about
public health,” Saiz’s attorney, Ignacio Arroyo, told the
court.  Saiz wasn’t involved in doping and was carrying 42,000
euros ($53,800) in a briefcase to pay team staff when he met
with Fuentes in 2006, Arroyo said.  The trial began on Jan. 28 and has heard testimony from
cyclists including  Spain ’s Manzano, who is seeking 180,000 euros
in damages, and former American rider  Tyler Hamilton . Hamilton
testified by video link that a former mountain-bike rider who
worked with Fuentes performed a blood transfusion on him in a
hotel room during the 2002 Tour de France.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  