-- Outsiders Should Evaluate Teachers as Well as Students
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-04-02T22:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/outsiders-should-evaluate-students-and-teachers.html
The most important determinant of
 educational  quality is teacher quality. Yet, as a recent study
of school principals’ permissiveness in teacher evaluations and
a cheating scandal in Atlanta show, this performance is
difficult to measure.  The best way forward is to move the evaluation of teachers
outside the schools entirely, with standardized tests
administered by an independent agency. This would be
supplemented by classroom assessments based on unobtrusive
videotaping, also judged by outsiders, including teachers’
representatives.  Researchers have long noted the power that teachers have
over student test scores.  In an influential paper published in 2005, economists
Steven Rivkin, Eric Hanushek and John Kain examined
administrative data in  Texas  and found that 15 percent of the
differences in students’ math scores were  explained  by
variations in teacher quality. The difference in test-score
gains between a teacher who is rated average and one who is
better than 85 percent of educators  generates  the same
improvement as dropping class size by 10.  My Harvard colleagues Raj Chetty and John Friedman,
together with Jonah Rockoff,  link  school data with evidence on
adult earnings and find that replacing a teacher “in the bottom
5% with an average teacher would increase the present value of
students’ lifetime income by more than $250,000.”  Irrelevant Credentials  Teacher quality matters, but standard observable measures
of teacher qualifications don’t. Research, including that cited
above, typically finds that extra degrees or certificates or
years of experience only marginally affect student performance
as measured by test scores.  One approach is to follow standard corporate practices,
giving principals the power to decide which teachers are good or
bad. Good managers should know which workers are more
productive, and good principals should be able to assess their
educators, taking into account the ephemeral elements that can
influence a classroom. Economists Brian Jacob and Lars Lefgren
have  found  that principals are quite good at identifying which
teachers produce the highest test-score gains.  But a recent New York Times article  reminds  us that you
can’t always trust principals to use the knowledge they possess.
In Florida, Michigan and  Tennessee , principals were called on to
rate teachers and graded more than 97 percent of them as being
effective or better. Now that’s grade inflation.  Like college teachers who freely dispense A’s to unworthy
students, principals want to be popular and avoid the hassles
inherent in telling people that their work is subpar. In
corporations, managers know that their own promotions depend on
firing the incompetent. Principals know no such thing, so they
take the easy way out.  Just as colleges could fix grade inflation with a simple
policy of assigning a grade distribution to each teacher,
requiring a fixed number of A’s, B’s, C’s and F’s, principals
could be similarly required to fire the bottom tenth of their
teachers each year. I suspect that such a draconian policy would
help American children, but good luck getting that one through
the teachers’ unions.  The standard alternative to relying on principal
evaluations is to use student test-score gains. This approach
also has limitations. Unions aren’t fond of evaluating teachers
this way. In 2008, the  New York  Legislature went so far as to
 stop  the use of test scores in teacher evaluation. Luckily, the
ban hasn’t lasted.  Better Measures  Many criticisms leveled at using student test scores are
refutable. We can deal with the problem that some teachers get
tougher students both by looking at test-score gains (rather
than score levels) and controlling for observable student
attributes.  Even the best teacher can get a bad class, yet teachers can
be evaluated over long enough periods to smooth out the
idiosyncrasies of particular student groups. Teaching to the
test may not be ideal. Yet as long as the test is sufficiently
broad, it will still measure student learning.  Moreover, the
Chetty-Friedman-Rockoff work  confirms  that teachers who raise
test scores also raise adult earnings.  Test scores become valueless, however, if they reflect
teacher cheating rather than student achievement. Last week, 35
Georgia educators were indicted in a scandal in which seven
teachers were accused of raising students’ scores by erasing
wrong answers and making them right,” according to the New York
Times report.  A  study  by Steven Levitt and Brian Jacob recounted in
“Freakonomics” documented teacher cheating by looking at
suspicious patterns of incorrect answers in  Chicago ’s
standardized tests.  Teacher cheating isn’t an excuse to give up on standardized
tests. It is a reason to administer them properly. Just imagine
if college admissions tests were given by individual teachers
rather than by the  College Board . Teachers would have a huge
incentive to help their favored students; the College Board,
therefore, administers tests at well-monitored sites.  If the U.S. is going to use standardized tests to evaluate
teachers or schools, it should pay the extra price of using an
external agency, such as the College Board.  The idea of outside evaluation also makes sense when it
comes to assessing the more ephemeral aspects of teacher
quality. One advantage of using outsiders, rather than
principals, is that independent experts would be more insulated
from the pressure to rate poor teachers as effective. Those
outsiders could be held accountable if they routinely gave high
marks to teachers who achieved limited test score gains.  Teachers’ Involvement  A second advantage of this evaluation approach is that
teachers themselves, including teachers’ unions, can be brought
into the process.  The old-fashioned way of doing this would be to have teams
of outside monitors randomly visit classrooms. The modern
version would be to have video monitors installed in classrooms,
a step that  Wyoming   debated  and dismissed in 2011. In theory,
video monitoring has improved to the point where students as
well as teachers could be regularly filmed, so that the degree
of student engagement could be more accurately assessed.  The obvious downside of videotaping is the loss of privacy
for teachers and students. I can sympathize with those concerns,
because I don’t typically videotape my lectures. As long as some
externally administered evaluation complements the test-score
approach, I would happily give up the video-camera idea -- for
now.  The U.S. needs externally administered student tests and
classroom visits. The best teachers must be paid more; poor
instructors must be managed out.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Edward Glaeser  at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 