-- Patriot Coal Creditors Seek to Probe Peabody Over Spinoff
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-03T00:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/patriot-coal-creditors-seek-to-probe-peabody-over-spinoff.html
Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp.’s creditors want
to investigate Peabody Energy Corp.’s 2007 spinoff of the coal
producer, saying the transaction rid Peabody of $600 million in
health-care and environmental liabilities.  Patriot and its creditors’ committee sought permission for
the probe today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in St. Louis, where
both companies are based. Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July,
seeking to  reorganize  and shed some of the $1.6 billion it
estimates is owed for lifetime health care for 8,100 retirees.  “Patriot is a Peabody creation,” lawyers for creditors
wrote in a court filing. “Peabody selected which of its mines
would become Patriot’s. Peabody determined what projections
would underlie Patriot’s business plan. Peabody decided which
liabilities it would retain and which it would unload onto
Patriot.”  Patriot has already sued to force its former parent to
continue paying for the health-care costs of certain retirees
whom  Peabody (BTU)  employed before the spinoff. The proposed probe
would allow Patriot to subpoena documents related to the
spinoff, including those that Peabody has refused to share with
the company and Patriot’s union, according to court papers.  ‘Fraudulent Transfer’  Patriot said it is considering whether the 2007 transaction
that created it “constituted an actual or constructive
fraudulent transfer.” Under bankruptcy law, companies can make
recoveries for distribution to all creditors if money was found
to have been improperly transferred out of the estate before the
bankruptcy filing.  The spinoff rid Peabody of “approximately $600 million of
retiree health-care liabilities, along with hundreds of millions
of dollars of other liabilities, including environmental
reclamation obligations and black lung benefits,” Patriot and
its creditors said in court papers.  Vic Svec, a spokesman for Peabody, said in an e-mail that
the company will vigorously defend any claims against it related
to the Patriot spinoff.  ‘Good Faith’  “Peabody Energy has been participating in good faith
negotiations regarding a routine information-gathering process
relating to the bankruptcy of Patriot Coal Corporation, a
company that has been independent from Peabody Energy for more
than five years,” Svec said. “Opposing counsel has now asked
the  bankruptcy court  to grant information requests that are
clearly unreasonable.”  Patriot has said it needs to shed at least $150 million
more in labor costs to avoid liquidating in bankruptcy. The
company’s motion to change its collective-bargaining agreements
with unionized workers is set to be heard April 29.  “Patriot is committed to making the changes necessary to
emerge as a viable entity for the benefit of all stakeholders,
while saving more than 4,000 jobs,”  Michael Freitag , a company
spokesman, said in a statement today.  Failing to make any changes in employee costs and retiree
medical coverage “would simply force the company into
liquidation -- and that is the worst possible outcome for
retirees, employees and other Patriot stakeholders,” he said.  Reduce Obligations  Patriot has proposed to reduce its obligations by creating
a voluntary employees’ beneficiary association, or VEBA, trust
administered by the United Mine Workers of America or the UMWA
Health and Retirement Funds. The VEBA trust would get funding
from Patriot in several different ways -- including an ownership
stake in the reorganized company, which is expected to be worth
hundreds of millions of dollars.  Patriot will also contribute as much as $300 million, an
initial $15 million and future recoveries from litigation, the
company has said.  Peabody fell 3 percent today to $19.92 in  New York . Patriot
closed at 10 cents in over-the-counter trading.  Patriot’s 3.25 percent senior convertible notes due in May
last traded at 12 cents on the dollar, and its 8.25 percent
notes last traded at 48 cents on the dollar, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  