-- Paulson Fund Investor Case Dismissed for Lack of Standing
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-04-02T21:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/paulson-fund-investor-case-dismissed-for-lack-of-standing.html
An investor’s lawsuit against John Paulson’s $23 billion hedge fund over its reported loss of about
$460 million in Sino-Forest Corp was dismissed by a federal
judge.  U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke in Miami threw out the
case saying the investor didn’t have the legal right to sue,
according to an order filed March 29.  “The plaintiff lacks standing to bring the instant
litigation and claim a fiduciary relationship with the
defendants,” Cooke wrote.  Hugh Culverhouse in a February 2012 complaint sought class-
action status on behalf of all investors who lost money in the
fund.  Paulson & Co., based in New York, told clients in a June
2011 letter that it lost the money since the end of May on its
Sino-Forest investment. The hedge fund held 31 million shares of
Sino-Forest in May of that year, or 13 percent of outstanding
stock, and sold its entire stake by June 17, according to the
letter.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped more than 80 percent when
 Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters LLC said the Hong Kong-based company
overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denied the
allegations.  “Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by conducting
a grossly negligent due diligence analysis of Sino-Forest’s
business operations that did not analyze the substantial risks
of holding a near-billion-dollar investment in a forestry
company based in  China ,” Culverhouse said in his complaint.  Culverhouse’s lawyers, Harvey Gurland and  Felice Schonfeld 
of Duane Morris LLP didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the ruling.  “We have stated from the outset that this suit was
completely without merit and that there was no basis in law or
fact for the action,” Dawn Dover, a spokeswoman for Paulson at
Kest and Co., said by e-mail.  The case is Culverhouse v. Paulson & Co., 12-cv-20695, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 