-- Pepsi Bets on Fading Cricket League to Tip Coke: Corporate India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-04-03T07:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/pepsi-bets-on-fading-cricket-league-to-tip-coke-corporate-india.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  is betting on  India ’s
annual cricket tournament to arrest at least five years of
decline in market share and close the gap with leader Coca-Cola
Co. in the South Asian nation’s soft drink market.  The world’s second-largest beverage company, which is
spending 3.97 billion rupees ($73 million) over five years on
sponsoring the Indian Premier League, will introduce a special
edition 500 milliliter can and offer fans opportunities to watch
games with celebrities, Deepika Warrier, vice president for
beverage marketing at Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo’s India
unit, said.  The popularity of the Indian Premier League, that opened
last night with performances by Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan
and American rapper  Pitbull , has been on the wane with
television ratings dropping and advertising rates falling as
much as 15 percent. Still, PepsiCo agreed to spend double the
previous sponsor to ride on the passion for the sport in a
country where the market for soft drinks is estimated by
Euromonitor to expand twofold to $18.2 billion by 2017.  “The timing of Pepsi IPL coincides with a peak selling
season for our business,” said Warrier. “Nearly 50 percent of
beverage consumption happens in these months, so driving brand
relevance and consumer engagement during this period will give
us a big competitive advantage in the marketplace.”  Coca-Cola (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, will buy
“airtime on IPL,” the local unit of the Atlanta-based company
said in an e-mailed response. It has also started selling a 200
ml bottle of the soda in some parts of the country at 8 rupees
(15 U.S. cents).  Rapid-Fire Appeal  The IPL, where nine teams compete in a Twenty20 game of
cricket, started in 2008 when the Board of Control for Cricket
in India auctioned off the league’s clubs to investors including
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
and movie star Khan.  The rapid-fire appeal of a Twenty20 match has won huge
audience in a cricket crazy country. The sport, invented in
 England  more than four centuries ago, has largely been played in
former British colonies. The league capitalizes on the growing
popularity of the shorter version of the game compared with the
more traditional one played over five days with breaks for lunch
and tea.  Still, the league’s popularity is on the wane. Television
rating point, a measure used by India’s television and
advertising industry to assess the size of the audience reached
by a particular show, declined to 3.27 for the IPL last year
from its peak of 4.81 in the first edition,  Edelweiss Financial
Services Ltd. (EDEL)  said in a report citing data from  TAM Media
Research .  IPL Fatigue  “There is an element of fatigue from the viewers in the
sense that there is too much of cricket happening throughout the
year,” Ankur Bisen, vice president for retail at consultant
 Technopak Advisors Pvt.  said. “A Manchester United or Real
Madrid or Barcelona exhibit a sort of stickiness with the fan
and as a result they don’t struggle when the football season
starts. Indian clubs haven’t invested the time and effort in
making this connect with the fans.”  Manchester United is the world’s most valuable sports team
brand with a value of $853 million, Brand Finance Plc, a brand
valuation consultancy, said in October. Mumbai Indians, an IPL
team owned by Ambani, was ranked 146th out of 250 with a value
of $48 million, it said.  Ad Rates  That’s reflecting in television advertising rates. This
year the charges have fallen as much as 15 percent from last
year, Edelweiss said in a March 26 report. A 10-second
advertising slot costs between 400,000 rupees to 425,000 rupees
this year, analysts Abneesh Roy and Alankar Garude wrote in the
report.  PepsiCo said the tournament still has the biggest appeal
among all age groups and demographics. The IPL ratings last year
were 47 percent higher than the International Cricket Council’s
T20 Cricket World Cup in 2012, Warrier said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “There is no single format which delivers the cumulative
viewership and reach like the IPL,” said Warrier. “The format
is evolving much beyond traditional TV into the online and
mobile space.”  That view is shared by  Parle Products Ltd. , a maker of
cookies and confectionery set up in 1929, which for the first
time this year became an associate sponsor of the league.  ‘Lot of Buzz’  “This is a high-impact property where a lot of buzz is
generated in the media so we got involved,” said P.V. Kulkarni,
general manager for marketing at Parle. The sporting event gets
higher viewership than any other television program, he said.  Wireless operator  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) , the biggest sponsor
of the IPL after PepsiCo, aims to boost Internet usage on mobile
devices with a trial offer for as little as 25 rupees, according
to an e-mailed statement today.  Both PepsiCo and Coca-Cola are counting on growth from a
low consumption base of soft drinks in India to drive sales of
their products.  The per capita consumption of Coca-Cola’s products in India
is 12, compared with 38 in  China  and 728 in  Mexico  in 2011, the
company said.  ‘Dominate Airwaves’  “While Pepsi looks to dominate the airwaves and the
imagery of IPL, I think Coke is concentrating on beefing up its
ground level activity,” said Harish Bijoor, whose Harish Bijoor
Consults Inc. in Bangalore advises companies on brands. “I am
sure Coke hopes that if its distribution is in place, it will
also gain.”  Coca-Cola’s share of the Indian carbonated-beverage market
rose to 61 percent last year from 57 percent in 2007, according
to Euromonitor data. PepsiCo’s share declined to 36.4 percent
from 40 percent.  The league, that starts today with the first game to be
played between last year’s winners Kolkata Knight Riders and the
Delhi Daredevils, will run through May 26 with the final to be
held in the eastern city of Kolkata.  “Its going to provide Pepsi with plenty of hype and hoopla
for 54 days continuously,” said Bijoor. After the IPL ends, the
company will need to maintain its investment in promotion and
marketing for the rest of the year to ensure the gains remain,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  