-- Polish Government Clears Way for Disposal of LOT Airline
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2013-04-02T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/polish-government-clears-way-for-disposal-of-lot-airline.html
The Polish government cleared the
way for the sale of a majority stake in its unprofitable airline
LOT as the national carrier implements a cost-cutting program to
avoid a collapse.  The government, which holds a 93 percent stake in the
Warsaw-based  airline , approved draft legislation lifting a legal
requirement that the state keep a majority stake in the company,
the Treasury Ministry said in a statement today on its website.
The changes to the law need to be approved by Parliament and
signed by the president.  Poland plans to resume attempts and sell the airline to
industry and financial investors after it becomes profitable
next year, Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said March 22.
LOT lost a potential buyer in June when  Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO, or
 Turkish Airlines , ended talks because of European Union rules
capping owners from outside the bloc.  “Privatizing LOT is one element of a thorough
restructuring of the company,” Budzanowski was quoted as saying
in today’s  statement . “The Treasury will be able to offer a
majority stake, which gives us the opportunity to attract a
strong, stable industry or financial investor.”  LOT, central Europe’s biggest state-owned carrier, last
month filed its proposals with the government, seeking to
generate more than 150 million zloty ($46 million) of savings
this year. The company has already started cutting jobs, sold
assets and got a 400 million-zloty emergency loan from the
government to prop up its finances.  The Treasury wants to preserve the LOT brand and its
passenger hub in Warsaw, Budzanowski said.  State-owned carriers in post-communist  Europe  are
struggling to survive as the global debt crisis coincides with
high fuel prices and a EU clampdown on state aid. Hungary’s
Malev Zrt. collapsed in 2012 while AS Estonian Air, Latvia’s
AirBaltic AS and Slovenia’s Adria Airways d.d. asked for state
support in past years after their losses mounted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  