-- Portuguese Banks Slash Repossessed Home Prices to Revive Market
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-04-02T06:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/portuguese-banks-slash-repossessed-home-prices-to-revive-market.html
Portuguese lenders are offering
thousands of repossessed homes at reduced prices after
investment in real estate fell to the lowest in a decade.  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  is offering discounts of as much as 12
percent.  Portuguese banks are expected to sell about 10,000 houses
and apartments this year, or 22 percent of total sales, compared
with about 6,000 homes last year, said Manuel Alvarez, regional
director of broker Re/Max Portugal.  “Banks need to get rid of their real estate assets and to
do this, they need to create demand,” said Walter Fabrega,
broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.’s (JLL)  head of  capital markets  in
Portugal. “Demand has to be created through big discounts.”  The thousands of soured assets being sold highlight the
difficulties indebted homeowners have faced since Portugal
sought a 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) bailout from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in 2011. The
latest discounts are expected to attract new investors, helping
the market to recover, brokers said.  “After a long waiting period, we have finally started to
clearly identify demand for value-added and distressed assets
from funds with opportunistic money,”  Jones Lang  said in a
report last month. “This tendency will continue and will
increase during 2013.”  Investment in Portuguese real estate declined 38 percent in
2012 from the previous year to 125 million euros, the lowest in
the last decade, according to Jones Lang. Prices declined for a
second straight year in 2012, losing 2.2 percent, according to
Confidencial Imobiliario, which collects data on the Portuguese
 property market .  ‘Necessary Move’  Portuguese real estate had its worst performance in decades
in 2012 after investment in commercial property dropped by 50
percent from the previous year, Eric van Leuven, managing
partner at Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said in January.  “This move by the banks is necessary for the real estate
market in  Portugal  to recover,” Re/Max’s Alvarez said.
“Without the discount, many people wouldn’t be able to buy.”  Banco Comercial, Portugal’s second-largest publicly traded
lender, is  selling  more than 700 repossessed homes, offices and
warehouses with discounts of as much as 12 percent below their
market value to individuals who complete the purchase by the end
of May. It and state-run  Caixa Geral de Depositos  carry out
monthly real estate auctions across the country.  “By offering properties at competitive prices, Banco
Comercial has helped keep the real estate market in Portugal
liquid and resilient,” Miguel Maya, an executive board member
at Banco Comercial Portugues, said in an e-mail.  Officials at Banco Comercial, Caixa Geral and  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank,
declined to say how many real estate assets they each plan to
sell this year.  ‘Golden Visas’  The  Portuguese government  is also trying to attract foreign
buyers to the country’s property market. It announced last year
it would grant non-EU citizens who invest more than 500,000
euros in real estate special resident permits, or “golden
visas.”  “This is an intelligent move that is likely to attract new
investment into the property market,” said Alison Buechner
Hojbjerg, an agent at  Quinta Properties , a real estate agency in
the Algarve, Portugal’s southern tourist region.  The government forecast Portugal’s economy will shrink 2.3
percent in 2013, the third straight year of contraction, before
recovering next year. Non-performing  mortgage loans  to
individuals rose to 2.1 percent of total home loans in January
from 1.9 percent in the same period a year earlier, according to
Portugal’s central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 