-- Pound Falls Most in Three Weeks Versus Dollar as Output Declines
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-02T15:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/pound-little-changed-before-mortgage-data-manufacturing-report.html
The pound fell the most in three
weeks against the dollar after an industry report showed U.K.
 manufacturing  output shrank more than economists forecast,
adding to concern the nation is headed for another recession.  The U.K. currency declined versus all 16 of its major
counterparts on speculation the slowdown signs will convince the
 Bank of England  to increase stimulus at a policy meeting this
week. Minutes of its last two gatherings showed three members of
the Monetary Policy Committee voted to increase the asset-
purchase target from 375 billion pounds ($568 billion). U.K.
government bonds were little changed.  “The manufacturing data has been poor but expectations
were poor as well,” said Peter Kinsella, a currency strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  London . “The pound has rallied a little
bit recently. This is the third time we’ve struggled to break
above $1.5250 in a meaningful way. Selling rallies in pound-
dollar is a good idea.”  The pound weakened 0.8 percent to $1.5115 at 4:27 p.m.
London time, the biggest decline since March 8. Sterling dropped
0.7 percent to 84.92 pence per euro after appreciating to 84.11
pence yesterday, the strongest level since Jan. 24.  A gauge of U.K.  manufacturing  based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  was 48.3 in March from 47.9 in February,
Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a reading
of 48.7, still below the level of 50 that shows contraction.  Approvals Decline  Mortgage  approvals  fell more than economists forecast in
February, a separate report showed. U.K. lenders granted 51,653
home loans, the least since September, compared with a revised
54,187 in January, the Bank of England said in London.  The pound has tumbled 5.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro fell 0.2 percent and the
dollar gained 2.8 percent.  Gilts rose in earlier trading as officials in Cyprus said
they would seek easier bailout terms in talks with the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund , underpinning demand for
the safety of U.K. government securities.  Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris quit today amid a
probe into the nation’s economic crisis, leaving the government
eight days after it obtained an international bailout.  `Less Optimistic'  “People are less than optimistic on the U.K. at the
moment,” said Simon Peck, a fixed-income strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “There’s also a policy
meeting this week so the time is ripe for more speculation on
potential further quantitative easing. What’s going on in Cyprus
is also helping safe-haven flows and the bid for gilts.”  The  10-year gilt  yield was at 1.77 percent after dropping
as much as three basis points. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 traded at 99.81.  The Bank of England will keep its target for so-called
quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds when policy makers
announce the decision on April 4, according to the median
forecast of 37 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three predict
it will increase that amount to 400 billion pounds.  Gilts have returned 0.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained 0.4 percent
and Treasuries were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  