-- Pound Drop Wins Americans as London Easter Shopping Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-02T12:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/pound-drop-wins-americans-as-london-easter-shopping-gains.html
The number of Easter-weekend
shoppers in  London ’s West End jumped 15 percent as the pound’s
exchange-rate drop helped attract American and European buyers,
more than offsetting a cold snap that kept Britons away.  Shoppers spent 130 million pounds ($197 million) from March
29 through April 1, according to the New West End Co., which
represents 600 retailers along  Bond Street , Oxford Street and
Regent Street in London. U.S. citizens were the largest group,
with shopper numbers gaining 15 percent on April 1 from last
year’s Easter Monday and 3.9 percent over the holiday weekend,
followed by visitors from the  Nordic countries , France and
 Germany , according to Jace Tyrrell, a spokesman.  “The weakness in the pound makes it very attractive,”
Tyrrell said. “Americans were the bulk and it was really
noticeable on the streets. They have limited holiday, so they
really take advantage of Easter.”  The presence of overseas shoppers, boosted by the 6.6
percent decline in the pound versus the dollar this year, has
helped reduce retailers’ concerns that the coldest March in 50
years will weigh on U.K. consumers’ spending on spring fashions,
outdoor furniture and barbecues. Last week, the Association of
British Travel Agents  reported  a “surge in last-minute bookings
to warm destinations” by Britons.  Buyers from the Nordic region also flocked to the main
London shopping district as they sought out large-format
flagship stores of retailers such as luxury chain  Burberry Group
Plc (BRBY)  and youth-fashion store TopShop not available domestically,
Tyrrell said.  “The Nordics and Europeans love London at the moment,”
Tyrrell said. “We have a bigger mix of retail, and they are
quite retail savvy and it’s better value,” thanks to the pound.
“They are coming into top 10 in numbers” of shoppers.  The average American spends six times the average U.K.
shopper in the West End in the course of the year, while Middle
Eastern and Chinese consumers rank at the top in average money
spent per person because of luxury purchases, Tyrrell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  