-- PSG Ties Barca With Last Kick in Champions League; Bayern Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-02T23:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/psg-draws-with-barcelona-in-champions-league-bayern-munich-wins.html
Paris Saint-Germain snatched a 2-2
draw against visiting Barcelona with the final kick of their
 Champions League  soccer quarterfinal opener.  Bayern Munich  beat
Juventus 2-0 in a matchup of former winners.  Blaise Matuidi scored in the fourth minute of stoppage time
in Paris last night after  Xavi Hernandez  looked to have given
Barcelona a 2-1 lead for the return game with an 89th-minute
penalty kick.  Lionel Messi  put the Spanish team ahead in the
first half before Zlatan Ibrahimovic tied it in the 79th minute.  “I personally don’t think it was a good result,” PSG
coach  Carlo Ancelotti  said in a news conference. “The second
leg will be very difficult but we want to score two goals there,
which we managed to do this evening. I have confidence.”  In Germany, four-time champion Bayern Munich got goals from
David Alaba and Thomas Muller to move a step closer to its third
semifinal berth in four years. It was the first loss in nine
Champions League games this season for two-time winner Juventus.  Barcelona and Juventus will host the return matches in the
two-game series on April 10, with the winners advancing to the
semifinals of Europe’s elite club competition.  “Nothing is settled yet,” Bayern captain Philipp Lahm
said on the website of tournament organizer UEFA. “We will need
another performance just like this one next week in order to
prevail in Turin.”  The other quarterfinals begin tonight as record nine-time
European champion Real Madrid hosts Galatasaray and Borussia
Dortmund visits Malaga, Spain’s third team in the final eight.  Messi’s Injury  At the Parc des Princes, world player of the year Messi sat
on the bench in the second half with a right hamstring injury.
He’ll be examined today, while fellow Argentine  Javier Mascherano  will miss six weeks after tearing a ligament in his
right knee, Barcelona said on its website.  “If neither Messi nor Mascherano can play the return leg
it will be a very big blow for us,” Barcelona assistant coach
Jordi Roura told reporters.  PSG’s Ezequiel Lavezzi hit the post with a shot in the
fifth minute. Barcelona took the lead when  Dani Alves  curled a
pass into the area for Messi, who shot past Salvatore Sirigu.  Messi fired over the crossbar five minutes later and was
rubbing his hamstring soon after. He finished the half before
being replaced by Cesc Fabregasafter the break.  Ibrahimovic tied the game with 11 minutes left, though he
appeared to be offside when he put in the rebound after  Thiago Silva  hit the post.  Late Goals  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup title in eight
seasons, went back in front 10 minutes later when Xavi converted
from the penalty spot after  Alexis Sanchez  was taken down by
Sirigu. In the closing seconds, Ibrahimovic won a header to send
the ball back to the edge of the area, where Matuidi shot past
 Victor Valdes , who was going the wrong way.  “We deserved the draw,” PSG midfielder  David Beckham  told
U.K. broadcaster ITV. “It’s better than it was at 2-1. It’s
going to be difficult but there’s no reason we can’t go there
and get a result.”  Bayern scored in the first 30 seconds as Alaba’s shot from
about 35 yards out took a deflection off  Arturo Vidal  into the
bottom right corner past goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon, who was
unable to recover after starting the other way.  The 2010 and 2012 runner-up doubled its lead in the 63rd
minute after Buffon stopped Luiz Gustavo’s shot. The rebound
went to Mario Mandzukic, who passed to the center of goal for
Muller to tap into the unguarded net.  Bayern missed a chance to take a three-goal lead to Turin
in the final minute as Buffon made a one-handed save from
Muller, who put the rebound over the open goal.  “Bayern played with great tempo, they won almost every
challenge and did not allow us to play our game,” Juventus
coach  Antonio Conte  told reporters. “It’s difficult for me to
get angry. We faced a great team, better than us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 