-- PSG Wants David Beckham to Stay on Next Season: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-02T09:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/psg-wants-david-beckham-to-stay-on-next-season-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Beckham to Stay?  Paris Saint-Germain wants  David Beckham , who joined the
club on a five-month contract at the end of January, to stay for
another season, the  Daily Mirror reported , citing PSG President
Nasser Al Khelaifi.  “Recruiting David was one of my best decisions,” the
newspaper cited Al Khelaifi as saying. “Everyone loves it and
we will talk with him. Whatever his decision, we support David.
He is very happy in Paris. We want to keep him next season.”  Turkish Striker  Turkey striker Burak Yilmaz, who’s been linked with
Manchester United, Arsenal and Liverpool, could leave
Galatasaray for about 10 million pounds ($15.2 million) in the
offseason, the  Daily Express reported .  Yilmaz, 27, is the joint top scorer in the Champions League
with eight goals this season and has scored 18 in the Turkish
first division, the newspaper added.  Quick Return?  Martin O’Neill  may be offered a quick return to soccer
management after  Neil Warnock  parted company with Leeds United,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  O’Neill, who was fired by Sunderland three days ago, has
been identified as a leading contender for the Leeds job and the
club’s board is preparing to make an approach, with former
Bolton manager  Owen Coyle  also emerging as a candidate, the
newspaper added.  Pressure to Sell  Samir Nasri said in a television interview that Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  was forced to sell him to Manchester City
in 2011 because of pressure from club owner  Stan Kroenke , the
 Guardian reported .  “Wenger told me that, if Cesc (Fabregas) left, I would
stay, but Kroenke wanted the money,” the Guardian cited Nasri
as telling French TV station beIN Sport. “I had only one year
left so I decided to leave.”  The French midfielder, for whom City paid Arsenal 24
million pounds, also rejected City manager  Roberto Mancini ’s
suggestion that Nasri has been training at only 50 percent this
season, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  