-- Rajoy Party Official Put $3 Million in Swiss Account, Court Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-02T11:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/rajoy-party-official-put-3-million-in-swiss-account-court-says.html
Luis Barcenas, the former treasurer
of  Spain ’s governing  People’s Party , made cash deposits into a
Swiss bank account amounting to 2.4 million euros ($3.1
million), Spain’s National Court said.  Barcenas, named  by El Pais newspaper  as having run a party
slush fund that made cash payments to Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy , deposited the money in an account with a Swiss unit of
Dresdner Bank AG between June 2001 and June 2005, the court said
in a statement today, citing documentation provided by Swiss
authorities last month.  The PP is suing El Pais over a January report that Barcenas
made cash payments to Rajoy as well as former ministers. Rajoy
has denied the allegations. The party said in a statement that
hand-written ledgers El Pais published purporting to show the
payments were “false and very probably manipulated.”
Barcenas’s lawyer, Alfonso Trallero, declined to comment through
an assistant when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Spain’s National Court began investigating an alleged
corruption ring involving the PP and businessmen with links to
the party in 2009. Barcenas has been named as an official
suspect in the investigation.  Swiss Documents  Magistrate Pablo Ruz at the National Court received 11
volumes of documentation from Swiss officials last month as a
result of a request for information made in 2009. The papers
showed 15 cash payments of between 100,000 euros and 240,000
euros made at branches in Geneva and Lugano, Ruz said in a court
filing.  Barcenas opened his account with  Dresdner Bank  in Geneva in
2001 and had a separate account with Dresdner Bank in Zurich
from 1994, Ruz said. Barcenas began making payments to party
officials in 1994, according to El Pais.  Dresdner Bank was bought by Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG
in January 2009 after posting a record loss of 6.3 billion euros
for 2008. Commerzbank sold Dresdner’s wealth-management business
in  Switzerland . Dresdner Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. was acquired by
Liechtenstein-based  LGT Group (LGT)  in 2009, according to LGT’s
website.  LGT spokesman Christof Buri declined to comment when
contacted by phone. Commerzbank spokesman Gunnar Meyer didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  