-- Ramez Says Egypt Bank Focused on ‘Essentials’ Amid Protests
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-02T13:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/ramez-says-egypt-bank-focused-on-essentials-as-protests-flare.html
Egypt ’s priority is meeting the
basic needs of its population and curbing inflation, the central
bank’s governor said, as demonstrators targeted the country’s
economic managers.  “The most important thing is to cover our essentials,”
Hisham Ramez told reporters in Dubai, adding that his job was to
monitor inflation and “preserve the reserves as much as
possible.” His comments came as rising prices, along with rash
of food poisoning that infected hundreds, sparked renewed
protests against the government of President Mohamed Mursi.  Egypt has struggled to pay for subsidized fuel and other
goods as its currency reserves dwindle, and shortages in the
market have added to the unrest that has built up since Mursi’s
election in June. The economy is growing at its  slowest pace  in
two decades, the currency has plunged and  international reserves 
are more than 60 percent below their December 2010 levels.  The  Finance Ministry  in Cairo came under attack by
protesters today, including state-employed tree trimmers
objecting to their pay, Cairo police Major Mustafa El-Sherbagy
said by phone. Another group of demonstrators stormed the Supply
Ministry, hours after the government raised the price of
subsidized butane canisters used in households and by
businesses, Al-Jazeera’s Egyptian channel said.  IMF Loans  With many of the protests pinned on dashed expectations of
an improvement in  living standards  and wages after  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in 2011, the government has set its sights on
obtaining financing to help tackle a  budget deficit  projected at
almost 11 percent for the current fiscal year.  Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said today he expects
Egypt to reach an initial deal with the  International Monetary
Fund  on a long-stalled $4.8 billion loan request during a
forthcoming visit by an IMF team, due to start April 3.  “I’ll believe it when I see it,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a
Berlin-based  fund manager  at Landesbank Berlin Investment and a
former investor in Egyptian debt, said by phone today. “Foreign
investors are a little bit annoyed of this kind of discussions
because you can discuss endlessly.”  “It’s not discussions that Count, but implementation of
reform measures and IMF money flowing and we don’t see that,”
he said.  El-Arabi also told the Arabiya satellite channel that the
government aims to raise its reserves to about $16 billion by
the end of June. That’s a more modest target than the $19
billion outlined in an economic program weeks earlier.  Black Market  To help curb the slide in foreign reserves, the central
bank introduced foreign currency auctions at the end of
December, limiting the amount of dollars available. The move
precipitated a 9.1 percent drop in the value of the pound
against the dollar.  That decline helped push Egypt’s  inflation rate  to 8.2
percent in February, from 4.7 percent at the end of last year,
as import costs rose. It has also fed a black market, raising
costs for some businesses.  “I will not run after the black market,” Ramez said. “At
the right time, with the right tools, the black market will
disappear like it disappeared before.” He didn’t specify what
measures the bank may take.  The bank today sold 14 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) of
deposit agreements, a day after it said it would reintroduce the
contracts to absorb excess bank funds. The deposits allow
lenders to place their money with the central bank in return for
a fixed annual interest rate of 10.25 percent.  Food Poisoning  Ramez said the regulator would also continue with the
foreign currency auctions and will use other tools “at the
right time.”  Political tensions between Mursi’s secular critics and his
Islamist supporters have affected virtually every aspect of
daily life in Egypt. Clashes and demonstrations over the past
couple of months have left dozens dead and hundreds more
wounded, while protests build over rising prices, wages, a lack
of security, contentious court rulings and, in the most recent
example, food poisoning.  Students at Al-Azhar University, the Sunni Muslim world’s
pre-eminent religious institution, staged a mass demonstration
today after more than 500 of their colleagues were taken ill.
The prosecutor general has ordered an investigation while Mursi
paid the victims a surprise visit, the state-run Middle East
 News Agency  reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  