-- Range Resources Frack Suit Should Be Reheard, Court Says
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-04-02T21:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/range-resources-frack-suit-should-be-reheard-appeals-court-says.html
Range Resources Corp. (RRC) ’s lawsuit
against Texas landowners who accused it of fouling their water
by hydraulic fracturing should go back to the trial court, a
state appeals court said after the judge who originally let the
case proceed stepped down from the bench.  An appeals court in  Fort Worth  said that a new judge had
replaced Judge Trey Loftin of Weatherford, Texas.  “The court must abate the proceeding to allow the
successor to reconsider the original party’s decision,” the
Texas Second District Court of Appeals said in a letter
yesterday.  Judge Craig Towson took the bench in January after beating
Loftin in a May primary and winning the general election in
November. The appeals court said that it would not send the case
to Towson if the judge and both sides agree by April 11 to let
the appeal go forward.  The appeals panel had been considering whether Loftin ruled
properly last year when he found that a state law that bans
litigation meant to stifle public protest didn’t bar Range’s
lawsuit.  Landowners Steven and Shyla Lipsky sued Fort Worth-based
Range in June 2011 in state court after the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency issued an administrative order saying the gas
driller was responsible for contaminating their water with
dangerous levels of methane and benzene, which can cause cancer.  Range’s Countersuit  Range countersued, alleging in court papers that the couple
and a consultant, Alisa Rich, conspired to persuade the EPA to
intervene. The company is seeking $3 million in damages.  Rich and the Lipskys asked Loftin to throw out the
countersuit on the ground that it violated a  Texas  law
prohibiting so-called Strategic Lawsuits Against Public
Participation, or SLAPPs. Loftin rejected that argument in
February 2012 and the case was appealed.  The appeals court ruled in August that it lacked
jurisdiction to overturn Loftin’s ruling. The appeals panel
instead said it was would hear a petition for mandamus, an order
blocking the lower court from enforcing Loftin’s ruling. That
matter has been pending before the court.  Lipskys’ Lawyer  Brent Rosenthal, a lawyer for the Lipskys, said in an
interview he hadn’t decided whether to agree to waive
reconsideration by the trial court.  “There are all sorts of angles in this,” he said. “Each
side has veto power on that decision.”  Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman for Range, said in an e-mail
that the company is still considering the court’s question.  “But we’re confident that regardless of who considers the
issue, the ruling by Judge Loftin is correct and Range’s claims,
based on the false allegations against it, should proceed to a
trial,” he wrote.  Pitzarella said that state regulators determined Range
neither caused nor contributed to the methane in the Lipsky
couple’s well and the EPA withdrew its order and lawsuit against
the company.  When it withdrew its order in March 2012, EPA released a
letter from Range in which the company promised to sample 20
private water wells in the area and turn over the results to the
federal government. The company said it had already committed to
doing the tests before the EPA dropped its action.  Misleading Evidence  Range alleged in court papers that the Lipsky couple and
Rich engaged in a conspiracy to defame the company and used
false and misleading evidence as “a pretext for getting the EPA
and the media to wrongly label and prosecute Range as a polluter
of the environment.”  The Lipskys shot video of methane-fueled flames shooting
from a hose hooked up to their well in Parker County, Texas, and
sent it to a blogger who posted it on Google Inc.’s YouTube
video-sharing site. Range also alleged that they hired Rich to
test their well water and alert the EPA.  Pitzarella said naturally occurring methane is well-
documented in the aquifer in question, “which is why the local
municipal water authority has ‘flammable’ signs at their
facilities.” He said the Lipskys’ next-door neighbor had a six-
foot flame shooting from his water well when it was drilled
several years before Range drilled its wells.  The EPA case is U.S. v. Range Production Co., 11-cv-00116,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ). The
case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-cv-0798, 43rd
District Court of Texas, Parker County. The appeal is In re
Steven and Shyla Lipsky and Alisa Rich, 02-12-00348-cv, Court of
Appeals, Second District of Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  