-- TransCanada Seeks Customers for Mainline Oil Pipe Project
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-02T14:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/transcanada-seeks-customers-for-mainline-oil-pipe-project.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the company
proposing to build the Keystone XL pipeline, is soliciting
customer commitments to convert a portion of its Mainline
natural gas system to carry oil from Western  Canada  to
refineries in the east.  The Energy East project involves converting 3,000
kilometers (1,800 miles) of the Mainline system to ship crude
and building 1,400 kilometers of new pipelines to reach
refineries as far as east as  New Brunswick , the Calgary-based
company said in a statement today.  The project would move as much as 850,000 barrels of crude
a day from expanding oil-sands production, supplying refiners
that currently import more than 600,000 barrels a day of higher
priced oil, TransCanada said. With enough customer demand, the
company said it will seek regulatory approvals and may have the
project in service in late 2017.  Producers have been seeking ways to bring added  Alberta  oil
production to market. Western Canada Select oil trades at a
discount to Brent, the international benchmark, because of
transportation bottlenecks. TransCanada’s Keystone XL project
would move 830,000 barrels a day from the oil-sands region to
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries.  Converting the existing Mainline conduit to carry oil would
cost about C$5 billion ($4.9 billion) and be “Canada’s most
elegant solution” to the need for more oil-sands outlets, a
group of RBC Capital Markets analysts led by Greg Pardy  wrote
in a Feb. 11 research note.  TransCanada didn’t immediately respond to a phone message
and e-mail requesting comment on the cost estimate.  Oil Trains  Irving Oil Corp. has been moving more than 90,000 barrels a
day of crude by rail from Alberta and  North Dakota  to supply its
New Brunswick refinery, Canada’s largest, a person familiar with
the matter said in December. The closely held company has been
using trains to transport the cheaper crude in lieu of imports
from the  North Sea ,  Middle East  or Africa.  Adding new lines and converting to oil would give new life
to TransCanada’s Mainline system, which experienced a 19 percent
drop in average volume last year to 4.2 billion cubic feet a
day. Use of the pipeline to ship gas to eastern Canada has
declined as production from shale formations has increased in
the U.S. Northeast.  The company is awaiting U.S. government approval of its
$5.3 billion Keystone XL pipeline, one of several proposals to
move crude from the oil-sands area.  Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners LP (KMP)  is planning a C$5.4 billion expansion of the Trans
Mountain pipeline between Alberta and Vancouver.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) 
is planning a pipeline from Alberta to Kitimat, British
Columbia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  