-- Rebar Prices Rise as China Prepares for Peak Construction Season
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-02T02:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/rebar-prices-rise-as-china-prepares-for-peak-construction-season.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures rose
in  Shanghai  for the first time in four days as the lowest prices
this year enticed purchases from construction and engineering
companies preparing for China’s peak building season.  The contract for delivery in October gained as much as 1
percent to 3,761  yuan  ($606) a metric ton on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange, before trading at 3,745 yuan at 10:15 a.m.
local time. Futures yesterday fell to the lowest price since mid
December.  Futures dropped 4.5 percent in the first quarter and are 12
percent below their February high after the debt  crisis in
Cyprus  renewed concerns about  Europe  and the Chinese government
sought to rein in the  property market . Spring is typically the
peak consumption season for building projects and a support for
prices, Xu Jiashun, an analyst at Yongan Futures Co., said by
phone from Hangzhou today.  “Rebar has fallen too much too quickly and it’s natural we
see a pullback at this stage as end-users step up purchases and
help absorb some of the excessive inventory,” Xu said. “The
latest property measures were more benign than people had
anticipated, boosting demand for building material as well.”  Beijing, the capital, banned single-person households from
buying more than one residence while Shanghai prohibited banks
from giving credit to third-home buyers, according to the local
administration websites. The two cities will also enforce a 20
percent tax on  capital gains  from property sales.  The average spot  price  of rebar fell 0.5 percent to 3,636
yuan a ton yesterday, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co. Spot  iron ore  at Tianjin port was little changed
at $137.30 a dry ton March 28, according to The Steel Index Ltd.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  