-- Related Said to Sell NYC’s Monterey for $250 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-04-03T17:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/related-said-to-sell-nyc-s-monterey-for-250-million.html
Related Cos. agreed to sell one of
its biggest Manhattan apartment towers to real estate investor
Rubin Schron, a partial owner of the Woolworth Building,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  Schron’s Cammeby’s International Group is in contract to
acquire the Monterey, a 521-unit property on East 96th Street,
for about $250 million, according the people, who asked not to
be named because the transaction is private. It would be the
largest sale of a Manhattan multifamily building this year,
according to data from Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Investors are clamoring to buy Manhattan residential
properties as rents are poised to surpass their 2006 peak and
condos are selling before they’re completed. The dollar volume
of apartment  building sales  more than doubled last year to $9.1
billion, Real Capital data show. The average  capitalization
rate , a measure of investment yield that declines as prices
rise, reached a six-year low of 4.4 percent in the first quarter
of 2012 and hovered near there all year, the firm said.  “Manhattan, high-quality, institutional, residential,
rental real estate never goes out of favor,” said Doug Harmon,
senior managing director at Eastdil Secured LLC, the deal’s
broker. Interest in the Monterey ranged from international
investors and pension funds to condominium developers, he said.  Views, Amenities  “Because of Monterey’s size, spacious apartments,
spectacular views and full amenity package, it priced equally
well to converters as it did to the rental-building buyers,”
Harmon said.  Joanna Rose, a spokeswoman for New York-based Related,
declined to comment on the transaction. Schron didn’t respond to
a voice mail left with his assistant at his  New York  office.  The Monterey, completed in 1992, is a so-called 80/20
building, in which 80 percent of the apartments are rented at
market rate and the others are reserved for lower-income
tenants, according to the New York City Department of Housing
Preservation and Development. At the Monterey, the income limit
for the cheaper units is 80 percent of the area’s median, or
$68,700 for a family of four, according to the department.  Under the program, developers agree to set aside the
affordable units in exchange for tax-exempt bonds to finance
construction. At the Monterey, the mortgage financed with tax-
exempt bonds matures in November 2019, meaning that 20 percent
of the units must remain affordable until then, unless the debt
is paid early.  The building had also received 15 years of property-tax
abatements that ended in 2009, according to the city housing
department.  Apartment Rents  While a new owner would have the option to prepay the
mortgage and end the affordable set-aside, current tenants in
those units would be protected until they move out.  Market-rate apartments  advertised  for rent at the Monterey
range from $2,795 for a studio to $5,900 for a two-bedroom unit.
The 32-story tower includes such amenities as a pool, landscaped
rooftop and fitness center, according its website.  Manhattan’s median monthly apartment rent climbed 4.7
percent in the 12 months through February to $3,190, or $75
short of its 2006 peak, appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and
brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate said in a report. Rents
will probably reach a record this year as tenant demand
outstrips a limited supply of new units, according to Jonathan Miller, president of New York-based Miller Samuel.  Sony Building  Investors emboldened by a reduced inventory of homes for
sale also are acquiring buildings for potential condo
conversions.  The Chetrit Group agreed to pay $1.1 billion in January for
the U.S. headquarters of Sony Corp. on Madison Avenue. The
property was marketed as being suitable for a mix of condos,
retail, hotel and offices, Harmon, who brokered the deal, said
at the time.  Cammeby’s, in a joint venture with the Witkoff Group, owns
the bottom 28 floors of the landmark Woolworth Building in lower
Manhattan. Last year, they sold the upper floors of the 57-story
tower for $68 million to a partnership of condo developers that
plans to convert the space into 40 luxury units, according to
Real Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  