-- Romania to Cut in Half Clean-Energy Subsidies Paid by Consumers
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-04-02T12:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/romania-to-cut-in-half-clean-energy-subsidies-paid-by-consumers.html
Romania  plans to temporarily cut in
half subsidies energy consumers pay for clean power by holding
back one in every two green certificates it currently awards to
utilities for generating electricity from wind turbines.  The frozen certificates, which electricity distributors are
obliged to buy before passing on the cost to consumers, will be
paid out from 2017, Energy Minister Constantin Nita said today.
The suspension of certificates is due to start in July, he said.  “We considered several variants for the scheme but in the
end we decided to grant this timeout to see how the economy is
doing and how investors recover their investment in a certain
period of time,” Nita said. “The program is still generous so
we don’t think investors will reduce investments or pull out.”  On Feb. 28, the minister had said Romania was considering
cutting the number and value of certificates that it paid out.  Utilities now get two certificates per megawatt-hour of
wind power, three for hydro and six for solar. Under today’s
plan, Romania will cut the number it immediately grants to one
for wind and hydropower, and two for solar until 2017, with the
rest of the entitlements delayed until the same date, Nita said.  Spain,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K. are among countries in
 Europe  that have reduced some support for clean energy to curb
rising electricity costs for consumers. The regulator in
Romania, which gets most of its green energy from wind, will
assess the market before the certificate freeze ends.  The country may approve the draft law, applying to new and
current projects, in May after a public consultation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  