-- Russia March Oil Output Near Post-Soviet Record, CDU-TEK Says
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-04-02T08:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/russia-march-oil-output-near-post-soviet-record-cdu-tek-says.html
Russia , the world’s biggest oil
producer, boosted crude and gas condensate  production  1.2
percent in March from a year earlier to 10.47 million barrels a
day, close to a post-Soviet era record.  OAO Gazprom led the gains, with liquids output up 18
percent from a year earlier, according to preliminary data e-
mailed today by the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit. The record
of 10.49 million barrels a day was reached in November. Soviet-
era output in Russia peaked at 11.48 million barrels a day in
1987.  Gas condensate is helping to maintain President  Vladimir Putin ’s goal of output at more than 10 million barrels a day as
crude production falls. Companies are drilling more wells in the
mature west Siberian oil province to stem declines.  “Gas condensate production is the real driver behind the
growth,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil and gas analyst at OAO
Gazprombank in Moscow, said by phone today. “Crude oil output
is falling and organic growth currently is impossible.”  Output at OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest producer,
slipped 0.1 percent from a year earlier to 1.7 million barrels a
day, according to CDU-TEK. Lukoil agreed to buy  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s
Samara-Nafta asset for $2.1 billion this year. The purchase will
help the Russian company reverse declining production because
additional drilling is not enough, Nazarov said.  Eurasia Drilling Ltd., Russia’s largest provider of onshore
drilling services, increased the total distance it drilled last
year by 27 percent, the company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Lukoil increased drilling 30 percent in 2012, Eurasia
said.  Russia’s oil exports in March fell 0.6 percent from the
previous month to 5.24 million barrels a day. Exports declined
0.5 percent from a year earlier.  Natural gas output slid 2.2 percent last month from a year
earlier to 1.95 billion cubic meters a day. Gazprom, Russia’s
gas export monopoly, cut production 6.8 percent to 1.41 billion
cubic meters a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  