-- Russian Economy Slows to Weakest Growth Since 2009 Slump
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-02T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/russian-economy-slows-to-weakest-growth-since-2009-slump.html
Russia’s economy  grew at the weakest
pace in the fourth quarter since a recession in 2009 as  Europe ’s
debt crisis prompted companies to cut investment and the
government curbed a year-end spending splurge.  Gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent from a year
earlier, slowing from an upwardly revised 3 percent in the third
quarter, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in an e-
mailed statement today. That matched the median estimate of 18
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  Consumer demand is waning just as a recession in the
European Union, which accounts for about half of Russian trade,
chokes corporate investment and curbs demand for commodities,
hurting sales at companies from OAO Novolipetsk Steel to
carmaker OAO AvtoVAZ. The slowdown, which has continued into
this year, sparked an argument between policy makers over
interest-rate cuts to spur growth with inflation above target.  “Our economic growth of less than 3 percent is stagnation,
putting us behind the global economy,” former Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  said at a conference in Moscow today. “We’ll have
to fight for 3 percent. And every month so far this year has
edged us toward cutting the growth forecast.”  The statistics service reiterated its first estimate of
economic growth at 3.4 percent for 2012, down from 4.3 percent
in 2011 and 4.5 percent in 2010. Second-quarter growth was
revised up to 4.3 percent and the January-March period was cut
to 4.8 percent, according to the statement.  Lagging Behind  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50-stocks advanced 1.1 percent in the
final quarter of last year, lagging behind a 5.2 percent gain in
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The Russian benchmark reversed
gains after the central bank reduced some  interest rates  today
to trade 0.1 percent lower at 1,427.68 as of 3:27 p.m. in
Moscow.  Steelmakers including  Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  and  OAO Severstal (SVST) 
reported net losses in the fourth quarter. Billionaire Alexey Mordashov, Severstal’s chief executive, cited a weakening global
economy as a drag on demand.  There’s “virtually no chance” the economy will expand
faster than the government’s official 3.6 percent forecast for
this year and risks persist that it will grow more slowly,
Deputy Finance Minister Alexei Moiseev said at a conference
organized by the Vedomosti newspaper March 29.  The Economy Ministry may revise the growth forecast, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said at the same conference,
declining to elaborate. Russia would grow less than 2 percent in
2013 if output continued to expand at the current pace, he said.  Growing at the 5 percent medium-term target set by Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  isn’t in the cards for this year, and
probably won’t happen in the coming years without a significant
improvement in the external environment, according to Klepach.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  