-- Russia Holds Main Rates for 7th Month, Takes Easing Steps
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-04-02T09:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/russia-s-central-bank-leaves-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-8-25-.html
Russia ’s central bank took the
biggest step toward easing monetary policy since raising all
 interest rates  in September as the economy continued to slow.  Rates on loans backed with gold and non-market collateral
were cut by a quarter point, as were the costs of some longer-
term repurchase operations, the central bank in Moscow said in a
statement on its website today. The refinancing rate was held at
8.25 percent, half a point above the record low, in line with
forecasts by 17 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  The decision shows policy makers responding to government
criticism that high interest rates are stifling growth as
central banks from  Hungary  to  Vietnam  cut borrowing costs.
Inflation was 7.2 percent as of March 25, above this year’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent, even as economic growth
decelerates to the slowest pace since a recession in 2009.
Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, whose final term ends in
June, may elaborate on the decision in a speech tomorrow.  “This is a compromise decision,” said Natalia Orlova,
chief economist at Moscow-based  Alfa Bank , Russia’s largest
private lender. “Today’s decision is a sign of the central bank
adjusting to the government’s wishes.”  The overnight and one-week auction-based repurchase rates,
the main instruments used to provide banks with cash, will stay
at 5.5 percent and the deposit rate will remain at 4.5 percent,
in line with two other surveys.  The ruble was 0.2 percent weaker against the dollar at
35.1350. The Micex Index added 0.4 percent to 1,433.63 by 1:01
p.m. in Moscow.  ‘Continued Slowdown’  “The pace of the main macroeconomic indicators in February
2013 showed a continued slowdown in economic growth as well as
increased risk of its deceleration,” Bank Rossii said in the
statement. Policy makers dropped last month’s phrase that market
rates were acceptable.  Gross domestic product expanded just 0.1 percent in
February from a year earlier, slowing from a 1.6 percent pace in
January, according to the  Economy Ministry . The economy probably
grew 2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, the slowest
pace since a 2009 contraction, the Federal Statistics Service
may report this week.  Central bank Deputy Chairman Sergey Shvetsov sparred with
 Andrei Klepach , the deputy economy minister who oversees Russian
forecasts, at a conference last week over whether lower rates
would boost the stumbling economy.  Keeping Independence  The main refinancing rates were left unchanged to undercut
speculation that the central bank is “losing its
independence,” according to Alfa’s Orlova.  The government and lawmakers are studying the possibility
of expanding the central bank’s mandate to include some
responsibility for ensuring economic growth, President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said March 27.  The discussions follow Putin’s March 12 nomination of his
aide  Elvira Nabiullina , a former economy minister, to replace
Ignatiev. She is scheduled to meet lawmakers from the Just
Russia party today and attend a committee hearing on her
confirmation tomorrow.  “We view the decision as easing,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in Moscow. “The central bank has given a rather
benign view on inflation, which is expected to slow, while fully
acknowledging risks to economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  