-- Christie Calls on Rutgers to Show Why Coach Rice Wasn’t Fired
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/rutgers-coach-rice-hurls-gay-slurs-at-players-in-video-on-espn.html
Rutgers University Athletic Director
Tim Pernetti must explain why he didn’t fire Mike Rice after
being shown video of the men’s basketball coach lashing out at
players physically and verbally during team practices, a
spokesman for New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said.  Rice was shown in a video on ESPN’s “ Outside the Lines ”
program yesterday grabbing and kicking players, throwing balls
at their heads and legs, and shouting expletive-laden gay slurs
during practices between 2010 and 2012.  Pernetti suspended Rice, 44, who is in the third year of a
five-year contract, for three games and fined him $50,000 in
December for what the school called at the time “inappropriate
behavior and language,” without giving further details.
Pernetti said in a televised interview with ESPN yesterday that
it was a fitting punishment for a first offense.  “Governor Christie saw the video today for the first time
and he is obviously deeply disturbed by the conduct displayed
and strongly condemns this behavior,”  Michael Drewniak , a
spokesman for Christie, said in an e-mailed statement last
night. “There are questions about this behavior that need to be
answered by the leaders at Rutgers.”  University spokesman Jason Baum declined to comment on the
video or Rice’s behavior in an e-mail. Another Rutgers
spokesman, Kevin Lorincz, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Rutgers, the state university of New Jersey based in  New
Brunswick , had a 15-16 record this season, including 5-13 in the
Big East conference.  Rice’s Record  Rice has a 44-51 record with the Scarlet Knights. Prior to
joining Rutgers, he spent three seasons at Robert Morris,
compiling a 73-31 mark in his first head coaching role. Between
1991 and 2007 he was an assistant coach at Pittsburgh, St.
Joseph’s, Chicago State, Niagara, Marquette and Fordham.  Other  New Jersey  politicians called for Rice’s immediate
ouster. Steve Sweeney, the Democratic president of the state
Senate, called on Rutgers to explain why the video evidence
wasn’t released by the school.  “He should be fired immediately,” Sweeney said in an e-
mailed statement. “Rutgers needs to explain why this was kept
essentially secret and they need to remove this man now.”  Reed Gusciora, a member of the State Assembly who is gay,
said he’ll seek to reduce the university’s funding if Rice isn’t
dismissed.  “I will seek to add a provision to the state budget
defunding Mr. Rice’s salary,” Gusciora said in an e-mailed
statement. “Taxpayers should not be paying for this behavior.”  Rice’s Pay  Rice had a base salary of $300,000 for the year ending
April 7. He received $350,000 in additional compensation, an
annual car stipend of $12,000 and a standard benefits package
for university employees, according to his contract.  His agreement entitles him to total compensation of
$700,000 for the year ending in April 2014 and $750,000 for the
final 12 months of the deal.  Pernetti said in an interview with WFAN Radio in  New York 
yesterday that it was his decision not to fire Rice.  “I spent more time with that option on whether we should
fire Mike or not than any other option,” Pernetti told the
station. “I made that decision. I am accountable for it. I have
to live with it.”  Rising Costs  The cost of attending Rutgers has jumped as state
appropriations fell from covering two-thirds of the university’s
budget in 1990 to one-third last year. Rutgers athletic teams
cost students almost $1,000 in 2012 in mandatory fees and
university funding of the money-losing sports program, both of
which rose more than 40 percent in five years.  Rutgers funneled $28.5 million from the university budget
into sports for the year through June 2011. Pernetti, who was
hired in February 2009, had an operating budget of $60.2 million
in fiscal 2011, when he reduced spending by $4 million after
lawmakers and faculty protested that academics were losing out.
The school’s faculty council voted March 30, 2012, to demand $5
million of further cuts in university funding of athletics by
fiscal 2016.  Eric Murdock, a nine-year National Basketball Association
player and former director of player development at Rutgers, was
shown on ESPN saying that Rice’s behavior led three basketball
players to transfer out of the school.  Murdock was fired by Pernetti in July, according to ESPN.
Pernetti denied in an ESPN interview that Murdock was dismissed,
saying his contract wasn’t renewed because of insubordination
after he went to a camp that Rice didn’t want him to attend.  Termination Clauses  Rice’s contract states that he can be terminated without
compensation for, among other things, willful misconduct, acts
of moral turpitude and conduct tending to bring shame or
disgrace to the university.  If Rice is fired without cause, Rutgers has to pay 75
percent of his salary for the remaining term of the contract. If
he finds a position as a head coach or assistant in the NBA or
Division I-A college basketball, Rutgers can offset what it owes
him by the amount of his new salary.  Other college coaches have been fired for similar
outbursts. Woody Hayes was dismissed after 27 years as Ohio
State football coach for punching a player in the throat during
the 1978 Gator Bowl and never coached again.  Others who were dismissed in similar circumstances found
redemption at other schools.  Bob Knight , whose 29-year career at  Indiana  ended in
dismissal in 2000 after a video came to light showing him
grabbing a basketball player by the neck in 1997, went on to
lead Texas Tech to four National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament berths in six seasons. Knight retired in 2008 with
902 wins, the third most in college basketball history behind
 Mike Krzyzewski  (957) and  Jim Boeheim  (920).  Larry Eustachy, who resigned as Iowa State’s basketball
coach in 2003 after a newspaper published photos of him at a
college party drinking and kissing young women, got a second
chance with Southern Mississippi, where he spent eight seasons
before joining Colorado State in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  