-- Sanford Seeks Forgiveness From Voters Focused on Money
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-04-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sanford-seeks-forgiveness-from-voters-focused-on-money.html
Mark Sanford is the former  South
Carolina  governor who became famous for his claims of a sojourn
on the Appalachian Trail that led to the admission of an
extramarital affair four years ago. Now he’s asking for voters’
forgiveness and a political comeback.  He may get it. Yet the personal financial interests of the
district’s constituents may play bigger roles in determining the
outcome of tonight’s 1st District Republican primary runoff --
and the course of Sanford’s future.  The House district isn’t a bastion of evangelical Christian
voters motivated by such issues as abortion and marital fidelity
as are some upstate South Carolina communities, including
Greenville and Spartanburg. The 1st District is the state’s
wealthiest, with a median household income of $56,079 compared
to $42,367 statewide, according to 2011 Census Bureau estimates.
Retirees from outside the state have moved into the district
along South Carolina’s coast between Charleston and Hilton Head.  “This is not Greenville and Spartanburg,” said Warren
Tompkins, a veteran South Carolina-based Republican consultant
who isn’t involved in the race. “Fiscal policy is first, social
issues second.”  Economic Conservatism  The district includes 941 companies, 23 percent more than
the state average. Its biggest employers include OAK White
Amnor-Charleston, which provides  health services  to the elderly
and disabled, and Hagemeyer North America Inc., a manufacturer
of electrical equipment. Both companies had revenue of $1.2
billion in 2011, according to Bloomberg Government.  “The issue that drives most voters seems to be economic
conservatism, almost to the point of being libertarian in its
leanings,” said Scott Buchanan, a political scientist at The
Citadel in Charleston. “There’s much more of a focus on the
 economics , not so much on the social issues, which is one reason
Sanford is in better shape, at least in the Republican
contest.”  The district’s demographics and familiarity with Sanford,
who represented the area in the House from 1995 to 2001, are
advantages as he vies for the nomination with Curtis Bostic, a
personal-injury lawyer and former county councilman.  Sanford was the top vote-getter in the March 19 primary
with 37 percent of the vote, while Bostic’s 13 percent was best
among 15 other candidates. A runoff election is needed because
no candidate  won  a majority of primary votes.  Democratic Opponent  The winner will face Democrat Elizabeth Colbert Busch, a
business development official and first-time candidate who’s an
older sister of political satirist  Stephen Colbert . The special
election is May 7.  Colbert Busch is campaigning in the predominantly
Republican district on a platform of creating  jobs  and reducing
the  federal budget   deficit , said  James Smith , a spokesman.  “That message will resonate with the voters no matter who
the opponent is,” Smith said. Voters are “just tired of the
extremism and the career politicians,” he said.  Sanford, first elected governor in 2002 and re-elected in
2006, has been reminding voters of his record cutting  government
spending  and his battles with the Obama administration over his
rejection of federal stimulus funds when he was governor.  He’s also attempting to quell lingering resentment of his
acknowledgment in 2009 that he was having an affair with an
Argentinian woman he visited outside the country after telling
his staff he was hiking in the Appalachian mountains.  Ethics Fines  After the relationship was uncovered, Sanford was censured
by the Republican state legislature and paid $74,000 in ethics
fines, though he rejected calls to resign and served out his
second term. The affair ended his marriage.  In one TV  ad , Sanford says he’s “experienced how none of
us go through life without mistakes -- but in their wake we can
learn a lot about grace, a God of second chances, and be the
better for it.”  His attempted return to politics is the latest test of a
politician’s staying power after a personal scandal.  Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican who
acknowledged a “very serious sin” after he was identified in
2007 as a client of an escort service, was re-elected in 2010.
 New York  Democratic Representative Anthony Weiner, Nevada
Republican Senator John Ensign, and New York Republican
Representative Chris Lee all resigned in 2011 after sex-related
scandals. Among them, Weiner is considering a comeback.  Pastor’s Remark  At a candidate debate on March 28, Sanford recalled a
pastor saying the previous Sunday that personal experiences can
either “define or refine” one’s life.  “The events of 2009 absolutely represent a failure on my
part for which there were, and will always be at some level,
consequences,” Sanford said. “But that does not mean, because
you’ve had a failure in your personal life, that you cannot step
back into life again.”  Some Republicans in the district said Sanford’s views on
financial policy are more important than his personal failings.  Sanford’s “liberty-minded voting record” has “struck a
chord with people” who are “more concerned about their future
than about his personal failings of the past,” said Lee Bright,
a Republican state senator from Spartanburg.  Sanford’s donors include billionaire energy executive  David Koch , Wyoming investor Foster Friess and Fred Malek, the founder
and chairman of Thayer Lodging Group Inc.  Poll Results  In the primary contest, Sanford led Bostic by 53 percent to
40 percent in a survey conducted March 22-24 by Public Policy
Polling, a Democratic-leaning company. Colbert Busch, who beat a
single opponent in the Democratic primary on March 19, led
Sanford by 47 percent to 45 percent and was tied with Bostic at
43 percent in prospective match-ups in the special election, the
 survey  showed.  Bostic says the survey underscores that Sanford is a
“compromised candidate” who would jeopardize Republican
control of a district that that party’s presidential nominee,
 Mitt Romney , carried with 58 percent of the vote to President
 Barack Obama  40 percent in last November’s election, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Should Sanford become the Republican nominee, “we will
lose this seat, and lose it needlessly, because of this issue of
trust,” Bostic said at last week’s debate.  Republicans hold 232 House seats compared to 200 for
Democrats. The South Carolina seat is one of three vacancies.  Bostic regularly mentions his background as a U.S. Marine
Corps veteran who served on the Charleston County council with
now-Senator  Tim Scott , the former 1st District Representative
whose resignation in January triggered the special election.  Courting Evangelicals  Bostic is courting support from evangelical voters offended
by Sanford’s affair and competing for the votes of Tea Party
activists who want to slash government spending.  He has touted endorsements from more than 40 local clergy
and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , who sought
backing from evangelical Christians when he ran for president in
2012. Santorum campaigned for Bostic in South Carolina on March
27 and his political action committee donated to Bostic’s
campaign.  In one of Bostic’s commercials, his wife, Jenny, speaks to
the camera about having the couple’s fifth child in 2002 after
doctors warned that a pregnancy could cause a recurrence of her
cancer.  “Curtis and I trusted God, and chose life,” she says.  While evangelical Christianity is “less of an issue here”
than in other South Carolina districts, Bostic’s strategy is
“maximizing the Christian Republican voters who are concerned
about Sanford’s personal life,” Buchanan said.  “The key question is, can he do that again and do that in
enough numbers to get past Sanford?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  