-- SEC Approves Using Facebook, Twitter for Company Disclosures
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-04-03T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sec-approves-social-media-use-for-companies-material-disclosure.html
U.S. companies will now be able to
post their earnings on Twitter or update their status on
Facebook as long as investors have been told in advance where to
look.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance
yesterday permitting companies to use social media sites
including  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to communicate company
announcements. The guidance came as part of a report detailing
its investigation into  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings , who in July posted monthly viewership results on his
Facebook page rather than in an SEC filing or news release.  The SEC refrained from bringing an enforcement action
against Hastings or Netflix, which runs a subscription service
for watching television programs and movies, because rules
around using social media for company disclosures had been
unclear, the agency said.  “Most social media are perfectly suitable methods for
communicating with investors, but not if the access is
restricted or if investors don’t know that’s where they need to
turn to get the latest news,” George Canellos, acting director
of the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a statement.  The SEC  confirmed  that a regulation prohibiting companies
from disclosing material information to select investors applies
to social media and other emerging means of communication the
same way it applies to company websites. Company communications
made through social media channels could constitute a violation
of the fair disclosure rule known as Regulation FD if investors
had not been told in advance where the information would be
posted, the SEC said.  ‘A Good Thing’  Social media “has tremendous potential to level the
playing field for participants in the markets,” said Stephen Diamond, a securities law professor at Santa Clara University’s
School of Law. The report “shows a commission that’s being
flexible and responsive, and it shows a government agency that
actually thinks innovation is a good thing.”  Some investor advocates are less sanguine about the policy
change.  Lynn Turner , a former chief accountant at the SEC,
called it “bad policy” because it will disadvantage investors
who don’t use Facebook and Twitter.  ‘Dumber’ Idea  “Many investors, especially those over 50, who in the
aggregate have the most invested, still do not use social
media,” Turner said in an e-mail. “Telling someone who does
not use Twitter to go to Twitter for significant investment
information is one of the dumber ideas I have heard.”  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter,
declined to comment.  “We welcome, and certainly agree with, the SEC’s finding
that Facebook is an established means for companies and
individuals to share and disseminate information broadly,”
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said in a statement.  While the agency didn’t explain exactly how a company
should inform investors about social media use, the new guidance
will give companies greater comfort in communicating with
investors via Facebook and Twitter, said  David Katz , a partner
at law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  “Do I see it as a sea change? No,” Katz said in a
telephone interview. “But  investor relations  has moved into the
21st century and the SEC has caught up.”  Facebook Post  Hastings stirred controversy over SEC disclosure guidelines
when he wrote in a July 3 post on Facebook’s website that
viewing on Netflix’s video-streaming service had “exceeded 1
billion hours for the first time” in June. The incident led to
calls for the SEC to broaden its rules to allow social media to
be used to communicate to investors.  In December, Hastings and Netflix each received a Wells
Notice, indicating SEC staff intended to pursue enforcement
action in the matter. That same month, Hastings said that
posting to his Facebook contingent of 200,000 followers “is
very public.”  Netflix said it welcomed the SEC’s guidance. “We
appreciate the SEC’s careful consideration and resolution of
this matter,” spokesman Joris Evers said in a statement.  Gene Goldman, a partner at law firm McDermott Will & Emery
LLP, said the report provides companies a road map for staying
out of trouble.  “But the next time material information is disclosed on an
executive’s Facebook page without the company alerting all
shareholders to look there for information, the matter will
likely be met with an SEC lawsuit instead of a report,” Goldman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  