-- Senator Ashley Judd? Maybe in 2017
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-04-02T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/senator-ashley-judd-maybe-in-2017.html
Wiser Democratic heads prevailed
last week as actress Ashley Judd was nudged out of the race to
unseat  Mitch McConnell , Kentucky’s senior Republican senator.
Did the eyes in those heads ever see Judd in “Double Jeopardy,”
one of the great damsel-in-distress movies of all time?  The movie takes its title from the legal rule,  guaranteed
in  the Constitution, that a person can’t be tried twice for the
same crime. In the movie -- which takes a jailhouse
interpretation of the rule -- Judd plays a woman whose husband
has faked his own murder, for which she is then tried and
convicted. In prison, she plots her revenge, and once free, she
tracks her former spouse to  New Orleans , where he’s living the
high life. She finally confronts him at a charity ball, where
she shocks him in all his pillar-of-the-community splendor.
Don’t worry, she tells him: She’s there not to kill him, just to
make him suffer.  And so she did -- as she would have discomfited McConnell,
the Senate minority leader. In real life, as in the movies, Judd
has looks, intelligence, talent, common sense and grit. The
daughter of performer Naomi Judd, Ashley has a degree from
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. When she was in
 Washington  in January for the inauguration, she made no comments
that would get her called a Hollywood wacko bird, behaving with
more sense than many of the people already here. At the time,
she was flying high  on a poll  from the previous month that had
her just four points behind McConnell, whom Democrats would love
to defeat.  Not Running  Since then, of course, Judd has taken her toe out of the
water. Her numbers would have probably gone down once
Kentuckians were informed of her liberal and anti-mining views,
as well as residency issues: Although raised in  Kentucky , she
currently lives on a farm in  Tennessee .  And Judd would probably not have had the benefit of a
Republican primary that split the party. McConnell’s weekends
lately have been spent in bluegrass country, courting
conservatives. He has made peace with Senator Rand Paul after
opposing Paul’s candidacy in the 2010 Republican primary. (Lucky
for McConnell, Paul, who has since become a star, was in a
forgiving mood.)  But while McConnell is unlikely to face a primary, he does
not generate enthusiasm among conservatives -- or anyone else.
Underneath that stiff facade is a stiff facade. What has he done
for the base lately? Since vowing to make  Barack Obama  a one-
term president, (so much for that), he has neither repealed nor
replaced Obama’s health-care law, and last year made nice with
Vice President  Joe Biden  by making a semi-grand bargain to avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff. With both Democrats and Republicans
exhausted by war, and with some deals to be cut that remind
Kentuckians of McConnell’s much-reviled bank-bailout vote,
McConnell will be a weak and unexciting front-runner -- a little
like  Mitt Romney .  McConnell would be the top get for Democrats in the 2014
midterms that, judging from the map and the high number of
Democratic retirements, favor Republicans. So far, Democrats
have to defend 21 Senate seats next year,  with seven  in red-
leaning states that Romney won in 2012. On the Republican side,
14 seats are up -- only one in a state that Obama won.  But so much depends on the candidate, in addition to how
voters feel about incumbency and the establishment. The  Tea
Party  may be waning in influence, but its philosophy isn’t.
These days there’s no such thing as being too anti-
establishment.  Democrats know this. Listen to an early radio ad (millions
have already been spent in Kentucky) in which a play-by-play
announcer  intones , “It’s tournament time, but Senator
McConnell’s playing for the Washington special interests --
against Kentucky.”  He has “scored big for himself for nearly
30 years.”  Not Deciding  A (Louisville) Courier-Journal poll taken in late January
 found that  44 percent of the state’s voters are waiting to see
who runs against McConnell before making up their minds. By a 2-
to-1 margin -- 34 percent to 17 percent -- more voters said they
planned to vote against him than for him.  And that’s where Democrats have a problem: Without Judd,
they don’t have a candidate. Many top officeholders have decided
against running. Kentucky Secretary of State Alison Lundergan
Grimes is considering it. But she’s the daughter of a former
state party chairman -- hardly an outsider.  This is the perfect race for the Democrats to try a “Hail
Mary” pass. They should nominate a non-pol who can attract
national attention. Democrats don’t want to be seen as the party
of the elites and so are afraid to nominate an actor. Meanwhile
Republicans, who actually are the party of elites, have no
trouble nominating the likes of  Ronald Reagan  and  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Republicans have revolted against the idea of  Karl Rove 
deciding who can run. Democrats haven’t. Judd would have made it
an outsider-versus-insider race, asymmetric on experience but
equalized with star power and a fresh face. Those are two things
that McConnell, 71 years old with almost 30 years in Washington,
doesn’t have.  I’m betting that Judd of “Double Jeopardy” will re-emerge
to take on Kentucky’s other senator in 2016. Democrats won’t
eliminate her twice.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  