-- Serbia Says Kosovo Talks Must Go On Even If No Deal Today
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-02T11:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/serbia-says-kosovo-talks-must-go-on-even-if-no-deal-today.html
Talks between Serbia and  Kosovo  on
normalizing ties must carry on even if an accord isn’t reached
today on Serb-dominated areas of the former breakaway province,
the Serbian government’s spokesman said.  “Ending the dialog could lead to new incidents” and the
mediators should be aware there’s a need for a just solution
that can lead to lasting peace,’’ Milivoje Mihajlovic told the
broadcaster B92 in Belgrade today.  Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  and Kosovo Premier
Hashim Thaci will meet today in Brussels for another round of
European Union-sponsored talks. The EU wants the two sides, at
loggerheads since the wars of the 1990s, to reach a political
settlement and move ahead with steps toward EU entry.  Serbia wants Thaci to grant Serbs in the north of Kosovo
decision-making rights on police and judiciary and to pledge to
keep the Kosovo army out of Serbian communities. Authorities in
Kosovo don’t want to grant those concessions as “that would be
seen as a loss of some imaginary control, but they would get
peace in return,” Mihajlovic said.  The Brussels talks come as Serbia sold 10 billion dinars
($115 million) in two-year coupon bonds today, with the yield
dropping 56 basis points amid strong demand. Dacic’s nine-month
old Cabinet has enjoyed declining borrowing costs amid optimism
about the global economic recovery, while extra liquidity from
central banks push investors to higher-yielding assets.  Markets Gain  The main stock market index of the 15 most-actively traded
assets gained 0.3 percent to 580.12 points by 1:01 p.m. in
Belgrade. The dinar weakened 0.2 percent against the euro to
trade at 111.5982 at 1:10 p.m., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Serbia ’s struggling to get a date for the start of EU entry
talks in June, while Kosovo is line for a Stabilization and
Association Agreement, the first formal step toward membership
in the 27-nation bloc. Both need deeper economic EU ties after
the 1990s civil wars stunted the region’s transition from
communism.  “Two-thirds of the population live on 80 cents a day” in
Kosovo, Mihajlovic said. “Someone needs to invest there and pay
for the survival of those people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  