-- Sharjah Islamic Plans Dollar Sukuk as Issues Surge to July High
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-02T04:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sharjah-islamic-plans-dollar-sukuk-as-issues-surge-to-july-high.html
Sharjah Islamic Bank (NBS)  is planning to
sell dollar-denominated sukuk after offerings of the securities
in the U.S. currency reached an eight-month high in March. Bond
risk in  Asia  was little changed today.  The lender, from the third-largest of the seven emirates in
the U.A.E., is planning to meet investors in Asia and  Europe 
from April 4 ahead of a possible sale of Islamic securities,
according to a person familiar with the deal, who asked not to
be identified because the matter is private.  Sales of Islamic bonds in dollars rose to $4 billion
worldwide in March, the highest since $5 billion in July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Electricity Co.
received $13 billion in bids for its $2 billion of 10-year and
30-year bonds last week after  Malaysia ’s Sime Darby Bhd., the
world’s biggest listed palm oil producer, priced $800 million of
the notes in January.  “From an investor’s standpoint, dollar sukuks are
attractive mainly because of secondary market liquidity and
asset diversification,” said Fariza Taib, a fixed-income
manager overseeing 1 billion ringgit ($324 million) at Kuala
Lumpur-based Asian Islamic Investment Management Bhd. “Trading
volumes on these bonds are much higher than other Shariah-
compliant local currency.”  Islamic bonds are structured to comply with Sharia law
which bans interest payments.  Sime Darby sold $400 million each of five- and 10-year
notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Other issuers include
 Japan ’s Nomura Holdings Inc. in July 2010 and Malaysia’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. in August 2009.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 122 basis points
as of 8:57 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The benchmark has ranged from 100.5 to 122.3 basis
points since Dec. 31, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2.5 basis points to
116.5 as of 9:32 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc.
prices. The gauge, which has ranged from 101 to 148.1 this year,
is on course for its highest close since March 5, CMA data show.
The 50-member index rolled to a new series on March 21, with
contracts on Ricoh Co. and Sumitomo Chemical Co. replacing Sharp
Corp. and Mitsui & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 2 basis points to
120 as of 10:53 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking Corp. prices
show. The measure dropped last quarter for the third consecutive
period, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  