-- Shipping Index Extends Drop as Easter Break Cuts Vessel Charters
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-04-02T14:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/shipping-index-extends-drop-as-easter-break-cuts-vessel-charters.html
The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
commodity-shipping costs, dropped the most in two months, as
Easter disruption to grain exports and declining demand for
shipments of  iron ore  and coal to  Asia  curbed vessel charters.  The index, which didn’t report on March 29 or April 1
because of the Easter holidays, slid 1.5 percent, the largest
decline since Jan. 30, to 896, according to the London-based
Baltic Exchange, an assessor of freight costs. The largest falls
in hire costs were for Capesize vessels that carry iron ore and
coal, and Panamax ships that typically carry grain cargoes,
according to the exchange.  Average rates paid to hire Capesize vessels slumped 3.2
percent to $4,530 daily, while Panamax ships declined for a
fourth session from a 10-month high on March 25, dropping 1.8
percent to $9,238 daily, exchange data show.  The declines extended a slump as the index averaged 796 in
2013’s first quarter, the lowest since the final three months of
1986, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg show, as an oversupply
of vessels weighed on freight rates.  Last-quarter hire costs for the Capesize fleet, made up of
1,515 ships, averaged $6,058 daily, the lowest in records going
back to 1999, according to the exchange and data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fleet capacity has doubled in five years, amid record
deliveries of new ships, data from London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) ,
the biggest shipbroker shows. Iron ore exports by sea grew from
842.1 million metric tons in 2008 to 1.11 billion tons last
year, according to Clarkson.  Vessel charters declined as Easter holidays disrupted grain
trading and iron ore demand in  China , the biggest buyer of the
material used in steelmaking, was under pressure, investment
bank Morgan Stanley said in an e-mailed note April 1.  Indian Demand  Single-voyage hires of Panamax vessels, the largest to
transit the Panama Canal, are lower because of “weaker Indian
demand for thermal coal both due to the Holi festival and the
increasing stockpiles at Indian  power plants ,” according to the
report.  India  is the third-largest  importer  of thermal coal, used
in power stations,  according  to government forecaster Australian
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics. China accounts for
between 40 percent and 70 percent of global demand for most
metals and mined commodities, Barclays Plc said in a January
report.  Now the Easter break is over, rates for Supramax and
Panamax vessel will stay at around $10,000 daily “for the next
couple of months” because of “heavy loads” of grain cargoes,
from  South America , before falling again, Morgan Stanley said.
Supramax vessels are about 25 percent smaller than Panamax ships
and also used for grain cargoes, including soybeans.  “As newbuild deliveries for these asset classes are likely
to match or even exceed last year’s, rates are expected to ease
again as we enter the summer,” the bank said. Newbuild is an
industry term for a newly-built ship.  Supramax average rates fell 1.1 percent to $9,753 daily,
while Handysizes, the smallest tracked, were 0.7 percent lower
at $8,055 daily, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  