-- Sina Jumps as Valuation Drop Spurs Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-02T20:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sina-jumps-as-valuation-drop-spurs-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in New York rallied,
led by  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and solar companies, on speculation the
cheapest valuations this year are luring investors amid the
nation’s economic recovery.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. added 0.7 percent to 91.91
yesterday. Sina, owner of the Weibo microblogging service,
climbed the most in a week on prospects its advertising outlook
will improve.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led a rally in solar
makers after sliding over the previous four days.  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  sank the most in a month.  The average  valuation  on the China-US gauge dropped to a
four-month low of 12.6 times estimated earnings April 1, while
the ratio for the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slipped to
the cheapest level since October yesterday. Growth in Chinese
manufacturing picked up in March, data this week showed, adding
to signs the revival in Asia’s largest economy is accelerating.
China emerged from a seven-quarter slowdown at the end of 2012.  “Chinese stocks are really cheap now, a buy opportunity as
we had last year when valuations reached lows in history,”
Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX)  at U.S.
Global Investors Inc. in San Antonio, Texas, which oversees $2.2
billion said by phone. “So I didn’t sell anything. The Chinese
economy is still in expansionary territory.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., was little changed at $36.49
in New York, after sliding in the previous two days. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  advanced 0.5 percent to 1,570.25 as
orders placed with U.S. factories topped forecasts and Europe’s
debt crisis eased.  Sina Surges  Sina, based in Shanghai, surged 3.8 percent to $50.02, the
highest close since March 20. Trading volume on the stock was
1.4 times the daily average over the past three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “We believe Weibo’s new model is accumulating advertisers
steadily,” 86Research Ltd. analysts said in a note yesterday.
“There is a pickup in advertiser number in March.”  The company predicted in February first-quarter sales of as
much as $119 million, including advertising revenue of up to $96
million. More than 30 percent of advertising income on Weibo
could come from mobile devices, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Charles Chao said in February.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce
company, is still in talks with Weibo for strategic cooperation,
the National Business Daily  reported  April 1, citing an
interview with Alibaba Chief Risk Officer Xiaofeng Shao.
Alibaba’s founder, billionaire Jack Ma, said the company may use
acquisitions to boost its growth through apps for smartphones
and tablets in a conference in  Hong Kong  March 20.  Renewed Demand  Suntech, the biggest solar-panel producer in 2011, jumped
14 percent to 41 cents, rebounding from a record low in the
previous day.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-biggest solar
wafer maker, gained 3 percent to $1.04, the steepest rally in
two weeks.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , the largest solar
panel maker globally by shipments, climbed 8.6 percent to $1.9,
rising the first time since March 26.  Prices for polysilicon, the raw material for crystalline
silicon solar panels, rose 11 percent in March, on renewed
demand for downstream solar products, Bloomberg Industries
analyst  James Evans  said in a report yesterday.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , a
Shanghai-based circuit foundry, surged 4.5 percent to $3.03.
China Eastern Airlines Corp., the second-largest domestic
carrier, advanced 3.2 percent to $22.14.  SouFun Sinks  SouFun, owner of China’s largest real estate information
website, dropped 6.9 percent to $23.71 in New York, the most in
a month. The company had the biggest decline on the China-US
gauge.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a Shanghai-based property
agent, sank 2.9 percent to $4.42, the lowest in four weeks.  “I’d rather be a buyer as much of the fluff has come out
of valuations,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund trading
and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said by e-
mail. “The risk reward favors being long in Chinese stocks.”  The Hang Seng China Enterprises measure in Hong Kong
dropped 0.8 percent to 10,811.44, as trading resumed after a
two-day public holiday. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic
Chinese shares slipped 0.3 percent to 2,227.74 yesterday, the
lowest level this year.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the Chinese yuan
strengthened for a third day, adding 0.14 percent to 6.2878 per
dollar in New York, the highest level since Jan. 24, data
compile by Bloomberg show. The currency jumped 0.15 percent
yesterday, the most this year, and rose beyond 6.20 per dollar
for the first time in 19 years, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade system. The  yuan  closed at 6.1986 per dollar in
Shanghai yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  