-- Slovenian Lawmakers Meeting to Vote on Croatia’s EU Entry
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-02T08:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/slovenian-lawmakers-meeting-to-vote-on-croatia-s-eu-entry.html
Slovenian lawmakers are meeting to
vote on Croatia’s entry into the European Union after the two
former Yugoslav partners agreed to solve a two-decade-old bank
dispute.  Slovenian lawmakers are debating in the capital Ljubljana
today to ratify Croatia’s accession with a two-thirds majority
needed in the 90-member assembly, according to Parliament
spokeswoman Karmen Uglesic. Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  and his foreign minister, Vesna Pusic, are attending
the session.  “Croatia’s EU entry has an important message for the rest
of the Balkan region as it shows that disputes can be solved if
there is a will,” Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said.’’EU
expansion will bring stability to the region and much-needed
economic progress.’’  Slovenia, which is battling its second recession since 2009
and a deepening banking crisis, is among the last EU nations to
clear Croatia’s path to become a member of the world’s largest
trading bloc in July. Ratification was hung up as the two
nations haggled over a bank and a border dispute stemming from
the breakup of  Yugoslavia  in 1991.  Of the 27 EU members, 22 completed the approval process,
while  Germany ,  Denmark ,  Belgium  and the Netherlands have started
the procedure.  Slovenia had threatened a veto if the two nations failed to
reach an agreement over 270 million euros ($345 million) owed to
Croatian savers by the predecessor of Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. The countries agreed to approach the  Bank for International
Settlements  for helping resolve the bank issue.  The rift was further compounded by a political crisis in
Slovenia that led to Bratusek replacing former Premier Janez Jansa in a Feb. 27 vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  