-- Slovenia Needs to Say How It’ll Avoid Cyprus Fate, Kranjec Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-02T12:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/slovenia-needs-to-say-how-it-ll-avoid-cyprus-fate-kranjec-says.html
Slovenia’s government must detail
its plan to salvage the economy and stabilize banks to avoid
having to ask for an international bailout, Banka Slovenije
Governor Marko Kranjec said.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s two-week-old Cabinet must
“show it’s serious” on resolving the nation’s troubles, said
Kranjec, adding he remains “worried” about the outlook in
2014. Kranjec, who’s also a member of the  European Central
Bank ’s Governing Council and whose term is due to end in July,
was speaking to reporters in Ljubljana today.  “The government has a great responsibility to stabilize
the financial and economic woes of Slovenia,” Kranjec said. “A
lot of uncertainties on Slovenia will depend on what the
government will do next. We expect the government to present
details of its economic program.”  Slovenia, grappling with its second recession since 2009,
is trying to avoid becoming the sixth euro nation to ask for a
bailout. Investor concerns that the government will fail to
implement a 4 billion-euro ($5.1 billion) plan to prop up banks
and lose access to financing abroad boosted borrowing costs at a
time when the Alpine nation is looking to tap bond markets.  Record Yields  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 fell 9 basis points to 6.01 percent at 1:27 p.m. in
Ljubljana today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
climbed to a record 6.382 percent on March 27.  Slovenian bonds are “attractively priced” for investors
who can tolerate near-term volatility as the parallels between
it and Cyprus are exaggerated, JPMorgan strategist  Gianluca
Salford  wrote in a client note today.  Slovenia’s recessions have boosted bankruptcies and pushed
bad loans to about a fifth of economic output. Banks such as
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. 
have been hit by the recession and the collapse of the
 construction industry , the pre-crisis driver of growth.  Nova Kreditna, which had a 205 million-euro 2012 loss, was
one of four banks that failed last year to meet European capital
targets set by regulators. Bank of Cyprus Pcl, Cyprus Popular
Bank Pcl, known as Laiki Bank, and  Italy ’s  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  were the others.  ECB Financing  While none of Slovenia’s banks have required emergency
liquidity assistance, local banks have borrowed “a lot” from
the European Central Bank, Kranjec said today, without giving
further details. The central bank will act if its sees urgent
capital is needed, he said.  Bratusek last week pledged that her government will press
ahead with austerity measures to improve public finances, which
she said were in “bad shape” and rebuild the banking system.  Slovenia needs ‘credible measures’ to avoid aid, Janez
Fabijan, a central bank vice governor, told reporters today in
Ljubljana.  The economy will contract 1.9 percent this year and grow
0.5 percent next year, the central bank said earlier today in a
statement. GDP contracted 3 percent in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  