-- Slovenia’s Jazbec Inherits Bank System to Avert Bailout
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-04-03T14:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/slovenia-s-jazbec-inherits-bank-system-to-avert-bailout.html
Slovenia’s new central bank governor
inherits a financial system rife with bad debt that is
threatening to push the country into becoming the sixth euro
member to ask for an international bailout.  Bostjan Jazbec, a 43-year-old International Monetary Fund
expert, was approved by lawmakers in Ljubljana yesterday to take
the helm of Banka Slovenije from Marko Kranjec when his mandate
expires in mid-July. He will also assume Kranjec’s seat on the
European Central Bank’s Governing Council.  Jazbec needs to restore public confidence at home and
investors’ faith abroad in Slovenia’s banks as the economy
struggles with its second recession since 2009, sparking a rash
of corporate bankruptcies that have saddled lenders with a pile
of bad debts.  “The problems aren’t insurmountable,” Jazbec, who helped
set up Kosovo’s central bank, said in an interview late
yesterday. “We know we have to rebuild the banking system. With
a common effort from all policy makers we can carry this through
to ensure that assistance from outside the country won’t be
needed.”  Worries that the two-week-old government of Prime Minister
Alenka Bratusek will fail to implement a 4 billion-euro ($5.1
billion) plan to prop up banks and lose access to financing
abroad boosted borrowing costs at a time when the Alpine nation
is looking to tap bond markets.  Falling Yield  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 dropped 10 basis points from yesterday to 5.9 percent at
3:55 a.m. in Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg show, after
climbing to a record 6.382 percent on March 27.  Slovenia is in no rush to come to the market and sell
benchmark bonds, Finance Minister Uros Cufer said in an
interview with the STA newswire today. The situation isn’t
“critical” and the government will continue with fiscal
consolidation, Cufer said, “but in such a way as not to damp
economic activity further.”  Slovenia adopted the euro at the start of 2007, becoming
the first post-Communist nation to make the switch. Pumping out
exports such as household appliances from Gorenje d.d., the
small open economy outperformed that of Europe’s common currency
area for most of the past decade.  Stalled Economy  The debt crisis has since stalled the economic momentum
built up by many smaller euro countries such as Malta and
Slovenia and prompted them to distance themselves from the
banking crisis that forced Cyprus to accept a 10 billion-euro
bailout emergency-aid accord with the European Union and the IMF
on March 25.  “Cyprus highlights the euro-zone crisis is far from
over,” Sam Finkelstein, who helps manage $40 billion at Goldman
Sachs Asset Management in London, said in a phone interview.
“Slovenia has a number of challenges. If it were to get a
package from the troika, my guess is they would demand a number
of privatizations which may be tough politically. But Cyprus and
Slovenia are in very different situations.”  Slovenian banks such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and
 Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  have been hit by the recession
and the collapse of the construction industry, the pre-crisis
driver of growth. Bad loans account for about a fifth of
economic output.  Nova Kreditna, which had a 205 million-euro loss last year,
was one of four banks that failed last year to meet European
capital targets set by regulators. Bank of Cyprus Pcl, Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl, known as Laiki Bank, and Italy’s  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  were the others. Laiki was closed as
part of the island nation’s bailout.  Shares Tumble  Nova Kreditna fell to a record low in Ljubljana, plunging
14 percent to close at 65 euro cents. The bank lost 81 percent
of its value in the 12-month period.  The government must “show it’s serious” and give details
on its plan to salvage the economy and stabilize banks to avoid
having to follow in the footsteps of Cyprus, Greece, Portugal,
Ireland and Spain and ask for an international bailout, outgoing
governor Kranjec said yesterday.  While none of Slovenia’s banks have required emergency
liquidity assistance, local banks have borrowed “a lot” from
the ECB, Kranjec said, without giving further details. The
central bank will act if its sees that urgent capital is needed,
he said.  “The crisis is also an opportunity to stop with the poor
management of state assets,” Jazbec said.  Austerity Pledge  Bratusek last week pledged that her government will press
ahead with austerity measures to improve public finances, which
she said were in “bad shape,” and rebuild the banking system.  “It’s up to the government ultimately to push forward
policies dealing with the banking sector,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
said in a phone interview. “The main issue for the central bank
probably is to keep up pressure on the government, more rhetoric
like we’ve seen today.”  The economy will contract 1.9 percent this year and grow
0.5 percent next year, the central bank said earlier today in a
statement. Gross domestic product contracted 3 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Standard and Poor’s yesterday lowered its credit rating for
 Nova Kreditna (KBMR)  to Bpi from BBpi, citing a deterioration in the
quality of the state-owned bank’s assets.  “Theoretically they shouldn’t need a bailout,” said
Montalto. “But the market can withdraw funding and then you get
a downward spiral to a bailout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  