-- Springtime for Arizona Baseball Whets Debt Appetite: Muni Credit
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-02T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/springtime-for-arizona-baseball-whets-debt-appetite-muni-credit.html
Competition between Arizona and
Florida cities over Major League Baseball teams’ spring training
business is proving a boon for investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market.  Mesa, the southwest state’s third-largest city, sold $94
million of tax-exempt debt last week. Most of the proceeds will
go to build a stadium for the Chicago Cubs to keep them from
moving their annual preseason camp, which they’ve held in
Arizona since 1952. Mesa, which may cut services and leave jobs
unfilled to close a budget gap of about $8 million for fiscal
2014, risked losing the Cactus League team to Florida, said City
Manager Chris Brady. MLB’s regular season started this week.  Demand was so strong that the city lowered yields during
the sale, said Larry Given, Mesa’s financial adviser at Wedbush
Securities. Resulting yields still eclipsed those on similarly
rated debt. Investors betting interest rates are set to rise
were drawn by call dates that may return the cash as soon as
2017, said Michael Hamilton, who runs about $345 million of
Arizona muni funds at Nuveen Investments in Portland, Oregon.  The early call is “very popular for people right now who
want to deal with money in three years when yields might be
higher,” said Hamilton, who bought some of the issue. “It’s a
defensive bond,” he said of the segment callable in 2017.  Stadium Lure  Mesa joins cities nationwide that have taken on debt for
sports facilities or other commercial ventures to boost their
economies. The moves don’t always pay off. In the case of
Camelback Ranch, the preseason home built by Glendale, Arizona,
for baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers and Chicago White Sox,
development expected around the stadium hasn’t materialized.  Mesa, a municipality of 447,000 about 20 miles (32
kilometers) east of Phoenix, is also using some bond funds to
refit a stadium for the Oakland Athletics so the team can move
its spring operations from the state capital.  There are 15 teams in the Arizona spring league, with the
remainder in Florida. Training typically starts in February and
winds down about six weeks later, though some facilities remain
in use for minor-league play.  The Mesa bonds are backed by excise taxes including city
sales levies. Mesa plans to sell 11,000 acres of farmland it
bought three decades ago for water rights it no longer needs. It
would repay debtholders with the proceeds, which is why it used
the early call structure. It expects to receive more than $100
million for the land, according to Brady.  Spread Appeal  Debt maturing in July 2027 and callable in July 2017 was
priced to yield about 1.6 percentage points more than benchmark
bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields were more than
double those on like-rated  general obligations . Moody’s
Investors Service grades the bonds Aa3, fourth-highest.  With the U.S. economy showing signs of strengthening amid a
housing rebound, investors are speculating interest rates will
rise. Ten-year Treasury yields will climb about 0.7 percentage
point to 2.5 percent in a year, according to the median forecast
of 68 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “The relatively short maturity of the bonds played well to
what the market was looking for,” said Given, the Phoenix-based
adviser for Mesa. “This thing was structured to meet the needs
of the city, to have a deal that we could pay off quickly.”  Phoenix, Arizona’s largest city, is taking a different
approach. The city where the Cactus League got its start in 1947
has signaled it is getting out of the spring training game.  ‘Arms Race’  It will lose the A’s to Mesa in 2015 and is exploring
alternative uses for the stadium of its other team, the
Milwaukee Brewers, whose lease allows them to move as soon as
next year, said Rob Harman, deputy parks director for the city
of 1.5 million. Phoenix isn’t looking for a replacement.  Spring training has become an “arms race,” said Harman.  “The Cactus League is good to the Arizona economy,”
Harman said. “I just think it is time that folks look at it a
little more carefully, especially as resources are tight. They
need to look at it against swimming pools and parks and other
things the community needs.”  The Cubs in 2009 and 2010 considered moving to Collier
County, Florida, which includes Naples. Mesa offered to build a
stadium to keep the team, which played in facilities in Mesa and
nearby Scottsdale before moving to Mesa’s Hohokam Park in 1979.
The current stadium was built in 1997. A 2010 study paid for by
Mesa found a move to Florida by the team would cost Arizona’s
economy $138 million per year.  Spring Home  Mesa residents approved the $99 million plan in 2010. The
15,000-seat stadium, dubbed Wrigleyville West, is under
construction on a 144-acre site that was formerly a city golf
course.  The new facility “will increase tourism and business for
the area,” Julian Green, the Cubs’ vice president for
communications, said from Chicago. “We have a strong national
fanbase and we were able to work out a really good deal with the
city.”  With the pledge of the new stadium to the Cubs, Mesa began
recruiting a team from Florida for the old facility, Brady said.
Meanwhile, the A’s approached Phoenix seeking $40 million in
improvements at the nearly 50-year-old Municipal Stadium, Harman
said. Officials capped their offer at $10 million, Harman said.  Fan Fulcrum  The city, home to the Arizona Diamondbacks in the regular
season, doesn’t need its own team to reap the rewards of the
Cactus League, Harman said. Many visitors will still fly into
Phoenix’s airport, rent cars within its boundaries and stay in
Phoenix hotels, Harman said.  Mesa offered the A’s as much as $17.5 million for
improvements to Hohokam and nearby facilities. Phoenix will
lease Municipal Stadium, near the city line with Tempe, to
Arizona State University’s baseball program. The deal will
reduce the city’s costs related to the stadium by $900,000 per
year, Harman said.  Back in the Cubs’ home state, Illinois is set to sell $800
million of general-obligation bonds today via auction, its
largest issue in 11 months. Proceeds will go in part toward
school construction and transportation projects, according to
Moody’s.  The offer comes as yields on local debt maturing in 10
years have exceeded those on Treasuries for the longest stretch
since September. At  1.96 percent , the interest rate on the muni
benchmark compares with 1.84 percent on federal debt. The ratio
of the two is 107 percent, the highest since September,
signaling munis have become relatively cheaper than Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  