-- Sprott Starts First Multimanager Fund to Draw Institution
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-02T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sprott-starts-first-multimanager-fund-to-draw-institution.html
Sprott Asset Management LP, the
Toronto-based firm founded by  Eric Sprott , started its first
global macro multimanager fund as it seeks to attract
institutional investors seeking low volatility.  The Sprott Macro Managers Fund was seeded today with an
undisclosed amount of the firm’s own money, according to Co-
Chief Investment Officer  John Wilson . The fund will have eight
portfolio managers focused on various asset classes, all of whom
already work at Sprott, including Wilson and co-CIO Scott Colbourne, he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Sprott, which has about $1.2 billion of its $9.9 billion in
hedge-fund assets, is seeking to lower price swings while
profiting from a strategy that uses macro-economic indicators to
invest across asset classes. The portfolio managers will choose
securities based on recommendations from a macro committee led
by Sprott,  Marc Faber , the publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom
report, and Rick Rule, chairman of Sprott U.S. Holdings. They
will also seek recommendations from a five-person group in
charge of  asset allocation , Wilson said.  The new fund is “certainly supposed to have less
volatility than some of our other strategies have had in the
past,” he said.  Higher Volatility  A number of Sprott’s strategies have had investments in
precious metals, which have contributed to higher volatility,
Wilson said. Precious-metals stocks contributed to losses in
some of Sprott’s hedge funds last year, according to a July e-
mail to the firm’s investors obtained by  Bloomberg News . Sprott
Hedge Fund LP fell 18 percent this year and 34 percent in the
past year, as of March 28, according to the firm’s website.
Sprott Opportunities Hedge Fund LP rose 6.6 percent in 2013 and
2.3 percent in the last year.  Sprott Macro Managers Fund will mainly trade in stocks of
energy, precious metals and large-cap companies, bullion,
currencies and fixed income, Wilson said. The fund is
maintaining a low net exposure, which is calculated by
subtracting its shorts, or wagers that securities will fall,
from its longs, or bets that assets will rise in price, he said.  Precious Metals  There is no set target or capacity for assets in the fund,
though $1 billion “would not be challenging,” Wilson said. Its
prime brokers are Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce.  “We are substantially more cautious on equity markets than
we would have been six months ago,” he said. “We do see
opportunity in precious metals, particularly the miners.”  Sprott, founded in 2000, manages long-short equity and
credit funds as well as mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  