-- Standard & Poor’s Says U.S Hid Role With States in Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-04-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/standard-poor-s-says-u-s-hid-role-with-states-in-court.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  accused the U.S.
 Justice Department  of failing to disclose in court its
collaboration with 17 states suing its  Standard & Poor’s  unit
over alleged consumer-protection and unfair-trade violations.  McGraw-Hill raised the issue in a letter to a federal judge
in Connecticut as it fought to consolidate the state lawsuits in
U.S. court while the Justice Department pushes to keep the cases
under state jurisdiction. The New York-based company has filed
papers in several federal courts seeking to move the cases.  The Justice Department and state  attorneys general  sued S&P
in February. The U.S. accused the company of falsely
representing that its ratings were objective and independent,
claiming Standard & Poor’s weakened ratings criteria to maintain
and increase market share.  In the filing yesterday, McGraw-Hill said the Justice
Department should have disclosed in a March 29 filing opposing
the move to federal court that it’s a “publicly declared ally
of and collaborator” with  Connecticut .  “From the start, federal and state authorities have worked
together in planning and preparing federal and state cases
against S&P,” McGraw-Hill said in the filing.  ‘Public Statements’  “That is not a criticism, an accusation or a statement of
opinion,” the company said. “It is a fact based on public
statements of officials of both federal and state entities.”  Separately, state attorneys general filed documents
opposing S&P’s effort to consolidate the state actions for
pretrial proceedings in New York. S&P has said the cases should
be consolidated because they involve common factual questions
and “are, in effect, a single hindsight-infused attempt by the
states to lay blame with S&P for failing to predict the
financial crisis and they should be treated collectively.”  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen said
consolidation isn’t justified. His office argued that each
lawsuit is based on the laws of a different state and that
transfer and consolidation of the cases to  New York  is
inconvenient.  “S&P is a large, multinational company and exposure to
personal jurisdiction in each of the plaintiff states is an
attendant privilege of S&P’s decision to do business in each of
those jurisdictions,” Jepsen’s office said.  The company isn’t entitled to consolidation “simply
because multiple attorneys general allege that S&P violated the
laws of states in which S&P has chosen to do business.”  The Connecticut case is Connecticut v. McGraw-Hill Cos.,
13-00311, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven). The Justice Department case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos.,
13-cv-00779, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  