-- Sterlite Fined $18 Million for Breach, Unit to Remain Shut
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-04-02T11:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sterlite-fined-18-million-for-breach-smelter-to-remain-shut.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) ,
facing two charges of environmental breach at its copper smelter,
was fined 1 billion rupees ($18 million) in one case and must
keep the plant shut pending clearance of the other.  The company, controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal, is
free to operate the smelter in Tamil Nadu state, the top court
ruled today in its final judgment, overturning a lower court
order of September 2010. Still, the state pollution control
board and state government’s order to shut the plant following a
gas leak on March 23 will remain for now.  The smelter, operated by the nation’s biggest copper
producer, has faced controversy since at least Sept. 28, 2010,
when the Madras High Court ruled the 400,000 metric-ton facility
should be shut for environmental breaches. The pollution board
on March 30 ordered the closing of the smelter for emitting high
quantities of sulfur dioxide, affecting the inhabitants of the
area. The unit was completely stopped on March 31, Ashish Kumar,
district collector at Thoothukudi, where the factory is located,
said by phone today.  “Sterlite will continue to work in close association with
the state government of Tamil Nadu and other regulatory bodies
to maintain the highest standards of health, safety and
environment,” spokesman Pavan Kaushik said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Today’s Supreme Court ruling has no bearing on the order by
the pollution board and the state government, said a two-judge
panel, headed by A.K. Patnaik. The top court also imposed a fine
on Sterlite for polluting the environment and asked the
pollution board to periodically monitor the plant’s emission
levels.  The  shares , which had declined 4.5 percent yesterday, rose
4 percent to 93.10 rupees at close of trade in Mumbai. The key
Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange gained 0.9 percent.  Sterlite is contesting the pollution board’s order in the
National Green Tribunal, Press Trust of  India  reported yesterday.
India is tightening rules to protect ecologically sensitive
regions, prevent illegal mining and safeguard resources and the
livelihood of people living around mines and factories.  Sterlite’s plan to double the Tuticorin smelter capacity to
800,000 tons has been delayed, according to the latest annual
report. The smelter mainly uses imported copper concentrate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  