-- STX Offshore Falls on Voluntary Debt Restructuring: Seoul Mover
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-04-02T08:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/stx-offshore-falls-on-voluntary-debt-restructuring-seoul-mover.html
STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. (067250)  led
declines among STX Group units in  Seoul  trading as it seeks help
from creditor banks, a sign the company’s  finances  are
deteriorating.  STX Offshore slumped by its 15 percent daily limit, the
biggest decline since its listing in October 2003, to close at
5,160 won in Seoul. STX Corp., the holding company of STX Group,
dropped 15 percent to 5,370 won.  STX Group has been  selling assets , including its entire
stakes in  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH)  and STX Energy Co., as it seeks
to raise 2.5 trillion won ($2.2 billion) to pay debt. A slump in
dry-bulk freight rates and a collapse in demand for new ships
caused its two main units to report losses last year. It failed
to attract bidders to sell shares in STX  Pan Ocean (028670)  Co. last
week.  “Things seem to be getting worse for STX Group,” said
Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea in Seoul.
“The group needed to sell STX Pan Ocean stake to raise funds to
repay maturing debt.”  STX Offshore is seeking voluntary debt restructuring with
creditors to help improve its finances, according to a
regulatory filing. The company has been facing difficulties
since 2008 as orders for new ships plunged amid a slump in the
shipping industry, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  STX Heavy Industries Co., Pan Ocean and  STX Engine Co. (077970)  fell
by their daily 15 percent limit in Seoul.  No Sale  The group didn’t receive any letters of intent for its
stake in Pan Ocean, STX Group said March 29 after the market’s
close. The group said yesterday it will discuss the sale plan
with its main creditor bank.  State-owned Korea Development Bank, the main creditor bank
and Pan Ocean’s second-largest shareholder, said last month it
will consider buying the stake in the commodities shipping
company should STX Group fail to find a buyer in the public bid.  STX’s three main companies, Pan Ocean, STX Offshore and  STX
Corp. (011810) , have 1.16 trillion won in bonds and loans maturing this
year, about 20 percent of their outstanding debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The group’s companies are
interlinked through cross-shareholdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  