-- Sunderland Coach Di Canio Rebuffs Questions on ‘Fascist’ Comment
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-02T11:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/sunderland-coach-di-canio-rebuffs-questions-on-fascist-comment.html
Sunderland’s new coach Paolo Di Canio today rebuffed questions about whether he holds fascist
political views when he gave his first news conference since
being appointed.  The 44-year-old Italian replaced  Martin O’Neill , who was
fired three days ago as Sunderland struggles to avoid relegation
from English soccer’s Premier League.  In a 2005 interview with Italian news agency Ansa, Di Canio
described himself as “a fascist, not a racist.” His
appointment at Sunderland has led to protests from some fans and
the resignation of former U.K. Foreign Secretary  David Miliband 
as club vice-chairman. Today Di Canio refused to say whether
he’s a fascist when questioned by reporters.  “I don’t have to answer any more this question.” he said.
“My life speaks for me, so there is no need to speak any more
about this situation because it’s ridiculous and pathetic. I
can’t every two weeks, every two months, every 10 months, answer
the same questions that are not really in my area.”  He added that “we are in a football club and not in the
House of Parliament. I’m not a political person, I will talk
about only football.”  Miliband cited “the new manager’s past political
statements” as the reason for his departure. Miliband, the
elder brother of opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband ,
quit British politics last week. He’ll become president of a New
York-based humanitarian-aid organization.  Miners Protest  Durham miners called Di Canio’s appointment a “disgrace
and a betrayal of all who fought and died in the fight against
fascism.” They demanded the return of a trade-union banner
that’s been displayed at the northeast England club’s stadium.  The club and Di Canio attempted to defuse the situation
yesterday by releasing a statement that addressed previous
comments and actions. They included his being pictured making a
fascist-style salute to fans of his former club Lazio.  “I expressed an opinion in an interview many years ago.
Some pieces were taken for media convenience,” Di Canio said
yesterday. “They took my expression in a very, very negative
way, but it was a long conversation and a long interview. It was
not fair. Sometimes it suits their purpose to put big headlines
and a big story.”  Di Canio went on to say claims he was racist were “stupid
and ridiculous,” citing his friendship with Trevor Sinclair and
Chris Powell, two black former English national team players.  Sunderland is one point and two places above the Premier
League’s relegation zone with seven games left.  Di Canio, whose playing career included spells in the
English league with West Ham, Sheffield Wednesday and Charlton,
has never managed in  England ’s top two divisions. He quit as
coach of third-tier Swindon Town in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  