-- Swaps Among Bank Affiliates Exempt Under CFTC Clearing Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-04-02T15:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/swaps-among-bank-affiliates-exempt-from-clearing-under-cftc-rule.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and other banks will be exempt from Dodd-Frank Act swap market
rules when trading between their own affiliates under a measure
completed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Commissioners approved a  rule  excluding inter-affiliate
trades from requirements that swaps be guaranteed at
clearinghouses that protect buyers and sellers against defaults,
the CFTC said yesterday. The rule is part of the CFTC’s mandate
to cut risk and expand transparency in the $639 trillion global
swaps market.  “The rule requires documentation of such exempted swaps,
centralized risk management and reporting requirements for such
swaps,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement.  Lobby groups for banks including New York-based JPMorgan
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and London-based Barclays urged
Gensler’s agency to exclude such trades from Dodd-Frank rules
enacted in response to the 2008 credit crisis. Prudential
Financial Inc. and a group of so-called end-users -- commercial
and manufacturing firms that use swaps to hedge risk -- also
sought exemption.  “Interaffiliate swaps do not introduce risks to a
corporate group,”  Robert Pickel , chief executive officer of the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc., and  Ken Bentsen , executive vice president at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, said in a Sept. 20 letter to the
CFTC. “They allocate and transfer risks among group members.”  Unrelated Counterparties  The exemption is allowed for swaps between majority-owned
affiliates of companies that file consolidated financial
statements, Gensler said in the statement. Swaps between
affiliates and other unrelated counterparties must be cleared.  The CFTC granted a greater exemption than originally
proposed in 2012 by not requiring variation margin for
interaffiliate swaps.  “The commission was guided by comments expressing concern
that a variation margin requirement will limit the ability of
U.S. companies to efficiently allocate risk among affiliates and
manage risk centrally,” the agency said in the rule.  Variation margin is typically exchanged daily to offset the
risk from incremental price movements in a trade.  “This is another demonstration of the industry dominance
of the regulatory process,” Marcus Stanley, policy director for
Americans for Financial Reform, said in a statement today.
“Regulators are willing to accommodate industry even to the
extent of dropping requirements that financial entities follow
sound business practices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  