-- Syngenta Declines as Cold Weather Delays Planting: Zurich Mover
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-02T09:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/syngenta-declines-as-cold-weather-delays-planting-zurich-mover.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
producer of crop chemicals, declined the most in almost two
months after Liberum Capital said unusually cold weather in
 North America  and Europe will delay the planting season.  The stock  fell  as much as 2.1 percent, the biggest drop
since Feb. 6, and was down 1.4 percent at 390.30 Swiss francs at
11 a.m. in Zurich, making the Basel-based company the second-
worst performer in the 20-member  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , which rose
0.5 percent.  The cold weather “will depress first-quarter sales and may
create a shorter growing season in 2013,” analysts at Liberum
in London, led by Sophie Jourdier, wrote in a note to customers,
cutting their recommendation on the stock to hold. “We remain
positive on the long-term outlook, but believe the shares are up
with events in the short-term.”  Average temperatures in northwest  Europe  since the start of
February have been 2 degrees to 4 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
to 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit) below normal, slowing spring growth,
according to agricultural researcher Arvalis. Soil temperatures
in southwest  France  last week were still too cold to plant corn,
Arvalis said.  Soil temperatures in the northern U.S. corn belt are 30 to
37 degrees Fahrenheit, while corn seeds require fields to be at
least 52 degrees to germinate, forecaster Martell Crop
Projections wrote yesterday. Snow cover will delay spring-wheat
planting in North Dakota by at least 10 days, according to
Martell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  