-- U.K. February Mortgage Approvals Drop More Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-02T08:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-february-mortgage-approvals-decline-more-than-forecast-1-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals  fell more
than economists forecast in February, underlining what
Nationwide Building Society has said is an “uncertain” market.  Lenders granted 51,653 mortgages, the least since
September, compared with a revised 54,187 in January, the Bank
of England said today in London. Economists had forecast a
decline to 53,700 from an initially reported 54,719, based on
the median of 21 estimates in Bloomberg News survey. Net
mortgage lending rose 866 million pounds ($1.32 billion).  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne pledged 3.5
billion pounds in his budget on March 20 to help home buyers,
while the Bank of England is seeking to boost credit with its
Funding for Lending Scheme. Nationwide said last week that house
prices were little changed in March from the previous month and
the outlook was “unusually uncertain.”  “House prices may very well eke out a small gain over 2013
supported by modestly increased activity, but it seems unlikely
that they will make a decisive move upward,” Howard Archer, an
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London , said before the data
were released. “Periodic slips in house prices remain highly
possible.”  A separate report showed an  index of manufacturing  rose
less than forecast in March. Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply said their gauge increased to
48.3 from 47.9 in February. That’s below the 48.7 median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The pound weakened against the dollar and was trading at
$1.5217 as of 9:36 a.m. in London, down 0.1 percent from
yesterday.  Gilt Purchases  The BOE data also showed that overseas investors increased
their holdings of U.K. government bonds for an eighth straight
month in February. Non-residents bought 7.48 billion pounds more
gilts than they sold, after increasing their holdings by 1.55
billion pounds in January.  Consumer credit  increased by 638 million pounds in
February, with credit-card lending up 223 million pounds. Gross
mortgage lending was 12.8 billion pounds in February, the report
showed. Mortgage approvals remain at about half the monthly
average recorded in the decade to 2007, when the financial
crisis struck.  The BOE data also showed that, compared with a year
earlier, lending to construction, manufacturing and real estate
all fell in February. Loans to the transport, storage and
communication industries also declined.  In a separate report, the BOE said that U.K. money supply
fell 0.5 percent in February from the previous month. From a
year earlier, M4 rose 0.5 percent.  A measure of  M4 money-supply growth  the central bank uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to a
quarterly annualized 3.1 percent from 5.8 percent in the period
through January. That’s the slowest pace since the quarter
through June. The gauge excludes financial companies that
specialize in intermediating between banks, such as holding
companies and non-bank credit grantors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  