-- U.K. Shop-Price Inflation Quickens as BRC Notes Pound Weakness
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-shop-price-inflation-quickens-as-brc-notes-pound-weakness.html
U.K.  shop-price inflation 
accelerated in March and the impact of the pound’s weakness on
import prices is beginning to be felt, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Retail prices rose 1.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 1.1 percent gain in February, the trade group
said in a report in  London  today. Food-price inflation was
unchanged at 3.5 percent, while non-food prices rose 0.2
percent, the first annual increase since December 2011.  With demand muted, the BRC said upward pressure isn’t
coming from consumers and it noted the pound’s depreciation this
year. The  Bank of England  has also raised concerns about the
currency’s weakness and its impact on  inflation .  “If the downward trend in sterling persists, the full
inflationary impact will still take time to filter through to
prices as retailers use hedging strategies and long-term
contracts to limit the impact of price shocks in consumer
markets,” the BRC said. “However, the impact of a 5 percent
decline since the start of the year is beginning to show.”  Sterling has weakened about 4.5 percent versus the euro
this year and is the second-worst performer after the yen in
2013, based on Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices.  Overall prices rose 0.4 percent in March from February,
while food prices increased 0.6 percent, according to the BRC.
The group said that “prolonged unseasonably cold and wet
weather” may prompt price reductions in stores to boost demand.  “As discretionary spending for the next few months is
expected to remain flat at best, what upward pressure there is
on prices is not coming from the consumer at the moment,” said
 Mike Watkins , head of retail at Nielsen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  