-- U.K. Manufacturing Index Shows March Contraction, Markit Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-02T09:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-manufacturing-index-shows-march-contraction-markit-says.html
U.K. manufacturing  shrank for a
second month in March as “lackluster” demand at factories
weighed on economic growth, Markit Economics said.  A gauge of factory activity rose to 48.3 from 47.9 in
February, Markit and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  said today in London. Economists had forecast an increase
to 48.7, according to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  The reading places the average for the first quarter at 49,
suggesting manufacturing won’t shield the economy from a triple-
dip recession. The  Bank of England  will probably hold its target
for bond purchases at 375 billion pounds ($571 billion) this
week as officials assess Britain’s ability to weather headwinds
from Europe and the domestic fiscal squeeze.  “U.K. manufacturing exports have been hit directly not
only by the problems in the  euro zone , but also by strong
competition overseas,” Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson 
said in the report. “Activity in manufacturing has fallen at
the fastest pace since October and the absence of new orders
brings little hope of an uplift in spring.”  The Markit report showed that factory payrolls declined for
an eighth month in March. New export orders shrank for a 15th
month amid weak demand from Europe and “strong competition” in
the U.S. and  South Asia , according to the report.  A separate release in the euro area showed a manufacturing
gauge at 46.8. That compares with an initial estimate of 46.6 on
March 21. The index in Germany, the region’s largest economy,
was at 49.  Chinese Managers  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China rose to 50.9 last
month, an 11-month high, from 50.1 in February, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on April 1. A separate gauge from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics rose to 51.6 in March from 50.4.  The U.K. economy will avoid a triple-dip recession as
exports propel a “modest” recovery, the British Chambers of
Commerce said today. The pound’s 4.5 percent drop on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of the year can benefit
manufacturers by giving them scope to charge less on goods sold
abroad.  London-based  Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , a maker of airport body-
image scanners, said March 20 that revenue from  emerging markets 
rose 9 percent, and that it will focus on investments in “high-
growth” markets.  The Bank of England will vote for no change to its bond-
purchase program, according to the median estimate of 37
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The bank will also keep
its key  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent Officials,
a separate survey showed. It will announce their decision on
April 4 at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  