-- U.K. Steelmakers, Farms Agree to Boost Energy Efficiency
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-04-02T12:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-steelmakers-farms-agree-to-boost-energy-efficiency.html
U.K. industries from steelmakers to
farms agreed to improve  energy efficiency  by a combined 11
percent between now and 2020 to reduce waste and earn rebates on
carbon taxes.  The voluntary efficiency targets may save participants as
much as 300 million pounds ($456 million) through rebates on the
climate change levy, a tax on energy use by large industrial
users, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said today in
a  statement  on its website.  “These savings will be delivered through the
implementation of cost-effective measures such as high-
efficiency motors, variable-speed drivers, energy-efficient
boilers, improved energy-management systems and process
optimization,” the department said.  The U.K. is striving to cut  carbon emissions  by 34 percent
in 2020 from 1990, while protecting energy-intensive companies
from the biggest costs of carbon-cutting measures. Last week,
the energy department released analysis showing its policies may
raise power and gas bills for the largest corporate energy
consumers by as much as 36 percent by 2020.  The estimated tax savings don’t include measures promised
on March 20 by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to
exempt metals and minerals companies from the climate change
levy from next April, the department said.  The Energy Department listed efficiency targets for the
period 2013-2020 for 52 sectors of industry from aerospace to
wood panel companies. Targets ranged from a 2.6 percent
efficiency improvement for industrial gases makers to a 25
percent goal for laundries. The goals are included in voluntary
“Climate Change Agreements” with the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  