-- U.K. Minister Challenged to Live on 53 Pounds a Week
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-02T11:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-minister-challenged-to-live-on-53-pounds-a-week.html
The Conservative Cabinet minister
overseeing cuts to U.K. welfare payments is facing a petition
challenging him to prove he can live on 53 pounds a week ($81),
as voters express concern about the measures.  Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith was
confronted on March 31 on BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program by a
welfare claimant, David Bennett, who asked if he could survive
on the state-funded benefits. Duncan Smith replied, “If I had
to, I would.”  In an effort that started yesterday, the government is
capping benefit increases at 1 percent a year over the next
three years, below the projected increase in inflation. It also
introduced curbs on housing benefit, including a reduction in
payments for people in rented housing who have bedrooms that
aren’t being used. Church leaders described the plans as
“unjust” over the Easter weekend.  The  petition , which has attracted more than 150,000
signatures online at website change.org, calls on Duncan Smith
to “live on this budget for at least one year.”  “This would help realize the Conservative Party’s current
mantra that ‘We are all in this together,”’ the petition
states. “This would mean a 97 percent reduction in his current
income, which is 1,581.02 pounds a week or 225 pounds a day
after tax.”  Cabinet Salary  Duncan Smith, who was a soldier before entering politics
and is a former Tory leader, earns 134,565 pounds a year as a
Cabinet minister. The Daily Mail newspaper reported today that
Duncan Smith’s marriage to the daughter of a baron means he is
able to live rent-free in an ancestral Tudor house with a
swimming pool and tennis courts.  “Benefits are not designed to be way of life, they are not
designed as a long-term option,” Prime Minister David Cameron’s
spokesman, Christian Cubitt, told reporters in London today.  The petition hasn’t been posted on the  government’s
official website , on which proposals with more than 100,000
supporters are eligible for debate in Parliament.  Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition is looking to trim
welfare costs to help narrow the budget deficit while winning
support from voters who resent the scale of benefit payments,
even as the  economy stagnates .  The opposition Labour Party has attacked the welfare
reductions, which are coming into effect at the same time as the
government lowers the top income-tax rate on earnings of more
than 150,000 pounds a year to 45 percent from 50 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will today
defend the overhaul of Britain’s welfare system, arguing in a
speech that tax cuts for people on low incomes will make them
better off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  