-- U.K. Lawmakers Challenge Regulator on Banks’ Proprietary Trading
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-lawmakers-challenge-regulator-on-banks-proprietary-trading.html
The U.K.’s new banking regulator
must explain to a panel of British lawmakers how it intends to
monitor and restrict lenders’ proprietary trading.  Prudential Regulation Authority Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Bailey  should outline how he intends to monitor banks’
trading on their own account, what regulatory actions could be
taken and whether the supervisor needs changes to the existing
rules to “carry out these actions,” the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards said in a letter dated March 28.  The panel on March 15 stopped short of immediately
recommending a ban similar to that required under the U.S.
Volcker rule, citing the difficulties of separating proprietary
trading and customer market making. Regulators should “bear
down” on banks’ proprietary trading and review the case for an
outright ban within three years, the commission said.  “Many banks told the commission that, at present, they do
not engage in proprietary trading, nor do they wish to do so,”
 Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative lawmaker who heads the
commission, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The PRA must
exercise its judgment. It should hold the banks to their word.”  The PRA, a unit of the  Bank of England , took over banking
supervision from the Financial Services Authority this week as
part of an overhaul of the U.K.’s regulatory system. The
Financial Conduct Authority, another new regulator, will be
responsible for market abuse and consumer issues.  Proprietary trading, where traders use a bank’s capital to
make independent bets on the direction of securities, generated
an increasing proportion of bank profits before 2007 and may
have contributed to the financial crisis by pitting traders
against their clients and promoting a culture of excessive
short-term remuneration, the panel said in its March report.  “The PRA and its Board will be considering the details of
the letter and will be responding to the committee directly in
due course regarding this important issue,” Liam Parker, a
spokesman for the PRA, said in an e-mailed statement.  ’Further Action’  “In a few years, we will be in a much better position to
decide what, if any, further action should be taken,” Tyrie
said. “We will also be able to benefit from the experiences of
other jurisdictions currently attempting to define and enforce a
ban on proprietary trading.”  The parliamentary commission was set up by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  last year to review the
government’s plans to overhaul how Britain’s banks are regulated
after taxpayers were forced to bail out  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  The panel has already
called on Osborne to toughen plans to force lenders to erect
firewalls around banks’ consumer units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  