-- U.K. Stocks Rise Most in Four Weeks as Vodafone Jumps
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-04-02T12:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-k-stocks-rise-most-in-four-weeks-as-vodafone-jumps.html
U.K. stocks  climbed the most in four
weeks as a business lobby group forecast the economy may avoid
another recession and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  shares surged amid
takeover speculation.  Vodafone, the second-biggest stock in the  FTSE 100 (UKX) , rallied
to a five-year high as the Financial Times’s Alphaville blog
said AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. may jointly bid
for the mobile-phone company.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  jumped the most in
10 months after Bank of America Corp. upgraded the the U.K.’s
largest rail operator.  The FTSE 100 gained 72.82 points, or 1.1 percent, to
6,484.56 at 1:08 p.m. in  London , the largest advance since March
5. The equity benchmark gained 8.7 percent in the first quarter,
the most since September 2010, as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and reports on jobs and housing fueled
optimism that the world’s biggest economy is recovering. The
FTSE All-Share Index rose 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index added 0.9 percent.  “Investors are coming into this month with upbeat
expectations rather than downbeat ones,” said Gerard Lane, a
strategist at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,  England .
“The FTSE’s performance this year has been pretty good. U.S.
markets are performing very strongly, and the U.K. survey data
came in better than expected.”  The British Chambers of Commerce said its gauges of
domestic and foreign demand at manufacturers and services
companies rose last quarter, with export measures near records.  “Fears of another recession are calmed by our results,”
BCC Chief Economist David Kern said. “The economy’s performance
is weak by long-term historical standards. However, while
remaining below trend for some time, growth is likely to stay in
positive territory.”  Manufacturing Data  Still, a release today showed  U.K. manufacturing  contracted
more than forecast last month. A gauge of activity rose to 48.3
in March from 47.9 in February, Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey had forecast an increase to 48.7. A reading
above 50 signals expansion.  Cyprus’s government wants more time to reach targets set as
conditions for its 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout, before
euro-area finance ministers meet later this week. Officials will
ask for an additional year to return to a primary budget
surplus, according to a spokesman. The EU and the IMF have
already pushed back the deadline to 2017 from 2016.  “Final outstanding issues in talks with the troika
primarily relate to the wider financial sector and fiscal policy
and adjustment,” Christos Stylianides, the government’s
spokesman, said in Nicosia yesterday.  Vodafone Jumps  Vodafone rallied 4.7 percent to 195.45 pence, the highest
price since November 2007, as Alphaville reported that  AT&T (T)  and
Verizon are working on a joint offer for the U.K. company. The
blog cited unidentified people.  Vodafone spokesman Matt Morgan declined to comment on the
FT Alphaville report. Verizon Wireless spokesman Torod Neptune
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment before regular
business hours. An AT&T spokesman in London declined to comment.  FirstGroup jumped 6.9 percent to 214.9 pence, the biggest
gain since May 23. Bank of America upgraded the shares to buy
from underperform, saying that contract extensions and
divestments may give the shares a 20 percent boost.  BowLeven Plc (BLVN)  added 1.8 percent to 97.5 pence as the energy
explorer said preliminary results from a well offshore Cameroon
confirmed the presence of condensate-rich gas.  Oil Companies  A  gauge of oil and gas companies  listed on the FTSE 350
Index climbed 1.3 percent.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  increased 2.4 percent to
1,156 pence and  Salamander Energy Plc (SMDR)  added 1.7 percent to 211.3
pence.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, jumped 6.2 percent to 308.5 pence, the biggest
gain since Feb. 6. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. agreed yesterday to buy
eSpeed, the electronic trading system for U.S. Treasuries, from
BGC Partners Inc. for about $750 million in cash.  Evraz Plc (EVR)  slipped 0.9 percent to 220 pence after saying it
will buy 51 percent of OJSC Timir, an iron-ore project in the
southern part of Yakutia in  Russia , for about $160 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  