-- U.S. Credit Swaps Decline; Home Depot Sells $2 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-02T21:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-decline-before-factory-order-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped to a two-week low as factory orders in the world’s
biggest economy increased in February.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 2.2
basis points to a mid-price of 87.8 basis points at 4:10 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
poised for the lowest closing level since traders started moving
positions into a new series of the index on March 20.  Orders placed with U.S. factories increased by 3 percent in
February, a Commerce Department report showed today in
 Washington , beating the 2.9 percent median rise forecast from 64
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The gain is the biggest since
September’s 4.5 percent jump and compares with a revised 1
percent decline in January. Signs of improvement in the economy
may boost investor confidence about companies’ ability to repay
debt.  “Factory orders are a little better than expected, and the
perception of risk is certainly reduced out here,” Mitchell Stapley, chief investment officer of Fifth Third Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from  Grand Rapids ,
 Michigan .  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Share Repurchases  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, sold $2 billion of bonds in a two-part offering to
help fund share repurchases.  The Atlanta-based company, which boosted its  dividend  and
announced a $17 billion stock buyback on Feb. 26, issued $1
billion of 2.7 percent securities due 2023 that yield 85 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and an equal amount
of 4.2 percent, 30-year debt with a spread of 110 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used
for general corporate purposes including share repurchases, Home
Depot said today in a regulatory filing.  The company’s $1 billion of 5.95 percent bonds due 2041
traded March 26 at 127 cents on the dollar to yield 4.29
percent, or 112 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Hertz Swaps  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 4.9 basis points to 423.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The cost to protect the debt against default of a  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  unit fell as the largest publicly traded
U.S. auto-rental chain forecast 2015 adjusted earnings that
surpassed analysts’ estimates.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Hertz Corp. declined 3.9
basis points to 261.1 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.
That’s the biggest drop since March 15.  Hertz projected 2015 adjusted per-share  earnings  of $3.10
to $3.30 in a presentation for its investor meeting, above the
average $2.39 expected by three analysts.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt narrowed 2 basis points to 500.9 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  ‘Solid Demand’  The Moody’s liquidity-stress index, which typically rises
when corporations’ ability to manage cash needs appears to
worsen, rose to 3.2 percent last month from a record low of 3
percent in February, analysts led by John Puchalla wrote in an
April 1 report. The index reached a high of 20.9 percent in
March 2009.  “Solid demand from fixed-income investors for both bonds
and leveraged loans continues to drive  market access  for
speculative-grade companies seeking to refinance or reprice
their debt,” Puchalla wrote.  Through the end of March, U.S. high-yield issuance was 5.4
percent ahead of the pace at the same time last year, according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  