-- U.S.-Backed Bonds Planned by Tunisia Amid IMF Talks
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-02T05:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/u-s-backed-bonds-planned-by-tunisia-amid-imf-talks.html
Tunisia  will seek a U.S. guarantee
for its bonds for the second consecutive year and will sell
Islamic debt in June as the North African nation mobilizes funds
to shield the economy from  Europe ’s crisis and domestic turmoil.  The government may sell $500 million of U.S.-backed notes
in the second half, Finance Minister Elyes Fakhfakh said in an
interview. The yield on $485 million of similarly-guaranteed
debt due July 2019 fell 21 basis points this year to 1.48
percent yesterday, compared with 5.34 percent on Tunisia’s euro-
denominated notes due June 2020. The average yield on Middle
Eastern sovereign debt was little changed last week at 4.37
percent, HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indexes show.  The U.S. guarantee will help lower borrowing costs as
Tunisia seeks to shore up finances amid the crisis in Europe,
Tunisia’s biggest trade partner, and turmoil at home that
threatens to hinder the transition to democracy. The killing of
an opposition leader in February spurred  Standard & Poor’s  to
cut Tunisia’s credit rating for the third time since the 2011
overthrow of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali to BB-, three levels below
investment grade.  “We will ask for another U.S. Treasury backing,”
Fakhfakh, the 41-year-old member of the secular Ettakatol party,
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s regional headquarters in
Dubai. “We are still in this transition process. There are
still some risks.”  95% Done  The government also expects to sign an agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  for a $1.8 billion loan by May, he
said. The talks were delayed after the Feb. 6 killing of Chukri
Beleid, which set off a crisis that led to the resignation of
Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali, a politician from the ruling
Islamist Ennahda party. An IMF team will arrive in Tunisia for
talks on April 8 before another meeting in  Washington  later this
month. “We are in agreement on about 95 percent of the
program,” Fakhfakh said.  Tunisia’s credit risk rose 39 basis points since the
killing to 398, compared with an average 19 basis-point gain in
the Middle East, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While the government is still assessing the effect of the
crisis on growth in the first quarter, it expects the economy to
expand 4 percent this year compared with 3.6 percent in 2012,
Fakhfakh said. Growth will be propelled by the chemical and
mining industries as well as tourism and agriculture, he said.
The  budget deficit  may widen to 5.9 percent of economic output
from 5.1 percent as the government accelerates spending plans
aimed at developing Tunisia’s interior region to create jobs.  Two Speeds  “In Tunisia there were two speeds of growth, and this is
one of the reasons for the revolution, that the interior region
was behind in terms of development, infrastructure and
investments,” Fakhfakh said. “We decided to increase
investments in those areas.”  Tunisia’s uprising was triggered after a street vendor set
himself on fire to protest poverty and unfair treatment by the
regime of Ben Ali. The revolt set off a wave of turmoil in the
 Middle East , leading to the overthrow of leaders in  Egypt , Libya
and Yemen, and to the rise of Islamist groups such as Ennahda in
Tunisia and the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.  Tunisia’s financing plans also include $400 million in so-
called Samurai bonds and 1 billion dinars ($626 million) in
sukuk, Fakhfakh said. Ministry and central bank officials will
meet April 11 to discuss details of the sukuk sale, he said.  Sales of bonds that comply with Islam’s ban on interest
surged to a record $21.3 billion among Arab issuers last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance dropped 26
percent in the first quarter to $6.2 billion.  The sukuk sale will help “diversify our debt,” the
minister said. “We used to have a conflicting relation with
religion, even  Islamic finance , under the dictatorship,” he
said. “Now we are more open.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  