-- USC Hires Enfield as Coach After Florida Gulf Coast’s NCAA Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-02T04:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/usc-hires-enfield-as-coach-after-florida-gulf-coast-s-ncaa-run.html
Andy Enfield has been hired as the
University of Southern California’s basketball coach, leaving
Florida Gulf Coast University less than a week after his team
became the first No. 15 regional seed in the history of the
national men’s tournament to win two games.  Enfield, 43, led the Eagles to a school-record 26 wins in
his second year at Florida Gulf Coast before making history at
the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  It was the latest success for Enfield, who helped build a
health-care contract-management software company before getting
into coaching, and has a fashion-model wife and the career
scoring record at Johns Hopkins University.  “Andy has been successful in every area of his life,” USC
Athletic Director Pat Haden said in a  statement . “He has been a
success on the court as a record-setting player, in the
classroom as an Academic All-American, in the corporate world
with successful businesses, in his personal life as a husband
and father, as an NBA assistant and shooting coach, as a
collegiate assistant at Florida State and, most recently, as a
head coach with his Sweet Sixteen team at Florida Gulf Coast.”  Enfield replaces Kevin O’Neill, who was fired after USC
started with a 7-10 record. Assistant coach Bob Cantu filled in
as interim coach for the rest of the season, as the Trojans
finished 14-18, including a 9-9 mark in the Pac-12 Conference.  “In meeting with Pat Haden, I was very impressed with his
vision for the men’s basketball program,” Enfield said. “I am
looking forward to bringing an exciting, up-tempo style of play
to USC and building the men’s basketball brand into one that the
fans and basketball community will enjoy and respect.”  National Map  Enfield also thanked his players for their NCAA tournament
accomplishments that “put FGCU on the national map.” The Fort
Myers, Florida-based school opened in 1997 and didn’t start
playing basketball at the sport’s top level until 2007.  “I know the program will continue to soar,” said Enfield,
who had an annual coaching salary of $157,500 at FGCU.  USC didn’t disclose terms of his contract.  Enfield worked in the National Basketball Association as a
shooting consultant and coach, becoming an assistant with the
Boston Celtics and Milwaukee Bucks. He was also a Florida State
assistant from 2006 through 2011, helping the Seminoles to NCAA
tournament berths the final three years and developing a
reputation as a top recruiter. Enfield took over at FGCU before
the 2011-12 season and had a 41-28 record.  “Andy’s success this season at Florida Gulf Coast was not
a flash in the pan,” Haden said. “He has a consistent and
proven record of success for more than 15 years in college and
the NBA. His brand of basketball -- an up-tempo offense and a
stingy defense -- is fun for players to play and fans to watch.
He is an excellent fit at USC who will resonate well with our
players, our fans and our community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  