-- Venezuela Opposition Marches as Presidential Campaign Kicks Off
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-04-02T03:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/venezuela-opposition-marches-as-presidential-campaign-kicks-off.html
Venezuela  opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski led a march of supporters last night in
Caracas to mark today’s formal start to the presidential
campaign against  Hugo Chavez ’s hand-picked successor.  “Can you imagine walking at this hour in Caracas?”
Capriles said at the end of the march yesterday in comments
broadcast on the Globovision network. “This is a fight for the
future, for life. God has given us an opportunity to choose
between life and death.” Thousands marched in eastern Caracas
and 19 states to protest crime and support Capriles’ run.  Venezuela will hold a presidential election on April 14
after Chavez, who governed for 14 years, died March 5 from an
undisclosed cancer. Capriles is focusing on concerns such as
inflation and rising crime as he faces acting President  Nicolas Maduro  in a bid to turn back policies that included the seizure
of more than 1,000 companies or their assets since 1999. Maduro
has said he will make fighting crime a top priority if elected.  Venezuela had 3,400 homicides so far this year, Justice and
Interior Minister Nestor Reverol said yesterday on state
television, adding that Miranda state, where Capriles has served
as governor, had 545 of those victims.  Homicides rose 23 percent in 2012 to 16,030 from 13,080 in
2010, according to a report Maduro presented to the National
Assembly Feb. 28. The Venezuelan Violence Observatory, a non-
governmental organization, puts the number higher, estimating
21,692 people, or 59 people a day, were murdered in 2012. The
murder rate of 73 per 100,000 inhabitants is the highest in
 South America . In the U.S., it was five per 100,000 in 2009.  Venezuela’s military should remain neutral during the
campaign and not aid the government, Capriles said yesterday on
the Globovision network. The country’s opposition received a
letter from members of the armed forces saying the military
planned to transport people using army vehicles so they can vote
for Maduro, he said.  ‘Extraordinary Event’  Capriles said he has talked with an active military officer
he would appoint as defense minister if he wins the election.
Capriles also said he would make Cuba pay for the oil it
receives from Venezuela if he wins.  “That night march generates suspicion,” National Assembly
President  Diosdado Cabello , head of Chavez’s party, said
yesterday on state television, adding that the letter from the
military was a fake. “What are they looking for? An
extraordinary event to lift a candidacy that can’t be lifted?”  Maduro has 53.1 percent support against 35.6 percent for
Capriles,  Jorge Rodriguez , head of Maduro’s campaign, said March
26, citing a Datanalisis poll he said ended March 23. Maduro has
55 percent support against 35 percent for Capriles in a poll
covering the last two months, Caracas-based polling firm
Hinterlaces said yesterday in a survey sent by e-mail. The poll
of 1,100 people was carried out between February and March and
has a margin of error of 3 percent.  Chavez defeated Capriles by 11 percentage points in an
election in October. Maduro is capable of continuing Chavez’s
socialist work,  Brazil ’s former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva  said in a video broadcast yesterday by Venezuelan state
television.  The candidates should avoid “irritating the electoral
environment” given the country’s “delicate emotional
context,” Tibisay Lucena, head of the electoral council, said
yesterday in comments on state television. Campaigns are
prohibited from contacting voters by mobile phone other than by
way of  text messages , Lucena said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  