-- Vodafone Drops as Verizon Says It’s Not Considering Bid
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-03T20:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/verizon-denies-report-that-it-s-considering-bid-for-vodafone.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  shares fell from
a five-year high after  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said it isn’t
considering a bid, denying a report that it was discussing a
joint offer for the U.K. carrier with AT&T Inc.  Verizon  said yesterday  it doesn’t have any intention “to
merge with or make an offer for Vodafone, whether alone or in
conjunction with others.”  Vodafone fell 3.1 percent in  London  today after climbing as
much as 6.1 percent yesterday when the Financial Times blog
reported that AT&T and Verizon were considering a joint offer.
Verizon reiterated its interest to buy Newbury, England-based
Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in the companies’ U.S. mobile
venture, Verizon Wireless.  “There never was a bid,” Ottavio Adorisio, an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in London, said in an interview. “As far as
Verizon is concerned, they have had for the last 10 years one
target -- it’s to get Vodafone out at a decent price.” Adorisio
recommends selling Vodafone shares.  A joint bid with  AT&T (T)  could allow Verizon to seize full
control of Verizon Wireless, while letting its U.S. rival scoop
up the remaining Vodafone assets in  Europe . AT&T wireless head
Ralph de la Vega said in an interview in February that the
company would consider opportunities to expand internationally.  Representatives from Vodafone and AT&T declined to comment
on takeover scenarios or Verizon’s statement.  Vodafone dropped 5.85 pence to 186.15 pence in London.
Verizon fell 1 percent to $48.99 at the close in  New York .  Seeking Control  Bloomberg News  reported last month that New York-based
Verizon had considered a full merger with Vodafone as recently
as December, though talks faltered because of disagreements over
leadership and the location of the new headquarters.  Verizon is now focused instead on gaining full control of
 Verizon Wireless , its most valuable asset, people familiar with
the situation said in March. The venture was formed in 1999 when
Vodafone and Bell Atlantic Corp., which became Verizon
Communications, combined their mobile units. Vodafone’s stake is
worth about $115 billion, according to analysts’ estimates.  “As Verizon has said many times, it would be a willing
purchaser of the 45 percent stake that Vodafone holds in Verizon
Wireless,” Verizon said in the statement.  Verizon Communications, as the 55 percent partner, controls
the payments that the wireless venture distributes to the
partners, leaving Vodafone with an uneven income from the U.S.
The cash is becoming increasingly important to Vodafone as its
European operations falter, Adorisio said.  Takeover Rules  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  has said he
wants to gain assets that would allow the company to offer
bundled Internet, mobile and landline phone services across the
continent. The company had internal discussions about an
acquisition of German cable company  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) 
before abandoning the plan, people familiar with the plans said
in February.  Under U.K. takeover rules, Verizon will have to wait six
months after yesterday’s statement to make an offer to buy
Vodafone or shares representing more than 30 percent of  voting
rights  in the company. The rules are designed to protect
shareholders in companies that are takeover targets and subject
to information leaks that affect the stock price.  Exceptions to this rule include scenarios where Vodafone’s
board authorizes a takeover, a third party makes an offer or
there is a “material” change in the company’s circumstances.  Previous Efforts  Earlier efforts at winding down the Verizon Wireless
partnership haven’t been fruitful. In 2004, former Verizon
Communications CEO  Ivan Seidenberg  suggested that Vodafone and
Verizon Communications swap a stake in Vodafone’s Italian
business for Vodafone’s holding in the U.S. In 2006, analysts
called for Vodafone to take advantage of an option to sell $20
billion of its holding in Verizon Wireless to Verizon
Communications. The company let that option expire in 2007.  It came up again in 2009, when Colao, on the job for just
over a year, said at a conference in Barcelona that he intended
to “solve” Vodafone’s lack of control over Verizon Wireless
and that he would consider selling the stake or merging with
Verizon Communications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  