-- Vitol Group Starts Global Grain Trading From Singapore, Geneva
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-04-02T07:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/vitol-group-starts-global-grain-trading-from-singapore-geneva.html
Vitol Group, the world’s largest
independent oil trader, began trading global grain markets from
Singapore and Geneva, with support from staff in  Canada  and
 Germany  to start next month.  The team will be headed by Don Chapman, based in  Vancouver ,
the Geneva-based company said in a statement today. Chapman was
previously with Viterra Inc., Canada’s largest grain handler,
which he joined from Toepfer International in 2007, it said.  Trading houses are expanding as investment banks cut
commodity staff amid declining revenues and stricter rules that
limit how much money they can risk. Farm commodities such as
corn, sugar and  palm oil  can be used to make biofuels, and Vitol
said that Chapman’s team was a so-called natural extension of
its business. Vitol will trade grains and other agricultural
commodities, it said, with identifying them.  “Trading agricultural products builds on our core
strengths in logistics and understanding of global markets,”
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Taylor  said. Operations will be
supported by staff in Hamburg and Vancouver from May, it said.  Corn and soybeans surged to records in 2012, while wheat
traded at the highest level in four years as the worst U.S.
drought since the 1930s scorched crops even as food demand
increased in countries such as China. Wheat on the Chicago Board
of Trade was at $6.6875 a bushel today, and corn, which entered
a  bear market  yesterday, was at $6.455 a bushel.  Agriculture, Metals  Mercuria Energy Group Ltd. added people in Beijing,
Shanghai and Singapore in 2012 as the Geneva-based company
expanded into agriculture and metals. Closely held Mercuria
hired Roger Jones from Barclays Plc as global head of non-oil
trading and named Andrew Perkins from Morgan Stanley as its
global head of agriculture, based in  Singapore .  Trafigura Group, the third-largest independent oil trader,
moved 30 people to Singapore to trade metals and bulks, the
company said in April last year. Chief Financial Officer Pierre
Lorinet moved to the city-state from Geneva.  Vitol, founded in 1966, started dealing in oil products,
and now trades natural gas, power, sugar, non-ferrous metals,
coal and chemicals. The group also has a terminals business and
is involved in shipping and oil exploration, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  