-- Vodafone Jumps on Report AT&T and Verizon Mulling Joint Bid
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-02T18:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/vodafone-jumps-on-report-at-t-and-verizon-are-mulling-joint-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  rose as much as
6.1 percent in  London  trading after a Financial Times blog
reported that  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  may
jointly bid for the British mobile-phone company.  Verizon, which co-owns Verizon Wireless with Vodafone in
the U.S., and AT&T have been working on putting together a
breakup bid for Vodafone and could potentially offer 260 pence
($3.93) per share, the FT Alphaville blog said today, citing
“usually reliable people” it didn’t name.  Discussions on how to resolve Vodafone’s stake in its
Verizon Wireless joint venture -- formed in 1999 when Bell
Atlantic Corp., which became Verizon Communications, and
Vodafone joined their mobile units -- have been going on
for years without a solution. Verizon is working on how to
resolve its partnership with Vodafone this year to gain full
control over its most valuable asset, and has considered a full
merger, people familiar with the situation told Bloomberg last
month.  Shares of Vodafone, the world’s second-largest wireless
service provider behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , closed up 2.9 percent
at 192 pence after rising as much as 6.1 percent in London
trading.  ‘Acute Buyer’  While AT&T may be interested in  Europe , “AT&T historically
has been a relatively acute buyer,”  Robin Bienenstock , a
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst in London, said in a telephone
interview today. “If you look at what they’ve bought in U.S.
acquisitions, they’ve always bought at quite low prices.”  In a full merger, Verizon could sell Vodafone’s
international assets to AT&T for a premium, analysts have said.
Still, the deal would be unusually expensive and complicated for
Dallas-based AT&T, Bienenstock said in an interview.  Vodafone, Verizon and AT&T spokesmen declined to comment on
reports about talks among the companies.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in Vodafone
stock cost 0.7 points more than calls betting on a 10 percent
rally, according to six-month data compiled by Bloomberg. That
difference, which indicates the cost of hedging against losses,
has fallen to the lowest level in more than four years as
investors bet the company will sell its  Verizon Wireless  stake.  Expansion Opportunities  AT&T wireless head Ralph de la Vega said in an interview in
February that the company looks at expansion opportunities
internationally.  The U.S. and U.K. mobile-phone operators discussed a full
combination as recently as December, people familiar with the
situation told Bloomberg last month. Those talks stumbled over
disagreements on leadership and the location of the new
headquarters, making a buyout or partial sale of Vodafone’s 45
percent stake in the Verizon Wireless subsidiary a likelier
outcome, the people said. That stake is worth about $115
billion, according to analysts.  Vodafone is looking for ways to add scale as it grapples
with declining service revenue amid a slowdown in Europe, its
biggest market. Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  has said
he wants to add assets that would allow the company to offer
bundled Internet, mobile and fixed-line phone services across
the continent. The company had internal discussions about an
acquisition of German cable company  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) 
before abandoning the approach plans, people familiar with the
plans said.  In 2004, former Verizon Communications CEO  Ivan Seidenberg 
suggested that Vodafone and Verizon Communications swap a stake
in Vodafone’s Italian business for Vodafone’s holding in the
U.S. In 2006, analysts called for Vodafone to take advantage of
an option to sell $20 billion of its holding in Verizon Wireless
to Verizon Communications. The company let that option expire in
2007.  It came up again in 2009, when Colao, on the job for just
over a year, said at a conference in Barcelona that he intended
to “solve” Vodafone’s lack of control over Verizon Wireless
and that he would consider selling the stake or merging with
Verizon Communications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  