-- Wisconsin Researcher Accused of Economic Spying for China
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-02T20:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/wisconsin-cancer-researcher-accused-of-economic-spying-for-china.html
A  Medical College of Wisconsin 
researcher was charged with economic espionage for stealing a
patented cancer-research compound to give to a university in
China.  Hua Jun Zhao, 42, may have stolen the compound from a
Medical College office in  Milwaukee  and taken steps to deliver
it to Zhejiang University, according to a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agent’s affidavit in support of a criminal
complaint dated March 29.  A copy of the complaint against Zhao was obtained today
from the office of Milwaukee U.S. Attorney James L. Santelle.  “There is probable cause to believe that Hua Jun Zhao has
committed the crime of economic espionage,” FBI Special Agent
Gerald Shinneman wrote in his nine-page affidavit.  Zhao joins a Motorola Inc. engineer and a researcher at Dow
AgroSciences LLC who, in separate cases, have been accused by
the U.S. of economic espionage or stealing on behalf of Chinese
entities.  Zhao is in the Milwaukee County Jail and no bail has been
set, said Fran McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the Milwaukee
County Sheriff’s Department.  Hearing Set  Dean Puschnig, a spokesman for Santelle, declined to
comment on the status of Zhao’s case. Theft of  trade secrets  to
benefit a foreign government is punishable by as long as 15
years’ imprisonment. A preliminary hearing for Zhao is set for
April 11 before Magistrate Judge Patricia Gorence in Milwaukee.  Juval Scott, a federal public defender representing Zhao,
said in a phone interview today that her office had no
information beyond what is contained in the criminal complaint.  “We’re looking forward to discovery,” Scott said. “This
is an unusual case. Nationwide there have only been a few
cases.”  Hanjuan Jin, a former Motorola software engineer, last year
was sentenced to four years in prison for stealing trade secrets
from the company. While accused of planning to share that
information with a company that had ties to the Chinese
military, she was acquitted of economic espionage.  A former Dow AgroSciences researcher, Kexue Huang, was
sentenced to seven years and three months in federal prison in
2011 after pleading guilty in two consolidated cases to stealing
trade secrets to benefit a Chinese university.  Three Bottles  Zhao had been conducting pharmacology research at the
university as an assistant to Dr. Marshall Anderson, according
to Shinneman’s affidavit.  On Feb. 22, Anderson reported to university security that
three bottles of a powdery compound identified only as C-25, for
which he held the patent, had disappeared from his office, the
FBI agent said. The vials were worth about $8,000, Shinneman
said.  A review of security video showed Zhao was the only person
to enter or leave Anderson’s office around the time the bottles
disappeared, according to the affidavit.  University security also learned Zhao had been in  China 
from December to February and stated on his resume that he was
an assistant professor at Zhejiang University, Shinneman said.  Zhao also claimed on the website  ResearchGate  that he had
discovered a cancer-fighting compound and wanted to bring it to
China, the FBI agent said.  Plane Tickets  Federal agents, with a search warrant for Zhao’s residence
on March 28, found a receipt for a package sent to his wife in
China a month earlier, together with plane tickets for a flight
from  Chicago  to China, scheduled to depart today, Shinneman
said.  At a detention hearing yesterday in Milwaukee, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Tracy M. Johnson told Gorence that Zhao had sold
his car prior to his arrest. Johnson told the judge that in
addition to his wife, Zhao has a son living in China.  While Zhao may not have known about the case, “he had an
inkling there was a problem,” Gorence said at the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-mj-00220, U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at  fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  