-- Won Reverses Gain, Kospi Drops on North Korea’s Nuclear Plans
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-02T07:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/won-reverses-gain-kospi-drops-on-north-korea-s-nuclear-plans.html
The won and the Kospi index of
shares dropped to their lowest levels in at least a week after
 North Korea  said it will restart its Yongbyon nuclear site,
heightening tensions on the peninsula.  Government bonds  gained.  The won reversed earlier gains after the North’s official
Korean Central News Agency said a uranium enrichment plant and a
graphite-rod reactor mothballed since 2007 will resume
operations “without delay.” The facility was shut down after
an agreement was reached at six-nation talks aimed at persuading
the totalitarian state to scrap its nuclear arms program.  “The North Korean threat, which has been a potential risk
in the markets, has emerged once again as a negative factor,”
said Lee Dae Ho, an analyst at Hyundai Futures Corp. in  Seoul .
“Stocks and the won both dropped after the North Korean
announcement as investors are concerned the risk was heightened
to a level that may affect neighboring countries involved in the
six-party talks, not just the Korean peninsula.”  The won closed 0.3 percent weaker at 1,117.98 per dollar in
Seoul, after earlier strengthening as much as 0.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level
since March 22. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index dropped 0.5 percent to 1,986.15,
its worst close since March 26.  North Korea said on March 30 that a “state of war” exists
with the South and warned it may shut a jointly run industrial
zone in its border city of Gaeseong. Kim Jong Un, the communist
state’s leader, said March 31 nuclear weapons development is a
priority as the country ratcheted up tensions by repeating
threats to attack the U.S.  Stock Outflows  Overseas investors sold the most South Korean equities in
10 months in March as tensions with the North escalated. Global
funds unloaded a net 2.6 trillion won ($2.3 billion) of Kospi
shares, the heaviest monthly net sales since May 2012, Korea
Exchange Inc. data showed. The currency dropped 2.6 percent
during the month and the Kospi lost 1.1 percent.  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding (067250)  tumbled by the daily limit of
15 percent today as did other STX Group units such as  STX Corp. (011810) 
and STX Pan Ocean Co., after the shipbuilder said it is seeking
voluntary debt restructuring with creditors. Banks also declined
on speculation bad-loan provisions may increase.  “Continued threats from North Korea and somewhat strong
responses from the U.S. could be a source of worry among foreign
investors,” Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  at Seoul-based KTB
Asset Management Co., said by phone today. “STX news chilled
sentiment towards the entire group units and bank stocks.”  Defense Stocks  Victek Co., a maker of electronic warfare equipment, led
South Korean defense stocks higher on speculation geopolitical
risks will increase, rising by 14 percent. Firstec Co., a maker
of components for helicopters and armored vehicles, rose 6.6
percent, while  Speco Co. (013810)  added 15 percent.  South Korea  called on the North today to abide by its
commitment to a nuclear-free Korean peninsula, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Cho Tai Young told reporters in Seoul. South Korea
will continue to watch the situation closely, Cho said.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due March
2018 fell one basis point to 2.56 percent, according to prices
from Korea Exchange Inc. The five-year yield reached 2.51
percent on March 29, the lowest it has been in Bloomberg data
going back to 2000, amid a worsening economic outlook.  The South Korean government lowered its 2013 growth
forecast on March 28 to 2.3 percent from a December projection
of 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  