-- Kim Vows Increased Climate-Change Role to Help Ease Poverty
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-04-02T19:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/world-bank-s-kim-vows-climate-change-focus-to-help-ease-poverty.html
World Bank  President Jim Yong Kim
vowed to boost the lender’s contribution to easing the effects
of  climate change  as part of a new goal to eliminate extreme
poverty by 2030.  Helping mitigate shocks, including those caused by global
warming, is one of the conditions needed to reach the poverty
reduction target, Kim said in a speech at  Georgetown University 
in Washington today. Also required is sustained fast growth in
regions such as sub-Saharan  Africa  and reduced  income
inequality , he said.  “We are at an auspicious moment in history, when the
successes of past decades and an increasingly favorable economic
outlook combine to give  developing countries  a chance -- for the
first time ever -- to end extreme poverty within a generation,”
Kim said.  “Our duty now must be to ensure that these favorable
circumstances are matched with clear decision making and
resolute action to realize this historic opportunity,” he said.  The speech outlines the bank’s strategy under Kim, a
physician by training who took over the institution in July and
spent his first six months conferring with staff and directors.
With pressure from the largest emerging economies, which are
setting up their own  development bank , Kim needs to demonstrate
the value of a lender still dominated by the richest nations.  ‘Specific Policies’  “It’s refreshing to see a world leader outline a bold,
focused and measurable vision,” aid group Oxfam said in an e-
mailed statement. Still, ‘when it develops its strategy based on
this vision, the World Bank should commit to specific policies
and investment priorities.’’  In an overview of the global economy, Kim cited the bailout
of Cyprus as a recent sign the global economic crisis is not yet
over. Prospects are brighter for  emerging markets , which are
seen growing at 5.5 percent this year and 5.7 percent next year,
he said.  “It is too early to declare victory,” Kim said. “At the
same time there is growing evidence that we are on the right
track, and with road bumps ahead, we will come out of it.”  Kim said some of  Europe ’s difficulties will continue until
late-2014 and early 2015, after a projected 0.2 percent
contraction this year.  He later told reporters that the willingness shown by the
 European Central Bank , the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund  to help protect the euro zone,
including Cyprus, is “very encouraging.”  Global Warming  Still, progress in developing countries may be reversed
without actions to curb emissions of  greenhouse gases , Kim said.
In November the lender released a study saying the world risks
“cataclysmic changes” caused by extreme heat waves, rising
seas and depleted food stocks.  In a December interview, Kim singled out climate change as
an area where the World Bank can make a difference.  The bank “is now working on a revamped strategy to
significantly strengthen our climate change interventions and
help catalyze urgent action among global partners on the scale
required,” Kim said today.  “We are exploring a number of bold ideas, including new
mechanisms to support and connect carbon markets; politically
feasible plans to eliminate fossil fuel subsidies; increased
investments in climate-smart agriculture; and innovative
partnerships to build clean cities,” he said.  $1.25 Daily  Bringing extreme poverty -- defined as living on less than
$1.25 a day -- under 3 percent by 2030 compared with 21 percent
in 2010 will be one of the two goals pursued by the bank when it
has to choose between competing priorities, Kim said.  A second goal will be to boost the income of the poorest 40
percent of the population in each country, he said, citing as an
example a new strategy for  India  that the bank will discuss next
week.  “We are very clear that there’s no way that the World Bank
Group as a single institution can end poverty,” Kim told
reporters. “We can play a central role in coordinating not only
donors but also the private sector in making the kind of
investments that will have the biggest impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  