-- WTI Crude Drops as U.S. Oil Stockpiles Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-03T12:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/wti-crude-drops-as-u-s-oil-stockpiles-gain.html
West  Texas  Intermediate fell for the
second time in three days after data showed U.S. crude
stockpiles rose the most in four weeks and a government order
prevented the restart of a pipeline to the Texas Gulf Coast.  Futures slid as much as 0.7 percent in  New York . Crude
inventories climbed 4.7 million barrels last week, the most
since March 1, according to the  American Petroleum Institute .
Government data today may show supplies rose  2.1 million
barrels . Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Pegasus pipeline, which runs from
the Midwest to Texas refineries, will stay shut until regulators
are satisfied with repairs. The main rebel group in Nigeria’s
oil-rich Niger River delta said it will resume assaults.  “Crude builds are normal at a time of high seasonal
refinery maintenance,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market
strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research company in  London 
whose forecast for oil in the first quarter was within 0.6
percent of actual  price levels . “The longer the Pegasus outage
lasts, the more it is likely to weigh on WTI.”  WTI for May delivery declined as much as 68 cents to $96.51
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.62 at 1:46 p.m. London time.  Brent for May settlement retreated for a second day on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange, dropping 99 cents to
$109.70 a barrel. The contract decreased 0.4 percent to $110.69
yesterday. Brent, the European benchmark crude grade, was at a
premium of $13.08 to WTI, versus $13.50 yesterday. The volume of
all WTI futures traded was 27 percent below the 100-day average,
while Brent trading was 22 percent above.  Nigerian Rebels  Brent declined even as the Movement for the Emancipation of
the  Niger Delta  announced it will start to carry out “a plague
of attacks” from April 5 against Africa’s biggest petroleum
industry, according to an e-mailed statement by spokesman Jomo Gbomo. MEND wants  Henry Okah , its suspected leader, released
from prison in  South Africa .  “The attacks will be sustained until an unreserved apology
is offered to MEND and the Nigerian government shows their
willingness to dialogue,” Gbomo said.  An explosion hit  Libya ’s Zueitina Oil Co.’s crude and
condensate pipelines yesterday at 10 p.m., state-run National
Oil Corp. said on its website, citing company official Abul
Qasim Shanger.  Libyan Plans  Libya, holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves, expects
production to increase to 1.7 million barrels a day this year
from 1.5 million a day currently, Deputy Oil Minister Omar
Shakmak said today at a conference in Dubai.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed to 388 million
barrels last week, the highest level in more than 22 years, as
production surged and refineries completed annual maintenance
programs, a Bloomberg News survey showed before the report from
the Energy Information Administration.  The EIA will probably say gasoline inventories dropped 1
million barrels, according to the  median estimate  of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Distillate inventories are projected to
fall 1.1 million barrels. The API said yesterday gasoline
stockpiles fell 5 million barrels last week, while supplies of
heating oil and diesel slid 1.9 million barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistics unit, for its weekly survey,
scheduled for release at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Technical Indicators  WTI declined after trading higher than its upper Bollinger
Band the past three days without settling above it, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The indicator, representing
technical resistance, is around $97.43 a barrel today. Crude’s
30-day stochastic oscillators are also above 70 for the first
time in six weeks, signaling further gains after last month’s
rally aren’t sustainable.  Exxon’s 96,000 barrel-a-day Pegasus pipeline was closed
after a leak was discovered in  Arkansas  on March 29. The line
runs 940 miles (1,512 kilometers) from Patoka,  Illinois , to
Nederland, Texas, and serves refineries around  Port Arthur  and
Beaumont in eastern Texas.  The U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration issued the order yesterday, citing  hazards  to
“life, property and the environment” if the pipeline were to
continue operating without corrective measures. The line leaked
3,500 to 5,000 barrels of oil.  “We are studying the order and don’t have anything
further” to say,  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman at Exxon’s
headquarters in Irving, Texas, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “Our current plan is to develop the excavation plan,
get that to PHMSA and have them evaluate that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  