-- Ty Cobb’s $15,000 Demand Began Baseball’s Antitrust Woes
-- B y   S t u a r t   B a n n e r
-- 2013-04-02T13:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/ty-cobb-s-15-000-demand-began-baseball-s-antitrust-woes.html
A hundred years ago this month,
baseball’s first antitrust crisis began with the holdout of Ty Cobb.  Cobb, the Detroit Tigers’ star center fielder, was paid a
salary of $10,000 in 1912, when he hit .409 and won his sixth
consecutive batting title. Before the 1913 season, Cobb demanded
a raise to $15,000. When the team’s owner, Frank Navin, refused,
Cobb announced that he was quitting baseball and heading home to
 Georgia .  Under the reserve clause, a standard term used in player
contracts, in one form or another, since 1879, Cobb couldn’t
play for any team but the Tigers.  Cobb’s holdout spurred Georgia’s congressional delegation
to action. “Send me a copy of your contract,” Senator Hoke Smith
wired to Cobb. Smith explained to the press that he suspected
the reserve clause violated the  Sherman Antitrust Act . Similar
allegations had been made for years, not least by players, who
saw all too clearly how the clause depressed their salaries by
preventing them from selling their services to the highest
bidder. But this was the first time a U.S. senator had taken an
interest in the subject. Smith was soon joined by Representative
Thomas Hardwick, also of Georgia, who began preparing a
congressional investigation of baseball’s monopoly.  Within a few days, Cobb and Navin settled on a salary of
$12,000. Cobb resumed playing, and Georgia’s politicians lost
interest in the antitrust implications of his contract. The
sporting press joked that the next congressional investigations
would involve charges of child labor made by Christy Mathewson
and demands for a minimum-wage law on the part of Honus Wagner
and Smoky Joe Wood.  Federal League  But antitrust law would haunt the sport for several more
years. Organized baseball’s main antagonist was the Federal
League. Formed as a minor league in 1913, it scrapped with the
established American and National leagues from the start. Early
in the 1913 season,  Western Union (WU)  refused to carry Federal
League scores on its telegraph ticker, apparently under pressure
from organized baseball. The Federal League fought back by
getting Illinois Representative Thomas Gallagher to introduce a
resolution calling for a House investigation of the “audacious
and autocratic” baseball trust. Baseball cranked up its
formidable lobbying operation -- hundreds of minor-league clubs
scattered through congressional districts all over the country -
- and prevented Gallagher’s resolution from coming to a vote.  At the end of the 1913 season, the Federal League’s club
owners decided to become a third major league. The critical
obstacle to this plan was the reserve clause, because all the
best players in the country were bound to their American and
National league teams.  After losing money in 1914, the Federal League filed an
antitrust lawsuit in January 1915. The complaint sought the
dissolution of all existing player contracts and a declaration
that organized baseball was an illegal monopoly.  The Federal League filed its suit in  Chicago , most likely
because the senior of Chicago’s two federal-district judges,
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, had a reputation as a trust-buster.
Landis was famous for a 1907 case in which he imposed a fine of
more than $29 million on Standard Oil (about $700 million in
today’s money), the largest fine in U.S. history at the time.  Landis wasn’t just a trust-buster, however. He was also a
diehard baseball fan.  Rumors, Accusations  Both sides wanted the case decided quickly, before the
season began. They submitted evidence by the end of January,
hoping that Landis would announce a decision by April. But when
the season started, there was no word from Landis. Spring turned
to summer, and still no decision. Every so often, a rumor would
circulate that a ruling was imminent, but each time the rumor
was wrong. By September, the sporting press was accusing Landis
of lying down on the job. The  Boston Red Sox  beat the
 Philadelphia Phillies  in the  World Series  in October, and Landis
still hadn’t taken any action.  Finally, in January 1916, the two sides reached a
settlement. The Federal League had lost so much money in 1915
that a third season was out of the question. The Federal League
dropped its suit, and in return organized baseball effectively
absorbed the five Federal League clubs located in cities with
major-league teams. (Three Federal League clubs were left out of
the settlement. Two,  Kansas City  and Buffalo, were almost
bankrupt. The third, Baltimore, turned down the offer and filed
a suit of its own, which would endure until 1922, when the
 Supreme Court  ended it with an opinion that would become the
root of baseball’s antitrust exemption.)  When the lawyers for all concerned filed into Landis’s
courtroom in February 1916 for the formal termination of the
Federal League’s suit, Landis explained, for the first and only
time in public, why he had delayed a decision for so long. He
would have ruled in the Federal League’s favor, he said, but he
didn’t want to destroy the game of baseball. So he had resolved
to do nothing.  Four years later, the leaders of organized baseball would
make Landis their first commissioner.  ( Stuart Banner  is the Norman Abrams Professor of Law at
UCLA and the author of “The Baseball Trust: A History of
Baseball’s Antitrust Exemption.” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Stuart Banner at
 banner@law.ucla.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  