-- Zynga Says Former OMGPop CEO Porter Leaving Year After Deal
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-04-02T18:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-02/zynga-s-dan-porter-departing-sean-kelly-to-head-new-york-studio.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  said Dan Porter, who ran
the social game company’s  New York  studio, is departing a year
after the acquisition of OMGPop Inc., the mobile game developer
that was led by Porter.  Sean Kelly, who has worked on Web and mobile products,
including the introduction of the game “CityVille” in 2009,
will succeed Porter, San Francisco-based Zynga said in a
statement. Kelly will report to Senior Vice President Travis
Boatman.  Porter’s departure comes three weeks after he  apologized  on
Zynga’s blog for saying the company has a propensity to copy
games. While Porter wrote that the comments, as published by
technology website  Quartz , were taken out of context, he
acknowledged that they “generated negative press for the
company.” Porter was Chief Executive Officer of OMGPop, maker
of the “Draw Something” application, which Zynga purchased in
March 2012 for $180 million.  “We thank Dan Porter for his efforts in making the ‘Draw
Something’ franchise a success and wish him well in his future
endeavors,” Zynga Chief Operations Officer David Ko said in the
statement. “We’re proud to see talent like Sean Kelly take a
bigger leadership role as the head of our New York studio.”  Executive Exits  Zynga has lost more than a dozen top managers amid slowing
demand for virtual goods. Through yesterday’s close, the
company’s shares had dropped 68 percent drop since its December
2011 initial public offering. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said in October that he’ll trim 5 percent of staff, close
his Boston office, and end more than a dozen titles. Recent
departures include Chief Game Designer Brian Reynolds, Vice
President Roy Sehgal and Treasurer Mike Gupta.  On March 1, a week before Porter’s public comments, Zynga
released “What’s the Phrase,” a word game for Apple Inc.
iPhones. The app, from the creators of ’Draw Something,’ is part
of the company’s effort to build hit titles for mobile devices
to counter slowing demand for apps played on Facebook Inc.’s
social network.  Zynga  fell  2.5 percent to $3.08 at 2:45 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  