-- Labor Loss Spurs Search of U.S. Churches, Libraries for Dropouts: Economy
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-02-06T17:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/labor-loss-spurs-search-of-u-s-churches-libraries-for-dropouts-economy.html
In the nation’s capital, city
employees are scouring churches, libraries, and community
centers to find people who have dropped out of the  labor force 
and help them get jobs.  “The most surprising thing is the length of time people
have been out of work,” said Hugh Bailey, head of satellite
operations for Washington’s Department of Employment Services,
where  municipal crews  are using a mobile van made by Winnebago
Industries Inc. to find people. “We ask, ‘How long have you
been out of work?’ and may hear three, four or five years.”  The lowest U.S.  jobless rate  in three years hasn’t changed
the long-term picture for millions of Americans: about 5.5
million haven’t worked for 27 weeks or more and are still
looking -- making up 42.9 percent of the total unemployed pool.
Another 2.8 million are too discouraged to actively look for
work in recent weeks or have other reasons for not wanting to be
in the labor force, according to non-seasonally adjusted data
released Feb. 3 by the Labor Department.  “The labor market is still worse than the official
unemployment rate would suggest,” said Henry Mo, an economist
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in New York.  Unemployment  fell  to 8.3 percent in January from 9.1
percent a year earlier, and payrolls increased by 243,000
workers, extending from professional services and hospitality to
manufacturing. Job gains haven’t done much to boost the
percentage of the population participating in the labor force:
63.7 percent, the lowest level in three decades. Last month’s
drop in the participation rate reflected adjustments to the
labor force count resulting from the 2010 census.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell today on concern  Greece ’s political leaders
will fail to reach an agreement allowing the nation to receive a
second bailout from international creditors. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500  dropped 0.2 percent to 1,342.3 at 12 p.m. in  New
York , snapping a three-day rally.  Data today showed German manufacturers were weathering
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis on growing demand from outside
the region. Orders to factories, adjusted for seasonal swings
and inflation, rose 1.7 percent from November, when they slumped
4.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.  Long-term unemployment in the U.S. is a focus of attention
among Federal Reserve officials, who last month said they would
keep borrowing costs low through at least late 2014 to boost the
economy and put more Americans back to work.  “We’re concerned that the large amount of long-term
unemployment may be causing some workers to lose skills or lose
labor force attachment,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a
Jan. 25 news conference.  Household Survey  Labor force data is released by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics and based on a monthly survey of 60,000 households
that uses a geographical sample to extrapolate the total number
of employed and unemployed people 16 and over looking for work
in the four weeks prior to the data-reporting period.  Research  by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  concludes
that the percentage of men active in the labor force has
declined “considerably more than” women.  That’s possibly because industries such as construction
suffered disproportionately during the recession compared with
education or health care, according to a paper released in
December by bank economist Richard Peach, analyst Josiah Bethards, and Joseph Song, a former researcher. The
participation rate among workers over the age of 55 is dropping
faster than their younger counterparts for reasons that may
range from the availability of early retirement packages to a
lack of job opportunities and age discrimination, they said.  Demographic Changes  About a quarter of the decline in the labor-force
participation rate from 2008 to 2011 among 16- to 79-year-olds
is due to long-run demographic changes, such as the retirement
of  baby boomers , economists from the  Chicago Fed  said in a paper
released Feb. 1.  The efforts in Washington to find both the long-term
unemployed and out-of-work who have given up searching has found
a roughly equal number of males and females in the pool of
“disaffected, disconnected” workers who have “checked out,”
mostly between the ages of 22 to 44, Bailey said. The city’s
 unemployment rate  has remained stuck above 8 percent since
January 2009.  “There are a large number of reasons why people are not
working or engaged in the process,” he said. “We found some
people homeless and living in shelters, some living with family
members, some having been involved in illegal activity, and many
relying on public assistance programs. Some found themselves not
believing they would be able to get back to work, and some have
grown accustomed to not finding a job.”  Looking for Work  Tanya Smith, 46, said she is ready to begin looking again
after losing her last full-time job in 2008 as a teacher’s aide,
which paid $13.63 an hour.  “You go on enough interviews, it does take you to that
point where you think, ‘No one’s going to hire me so let me get
out for a little while,’” said Smith, a mother of four from
 Washington . “I know there’s a job out there for me. Where it
is, I don’t know.”  Smith said she spent September through December of last
year doing housework, volunteering at her church, and attending
parent-teacher meetings at her son’s school. Meanwhile, she
relied on her husband’s salary as an assistant supervisor at a
university, along with income from his side business repairing
watches.  Outreach Program  Washington officials have placed more than 2,000 out-of-
work people since September, using a campaign in five languages
that also includes public-service announcements and websites
such as Twitter Inc.’s twitter.com and Facebook Inc.’s
facebook.com, said David Thompson, spokesman for the city’s
Department of Employment Services. More than 450 employers --
such as  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,  Denny’s Corp. (DENN) , and 7-
Eleven Inc. -- are participating in the program.
go beyond those being made in some states where unemployment
levels are among the highest in the country.  In  California , where the jobless rate was 11.1 percent in
December, reaching out to workers needing a job “has grown more
difficult as layoffs have soared and funding of our programs has
dwindled,” Patrick Joyce, a spokesman for the state’s
employment development department, said in a statement.  Michigan , which had 9.3 percent unemployment as of
December, has no program to reach out to discouraged people who
have dropped out of the labor market, according to the state’s
Unemployment Insurance Agency.  Still Searching  For millions of workers counted as long-term unemployed,
the search continues. Teresa Johnson, 56, hasn’t had a full-time
job since April 2005, when she was earning $5.25 an hour as an
administrative assistant and secretarial trainee.  “It’s very frustrating,” said Johnson, a Washington,
D.C., resident. “I do a lot of praying. You go through a lot of
headaches and it wears you down.”  Still, “you feel a little bit more confident when somebody
is helping you find work,” she said of the city’s outreach
efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  