-- Ackman Faults Canadian Pacific Chief for ‘Worst Railroad’
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-06T20:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/ackman-faults-canadian-pacific-chief-for-worst-railroad-3-.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.’s (CP) 
support for Chief Executive Officer Fred Green doesn’t make
sense because the company’s performance trails all of its North
American peers, the railroad’s largest investor said.  “We think the board has chosen the wrong CEO,”  William Ackman  told shareholders at a meeting in Toronto, where he
renewed his call to replace Green with  Hunter Harrison , the
former head of Canadian National Railway Co.  “The results are
the worst railroad by a long shot in  North America .”  Ackman, the founder of New York-based  Pershing Square 
Capital Management LP, buys stakes in companies he deems
undervalued and pushes changes to improve returns. Pershing
holds a 14.2 percent stake in  Canadian Pacific  after becoming
its biggest investor last year.  Ackman, 45, arranged the meeting in Toronto to win support
for his slate of five directors, a group that he said would help
persuade the board to dismiss Green and bring in Harrison to run
the Calgary-based railroad. Green, 55, has led the carrier since
2006.  Canadian Pacific reversed earlier losses to  climb  1.2
percent to C$74.39 at 2:58 p.m. in Toronto.  “Ackman presented a very strong case for change,” Cameron
Doerksen, an analyst with National Bank Financial Inc. in
Montreal, wrote in a note to clients. “It will be difficult for
CP shareholders not to support Pershing Square’s board nominees
and we increasingly believe that CP’s board will lose a proxy
battle.”  ‘Concrete Suggestions’  Harrison, 67, has said he can cut the ratio of expenses to
sales at the railroad to 65 percent in 2015. Montreal-based
 Canadian National , the country’s biggest rail carrier, saw net
income more than triple during Harrison’s seven-year tenure as
he improved the company’s margins.  Canadian Pacific said Pershing isn’t giving “concrete
suggestions” for the gains it’s seeking.  “It appears that Pershing Square still has no plan or
clear timetable to improve CP’s operations,” based on today’s
presentation, the company said in a statement. Pershing “has
provided no specific actions to support its hypothetical math”
and a management change “would cause serious disruption to CP’s
business,” the railroad said.  Canadian Pacific has said that reaching Pershing and
Harrison’s operating ratio target from the starting point of
77.6 in 2010 has never been achieved as quickly as they suggest
by any railroad management team.  ‘Starting Point’  The company has changed its own forecast for the operating
ratio, which gauges efficiency by comparing expenses to revenue,
to a range of 70 to 72 by 2014 from an earlier target of the
“low 70s.”  Ackman said that while proving what the actual operating
ratio will be at a future date is impossible, investors should
consider whether Green or Harrison has the greatest likelihood
of achieving the desired goal.  “We’ve got to find a starting point for getting there,”
Harrison told Ackman during a question-and-answer session with
the hedge-fund manager during the meeting. “This thing might be
a little longer than I thought because I was saying four years
and everybody’s got ‘15, but we’ve got to figure out where we
start.  ‘‘There’s no reason that franchise cannot move over time to
a 65 operating ratio,” he said. “I’m a railroader. What I want
to do is get on with this. I wish we didn’t have to wait” until
board elections in May to start, Harrison said.  The CEO nominee told Ackman, “If they can go to 70 or 72
and I can’t go to 65, you can hang me in Times Square and you
don’t have to pay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 