-- Macquarie Group Full-Year Profit to Fall 25% With Fee Landscape Uncertain
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-07T05:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/macquarie-full-year-profit-to-drop-25-as-capital-securities-outlook-cut.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, said full-year earnings will fall about
25 percent as it cut the outlook for its securities trading and
investment banking businesses.  Profit in the year to March 31 will decline to about A$717
million ($767 million), from A$956 million a year earlier,
according to calculations based on the company’s forecast. The
Sydney-based bank said its securities business will make a
“negative contribution” while the performance of its advisory
unit will be “significantly lower” than a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore  is using cash to pay
down debt, reduce the size of Macquarie’s balance sheet, and
reverse an expansion in the derivatives businesses in  Europe 
that, “with the benefit of hindsight, is something we wouldn’t
have done,” he said today. Macquarie cut staff in the nine
months to Dec. 31 by 928 to 14,628, company statements show.  “There are still pressures out there that Macquarie will
suffer,” said  Paul Xiradis , who manages about $12 billion in
assets as chief executive officer of Ausbil Dexia Ltd. in
Sydney. “But the projection is that over the next year or two
that markets should recover and hence Macquarie, being exposed
to that, will also be such that their earnings recover.”  Shares  of Macquarie fell 0.8 percent to A$25.90 in Sydney.
They have fallen 37 percent in the past 12 months, while the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index  has fallen 12 percent.  Deepening Uncertainty  “Global economic uncertainty has deepened, resulting in
substantially lower levels of client activity in many markets,”
Moore said in today’s statement.  While the fixed income, currencies and commodities unit saw
“improved conditions” that drove an increase in profit in the
December quarter from a year earlier, the securities and
advisory businesses “were severely impacted by macroeconomic
conditions,” Moore said.  Macquarie funds, banking and financial services, and
corporate and asset finance are expected to post a combined 20
percent increase in full-year earnings, the bank said.  The three months to Dec. 31 included the receipt of A$300
million in cash, recorded as income, from MAp Group, which
operates Sydney’s airport.  Like rivals on  Wall Street  and in Europe, Macquarie has
been under pressure to trim staff and costs as fee income growth
slows.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, posted a 47 percent drop in 2011 earnings to the lowest
level since 2008 and eliminated 2,400 jobs after the stock fell
46 percent.  Job Cuts  Macquarie’s Moore may need to cut about 1,000 jobs to
offset slower trading and corporate advisory income, UBS AG
analysts including Jonathan Mott said in September.  The bank’s securities business exited institutional
derivatives in the U.S., U.K.,  Asia  and  South Africa  and listed
public derivatives in Germany, Macquarie said in today’s
statement. It also shuttered derivatives businesses in Paris,
Munich and Zurich, as well as some U.S. operations, it said.  Moore said Macquarie expanded into retail derivatives in
 Germany  after the 2008 financial crisis, something he is now
“stepping back from.”  “We were in retail derivatives in Asia very successfully,
we thought it could translate into Germany,” he told analysts
on today’s call. “That, plainly, with the benefit of hindsight,
is something we wouldn’t have done -- we wouldn’t have gone into
retail derivatives in Germany just before a European debt
crisis.”  ‘Absolute Disaster’  The expansion into Germany, which included buying the
equity trading and research operations of Sal. Oppenheim Jr. &
Cie KGaA two years ago, was “an absolute disaster, but they’re
taking the pain and cutting out, which is a plus,” said Dexia’s
Xiradis.  Macquarie’s balance sheet is also “pretty strong and they
did indicate they’ll be in a position to do a buyback next
year,” Xiradis said. “So while their earnings have been weak
in a pretty tough environment they’re in good shape and cost
pressures are lower, so salaries and bonuses will be a lot
lower.”  Macquarie, regulated by  Australia ’s banking watchdog, is
expected to have A$3.7 billion in capital surplus above minimum
requirements on March 31, it said today. The capital surplus may
allow the bank to start a share buyback of as much as 10 percent
of Macquarie shares in the six months after March 31, it said.
The buyback was announced Oct. 28.  “It’s clearly on our agenda, we’re not stepping back on
that,” Moore said of the buyback today on the analyst’s call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  