-- Tail-Risk Hedges on Volatility Lure Money Even After Stocks’ January Surge
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-06T16:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/tail-risk-hedges-lure-money-even-after-stocks-january-surge.html
Funds that profit from swings in
stock prices are attracting record amounts from investors as
money managers seek protection from extreme volatility, even as
equities have their best start to the year since 1994.  The  JPMorgan Macro Hedge U.S. Source Exchange-Traded Fund 
aims to rise during market stress and generate returns even if
stocks gain, the New York-based bank said in a press release
today. The  Nomura Voltage Mid-Term Source ETF  attracted $165
million in January, its best month for inflows since its
inception in 2011.  “There’s been strong demand for volatility-linked products
from a very broad client range,” said Mohamed Yangui, London-
based head of equities product development and structuring at
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , whose team developed the Japanese bank’s
ETF. “There’s high interest in volatility as an asset class,
firstly because the environment remains uncertain, but also
because there is now an attractive entry point.”  The  MSCI World Index  posted a 4.9 percent gain last month,
its best January since 1994, amid speculation the global economy
will avoid a recession. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index , or VIX, which gains when stocks fall, dropped
last week to the lowest since July. However, the equity rally
hasn’t been accompanied by an increase in trading volumes,
suggesting many managers have stayed on the sidelines.  Low Volume  Investors have been looking to hedge against so-called
tail-risk or black-swan events, battered by the financial crisis
of 2008 and 2011’s Middle East unrest, sovereign-debt crisis and
Japanese earthquake. The fund sellers say that unlike earlier
versions of the products, these should make money if markets
rally and benefit if the VIX reverts to its median level.  The term “black swan” was popularized in a 2007 book by
author and investor  Nassim Nicholas Taleb . It derives from the
once widespread belief in the West that all swans were white,
until European explorers discovered black swans in  Australia .  Trading at the New York Stock Exchange declined to the
lowest level since 1999 last month, with the average volume over
the 50 days ending Jan. 25 slowing to 838.4 million shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors are seeking a hedge just in case things don’t
pan out as well as expected,” said Javier Saenz de Cenzano,
director of fund research at Morningstar Inc. in  Madrid .
“There’s also a trend to allocate money to funds that do well,
so we could see more inflows in coming months.”  Surging Demand  Nomura’s  Voltage ETF  reported assets of $359 million on
Feb. 3, after January inflows of $165 million, according to
Bloomberg data. That was the biggest monthly inflow since the
fund started with $10 million in April. The pool, which invests
in VIX futures and can hold cash, has gained 23 percent since
being introduced, compared with a 4.8 percent decline for the
 MSCI World (MXWO)  gauge and a 1.9 percent gain for the S&P 500.  The JPMorgan Source ETF  rose  1 percent to $10,592.49 at the
4:35 p.m. close in  London , while the  S&P 500 Index  declined 0.3
percent. The ETF gained 1.2 percent on Feb. 3, the fund’s second
day of trading, as the U.S. equities gauge advanced 1.5 percent.  Demand for the hedges surged in the wake of the  MSCI World
Index ’s 60 percent plunge in the financial crisis of 2008, and
was also stoked by a volatile 2011, where the measure of global
equities was down as much as 23 percent at one point.  Stocks have rallied this year even in the face of pessimism
about the European sovereign-debt crisis.  Greece  has been in
talks for more than two months with bondholders on a debt swap
that rating companies have said may put the nation in default.
Yields on 10-year Portuguese bonds reached a euro-era high of
more than 18 percent on Jan. 31 as investors speculate the
country may have to be bailed out again.  Plunging VIX  The  VIX  has plunged 62 percent to 17.10 since the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index reached its 2011 low on Oct. 3, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. VIX declines of 50 percent or more
in the past two decades have preceded  S&P 500  rallies with a
median of 14 percent in the subsequent year, the data show.  Banks such as  UBS AG (UBSN)  and asset managers including  Man Group
Plc  also offer structures that pay off should stocks fall. Last
year, UBS introduced 12 exchange-traded notes to allow a larger
universe of investors to bet on and against the VIX. Man Group’s
TailProtect Ltd., a fund that invests in equity volatility ran
by Sandy Rattray, climbed 26 percent in 2011, when it was made
available to external investors.  The  iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term Futures  note, which goes
back to February 2009, lost investors money in 2011 even as
volatility spiked because it carried the cost of rolling over
monthly futures into new contracts.  New Generation  The new-generation  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Nomura funds
aim to avoid such pitfalls and yield returns even as price
swings soften. The  JPMorgan Macro Hedge Index U.S. , the
benchmark for the product unveiled today, has gained 9.6 percent
this year.  The fund exploits in its favor the usual cost of holding
futures, where investors lose money from extending maturities
because front-month futures tend to be cheaper than later-dated
contracts as they approach expiration. To benefit from this
discrepancy, the JPMorgan ETF will short the first-month
contracts, or sell borrowed futures to benefit from their
decline, and roll over second-month to third-month futures,
according to a fund presentation.  The Nomura fund aims to make money even if market stress
declines by taking a view on whether volatility will rise or
fall at any given time. The fund held all its assets in cash at
one point in January, betting volatility would ease, Yangui
said. The VIX dropped 17 percent last month.  “We want to give investors the exposure to volatility, but
when the market is stable they don’t have to pay the high
 insurance premium ,” said Rui Fernandes, head of equity and fund
derivatives structuring at JPMorgan in London. “There is a rush
to enter into these products now, and some of our faster clients
were quick to get in last month.”  JPMorgan created the fund’s underlying index and worked
with  Source U.K. Services Ltd.  to introduce the ETF. JPMorgan is
a shareholder in Source along with other investment banks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  