-- Air France Cancels Flights as Workers Protest Proposed Rules for Strikes
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-06T15:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/air-france-cancels-two-thirds-of-flights-because-of-strike-by-pilots-crew.html
Air France  scrapped some flights
today because of a strike by pilots, cabin crew and ground
workers over proposed changes to rules governing labor protests.  The French unit of  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group operated 449
flights as of 12:30 p.m. in Paris, Cedric Leurquin, an airline
spokesman, said by phone, without specifying how many were
scheduled to operate by that point today. The full day’s
timetable called for 1,332 flights.  The strike, planned to extend through Feb. 9, comes less
than three months after Alexandre de Junaic took charge as  chief
executive  at Air France, succeeding Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, who
left amid financial losses. The parent airline will post a loss
of “several hundred million euros” for 2011 after fuel costs
increased, de Juniac told French legislators on Jan. 25.  Unions are protesting a bill to be considered by the French
Senate that would oblige each employee planning to strike to
give 48 hours’ notice. The measure would give the airline a
better idea of how travelers would be affected.  Air France-KLM  declined  as much as 4.4 percent in Paris
trading and was down 3.9 percent at 5.13 euros at 3:56 p.m.
local time. International Consolidated Airlines Group, the
parent of British Airways, fell 1.9 percent in  London , and
Deutsche Lufthansa AG was down 1.3 percent in  Frankfurt .  Late Notice  Air France passengers had to wait until this morning to
know whether they would fly, and some who were told earlier that
things looked good were later disappointed.  Radomir Hikl, a professor of homeopathic medicine based in
Bangkok, had planned to return home from vacation in Prague via
Paris with his wife and two children, and was told early this
morning that the Air France leg from Paris to Bangkok would
probably take off. By midday, he was told the flight would
likely be canceled and the airline said it would try to find him
a flight by tomorrow.  “They should have told me on Friday,” Hikl said in an
interview by phone from  Prague . “Now today, when they try to
find me something else, airlines like Lufthansa and Austrian are
already full.  “It’s very frustrating,” he said. “These employees
should have the right to strike but maybe they should find some
other way to block things, for example by blocking the French
parliament. They shouldn’t punish the passengers.”  The airline sent 22,000 e-mails and  text messages  alerting
passengers to the disruption, though 20 percent of the flights
canceled were scrapped at the last minute, Leurquin said.  “De Juniac is meeting with various employee groups to
discuss the situation,” Leurquin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  