-- Taiwan Dollar Slips on Speculation Importers Buying Greenback
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-02-06T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/taiwan-dollar-slips-on-speculation-importers-buying-greenback.html
Taiwan’s dollar retreated from the
strongest level in almost five months on speculation importers
bought the U.S. currency to take advantage of a more-favorable
 exchange rate .  The local dollar rallied 1.6 percent last week as overseas
investors bought $1.1 billion more Taiwanese stocks than they
sold, taking net purchases for the year to $2.1 billion,
according to exchange data. The  U.S. dollar ’s 14-day relative
strength index against the local currency was at 29.1,
approaching the threshold of 30 that signals the greenback is
likely to appreciate.  Government bonds  rose before a deadline
for Greece to reach a deal with creditors to tackle its debt
crisis.  “There are importers buying the U.S. dollar as it’s at a
good level,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange
trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “Investors are
unsure whether the rally in the  Taiwan dollar  reflects the risk
of the European debt crisis that’s still not fully resolved.”  The Taiwan dollar weakened 0.3 percent to NT$29.60 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The
currency touched NT$29.415 on Feb. 4, the strongest level since
Sept. 13. The island’s financial markets were open on Feb. 4 to
compensate for an extra day off over the Lunar New Year.  The yield on the government’s 1 percent notes due January
2017 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.93
percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  Consumer prices rose 2.37 percent in January from a year
earlier, after increasing 2.03 percent in December, The
government reported toward the end of  currency trading .  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, slipped one basis point to 0.394 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  