-- Hamas Agrees to Keep Abbas as Palestinian Prime Minister Before Election
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-02-06T16:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/hamas-agrees-to-keep-abbas-as-palestinian-prime-minister-before-election.html
The Islamic Hamas movement and the
secular Fatah party agreed that Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  will head an interim unity government that aims to
facilitate elections and rebuild the  Gaza Strip .  The agreement, signed in Qatar, was read out at a joint
press conference held by Abbas and Hamas leader Khaled Mashaal.
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  condemned the accord
with Hamas, which Israel, the U.S. and the EU regard as a
terrorist organization, and said peace efforts would suffer.  “No matter what we are facing, no matter the difficult
times, we see reconciliation as a national interest,” Abbas
said at the press conference broadcast on  Al Jazeera .  Hamas signed an agreement with Fatah in Cairo last May to
create the interim government and hold elections within one
year. The pact was delayed after the two sides were unable to
agree on details of the governing arrangement. The Palestinian
Authority split in 2007 when Hamas violently ousted Fatah forces
from Gaza a year after winning parliamentary elections. Hamas
controls the Gaza Strip while Fatah runs the  West Bank .  “Hamas sees this as an opportunity to be accepted by the
international community through Abbas,” said Khalil Shaheen, a
political analyst at the Ramallah, West Bank-based Al Badael
Center for Studies and Research.  ‘National Goal’  Mashaal said his movement was serious about the unity
agreement so that Palestinians, “with all our forces can
confront the occupier enemy in order to achieve our national
goal for liberation.”  Mashaal left the Hamas headquarters in Damascus and
returned to  Jordan  last week for his first official visit since
he was expelled in a crackdown on the Palestinian group more
than a decade ago. The organization has maintained its political
base in  Syria  because  Israel  has killed many of its leaders in
Gaza. Instability in Syria has prompted the organization to look
for a new headquarters.  Hamas has remained opposed to peace talks with Israel,
which broke down in Sept. 2010 after Netanyahu refused to extend
a 10-month freeze on construction in West Bank settlements. The
organization’s charter calls for Israel’s destruction.  “I say to Abu Mazen,” Netanyahu said in a text message,
using Abbas’s local nickname. “Either it’s peace with Hamas or
peace with Israel. You can’t have both.”  Suspend Transfer  Israel has in the past threatened to suspend the transfer
of some $100 million a month in customs fees that it collects on
behalf of the  Palestinian Authority  if Hamas is allowed to join
the government. Netanyahu didn’t repeat the threat today.  Abbas said after signing the agreement with Mashaal in May
that Hamas won’t be asked to recognize Israel because he will be
directing foreign policy and the government will consist of
“technocrats” who aren’t explicitly connected to one faction
or another.  The U.S. has said it might reconsider aid to the
Palestinians should the reconciliation with Hamas lead to a
unity government.  The American government cut $60 million from its dues to
Unesco following the Oct. 31 vote by the UN cultural body to
admit  Palestine  as a member.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  