-- American Superconductor Plans to Appeal Sinovel Suit Dismissal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-06T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/american-superconductor-plans-to-appeal-sinovel-suit-dismissal.html
American Superconductor Corp. , a
maker of wind-turbine parts, will appeal a decision by a Chinese
court to dismiss a lawsuit against Sinovel Wind Group Co., which
was once its largest customer.  A court in Hainan Province dismissed American
Superconductor’s claim for $200,000 in damages related to
copyright infringement, the smallest among the three civil suits
seeking more than $1.2 billion from Sinovel, the Devens,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement.  Investors in American Superconductor are skeptical that
provincial courts in  China  will rule against China’s largest
wind-turbine company, said Craig Irwin, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in New York who has a “neutral” rating on the
shares.  “It’s no surprise that Sinovel is getting what they want
at these lower courts,” Irwin said today in an interview.
“Things may improve with the court in Beijing.”  The Hainan court dismissed the suit after Sinovel said it
should be heard instead by the Beijing Arbitration Commission.  American Superconductor said the dismissal was “not
altogether unexpected” and the company is appealing the ruling.  American Superconductor contends that Sinovel is illegally
using its intellectual property and is seeking damages. A former
American Superconductor employee pleaded guilty to charges
including economic espionage in an Austrian court in September
and said Sinovel paid him to pass proprietary information to the
Chinese company.  Sinovel stopped accepting or paying for contracted
shipments from American Superconductor March 31.  Investors don’t expect a ruling that will help the
company’s top line anytime soon, Irwin said  American Superconductor fell 5.2 percent to $5.48 at the
close in  New York . The shares have dropped 81 percent in the
past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 