-- Amgen’s Expanded Use of Xgeva in Prostate Cancer Questioned by FDA Staff
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-06T21:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/amgen-s-xgeva-spurs-fda-to-question-whether-delaying-cancer-justifies-use.html
U.S. regulators questioned whether
the ability of  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Xgeva to delay tumors spreading to
bones justifies its approval in patients with advanced prostate
cancer. The drug didn’t extend lives in a study.  Food and Drug Administration  staff weighed the drug,
chemically known as denosumab, in a  report  today ahead of an
advisory panel that will meet Feb. 8 to recommend whether to
expand Xgeva’s use in advanced prostate cancer.  Patients who took Xgeva experienced deadly bone metastases
4.2 months later on average than those that took a placebo,
 Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen found in a  study  published
in November in The Lancet. Survival didn’t differ between the
groups. Approval would add as much as $500 million to sales of a
drug that may already bring in $2 billion or more by 2015, said
 Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco .  “Wall Street expectations are generally pretty low for the
commercial opportunity because doctor feedback is mixed on time
to delay of bone metastases,” Yee said.  Amgen  forecasts  Xgeva sales of $3 billion to $4 billion in
2015. The treatment was approved in November 2010 to prevent
bone pain and fractures caused by bone metastases. It is also
known as Prolia in the treatment of osteoporosis in menopausal
women.  Amgen fell less than 1 percent to $69.12 at the close in
 New York .  Prostate is one of a handful of cancers that most often
spread to the bone. Once tumors reach the bone, the cancer is
rarely curable, according to the  American Cancer Society .  Targeted Patients  Xgeva would be for men who are not responsive to hormone
treatment and whose cancer hasn’t spread to the bone yet have an
increased risk based on testing, a population of about 50,000 in
the U.S., Sean Harper, Amgen senior vice president of global
development and corporate chief medical officer, said in a
telephone interview.  Of the 1,432 patients studied, five percent developed
osteonecrosis of the jaw, which can cause jaw pain, tooth
infection and bone inflammation, according to The Lancet study.
The cancer society said bone metastases are one of the most
common causes of pain in people with cancer. Some patients
experienced as much as a 7.5-month delay in developing bone
metastases, Harper said.  FDA staff were also concerned the drug may “shift the
pattern of metastases to non-bony areas.”  Prospects For Approval  “I would not be surprised if this doesn’t get approved,”
said  Bill Tanner , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in New
York, in a telephone interview. “The only signal that they’ve
seen is dubious clinical benefit.”  The panel considering Xgeva Feb. 8 also met Sept. 14 to
discuss testing drugs for prostate cancer patients not
responsive to hormone treatment whose cancer hasn’t spread to
the bones.  Oncologists on the panel considered a two-year bone
metastases delay beneficial while one year and six months was
considered questionable, Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst with
Deutsche Bank AG in New York, wrote in a Feb. 3 note to clients.  Urologists are more flexible so the make-up of the panel
this time may influence the outcome, Karnauskas said. The  panel 
announced today consists of nine oncologists and a
biostatistician. The FDA does not have to follow the panel’s
recommendation.  The agency is scheduled to make a decision by April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  