-- An Italian Fuel Cell Maker That Feeds Itself Pushes into Emerging Markets
-- B y   S i o b h a n   C r i s e
-- 2012-02-06T20:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/an-italian-fuel-cell-maker-that-feeds-itself-pushes-into-emerging-markets.html
     As demand for mobile phones in developing countries
explodes, telecom operators are investing hundreds of millions
of dollars in infrastructure at a rapid pace. The number of
base stations, which anchor towers and house equipment, will
reach nearly 2.2 million in 2012, about double since
2007, according to GSMA, a mobile operators trade group in
London. Each station requires a backup power source to keep
network service going in case of a power outage.  Telecoms have long used lead-acid batteries and diesel
generators for backup power. Now a dozen or so fuel cell
makers are trying to persuade them to use their alternative
systems. They say fuel cells, based on a century-old
technology, are more reliable, perform longer, and are cleaner
than traditional backup sources.  To distinguish itself from the pack, Electro Power
Systems, a 7-year-old manufacturer in the northern Italian
city of Turin, is wooing would-be clients with what it says
are the first fuel cell systems that don’t require an external
fuel supply. Its systems bundle together fuel cells and an
electrolyzer, another veteran technology, to generate their
own fuel, hydrogen. The company’s most recent innovation:
hooking the system to wind turbines and solar panels to
harness their energy to make the hydrogen.  Developing an all-in-one system that uses energy from
renewables to produce and store hydrogen “is the holy grail
for a lot of [fuel cell] companies," says Kerry-Ann Adamson, a
director at cleantech research and consulting firm Pike
Research, which is headquarted in Boulder, Colorado. ElectroPS
is the only company with “a commercially available unit in
that package," she says. “They are leading the way in that
area."  Housed in a cube-shaped cabinet that measures about 1
cubic meter, the ElectroPS system works like this: When
there’s a blackout, the fuels cells kick in, generating
electricity and water from hydrogen and oxygen. The water is
stored in tanks until the grid comes back on or, in the newest
iteration, when a renewable source is available. Then the
electrolzyer passes an electrical current through the water to
produce more hydrogen and oxygen, which is kept in vessels
until needed by the fuel cells during the next blackout. The
self-contained system requires little maintenance beyond an
annual top-up of water.  Adamson forecasts the market for fuel cell backup units
for telecom installations to balloon to $3.6 billion by
2017, from $38 million in 2010. ElectroPS had sales of $4.5
million in 2010 and $6 million in 2011, says founder and Chief
Executive Adriano Marconetto, 51. He launched the company with
three scientists at the Politecnico di Torino in 2005 after
learning about the technology through his previous startup, an
Italian designer of clean energy systems that imported fuel
cells from the U.S. The 50-employee company will become
profitable in 2015, he says.  One early adopter, Telecom Italia, Italy’s largest
telecom, bought its first fuel cell system from ElectroPS in
2009. It now owns 250 of the systems and will buy
approximately 50 more in 2012, says Alberto Landucci, who is
in charge of energy saving initiatives at Telecom Italia in
Rome. He says the ElectroPS fuel cell unit is
“simple, reliable,” and an improvement on traditional battery
backup because it lasts longer, costs less to operate, and can
work in locations with high temperatures. Diesel
generators, which may be 40 percent cheaper to buy than fuel
cells, ultimately cost more in
fuel, soundproofing, maintenance, and pollution checks, he
says.  The most expensive ElectroPS system, with power output of
12 kilowatts, or enough to back up a large base station shared
by different operators, costs up to €25,000. Customers
typically recoup their investment in less than three
years, Marconetto says.  “The cost is up front," says Virg Bernero, mayor of
Lansing, Michigan. The city spent $35,000 on an ElectroPS unit
in 2011 for backup power to a public safety radio system; a
battery would have cost less than half that. “As we replace
our other equipment, we would consider buying more" fuel cells
when the budget allows, says Bernero, noting the long-term
savings.  More than 600 installations around the world use
ElectroPS fuel cells, nearly half in emerging markets, says
Marconetto. ElectroPS, which sold its first system in Germany
in 2007, focused on telecom operators because “they understand
the importance of backup," says Marconetto. “Soon we realized
the biggest opportunities were in emerging areas, especially
in Asia." He expects the “vast majority" of future sales to
come from those regions. India is adding 3 million mobile
subscribers a month, according to the Telecom Regulatory
Authority of India.  “There’s such a colossal growth in mobile subscribers" in
developing countries, says David Hart, a director at
sustainable energy consulting company E4tech in
Lausanne, Switzerland. Where the grid isn’t reliable and
backup power is needed more frequently and for longer
periods, "there’s more room for companies like EPS," he says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Siobhan Crise at
 siobhancrise@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net  