-- Manchester United Comeback Salvages 3-3 Draw at Chelsea in Premier League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/manchester-united-comeback-salvages-3-3-draw-at-chelsea-in-premier-league.html
Manchester United  rallied from three
goals behind to salvage a 3-3 draw at Chelsea, although the
defending champion still lost ground on Manchester City atop
soccer’s Premier League.  Two penalty kicks from  Wayne Rooney  and a goal from  Javier
Hernandez  earned a point for the Red Devils at Stamford Bridge
yesterday after Chelsea scored twice in the opening five minutes
of the second half. An own goal by  Jonny Evans  had given the
home team a halftime lead.  “I think that is two points dropped, we played so well at
times,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told Sky Sports. “It’s
not easy coming back from three-nil and it was a massive effort
from our players.”  United trails City by two points in the standings after its
rival beat Fulham 3-0 two days ago. Third-place Tottenham, which
visits Liverpool today, is six points further back and has a
six-point advantage over Chelsea. Newcastle is a point further
back after Papiss Cisse scored on his debut in a 2-1 win against
 Aston Villa  yesterday.  In London, Chelsea took the lead nine minutes before the
interval when the ball rebounded off Evans into United’s net.
 Daniel Sturridge  came close to doubling Chelsea’s lead, then
Petr Cech stopped efforts from Danny Welbeck and Rooney at the
other end.  Less than one minute into the second half Chelsea increased
its advantage with a left-foot volley from  Juan Mata , set up by
Fernando Torres.  Then on 50 minutes, a corner from Mata was headed into the
net by  David Luiz  via a deflection off United’s Rio Ferdinand.  Spot Kicks  United got back into the game when Sturridge was ruled to
have fouled Patrice Evra, giving United a spot kick on 58
minutes. Branislav Ivanovic tripped Welbeck 11 minutes later and
Rooney converted his second penalty.  Hernandez completed the comeback with a 84th-minute header
before Chelsea had two injury-time chances to snatch the win.  First, Mata tested David de Gea from a free kick, before a
long-range Gary Cahill shot was tipped over by the goalkeeper.  “Most teams would lie down and accept defeat at 3-0,”
Rooney told MUTV. “Even if we fought on and we got to 3-1, 3-2
and lost the game then we could have come off and say we’d given
our all, but we were thankful we got the point.”  At the Sports Direct Arena, Newcastle won to move ahead of
Arsenal into fifth place. Cisse, introduced as a substitute
early during the first half for the home team after an injury to
 Leon Best , got the winning goal after 71 minutes.  “I am really pleased because it’s a big investment for the
club,” Newcastle manager Alan Pardew said of Cisse, a 10
million-pound ($15.8 million) signing from Freiburg last month.  Newcastle’s other Senegal striker Demba Ba got the opener,
with Robbie Keane scoring for Villa in first-half injury time.  Two days ago, Arsenal routed Blackburn 7-1, last-place
Wigan drew 1-1 with Everton, Norwich beat Bolton 2-0,
Wolverhampton Wanderers defeated Queens Park Rangers 2-1, while
Sunderland won 1-0 at Stoke. Swansea beat West Bromwich Albion
2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  