-- Angelina Jolie, Meryl Streep Bring Political Movies to Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/angelina-jolie-meryl-streep-bring-politics-war-to-berlin-film-festival.html
Angelina Jolie  and  Meryl Streep  are
among the stars flying in for this month’s  Berlin Film Festival ,
bringing political movies to an event that promises to mix a
dash of Hollywood glamour with hard-hitting, topical themes.  Prisoners on death row, victims of the Fukushima nuclear
disaster and anti-government protesters who suffered police
brutality in Italy and  Egypt  will come to life on screens across
Berlin from Feb. 9 to Feb. 19. One documentary explores the work
of the Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei; several movies
address political upheaval in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  “There are a lot of films about revolutions and new
dawns,” Dieter Kosslick, the festival’s director, said at a
news conference to announce the program. “There’s a focus on
people protesting to get rid of old, stale regimes.”  Jolie’s debut film as director, “In the Land of Blood and
Honey,” is about the war in Bosnia and features actors who
experienced it first-hand. Streep, who received her 17th Oscar
nomination -- she won twice -- for her portrayal of  Margaret Thatcher  in “The  Iron Lady ,” will accept an honorary Golden
Bear for her life’s work. The Thatcher biopic is one of seven
movies showing in Streep’s honor.  Opening the festival is “Farewell My Queen,” a French
drama featuring the last 24 hours in Marie Antoinette’s life, as
she faces the guillotine. Starring Diane Kruger, it is one of 18
films competing for the Golden Bear for best film.  Chinese Epic  Others include “Jayne Mansfield’s Car,” directed by Billy Bob Thornton and set during the  Vietnam War ; “Just the Wind,”
a Hungarian movie about the persecution faced by Roma and Sinti
gypsies; and “White Deer Plain,” a Chinese epic that sweeps
through the country’s history, directed by Wang Quan’an.  The international jury choosing the winners is led by the
U.K. director Mike Leigh and includes actors Charlotte
Gainsbourg and  Jake Gyllenhaal  and the Iranian director Asghar
Farhadi, winner of last year’s Golden Bear award for “Nader and
Simin -- A Separation.”  Among the high-profile movies showing out of competition or
in the “Berlinale Special” series are “Haywire,” Steven Soderbergh’s martial-arts action movie starring Antonio Banderas, Ewan McGregor, and  Michael Douglas ; and “Extremely
Loud and Incredibly Close,” with  Tom Hanks  and Sandra Bullock.
Directed by Stephen Daldry and based on the book by Jonathan
Safran Foer, it is a nominee for this year’s best-picture Oscar.  Vampire Star  Robert Pattinson , the teen idol who stars in the
“Twilight” vampire-movie series, will be in Berlin to promote
his new film, an adaptation of Guy de Maupassant’s novel “Bel
Ami.” Pattison’s character is a scoundrel who rises through the
ranks of 19th-century Parisian society by manipulating and
seducing a series of women. The female roles are taken by  Uma Thurman , Kristin  Scott Thomas  and Christina Ricci.  Kosslick warned that as well as Pattinson, Shah Rukh Khan
probably will attract large crowds of female fans. The Indian
heartthrob is showing “Don -- The King is Back.” The Berlinale
website has a list of  frequently asked questions  for Khan’s
fans, presumably to avoid a deluge of inquiries.  “Can I contribute artistically in order to enrich the
screenings or the appearance of Shah Rukh Khan?” is one such
query. “Unfortunately we are unable to integrate such
contributions due to organizational reasons” is the festival
response.  Egyptian Protests  The Egyptian film “Reporting a Revolution,” directed by
Bassam Mortada, follows six journalists on the frontline during
18 days of anti-regime protests in 2011. “In the Shadow of a
Man,” directed by Hanan Abdalla, has four women giving their
views of a potential new society.  Spanish actor  Javier Bardem  will speak to the audience
after the screening of a film he has produced -- a documentary
called “Sons of the Clouds, the Last Colony,” directed by
Alvaro Longoria. It tells the story of a forgotten colonial war
in the western Sahara and its abandoned victims.  The German director Werner Herzog will screen his four-part
series of documentaries called “Death Row” portraying
criminals in the U.S. awaiting execution. Kevin Macdonald’s
portrait of the Jamaican reggae legend  Bob Marley  will also
premiere at the Friedrichstadt-Palast in central Berlin.  Tickets go on sale today at 10 a.m. For more information,
go to  http://www.berlinale.de/en/HomePage.html .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 