-- Eli Manning Defeats Tom Brady on His Way to $3 Million Endorsement Payday
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-02-06T06:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/manning-beats-brady-on-to-3m-endorsements.html
Eli Manning outlasted  New England 
Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  in a second Super Bowl, leading a
game-deciding drive to give his New York Giants a 21-17 victory
and double the championships won by his older brother Peyton.  Manning, 31, led the Giants 88 yards with his team trailing 
17-15 for the winning score in the final minutes of yesterday’s
 National Football League  title game. The drive may add millions
to his earning potential and turn him into as big a star as his
brother and Brady, analysts said.  “This isn’t about one person,” said Manning, who started
a controversy in August by describing himself as an elite
quarterback, similar to Brady, a three-time champion and two-
time NFL Most Valuable Player who has now played in five  Super
Bowls .  Manning, who won his second Super Bowl MVP award and set a
title game record by completing his first nine passes, connected
on 30 of 40 passes for 296 yards and one touchdown without
throwing an interception. The victory takes his championship
tally past his brother, an 11-time Pro Bowl selection and four-
time NFL MVP who led the  Indianapolis Colts  to a title after the
2006 season.  Manning said he didn’t think it matters that he’s beaten
Brady twice in the Super Bowl. The New England quarterback
completed 27 of 41 pass attempts for 276 yards, two touchdowns
and an interception.  “I don’t think that’s the story,” Manning said. “The
story is the  New York Giants  are world champions. That’s what
I’m proud of.”  ‘Clutch’ Performance  It was a performance Giants receiver Hakeem Nicks called
“clutch” and means Manning “will permanently move out from
under brother Peyton’s shadow,” said Bob Dorfman, executive
creative director at  San Francisco ’s Baker Street Advertising.  Manning ranked 47th for 2011 earnings among U.S. athletes,
 according to Sports Illustrated , and his $7 million in
endorsement dollars is less than half of the $15 million earned
by Peyton. Last night’s win may add an additional $3 million to
Manning’s income, Dorfman said.  “To the Super Bowl winner go the spoils,” Dorfman said in
an e-mail. “Though Eli may never match the on-camera charisma
and acting chops of his big brother, he’s already proven his
worth as a pitchman, particularly in regional  New York  area
campaigns.”  Giants Comeback  Manning began the winning drive with three minutes, 46
seconds left in the game and the Giants trailing 17-15 on their
own 12-yard line.  Manning opened with a deep pass to  Mario Manningham , who
was running down the left side of the field. The wide receiver
caught the ball and touched both feet down on the field just
before New England’s Patrick Chung knocked him out of bounds.  “Not only did he have to catch the ball, keep his feet
inbounds, he was going to have to hold onto the ball when he got
hit,” Giants Offensive Coordinator Kevin Gilbride said. “It
was a tremendous play.”  Manning then threw passes of 16, 2, 14 and 4 yards before
Bradshaw ran up the middle for the 6-yard touchdown that won the
game.  Giants co-owner Steve Tisch, who won an Academy Award as
producer of the film “Forrest Gump,” said he couldn’t have
scripted a more heroic drive.  “New York is going to be his city and it deserves to be
his city,” Tisch said in an interview. “I didn’t think I could
hold my breath that long. It’s like a great movie.”  Dick Ebersol , former chairman of NBC Sports, said
television doesn’t get any better than Manning’s final drive.  “His calm is unbelievable,” he said. “This should put an
end to all his doubters.”  Two-Time MVP  Manning became one of five players in league history to win
the Super Bowl MVP award twice. That should distinguish him from
other quarterbacks and move him into the company of his elder
brother and Brady, said  David Carter , executive director of the
 Sports Business Institute  at the University of Southern
California’s Marshall School. Manning has sold products
including Citizen watches and Toyota automobiles.  “There are so many compelling quarterbacks jockeying for
position in terms of endorsements that it requires multiple
championships to distinguish yourself from your competition,”
Carter said in an e-mail. “Tonight’s win by Manning places him
in that rare air.”  Archie Manning, Eli’s father and a former quarterback for
teams including the  New Orleans Saints , said he couldn’t be
prouder of his sons, both of whom have played in the Super Bowl
twice.  Peyton Manning ’s Colts lost the championship to the
Saints after the 2009 season.  “We’ve been here four times in six years,” Manning said.
“Olivia and I kind of look at each other and say ‘What’s going
on here?’”  ‘Even Keel’  Eli Manning said he stuck to his routine on the winning
drive, “an even keel, that’s important,” he said.  He then spent the game’s final moments watching anxiously
as Brady attempted to lead the Patriots back. His nerves grew as
Brady converted a 16-yard fourth down attempt and missed a deep
throw to the end zone.  “It’s tough,” he said. “Brady is a tremendous
quarterback. He did a great job of converting on fourth-and-16.
All of a sudden, they throw one in the end zone. That’s nerve-
wracking. We completed a Hail Mary this year. I was hoping
another one wouldn’t be completed tonight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 