-- Global Smartphone Shipments Jump 55%, Led by Apple’s IPhone
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-06T21:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/apple-s-iphone-4s-leads-55-quarterly-jump-in-global-smartphone-shipments.html
Global smartphone shipments surged 55
percent in the fourth quarter, as demand for  Apple Inc .’s iPhone
4S countered declines by  Research In Motion Ltd (RIM) . and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
International Data Corporation said.  Shipments advanced to 158 million units from 102 million a
year earlier, exceeding IDC’s forecast for a gain of 40 percent,
the Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm said today in
a statement.  Smartphone demand is increasing as prices for devices
become more affordable, encouraging users to upgrade to handsets
on which they can browse the Web and send e-mail. Existing users
are also trading up to more powerful smartphones such as the
iPhone 4S, which went on sale in October. Apple sold 37 million
iPhones last quarter, helping the Cupertino, California-based
company to double its profit in the period.  By the end of 2011, one out of every three mobile phones
shipped worldwide was a smartphone, and the iPhone 4S “played a
key role in smartphone growth to capture pent-up demand,”  Ramon Llamas , an analyst at IDC, said in the statement.  Apple’s share of the global smartphone market jumped to 24
percent from 16 percent a year earlier, regaining its top spot
from  Samsung Electronics  Co., which had overtaken the iPhone-
maker in the third quarter. Suwon, Korea-based Samsung’s share
climbed to 23 percent in the fourth quarter from 9.4 percent a
year earlier, IDC said.  Nokia, RIM Slump  Nokia and Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, both of which are
struggling to reverse slumping sales with new phone operating
systems, saw their respective share shrink. Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia’s share fell by more than half to 12 percent from 28
percent a year earlier, and RIM’s dropped to 8.2 percent from 14
percent.  A delay in the introduction of RIM’s new BlackBerry 10
platform until late this year “gives the competition
opportunity to attack RIM’s strongholds,” IDC said.  Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp ., which like Samsung builds
phones on  Google Inc.’s  Android platform, has struggled recently
against its Korean rival. HTC’s market share dropped to 6.5
percent from 8.5 percent.  HTC dropped 5.2 percent in Taipei today while Samsung
climbed 0.8 percent in  Seoul .  RIM fell 1.8 percent to $16.58 at the close in  New York  and
Apple gained 0.9 percent to $463.97. Nokia fell 1.7 percent to
3.81 euros in Helsinki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  