-- Marilyn Monroe Eyes Broadway in ‘Smash’; Creepy ‘River’: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/marilyn-monroe-eyes-broadway-in-smash-creepy-river-review.html
Real diamonds,  Marilyn Monroe  once
cooed, must be worth their weight in gold.  “Smash,” NBC’s musical drama following the creation of a
Broadway extravaganza about Monroe, isn’t quite a diamond.
Cleverly blending behind-the-scenes, show-biz drama with the
thrill of a reality TV competition, “Smash” dazzles just as
much as it needs to.  The real-life theater talent behind “Smash” could easily
fill several large tables at industry hangout Angus McIndoe.  Playwright Theresa Rebeck created the series and wrote the
pilot. Actor/playwright David Marshall Grant is a producer,
along with Craig Zadan and Neil Meron (whose credits include the
film of “Chicago”), and composers Marc Shaiman and Scott
Wittman (who wrote the score for “Hairspray” and three good
numbers here). Broadway’s Michael Mayer directed the first three
episodes.  With a pool like that (plus producer  Steven Spielberg ),
“Smash” has the look, feel and sound of Broadway authenticity.  But “Smash” also has its share of footlight cliches, from
the beautiful singing waitress dreaming of her big break, to the
cruel Bob Fosse-like director hoping to give it to her. The
pilot episode has just enough edge -- and acting talent -- to
keep the schmaltz from drowning the show.  Sex Goddess  Debra Messing (appealingly less ditzy than her “Will &
Grace” persona) plays Julia, half of a successful Broadway
songwriting duo with the killer idea of a musical about the
Hollywood sex goddess.  Megan Hilty (“9 to 5: The Musical”) plays Ivy, one of two
actresses vying for the title role. As curvy and voluptuous as
the real thing, Ivy is a seasoned trouper and by rights a shoo-
in for the role.  Until, that is, Karen (Katharine McPhee from “ American
Idol ”) catches the eye of the nasty-tempered, libidinous
director Derek Wills (Jack Davenport). Then it’s war.  “Smash” also has some fun with Michael Riedel who, as the
actual scoop-happy and appealingly scabrous Broadway columnist
of the  New York  Post, is described by one character as “a
Napoleonic little Nazi.” Judging by the first episode, the
show’s anything-to-win fierceness could inoculate it from
insufferable “Glee”-ness.  “Smash” airs Monday on NBC at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***  ‘The River’  ABC’s paranormal thriller “The River” sinks some
genuinely creepy moments into a muddy pool of tired scare
tactics.  Using the exhausted device of “found” videotapes to
document the mysterious disappearance of wildlife TV emcee
(Bruce Greenwood; think a less chipper Steve Irwin), the show
sends the host’s wife (Leslie Hope) and adult son (Joe Anderson)
boating down the river in search of dad. It’s “Lost” on the
Amazon.  A TV crew is also on board, filming every supposedly spooky
encounter with hoodoo-voodoo river spirits.  Given the number of lenses on deck, you’d think we’d get a
good look at the ghosties, but the first two episodes rely
mostly on the swirling camerawork and panicked videotape
testimonials (“This place is trying to kill us!”) that have
defined the genre since “The Blair Witch Project.”  “River” co-creator Oren Peli directed the first of the
four “Paranormal Activity” movies back in 2007, when
supernatural candid camera was still effective.  “The River” airs Tuesday on ABC at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 