-- Harrisburg Receiver Ponders Sales, Tax Boost in Fiscal Plan
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-06T21:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/harrisburg-receiver-submits-city-s-recovery-plan-to-pennsylvania-court.html
Harrisburg ’s receiver outlined a plan
to aid the Pennsylvania capital’s fiscal recovery by selling
assets, raising taxes and fees, and winning concessions from
municipal unions.  Receiver David Unkovic will update the proposal submitted
today with more details after determining the market value of
city assets, he said in the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court
submission. The court, which handles cases involving the state,
has 30 days to hold a hearing and 60 days to decide on the plan.  As Pennsylvania’s first municipal receiver, named by
Governor Tom Corbett under a law passed in October, Unkovick is
developing a fiscal blueprint for Harrisburg’s recovery. The
city of about 49,500 residents was driven into insolvency by
financing an overhaul and expansion of a municipal incinerator
that doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover its debt.  “The solution requires a comprehensive recovery plan that
really works,” Unkovic said in the document given to the court.
“Significant and difficult contributions will be required from
many stakeholders. This plan is a first step.”  The state gave the receiver the power to impose his plan on
city officials without their consent. It doesn’t let him break
union or other contracts. Judicial approval is required before
the proposed actions can be taken. Unkovic said he’s prepared to
seek bankruptcy court protection for the city. The October law
lets Unkovic take that step no earlier than July, after another
measure banning such a move expires.  Seeking Asset Bids  Unkovic is asking for bids on parking, water and sewer
systems, and the waste-to-energy incinerator run by a  Covanta
Holding Corp.  unit. Once he has bids in hand, he would enter
“serious negotiations” with creditors on any debt that
wouldn’t be covered by sales or leases, he told residents in an
earlier meeting. He would also seek talks with municipal unions.  The receiver aims to wrap up any sales or leases by June,
according to the proposal. The city has debts of about five
times its general-fund budget.  Even without the debt from the incinerator project,
expenses outstrip revenue collected by the city, leaving a
budget gap of more than $11 million, Unkovic said. He proposes
increases in taxes such as the resident earned-income tax,
property levies and fees such as for business licenses.  Skipped Payments  Harrisburg started skipping bond payments in 2009 and owes
$310 million, including penalties, to surrounding Dauphin County
and Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   An audit released Jan. 18 showed that Harrisburg officials
and paid advisers piled debt on the incinerator even though they
knew there was substantial risk that the facility wouldn’t be
able to pay off the obligations. Unkovic in his proposal said he
has retained lawyers to examine the transactions and may
initiate civil-court actions based on their findings. He is also
barring the city’s authorities from agreeing to derivative deals
known as interest-rate swaps.  Some city officials, such as controller Dan Miller, said
they believe bankruptcy is inevitable. A move to put Harrisburg
under court protection by a majority of the City Council was
rejected last year by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in
Harrisburg. An appeal by some council members was rejected Feb.
2 by U.S. District Court Judge Sylvia H. Rambo.  Meeting Planned  Mark Schwartz , a lawyer hired by the City Council for the
bankruptcy filing, said he plans to meet with members Feb. 10 to
discuss any possible actions related to Unkovic’s proposal.  “My fear is that the numbers are too far apart” in the
plan, he said by telephone. The council sought the haven from
creditors provided by bankruptcy because of the difficulty of
meeting the city’s obligations, he said.  Whether the council can legally oppose the plan laid out
today remains to be determined, Schwartz said. Last year, a
judge refused to let him challenge Unkovic’s appointment at the
start of the process of putting the city under a receiver.  For a plan to succeed, elected officials, unions and
creditors have to be “on the same sheet of music” and see the
receiver as “adding value,” Jarad Handelman, a deputy general
counsel to Corbett, said last month. Handelman helped develop
the October legislation. He spoke about the issues involved
during a Jan. 27 conference at the  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia.  “There has to be a belief in these local governments and
in the citizenry that recovery is possible,” Handelman said.
The receiver “can’t just be a reincarnation of the prior failed
recovery attempts.”  Mayor  Linda Thompson  said by e-mail that she would comment
on Unkovic’s plan later this week. City Council President Wanda Williams didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call seeking
comment on the proposal.  The receiver case is Walker v. City of Harrisburg, 569MD
2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 