-- Arsenal’s Wenger May Replace France Coach Blanc, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-02-06T10:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/arsenal-s-wenger-may-replace-france-coach-blanc-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger Exit?  Arsenal coach Arsene Wenger could replace  Laurent Blanc  as
France national team coach after the European Championship, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  French soccer federation officials have identified Wenger
as their first-choice for the job, according to the Mail.  Capello on Terry  England coach  Fabio Capello  criticized the Football
Association for stripping  John Terry  of the national team
captaincy for alleged racial abuse,  the Sun  reported.  Capello told Italian television it should be “civil
justice, not sports justice” that decides if Terry is guilty of
abusing Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand during a
game, according to the Sun.  Toure Target  Manchester City could lose defender Kolo Toure to  Russia ’s
Anzhi Makhachkala, the  Daily Mirror  reported. The Russian team
wants Toure to sign on loan with an option for a permanent deal,
the Mirror said.  Abramovich ‘Showdown’  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  was “locked in talks” with
Andre Villas-Boas on the eve of yesterday’s 3-3 draw with
Manchester United, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Abramovich turned up to a training session to speak to
Villas-Boas and players along with advisor Eugene Shvidler and
club director Eugene Tenenbaum, the Mail said.  Bolton Departures  Bolton coach Owen Coyle plans a mid-season clear-out of
players, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Coyle will send midfielder Sean Davis on loan and could
trade striker Robbie Blake and left-back Paul Robinson,
according to the Mirror.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  