-- Late Money for Patriots Helps Las Vegas as Giants Win Super Bowl
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-06T08:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/late-money-on-patriots-turns-las-vegas-profitable-as-giants-win-super-bowl.html
A late rush of losing wagers on the
 New England Patriots  may help  Nevada ’s sports books turn a
profit on the  Super Bowl , where the majority of early bets had
been on a New York Giants victory.  The Giants won the National Football League championship
game 21-17 as three-point underdogs, scoring the winning
touchdown with 57 seconds left at Lucas Oil Stadium in
Indianapolis last night.  Nevada’s sports books have made a profit on the Super Bowl
in 18 of the past 20 years and more than $90 million was
projected to be legally wagered on the game, according to the
state’s Gaming Control Board.  “The late rush was on the Patriots, which bailed us out,”
said Jimmy Vaccaro, director of sports operations at Lucky’s
Race & Sports Book in  Las Vegas . “The general public was in
love with this Giants team and you found out a reason why
they’ve been riding them for the past eight weeks.”  Vaccaro said while Lucky’s probably came out even in terms
of which team would win, it made a profit on other wagers
including so-called proposition bets, such as which quarterback
would pass for more yards or whether a team would score in the
final 3 1/2 minutes of the game.  Nevada’s 183 sports books, most of which are located in Las
Vegas and Reno, take a commission of about 4.5 percent per bet.  “Everything together made us a fair winner for the day,”
Vaccaro said in a telephone interview. “It wasn’t as bad as it
was three days ago. The Patriot money did show and the line went
back to three in most casinos, telling you there was plenty of
Patriots money.”  Losing Years  The last time Nevada’s sports books failed to win money was
in 2008, when the Giants upset the Patriots as 12-point
underdogs and they lost about $2.6 million. The only other
losing year in the past 20 was 1995, when the  San Francisco
49ers  were favored by a Super Bowl-record 18 1/2 points over the
 San Diego Chargers  and covered the spread with a 49-26 win.  Nevada’s Gaming Control Board said the state’s sports books
won $724,176 on $87.5 million in wagers last year, when the
 Green Bay Packers  were favored by three points and beat the
Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25. The books won $6.8 million on $82.7
million in wagers in 2010.  This year’s wagering results may be available by tomorrow,
according to the board.  The Giants as recently as last month had odds as high as
100-1 to win the Super Bowl. When they had a 6-6 record, one
bettor placed a futures bet “well over four figures” on the
Giants at one of Cal Neva’s sports books, said race and sports
director Chris Andrews.  Good Volume  “The Giants were up in the futures when they were going
through their losing streak,” said Craig Schaffer, an assistant
manager at the MGM Mirage in Las Vegas. “But overall we did OK.
We would have done a little better if the Patriots had won, but
the volume was good.”  The Las Vegas Hotel and Casino was a “moderate winner” on
its Super Bowl futures betting even with the Giants winning,
assistant sports book manager  Jeff Sherman  said. The casino
would have fared better if the Patriots had won, he added.  Lucky’s Vaccaro said their total handle on the game was up
about 5 percent from last year.  The record Super Bowl handle in Nevada was $94.5 million in
2006, when Pittsburgh beat the  Seattle  Seahawks 21-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  