-- Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fell in December as Job Market Weakens
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-06T01:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/australia-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-in-december-as-job-market-weakens.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
declined in December, the first drop in six months, as consumers
spent less at grocers and on dining out in an economy where
employment growth stalled last year.  Sales (AURSCHNG)  slipped 0.1 percent from a month earlier, when they
rose a revised 0.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The result compares with the median  forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists for a 0.2 percent gain.  The report validates  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor
 Glenn Stevens ’s decision to lower the nation’s benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and Dec. 6
to help revive household demand. The central bank’s board meets
tomorrow to decide on rates, and most economists predict a third
straight reduction.  “The trend of soft consumers going into Christmas and year
end was still there,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based economist
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . “I don’t think this is a disastrous
number and it’s certainly not one which makes the RBA have to
cut tomorrow. We’ve got them cutting but I think it is a very
close call.”  Futures traders priced in a 54 percent chance Stevens will
lower borrowing costs by another quarter percentage point to 4
percent tomorrow. The Australian dollar bought $1.0738 at 12:30
p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0734 before the data.  Dining Out Slump  Today’s report showed spending at cafes and restaurants
fell 1.8 percent, and consumers spent 0.7 percent less at food
retailers, today’s report showed. They spent 3.5 percent more at
clothing and footwear stores and 1.1 percent more at department
stores, it showed.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, increased 0.4
percent in the three months through Dec. 31 from the previous
quarter, the report showed. Economists had forecast a 0.6
percent gain.  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s biggest
electronics retailer, said in October that sales fell in the
three months through Sept. 30. It cited the strength of the
local currency and “intense competition” for the weakness.  Australia’s higher borrowing costs relative to other
developed-world economies and the mining-investment boom helped
drive the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  It slipped in ensuing months as  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsened. The currency has strengthened 5.2 percent this year
and touched a six-month high of $1.0794 on Feb. 3.  Consumer Sentiment  Richard Goyder, chief executive officer of Perth-based
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second-largest retailer, told
reporters on a call last week that he doesn’t expect any
“significant change” in consumer sentiment.  “There is a degree of uncertainty around at the moment for
a whole lot of reasons around what’s going on globally, what
people read about that, what people will see in terms of their”
pension returns and house prices, he said Feb. 2. “Because of
that lack of confidence generally I’m not sure that consumer
sentiment is going to change a lot.”  Stevens lowered borrowing costs to 4.5 percent from 4.75
percent on Nov. 1, the first reduction since April 2009, and cut
again to 4.25 percent on Dec. 6.  The nation’s economy lost 29,300 jobs in December, capping
the worst year for employment since 1992.  A private survey today signaled the employment market may
have started the year with an improvement, as Australian job
advertisements on the Internet and in newspapers surged 6
percent in January, the most in 23 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  