-- Harry Redknapp Lawyer Says News Corp. Tax Evidence ‘Repugnant’
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-06T17:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/tax-case-against-redknapp-defies-common-sense-manager-s-attorney-says.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp ’s
attorney said U.K. prosecutors’ use of evidence from a closed
British tabloid to pursue tax evasion charges against the soccer
coach is “repugnant.”  Redknapp and Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric are
fighting charges that they worked together to avoid taxes on
$295,000 paid into an account in Monaco set up for the 64-year-
old manager. Government attorneys said comments Redknapp made
about the funds being a bonus in a February 2009 interview with
the News of the World, which was closed after a telephone
hacking scandal, helped proved their case.  The use of the interview is “repugnant to all basic
instincts of fairness in the criminal justice process,”
Redknapp attorney John Kelsey-Fry said today to the jury.  Redknapp and Mandaric say the money, paid when they were
both at Portsmouth soccer club, was a loan to the coach for
investing in U.S. stocks and not taxable. Prosecutors say the
payments were bonuses paid to a “secret” account and said the
interview was the “most-compelling” and “important” part of
its case.  Reporter Rob Beasley “rings, take tapes without warning,
plays on being a mate,” Kelsey-Fry said. The techniques were
used “in the hope of getting Mr. Redknapp to say something more
different to what he would tell the police. They saw a great
story. All’s fair in love and war, and the News of the World.”  The newspaper was closed last year by  News Corp . after it
emerged that reporters accessed the mobile phones of celebrities
and a murdered teenager. A separate investigation is currently
taking place into allegations police accepted bribes in exchange
for information. Redknapp remains a columnist at News Corp.-
owned The Sun, where Beasley is now a sports reporter.  Lied  Redknapp had told Beasley the money paid into the Monaco
account was a bonus he was due for the profits on the sale of
striker  Peter Crouch  in 2002 to  Aston Villa . In court Redknapp
backed up Mandaric’s recollection, saying it was for an
investment and only referred to it as a bonus because he felt he
was “morally” owed extra for Crouch’s sale. He said he lied to
Beasley because he wanted “to get him off my back.”  Earlier, Mandaric’s lawyer Ken Macdonald said the
prosecution’s case was that “a man with hundreds of millions of
pounds to his name was driven to commit crime to save” a
maximum of 70,000 pounds ($110,300) by paying his former
employee in  Monaco .  “The inescapable fact of each man’s wealth is a
penetrating, penetrating part of the case,” Macdonald told the
jury at Southwark Crown Court at the start of the 11th day of
the trial.  Steve Jobs  Mandaric said he’d made millions of dollars building
technology companies in  California  and counted late Apple Inc.
founder  Steve Jobs  as a business partner. MacDonald said the men
would not be “foolish” enough to not get their stories
straight if they had intended to commit a crime.  “Steve Jobs didn’t work with fools,” Macdonald said. “I
think we can be very sure Milan Mandaric is not a fool.”  He likened Mandaric’s friendship with Redknapp to that of
actors Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau in the “Odd Couple”
movie, saying the “deep bond” between the pair led Mandaric to
make the investment as a gift to Redknapp.  Kelsey-Fry, Redknapp’s lawyer, then listed pay and bonuses
that increased Redknapp’s contract by about 1.5 million pounds
to 4.2 million pounds by 2004, the time when a second payment
worth $150,000 was paid into the Monaco account.  “Those facts alone, members of the jury, indicate that
what the prosecution has suggested to you just doesn’t make
sense,” he said. “Indeed, you may think it offends common
sense.”  Judge Anthony Leonard ended proceedings early and told the
jury he’ll sum up the case tomorrow. Redknapp went straight to
 London ’s City Airport to take a flight to Liverpool, where his
team is playing tonight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  