-- States With Highest Foreclosure Rates Among Bank Mortgage-Accord Holdouts
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/banks-in-mortgage-deal-are-said-to-demand-new-york-mers-lawsuit-be-dropped.html
California ,  New York , Nevada, Florida
and Massachusetts are among the states that haven’t signed off
on a settlement with  banks  over foreclosure abuses, according to
state officials and two people familiar with the talks.  The holdouts include some with the highest rates of
foreclosures. More than 6 percent of Nevada housing units had at
least one foreclosure filing in 2011, the nation’s highest rate,
according to RealtyTrac. California was third-highest with more
than 3 percent, said the firm, which tracks foreclosures.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris and New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who have been among the most
outspoken in pushing for changes to the accord, were among those
who hadn’t joined as of a Feb. 6 deadline. More than 40 states
signed on, said Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is helping
to lead talks with the banks.  “Adding more numbers probably improves the political
dimension of the settlement from the standpoint of the  attorneys
general ,” said Ken Scott, a Stanford University law professor.
“If you can say there were only a handful of diehards that
didn’t sign on, that gives you some political protection.”  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from states and federal agencies, including the  Justice
Department , have since negotiated terms of a proposed settlement
with five banks that is said to be worth as much as $25 billion.  Massachusetts, Florida  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  and Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi hadn’t joined as of yesterday, said
the two people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. Delaware and  Nevada  also hadn’t agreed to the
settlement as of Feb. 6, according to their offices.  Bondi “remains engaged in the settlement discussions in
order to ensure that Floridians receive their fair share in any
agreement and that bank mortgage servicers are held
accountable,” Jenn Meale, a spokeswoman for Bondi, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Miller said federal and state officials continue to discuss
the proposed deal and its terms with the banks.  “This enables us to move forward into the very final
stages of remaining work,” Miller, a Democrat, said Feb. 6. He
didn’t say which states had signed on and he declined to comment
further. Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Miller, declined to
comment on which states hadn’t signed on to the agreement.  Bank Accord  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  made a last-minute demand that New York drop claims filed
against them Feb. 3 as a condition of the settlement, a person
familiar with that case said. The push by the three banks raised
an obstacle in getting Schneiderman’s support for the deal, said
the person.  New York sued Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo in
state court in  Brooklyn , saying their use of a mortgage database
known as MERS led to improper foreclosures.  Schneiderman said the banks’ use of the Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems database misled homeowners, undermined
foreclosure proceedings and created uncertainty about ownership
interests in properties.  The banks have asked that many of the claims in the
complaint be thrown out, said the person. The other two banks
involved in the nationwide settlement proposal,  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , weren’t named in the complaint.  Schneiderman Postponement  Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the demand by the banks over the MERS lawsuit.
Schneiderman, who was scheduled to make remarks on the
settlement talks yesterday, postponed the conference call
indefinitely, according to a statement.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup; Tom
Goyda of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo; Tom Kelly, a spokesman
at New York-based JPMorgan; and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally
Financial declined to comment on the proposed settlement terms.  “We’re interested in finding a path forward with a
comprehensive settlement that benefits homeowners and
communities,” said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declining to comment further.  The proposed settlement already requires  Massachusetts ,
Nevada and Arizona to settle claims tied to suits they have
filed against the banks, a person familiar with the talks said.  Nevada and Arizona each sued Bank of America over mortgage-
servicing practices, accusing it of misleading consumers.
Massachusetts sued all five banks.  Improvements Sought  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said in a
statement she was reviewing the settlement and “advocating for
improvements to address Nevada’s needs.”  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  also said he was
pushing for “improvements” and hadn’t signed the deal.  Melissa Karpinsky, a spokeswoman for Massachusetts Attorney
General Martha Coakley, declined to comment.  Harris’s criticisms of the settlement include terms that
protect the banks from future litigation. Without Harris, the
accord’s potential value will drop by several billion dollars,
according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  The proposed nationwide settlement would set requirements
for how the banks conduct foreclosures, provide mortgage
refinancing for underwater borrowers -- people who owe more on
their mortgages than their homes are worth -- and both fund loan
principal reductions and make payments to states and borrowers
who lost their homes to foreclosure.  Claims Protections  The accord, which needs approval by a federal judge, will
also allow banks to take steps toward resolving mortgage
liability stemming from the housing bust. The releases would
protect them from legal claims tied to foreclosures, mortgage-
servicing and origination of loans.  “From the standpoint of the banks, what matters to them is
not the number of states but the percentage of potential claims
that are being settled,” meaning that getting states such as
California is important, said Scott, the law professor. “So
there’s a lot of last-minute political posturing for political
advantage on one side, and on the other, for the banks, their
concern is basically the valuation of what the settlement gets
me and what it’s worth.”  The scope of the liability releases has been one of the
biggest concerns for some attorneys general, including Harris
and Schneiderman, who started separate probes of mortgage
operations of banks. The releases wouldn’t prevent an
investigation into mortgage securitization, said Schneiderman,
who was named to a state-federal group that will probe the
bundling of  mortgage loans  into securities in the run-up to the
financial crisis.  At least three states announced before the Feb. 6 deadline
their intention to sign the settlement -- Connecticut, Oregon
and  Louisiana .  Michigan  and Rhode Island attorneys general said
yesterday they were signing on.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 