-- Fed Twists Yields for McDonald’s Record Low Rate: Credit Markets
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-06T16:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bernanke-twists-down-yields-for-mcdonald-s-record-low-rate-credit-markets.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Operation Twist is paying dividends in the corporate
 bond market .  The central bank’s program to extend the average maturity
of debt in its portfolio by selling short-term bonds and buying
longer-term ones is helping borrowers from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  cut interest rates to record lows. Since
August, the difference in yields between notes due in one to
three years and bonds that mature in 15 years or more has shrunk
by 0.7 percentage point to 3.3 percentage points.  Companies already flush with cash are locking in all-time
low borrowing costs for decades thanks to the Fed’s Twist and
its bid to stimulate the world’s largest economy by pledging to
hold rates near zero until at least late 2014. Sales of bonds
due in more than 15 years soared to $13.6 billion in January
from $5.28 billion in December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “From a company standpoint, that’s kind of a home run
scenario,” Lon Erickson, a  money manager  who helps oversee $9
billion of fixed-income assets for Thornburg Investment
Management Inc. in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s exactly what I’d be doing.”  The average yield on corporate bonds in the U.S. maturing
in 15 or more years was 5.138 percent as of Feb. 3, after
reaching 5.005 percent on Jan. 31, the lowest on record in Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data that goes back to 1999.  Lock in Rates  That compares with a 1.822 percent average yield on company
debt that matures in one to three years, the data show.  For borrowers, “it’s a motivation to do a 10-year as
opposed to a five-year deal,” Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist with LPL Financial LLC in  San Diego , which oversees
$330 billion, said in a telephone interview. “The trend that
we’ve seen over two years now is for corporates to redeem some
of their short-term debt and lock in attractive longer-term
funding.”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Express Scripts Inc. , the
pharmacy-benefits manager planning to buy Medco Health Solutions
Inc., is planning a second bond sale to help fund the $29.1
billion acquisition.  The company may issue senior notes in benchmark size,
typically at least $500 million, as it seeks to pay back $14
billion of bridge loans it took on for the purchase, according
to a statement today from the St. Louis-based company.  Express
Scripts  sold $4.1 billion of debt in November to cut loans as it
plans to complete its acquisition of rival Medco in the first
half of this year, pending approval from the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission.  Credit-Default Swaps  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk was little
changed after declining for four straight days. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased by 0.1 basis point
to a mid-price of 94.4 basis points as of 11:39 a.m. in  New
York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, reached 94.3 basis points
on Feb. 3, the lowest level since July. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bonds of  Bank of America Corp.  are the most actively traded
U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 46 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:40 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Zero Interest Rate  Traders have been driving down long-term yields since
before the Fed’s Sept. 21 announcement that it would buy $400
billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30 years through
June, while selling an equal amount of debt maturing in three
years or less in a program known as Operation Twist.  Operation Twist gets its name from a policy conducted by
the Fed in cooperation with the Treasury Department in 1961,
when the central bank bought long-term securities as the
government concentrated its issuance in shorter maturity debt.  While Fed staff called it Operation Nudge, it became known
as Operation Twist, after Chubby Checker’s hit, “The Twist,”
according to a report published March 14 by  Eric Swanson , an
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  The central bank has kept its target  interest rate  at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and expanded its balance
sheet by purchasing $2.3 trillion in bonds. On Jan. 25, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said the outlook for the economy
would likely warrant that rates remain near zero through at
least late 2014, more than a year later than planned.  ‘Floodgates Opened’  Borrowing costs for companies around the world have also
been driven lower as confidence builds that  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis won’t disrupt credit markets. The  European Central
Bank  set off a rally in riskier assets on Dec. 21 when it gave
financial institutions a record 489 billion euros ($643.4
billion) of three-year loans in a so-called longer-term
refinancing operation.  “It all started from that three-year lending operation,”
LPL’s Valeri said. “That’s why, with Europe getting better, the
floodgates opened to start the year.”  The average yield on corporate bonds worldwide is down from
4.064 percent on Dec. 21 and is at about the lowest since
August, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Corporate Index.  That sparked $337.1 billion of company bond sales from the
U.S. to Europe to  Asia  in January, almost double December’s $183
billion total and the most since May, Bloomberg data show.
Offerings in January of bonds that mature in more than 15 years
were 64 percent higher than the monthly 2011 average of $8.3
billion.  P&G, IBM  P&G, the Cincinnati-based maker of Crest toothpaste and
Pampers diapers, issued $1 billion of 10-year debt, paying a
record-low coupon of 2.3 percent for the maturity.  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest computer-services
provider, sold $1.5 billion of notes due February 2015 at an
 interest rate  of 0.55 percent, the lowest for three-year debt.
McDonald’s, the largest restaurant chain, paid a 3.7 percent
coupon on its $500 million of 30-year bonds, also an all-time
low.  While that level is “pretty attractive” for McDonald’s,
it’s not as appealing for investors, Thornburg’s Erickson said.  “Even if it’s a good company, a lot of things can happen,”
he said. “There could be a lot of volatility in the meantime
and I just don’t know that you’re getting paid for that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  