-- BNP Buys European Stocks as ECB’s ‘Wall of Money’ Gives Support
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-02-06T10:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bnp-buys-european-stocks-as-ecb-s-wall-of-money-gives-support.html
BNP Paribas Asset Management began
buying European equities in small quantities after the  European
Central Bank  moved to support the region’s lenders.  The asset manager, which overseas $668 billion, started
decreasing its “underweight” position on European shares in
December and cut its “overweight” on the U.S., Christian Dargnat, the Paris-based chief investment officer of the fund
house, said in an interview. In diversified portfolios, BNP
Paribas reduced its cash position in favor of European stocks.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  posted its biggest January gain
since 1998, which extended the rally from last year’s low on
Sept. 22 to 18 percent. The ECB in December gave the region’s
banks 489 billion euros ($638 billion) in 1,134-day loans, the
most ever in a single operation, to ensure banks had enough
cheap cash to continue lending to companies and households.  “A wall of money was put into place,” Dargnat said.
“We’ve started to become more positive. The ECB’s operation was
the impetus. It tells the world that  Italy  and Spain won’t be
insolvent.”  BNP Paribas Asset Management hasn’t changed its industry
positioning and retained its “underweight” stance on shares of
financial companies and those whose earnings are tied to
economic growth.  “Three months ago we were very cautious,” Dargnat said.
“Now, we are just cautious. It’s time to be less defensive.”  Political Risk  Dargnat said this doesn’t mean he’s rushing to buy more
European stocks as further action is needed from policy makers
to contain the debt crisis and improve fiscal discipline.  “Why aren’t we more aggressive?” he said. “There are
still political decisions to be made. We’re at the mercy of any
rash declaration. Clients are still very risk averse.”  The Stoxx 600 dropped 11 percent last year, its worst
performance since 2008, as leaders struggled to stop the crisis
from spreading to Italy and  Spain . The gauge is trading at 10.8
times the projected earnings of its companies, compared with an
average  valuation  of 11.9 over the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “For the past 30 to 40 years, countries of the West have
been getting further and further into debt,” Dargnat said. “At
some point, the bill comes in. It’s a long-term process and
we’re not going to resolve the problem overnight.”  He said European nations must move towards greater
integration.  “When this day arrives, it will be a positive for
stocks,” Dargnat said. “They are inexpensive; so the
investment flow will return naturally. If these measures come
together, and some are on the way, investors will start to come
back to European stocks.”  Dargnat said he expects European stocks to finish the year
higher, but with periods of gains and losses as volatility
remains.  “We are cautious, but we can be reasonably optimistic for
the full year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  