-- BofA Investor Suit Granted Class Action Status
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bofa-investor-lawsuit-over-merrill-acquisition-granted-class-action-status.html
Bank of America Corp.  investors won
permission to proceed as a class action in their lawsuit
claiming the company misled shareholders about the acquisition
of Merrill Lynch & Co.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in  Manhattan  ruled
yesterday that the claims in the case may go forward on behalf
of all investors who held Bank of America common stock and  call
options  from Sept. 18, 2008, to Jan. 21, 2009. Castel also
certified a class of investors who held common stock on Oct. 10,
2008, and were entitled to vote on the Merrill acquisition.  “Given the potential class size and the likelihood that
individual recovery for some class members may be relatively
modest, class certification is appropriate,” Castel wrote.  The suit, filed in 2009, claims Bank of America failed to
disclose information about bonuses to Merrill employees and
about the firm’s financial losses in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The decision to grant class status allows investors to pool
resources and gives their lawyers more leverage to push for a
settlement with the bank.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  In July, Castel dismissed claims against  Kenneth Lewis , the
bank’s former chief executive officer, over Bank of America’s
disclosure of federal financial assistance and over the
shareholders’ right to sue over certain types of securities.  Congress held hearings in 2009 questioning bonuses paid to
employees of Merrill, the brokerage acquired by the bank that
year, even as the firm’s losses triggered a federal bailout for
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America.  The case is In re  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 