-- BofA, JPMorgan, UBS, Foreclosure Deal, Goldman in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-06T11:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bofa-jpmorgan-ubs-foreclosure-deal-goldman-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo &
Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  were sued by New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  over the use of a mortgage database
that the state said led to improper foreclosures.  The banks’ use of the database, known as MERS, misled
homeowners, undermined foreclosure proceedings and created
uncertainty about ownership interests in properties, the state
said in the complaint filed Feb. 3 in New York state Supreme
Court in Brooklyn.  “The banks created the MERS system as an end-run around
the property recording system, to facilitate the rapid
securitization and sale of mortgages,” Schneiderman said in a
statement. “Once the mortgages went sour, these same banks
brought foreclosure proceedings en masse based on deceptive and
fraudulent court submissions.”  The lawsuit comes three days before a Feb. 6 deadline for
states to join a proposed multistate agreement over foreclosure
practices said to be worth as much as $25 billion. Last week, he
was selected by the Obama Administration to help lead a state-
federal group probing misconduct in the packaging and sale of
residential mortgage-backed securities.  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
 mortgage loans  on its electronic registry, allowing banks to buy
and sell loans without recording transfers with individual
counties. The system was created by the mortgage industry to
evade recording fees, avoid the need to publicly record mortgage
transfers and facilitate the packaging of mortgage loans into
securities, Schneiderman claimed in the complaint.  Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Reston, Virginia-based
Merscorp, which was also named as a defendant in the  New York 
complaint, said in an e-mailed statement that the company
rejects the attorney general’s allegations and will fight the
suit.  Rick Simon , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America, and  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the suit. Tom Goyda, a
spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said the bank was
reviewing the complaint.  For more, click here.  Citigroup, Discover Sued Over Student Loan Corp. Losses  Citigroup Inc. ,  Discover Financial Services  and  Student
Loan Corp.  were sued by a union pension fund over claims that
Student Loan Corp. misled investors about increasing losses
beginning in 2008.  The Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement System sued
the companies and several  Student Loan Corp. (STU)  officials in
federal court in Manhattan on Feb. 3, claiming it lost money
when the company’s stock price dropped after information about
the losses became public.  Student Loan Corp., formerly a unit of Citigroup, was sold
to Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover in September 2010. The
pension fund seeks to represent all Student Loan Corp. investors
from Jan. 15, 2008, to Sept. 23, 2010. The company originated
and held  student loans .  “At the same time STU was failing to properly account for
its mounting risks and losses, defendants issued materially
false and misleading statements regarding the company’s business
and financial results, by telling the investing public that it
was well positioned and performing well despite adverse market
conditions,” the pension fund said in its complaint.  “The suit is baseless and we will seek its prompt
dismissal,”  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, said in an e-mail. Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for
Discover, declined to comment.  The case is Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement
System v. Student Loan Corp., 12-CV-895, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-UBS Trader Adoboli Denied Bail as Trades Prompt Enforcement  Kweku Adoboli, a former  UBS AG  trader, was denied bail at a
 London  criminal court on the same day U.K. regulators formalized
their enforcement action of the unauthorized trading for which
the bank claims he’s responsible.  The bail application Feb. 3 was Adoboli’s first request to
be released from prison since he was arrested by London police
Sept. 15 for allegedly causing a $2.3 billion loss, the largest
in British history. Adoboli, who holds a Ghanaian passport, was
denied bail in part because of his links to the African country.  The 31-year-old pleaded not guilty to fraud and false
accounting last week and is being held at Wandsworth prison in
southwest London awaiting a trial in early September. The U.K.
and Swiss finance regulators also said in a statement Feb. 3
that they have begun formal enforcement actions against  UBS  over
the risk-management processes at its investment bank in London.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, are
investigating the risk controls at UBS’s investment bank that
didn’t prevent the unauthorized trades, the agencies said in
statements Feb. 3. The regulators hired the accounting firm  KPMG 
in September to handle an independent investigation into events
surrounding the losses.  The move to a formal enforcement proceeding typically
indicates the regulators have found sufficient evidence of
financial rule violations. UBS said the regulators told them of
their decision and they are cooperating.  “Immediately after the unauthorized trading incident, the
Group Executive Board thoroughly investigated the incident and
implemented measures to better protect our firm from
unauthorized activities,” UBS spokeswoman Jenna Ward said in an
e-mailed statement.  Adoboli’s lawyer,  Tim Harris  of Bark & Co., declined to
comment on the bail refusal.  For more, click here.  California’s Solo Mortgage Probe May Be Hamstrung by 2008 Deal  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris objects to giving
banks broad releases of liability for predatory lending. At the
same time, she may be locked into her predecessor’s 2008
settlement with the largest lender in the state during the
mortgage boom that does exactly that.  Facing today’s deadline to join a proposed multistate
agreement over foreclosure practices said to be worth as much as
$25 billion if California joins, Harris has said she won’t sign
onto a deal blocking her from investigating whether the five
largest U.S. mortgage servicers misled homeowners about the
terms of their loans, among other issues.  One of the five lenders involved in the talks,  Bank of
America Corp ., reached an agreement in 2008 with Harris’s
predecessor,  Jerry Brown , who is now governor, that bars its
Countrywide Financial unit’s mortgage holders from pursuing
claims of the type that Harris wants to investigate.  Based on the “broad release” contained in the agreement,
“it is unclear on what grounds Kamala Harris would pursue
lending violations by Countrywide,” said  Guy Cecala , publisher
of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry publication.  Harris, 47, whose state is the most populous and leads the
nation in foreclosure filings for housing units, has described
as “inadequate” the proposed settlement state and federal
officials have been negotiating for more than a year with
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co .,  Citigroup Inc .,  Wells Fargo & Co . and  Ally Financial Inc .  The foreclosure probe, which had involved attorneys general
from all 50 states, began in October 2010 following disclosures
that banks were using faulty documents to seize homes.  Harris, through spokesman Shum Preston, declined to comment
on the Countrywide settlement or the multistate negotiations.  Gil Duran , a spokesman for Brown, had no immediate comment.  Another person familiar with negotiations in the multistate
deal said that while the 2008 agreement may present an obstacle
to an investigation of origination claims by Harris, her lawyers
have identified ways in which Countrywide may be violating the
accord. The compliance failures may be grounds to terminate the
settlement, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified
because the negotiations aren’t public.  Bank of America has “adhered to the letter and spirit of
our agreements with the attorneys general since 2008,” Richard
Simon, a spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Foreclosure Accord Said to Ensure Same Terms for All 50 States  Lenders including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co . and state attorneys general agreed to ensure that states
signing a nationwide accord on foreclosures will be entitled to
improved terms won later by states that opt out, two people
familiar with the matter said.  California Attorney General Kamala Harris is one of the
highest profile attorneys general to publicly balk at the
settlement, saying she won’t sign a deal that blocks
investigations into mortgage loans.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who last week
declined to say whether he would sign the deal, on Feb. 3 sued
Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , New York-
based JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in state court in Brooklyn
over the use of a national mortgage database that the state
claims led to improper foreclosures.  The agreement to grant so-called most-favored nation status
comes in the endgame of a probe that began in 2010 following
claims of widespread foreclosure wrongdoing by mortgage
servicers. States have until today to accept the agreement with
the five largest servicers, which also include San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Detroit-
based Ally Financial Inc. The deal, said to be worth as much as
$25 billion, will settle allegations the banks used faulty or
forged documents to seize homes from borrowers.  Without California, the value of the deal may sink to $17
billion, said one of the people. Both declined to be identified
because the negotiations aren’t public.  The most-favored nation provision would only kick in under
certain thresholds, said a third person familiar with the matter
who also didn’t want to be named because the talks aren’t
public.  All 50 states announced an investigation into bank
foreclosure practices in October 2010. A group of state
attorneys general and federal officials have since negotiated
terms of the settlement, which would set standards for how banks
conduct foreclosures while providing mortgage relief to
borrowers.  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Suit May Proceed as Class Action, Judge Rules  A suit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may go forward as a
class action on behalf of all investors in a $698 million
mortgage-backed securities offering, a federal judge in
Manhattan ruled.  U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr. granted a request by
the Public Employees’ Retirement System of Mississippi to let it
represent more than 150 investors in the offering, according to
an opinion Baer gave to the parties Feb. 2. The opinion hasn’t
been released publicly, and a clerk in Baer’s chambers declined
to provide a copy Feb. 3.  The plaintiffs say New Century Financial Corp., which
originated the mortgages underlying the securities, failed to
adhere to its underwriting standards and overstated the value of
the collateral backing the loans. They say Goldman Sachs didn’t
conduct proper due diligence when it bought the loans in 2005.
The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is Public Employees’ Retirement System of
Mississippi v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 09-01110, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  RBS Condoned Libor Conduct, Sought Scapegoats, Fired Trader Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which accused a fired
Singapore trader of manipulating London interbank offered rates,
had condoned such behavior and sought scapegoats in an internal
probe, the former employee said.  RBS’s employees “were not at any time forbidden from
communicating input or requests” to have the bank’s rate
setters set rates at levels to maximize profits, Tan Chi Min,
the former trader, said in court papers filed in Singapore’s
High Court Feb. 2.  “Such requests and input were regularly made or given in
order to maximize profit,” Tan said. RBS “was fully aware of
this, condoned such conduct and waived any right to terminate
employees on the basis of this.”  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, declined
to immediately comment on Tan’s claims.  Tan, the former head of delta trading for  RBS’s  global
banking and markets division in Singapore, sued the bank in
December over his dismissal and is seeking to recoup $1.5
million in bonuses and 3.3 million RBS shares that he claims
he’s owed. RBS said Tan deserved to be fired because he was
guilty of “gross misconduct,” according to its court filing
last month.  Tan in his filing Feb. 2 said RBS, Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, started an internal probe after
inquiries by European and U.S. authorities on the conduct of
banks in setting Libor.  RBS, based in Edinburgh, is cooperating with investigations
by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S.
Department of Justice and European Commission into whether
Libor, which acts as a benchmark for about $360 trillion of
financial instruments worldwide, had been manipulated.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
S939/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Carlyle Drops Class-Action Lawsuit Ban as Opposition Mounts  Carlyle Group LP abandoned a plan to ban shareholders from
filing class-action lawsuits, a proposal that could have delayed
the private-equity firm’s long-awaited stock sale.  The Washington-based firm amended the documents for its
initial public offering last month to include a provision that
would have required future stockholders to resolve any claim
against Carlyle through arbitration rather than in court. The
move provoked controversy among lawmakers and shareholder rights
advocates, who urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
not to approve the arbitration clause.  “After consultations with the SEC, Carlyle investors and
other interested parties, we have decided to withdraw the
proposed arbitration provision,” Christopher Ullman, a Carlyle
spokesman, said Feb. 3 in an e-mailed statement. “We first
offered the provision because we believed that arbitrating
claims would be more efficient, cost effective and beneficial to
our unitholders.”  Carlyle is seeking to market its IPO to investors early in
the second quarter through a road show, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the plans, who asked not to be named
because the information isn’t public. The road show is one of
the final steps before a company goes public.  Democratic Senators Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Al
Franken of Minnesota and Robert Menendez of  New Jersey  urged
Feb. 3 SEC Chairman Mary Shapiro not to clear the IPO unless
Carlyle drops the arbitration clause.  For more, click here.  Swiss Agree to Transfer Encrypted Documents to U.S. Authorities  Switzerland agreed to transfer about 20,000 encrypted
documents to authorities in the U.S. as the two countries work
toward settling a dispute over  tax evasion .  Switzerland may help decode the names should the two
nations find a comprehensive solution to the dispute, Roland
Meier, a spokesman for the Swiss Finance Ministry, said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  The U.S. Department of Justice is investigating 11
financial institutions in Switzerland, including  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , suspected of helping Americans hide money from the
Internal Revenue Service. The U.S. and Switzerland are in talks
to resolve the probe of offshore tax evasion.  Seven financial firms, including Swiss banks and the local
units of foreign companies, handed over data, such as e-mails,
travel plans and details of internal procedures, to the U.S. by
the end of last month, Tages-Anzeiger reported Feb. 3, without
saying where it got the information. Employee and customer names
were blacked out, the Zurich-based newspaper said.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Used ‘Slush Fund’ at SocGen for Bribes, Davis Testifies  R. Allen Stanford funneled millions of dollars siphoned
from investor deposits through a “slush fund” at  Societe
Generale SA  in Switzerland to cover bribes, personal expenses
and private investments, his former finance chief told jurors at
the ex-financier’s criminal fraud trial.  “It was a slush fund, just used for whatever the holder
wanted to use it for,” James M. Davis, Stanford Financial Group
Co.’s former chief financial officer, testified Feb. 3 about the
SocGen account. “One purpose was to pull cash out to bribe the
regulator in Antigua, Mr. Leroy King.”  Prosecutors contend Stanford diverted $2 billion from
customer deposits at his Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank to fund his luxurious lifestyle and money-losing ventures
such as Caribbean airlines and real-estate developments. More
than $40 million went to maintain Stanford’s yachts and as prize
money for a cricket tournament, according to records introduced
in the 10th day of Stanford’s trial in federal court in Houston.  Davis, 63, told jurors that by the end of 2007, $130
million had been transferred from the Antiguan bank to the
Stanford account at SocGen. “These funds came from CD
depositors,” he said.  When Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach asked Davis
how much of this money Stanford ultimately paid back, Davis
replied, “I don’t believe he actually repaid any of the
money.”  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with what
the government claims was a $7 billion investment fraud scheme
built on bogus certificates of deposit at his Antiguan bank.
King, former chief executive officer of Antigua and Barbuda’s
Financial Services Regulatory Commission, is fighting
extradition to the U.S., where he was indicted in 2009 on
charges he accepted bribes from Stanford to mislead U.S.
securities regulators.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 4:09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Credit Bancorp Officials Will Pay $329 Million in SEC Lawsuit  Three former Credit Bancorp Ltd. officials convicted of
operating an international  Ponzi scheme  must pay almost $329
million in a lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, a U.S. judge said.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in New York ordered Feb. 3
the final judgment against Thomas Rittweger, manager of North
American operations for the firm, Douglas Brandon, a Kentucky
lawyer who represented the firm, and Richard Blech, who was
Credit Bancorp’s chairman and chief executive officer.  Rittweger and Brandon were convicted at trial in 2003 of
defrauding clients, including the chairman of  Vintage Petroleum
Inc. , of $210 million, prosecutors said. Blech pleaded guilty
before trial.  Unbeknownst to its clients, the firm operated as a Ponzi
scheme, taking cash and other assets from new investors to make
payments to earlier ones, creating the impression of sizable
returns, prosecutors said.  In his order, Sweet, who was presiding over the SEC suit,
directed that the three were liable for $218 million,
representing profits from the scheme, with additional interest
of $110.5 million.  According to court and U.S. Bureau of Prison records,
Brandon was sentenced to 97 months in prison, Blech was
sentenced to 72 months in prison and was released in 2007 and
Rittweger was sentenced to serve 135 months in prison and
ordered to pay more than $18 million in restitution. He is
scheduled to be released from prison in 2015.  The cases are U.S. v. Blech, 02-CR-122, and SEC v. Credit
Bancorp, 99-cv-11395, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Motorola Solutions Agrees to Pay $200 Million to Settle Suit  Motorola Solutions Inc . agreed to pay $200 million to
settle a 2007 investor lawsuit accusing the company of
overstating its sales prospects.  The agreement with the company, which was formerly known as
Motorola Inc., must still be approved by U.S. District Judge Amy
St. Eve, who was scheduled to preside over a trial starting
April 9 in Chicago.  “We are pleased to have this behind us,” Nicholas Sweers,
a spokesman for the Schaumburg, Illinois-based  company , said
Feb. 2 in a phone interview. “It removes the risk and
distractions of this litigation and enables us to continue to
focus on delivering mission-critical communications solutions.”  Stockholder Eric Silverman initially alleged that then-
Motorola Inc. Chief Executive Officer Edward Zander and other
officers had told investors to expect strong sales growth in the
last quarter of 2006. The lead plaintiffs in the case are the
Macomb County Employees’ Retirement System and the St. Clair
Shores Police & Fire Pension System, both of Michigan.  When the suit was filed in August 2007 amid declining
sales, Motorola had fallen from the world’s second-biggest
mobile phone maker to third.  “The settlement represents an extraordinary recovery for
investors in a case where there was no financial restatement”
or an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, the plaintiffs’ attorney, Samuel Rudman of San
Diego-based Robbins Geller Rudman & Dowd LLP, said in a
statement.  The case is Silverman v. Motorola, 07-cv-04507, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  U.K. Court Upholds Damages Ruling Against 3M in MRSA Case  A U.K. judge upheld a decision that  3M Co ., the maker of
Post-It Notes, should pay $1.3 million to investors after it
decided not to market BacLite, a product that detects hospital
super-bug MRSA, the company said.  Porton Capital Ltd. and Ploughshare Innovations Ltd., a
civilian unit of the U.K. Ministry of Defence, sued 3M over a
2007 deal that depended on sales of the product, claiming about
$40 million in damages.  While a London judge ruled in November 3M had breached its
obligations, he rejected the estimate of damages as optimistic.
The High Court confirmed Feb. 3 that decision, 3M said.  “The court’s final order underscores a decisive victory
for our company and the positions it took relative to this
technology,” said Maureen Harms, 3M’s assistant general
counsel.  Because the ruling of $1.3 million was less than what 3M
had offered to settle the case, Porton and Ploughshare will have
to pay some of the legal fees from the dispute, 3M said.  “We are delighted that the U.K. High Court judge today
awarded Porton Group a proportion of its costs in respect of its
contractual dispute with 3M,” Porton Group said in an e-mailed
statement Feb. 3.  “For 3M to suggest they prevailed in this case when they
breached their contract with Porton and Ploughshare, part of the
U.K. MoD, and have to pay damages and costs is delusional in the
extreme,” Porton Chief Executive Officer Harvey Boulter said in
the statement.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.S. Antitrust Enforcers Add Litigators to Bolster Odds at Trial  U.S. antitrust enforcers are hiring litigators from major
law firms, signaling a growing readiness for court battles to
block mergers they view as anticompetitive.  The  Justice Department ’s antitrust division on Jan. 3
brought in Mark Ryan, a partner at  Mayer Brown LLP , as director
of litigation, a new position. He’ll work for  Joseph Wayland , a
former  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP  antitrust litigator who
joined as civil enforcement chief a year ago. The Federal Trade
Commission intends to hire a trial attorney in coming months,
Commissioner Tom Rosch said in an interview.  “If a case is worth bringing, then we should be prepared
to litigate it,” Rosch said.  As an improving economy spurred a 24 percent jump in merger
proposals last year from 2010, the Obama administration may be
seeking to respond more forcefully to deals it considers
anticompetitive, said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust professor at
Howard University School of Law in  Washington . Being prepared
for trials sets up a credible threat that may also help
regulators win more favorable settlements, he said.  Merger filings under antitrust regulations rose to 1,450 in
fiscal 2011 from 1,166 filings the year before, Sharis Pozen,
the acting head of the Justice Department’s antitrust division,
said in a speech to the American Bar Association in November.  While most of the deals were approved or settled with
conditions, a few faced court challenges, Pozen said.  “We have made a concerted effort to increase the
division’s litigation resources,” Pozen said. “Bringing
additional experienced trial attorneys to the antitrust division
is a perfect complement to our team of experienced litigators
and trial attorneys.”  William Baer , who leads the antitrust team for  Arnold &
Porter LLP  in Washington, is being vetted by the White House to
become the new antitrust chief when Pozen departs April 30,
according to two people familiar with the process who asked not
to be identified because of its confidential nature.  Rosch, who has more than 40 years of experience as a trial
lawyer for business clients including Chrysler Corp., General
Motors Corp. and Greyhound Lines Inc., said the FTC should bring
more lawsuits to block deals. The agency reports publicly
settling nine challenges to mergers last year while five were
resolved before any action was taken. Three cases went to court.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 