-- Bonuses Met Wall Street Workers’ Expectations, Survey Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-06T16:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bonuses-met-or-beat-56-of-wall-street-workers-expectations-survey-shows.html
More than half of Wall Street
employees said year-end bonuses met or exceeded their
expectations as firms began notifying workers of payouts last
month, according to an eFinancialCareers.com survey.  About 45 percent of the 1,006 people who responded to an e-
mailed query in the U.S. said their bonus matched their
expectations, with 11 percent getting a higher payout than they
had anticipated, the job-search website said today in a
 statement . Thirty-five percent were disappointed by their bonus,
the survey found.  Wall Street firms are curbing pay and changing formulas to
limit expenses, with some giving more stock and deferred cash
and less immediate payout. Revenue shrank last year as mergers
and trading slowed, leading firms including  Morgan Stanley  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG  to cut compensation by as much as 30
percent for senior bankers.  “Managing compensation expectations is one of Wall
Street’s premier arts,” Constance Melrose, managing director of
eFinancialCareers  North America , said in the statement. “Firms
loathe losing top performers, and approach every bonus season
concerned that murmurs of dissatisfaction escalate.”  The survey was conducted from Jan. 2 to Jan. 16 and drew
responses from front-office and support staff at investment and
commercial banks, hedge funds and asset managers, according to
eFinancialCareers, a unit of  Dice Holdings Inc . The tally was
limited to people who had already been informed of their awards.
EFinancialCareers plans to conduct additional surveys to include
professionals who were notified after that period.  Disappointing Raises  About 32 percent of those who said their payout fell short
of expectations got a bigger bonus than for 2010, according to
the survey. A larger portion of the disappointed group than last
year had salaries of more than $200,000, indicating more senior
people faced pay cuts this year, according to the statement.  “The cohort at the higher end is taking a bit more of the
impact,” Melrose said in an interview. “Even when the bulge-
brackets are trying to keep their higher performers as satisfied
as they can be, they’re going to have struggles.”  Hedge funds  and so-called boutique firms saw smaller
declines in compensation than large banks and on average paid
out a higher portion of bonuses in unrestricted cash, driving
concerns about defections among top talent, Melrose said.  “If you’re looking to get all of your bonus in cash, you
probably don’t want to be at a bulge-bracket bank,” she said.  About 9 percent of those responding said they had no
expectations for their bonus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  