-- Brazil Airport Auction to Test Investment Climate as World Cup Draws Near
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-02-06T02:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/brazil-airport-auction-to-test-investment-climate-as-world-cup-draws-near.html
Brazil  today will auction rights to
operate three of its busiest airports in a deal worth 16 billion
reais ($9 billion) in investments that tests the government’s
ability to attract private capital ahead of the 2014 World Cup.  Air travel in Latin America’s biggest economy has doubled
in the past decade as rising incomes have swelled the middle
class. With many of the country’s aging airports operating at
full capacity, officials at soccer’s governing body FIFA have
said they’re concerned Brazil will not be ready to handle the
500,000 visitors expected to attend the month-long tournament.  The auction of an airport in Brasilia and two near Sao
Paulo is an about-face for President Dilma Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, which has long opposed private management of the
facilities and other industries it considers strategic. Recent
public works projects, such as the Belo Monte dam in the Amazon,
drew little interest from private investors.  “This breaks a paradigm,” Paulo Godoy, head of ABDIB, the
association representing companies investing in infrastructure,
said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “New frontiers will surge for
air transport, and aviation will contribute as much to Brazil’s
development as the railway did for the U.S.”  Companies that have said they’ll partake in the auction
include Sao Paulo-based highway operators  CCR SA (CCRO3)  and  EcoRodovias
Infraestrutura e Logistica SA . A requirement to team up with
foreign companies with management know-how has also drawn the
interest of  Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide (FRA) ,
 Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN)  and  Aena Desarrollo Internacional SA (OHL) ,
 Spain ’s state-run airport operator. To boost competition, the
National Aviation Authority, known as ANAC, has not said who
will bid.  Rivaling China  Brazil’s aviation industry has grown more than any other in
the world over the past decade with passenger traffic increasing
118 percent between 2003 and 2011, according to ANAC. Last year,
the world’s fifth-biggest country by land mass trailed only the
U.S. and  China  in volume of domestic  air travel , according to
data from the Montreal-based Airport Council International.  At 10 a.m. local time (7 a.m.  New York ) ANAC will open the
bidding to build and operate terminals in the capital Brasilia,
Guarulhos near Sao Paulo, and Viracopos in the city of Campinas.  Together they accounted for a third of Brazil’s 179 million
passengers last year and 57 percent of its air cargo. The
consortium that offers the largest annual payment for each
facility will win the license to operate it for between 20 and
30 years. No group can lease more than one airport. Minimum bids
total 5.5 billion reais and the government estimates the three
airports will together generate 36 billion reais in revenue over
the lease period.  Bottlenecks  The three winning operators are expected to invest a total 
of 16.1 billion reais. In the case of Guarulhos,  Latin America ’s 
busiest airport, that includes building a terminal capable of 
handling 7 million passengers a year. Viracopos and Brasilia will 
also require new terminals as well as improved runways and 
parking space.  Faced with growing pressure to put an end to crowded
hallways, flight delays, and busted escalators, Rousseff, a
career bureaucrat, created a government agency last year tasked
with opening airports to private investment. Brazil’s last major
privatization drive was in the 1990s, when the government sold
off roads and utilities that suffered from decades of
underinvestment.  “It took longer with airports because it was considered a
strategic, military asset,” Eduardo Padilha, a professor
specializing in infrastructure finance at the Sao Paulo-based
Insper business school, said by phone. “The  World Cup  increased
the pressure.”  Flight Delays  Jerome Valcke , secretary-general of FIFA, has warned that
Brazil needs to speed up work on its airports and stadiums.  “Time is flying and any day you are wasting or losing is a
day you are not getting back,” Valcke said during a press
conference Jan. 18 in  Rio de Janeiro .  About 12 percent of flights were delayed and one in 20
canceled last year, according to Infraero, the state-owned
company that currently manages Brazil’s airports.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  founder  David Neeleman  tapped into
the fast-growing market in 2008 when he founded Azul Linhas
Aereas Brasileiras SA. The Barueri, Sao Paulo-based airline has
garnered a market share of nearly 10 percent. Sao Paulo-based
carriers  TAM SA (TAMM4)  and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA divided 76
percent of the market in December, down from 81 percent a year
earlier.  Mixed Record  Brazil has had a mixed track record in public-private
partnerships, and the  World Bank  ranked it No. 126 out of 183
countries in its 2012 competitiveness study. State development
bank BNDES offered to finance the 19 billion reais construction
of the Belo Monte dam after several construction firms pulled
out of the auction process in 2010, leaving only two bidding
groups, both of them led by state-run utility Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA.  Infraero will maintain a 49 percent stake in the three
airports, as well as the power to veto major decisions by the
joint-ventures. As a minority investor, it’ll also be
responsible for funding part of the investments.  “Coming up with that cash is a big concern for
investors,” said Padilha. “It’s one of the big problems of
this auction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  