-- Brazil Raises $14 Billion in Airport Auction for World Cup
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e   a n d   T a i s   F u o c o
-- 2012-02-06T17:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/brazil-raises-12-billion-in-airport-auction-ahead-of-world-cup-tournament.html
Brazil  raised 24.5 billion reais ($14
billion) through the sale of licenses to operate three of the
country’s busiest airports in an auction today aimed at
accelerating investments ahead of the 2014 World Cup.  A consortium led by pension funds belonging to employees of
state-run companies and including a South African airport
operator won the rights to operate Sao Paulo’s international hub
after bidding 16.2 billion reais, or almost five times the
minimum. Groups led by Sao Paulo-based construction companies
Engevix Engenharia SA and TPI -  Triunfo Participacoes e
Investimentos  gained control of airports in Brasilia and
Viracopos in Campinas respectively.  Investments in Brazil’s aging airports have struggled to
keep pace with  air travel  that has doubled in the past decade as
incomes in  Latin America ’s biggest economy have risen. To help
upgrade the airports in time for an expected influx of 500,000
visitors during the monthlong  soccer tournament , President  Dilma
Rousseff ’s Workers’ Party abandoned its opposition to private
management of facilities it long considered strategic.  “Today’s auction was an important first step but still
insufficient,” Robson Andrade, head of the National Industry
Confederation, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“More needs to be done to stimulate private sector
participation. There are many airports that require heavy
investments.”  Small Margins  Shares in Triunfo fell 3.9 percent to 8.45 reais, while
losing bidders including highway operator CCR SA rose, as
analysts said the total paid for the three licenses -- more than
four times the 5.5 billion reais minimum sought by the
government -- was too high.  “The problem with these airports projects is that profit
margins will be low,” Leonardo Nitta, an analyst at Banco do
Brasil SA, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .  The winning operators are expected to invest a total of
16.1 billion reais in the three airports, which together
accounted for about a third of Brazil’s 179 million passengers
last year and 57 percent of its air cargo. In the case of
Guarulhos in Sao Paulo, Latin America’s busiest airport, that
includes building a terminal capable of handling 7 million
passengers a year. Viracopos and Brasilia will also require new
terminals as well as improved runways and parking space.  Bottlenecks  Brazil’s aviation industry has grown more than any other in
the world over the past decade with passenger traffic increasing
118 percent between 2003 and 2011, according to the government.
Last year, the world’s fifth-biggest country by land mass
trailed only the U.S. and  China  in volume of domestic air
travel, according to data from the Montreal-based Airport
Council International. About 12 percent of flights were delayed
and one in 20 canceled.  Faced with pressure to put an end to crowded hallways,
flight delays, and busted escalators, Rousseff, a career
bureaucrat, created a government agency last year charged with
opening airports to private investment. Brazil’s last major
privatization drive was in the 1990s, when the government sold
off roads and utilities that suffered from decades of
underinvestment.  The government will maintain a role in the airport
modernization drive, through a 49 percent stake in each
consortium and via loans to pay improvements from state
development bank BNDES.  The government “coming up with that cash is a big concern
for investors,” said Eduardo Padilha, a professor specializing
in infrastructure finance at the Sao Paulo-based Insper business
school. “It’s one of the big problems of this auction.”  Pension Funds   Investimentos e Participacoes em Infra-Estrutura SA , which
owns 90 percent of the consortium that will run Guarulhos for 20
years, belongs to employee pension funds from state-run
companies including banks Banco do Brasil and Caixa Economica
Federal as well as oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  Invepar, as the Rio de Janeiro-based holding company is
known, plans to have an initial public offering in the next 12
to 24 months to fund its infrastructure investments, Gustavo
Rocha, president of the group told reporters in Sao Paulo
following the auction. Johannesburg-based Airports Co.  South
Africa  has a 10 percent share in the consortium.  Viracopos, Brasilia  Triunfo, together with partners UTC Participacoes SA and
Paris-based airport operator  Egis Avia , paid 3.8 billion reais
for the right to manage Viracopos near Sao Paulo for 30 years.  Engevix took 25-year control of the airport in the capital,
Brasilia, for 4.5 billion reais in a 50/50 venture with
Corporacion America, a holding company that runs airports in
 Argentina . The two companies are building an airport near the
northeastern city of Natal after paying 170 million reais last
year to win Brazil’s first-ever airport concession auction.  Gustavo do Vale, a former central bank director who heads
the Infraero airport authority, repeated today that the
government won’t interfere in management of the airports.
Rousseff hasn’t decided whether she will auction other travel
hubs key to  World Cup  preparations, such as  Rio de Janeiro ’s
international airport, said Wagner Bittencourt, head of the
civil aviation secretariat.  Jerome Valcke , secretary-general of FIFA, has warned that
Brazil needs to speed up work on its airports and stadiums.  “Time is flying and any day you are wasting or losing is a
day you are not getting back,” Valcke said during a press
conference Jan. 18 in Rio de Janeiro.  About 12 percent of flights were delayed and one in 20
canceled last year, according to Infraero.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net ;
Tais Fuoco in Sao Paulo at 
 tfuoco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  