-- Brazil Said to Require Local Content on New Mining Contracts
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-02-06T20:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/brazil-said-to-require-local-content-rules-as-part-of-mining-law-overhaul.html
Brazil , the world’s second largest
iron-ore exporter, is seeking to apply local supplier
requirements to new mining contracts, according to a government
official who participated in drafting the industry’s new rules.  The measures will require companies exploring and producing
minerals to spend a percentage of their investments with local
businesses, according to the official, who declined to be named
because they’re not authorized to discuss the issue publicly.
President  Dilma Rousseff  must still decide on the percentage to
be required, the official said, adding that companies not
complying with the rule may have contracts revoked.  Brazil is seeking to develop local industries that can
supply the goods and services needed to extract and transport
oil and minerals as output rises. Oil producers already have to
buy as much as 70 percent of goods and services locally,
reducing the suppliers oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  can
tap as the country seeks to more than double output by 2020.  “This may have a significant impact if approved,”
Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro, said today in a telephone
interview from the city, referring to the difficulties that
companies such as  Vale SA (VALE3)  may have in sourcing local goods.  Mining Delays  Mining companies operating in Brazil are facing delays and
cost increases amid labor shortages and tougher environmental
licensing processes. Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale , the world’s
largest iron-ore producer, said Nov. 28 that its $8.04 billion
Carajas Serra Sul mine expansion, its biggest project ever, will
be delayed for two years to the second half of 2016. The company
delayed the start of at least five other projects last year.  The government is modeling the mining rules on the
requirements imposed on the oil industry for the so-called pre-
salt exploration, the official said. Petrobras, as the state-
controlled company is called, is tapping offshore  oil deposits 
located deep beneath a layer of salt under the seabed.  The new mining code is ready and the government is waiting
for the appropriate political moment to send the project to
Congress for its discussion, the official said. Last minute
changes to the drafted code are still possible, he said.  Brazil’s  Ministry of Mines and Energy  declined to comment,
according to an e-mailed statement distributed by its press
office today.  Vale  gained  0.2 percent to 43.92 reais in  Sao Paulo  today,
its highest level since Sept. 20. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA,
another Brazilian iron-ore producer,  rose  1 percent to 8.72
reais.  Australia  is the world’s largest iron-ore exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  