-- Brazil Central Bank Buys Dollars for Second Day to Ease Currency’s Rally
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-02-06T20:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/brazil-real-snaps-four-day-advance-as-greek-talks-rekindle-growth-concern.html
Brazil ’s central bank bought dollars
in the foreign-exchange market for a second straight day in a
bid to temper the real’s 10-week rally.  The bank paid an average 1.7170 reais each for an
unspecified amount of dollars in the  spot market , the first such
purchase since Sept. 13. Policy makers bought dollars in the
forwards market on Feb. 3, the first transaction of that type
since July. The real fell 0.5 percent to 1.7257 per  U.S. dollar 
after earlier gaining as much as 0.3 percent.  The central bank is stepping up moves to contain the
currency’s strength after companies borrowed $14 billion in
overseas debt markets this year, fueling speculation that those
dollar inflows will extend the real’s rally. Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said Jan. 23 that the government will keep
implementing policies aimed at preventing currency gains in a
bid to ensure economic growth of at least 4 percent this year.  “The central bank’s intervention may slow the pace of the
real’s gain, but it won’t reverse it,” Italo Lombardi, a Latin
America economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , said
by phone. “If we keep seeing strong capital flows to Brazil,
the real should keep rising, regardless of the central bank’s
actions.”  The purchases come as  Colombia ’s central bank resumes
dollar purchases in a bid to ease the peso’s rally and shore up
exports. Banco de la Republica will buy at least $20 million a
day in auctions for at least three months starting today, the
bank said in a Feb. 3 statement.  Foreign Reserves  Brazil’s real has gained 8.2 percent this year, while the
Colombian currency is up 8.5 percent.  The Brazilian central bank’s foreign reserves have almost
doubled in the past four years to $355 billion as policy makers
intervened to weaken the real.  The Brazilian government raised taxes on overseas loans and
foreign-exchange derivatives last year after tripling the so-
called IOF tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases to 6
percent in 2010 in a bid to stem the real’s gains.  The real rallied earlier today after an auction for
licenses to operate airports in three of Brazil’s busiest travel
hubs fetched 24.5 billion reais ($14 billion), or almost five
times the minimum, prompting speculation more dollars will come
into the country from abroad.  Winners of the auction are expected to invest a total of
16.1 billion reais.  “One way or another, some of that investment should come
from the outside,”  Reginaldo Galhardo , head of  currency trading 
at Treviso Corretora de Cambio in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview. “We are seeing big dollar inflows.”  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2013 was unchanged at 9.50 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  