-- Sugar Surplus Won’t Drive Prices Down More, Copersucar Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-06T12:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/brazil-s-center-south-cane-crop-may-rise-copersucar-says-1-.html
A forecast sugar surplus that drove
the price down the most in a decade last year won’t push rates
lower as consuming countries rebuild stockpiles of the
sweetener, according to  Copersucar SA (COPR3) .  Raw sugar will trade between 24 cents and 26 cents a pound
until July, Paulo Roberto de Souza, chief executive officer of
Copersucar SA, a trading and producers’ cooperative based in  Sao
Paulo , said in an interview at the Kingsman sugar conference in
Dubai today. The current season will have the first surplus
after three years of deficits, he said.  “A possible surplus of 5 million to 7 million metric tons
for a market of 150 million tons is very small,” de Souza said.
“The surplus should not affect prices too much because there
will be a rebuild, if not complete at least partial, of stocks.
It’s natural that we will see stocks rebuilding in  India  and
other consuming countries.”  India is the world’s largest consumer of sugar. The
country’s demand will be 22 million tons in the current season,
Abinash Verma, director general of the Indian Sugar Mills
Association, said in his speech at the conference yesterday.
 China  may import as much as 3.5 million tons this year, higher
than the market is currently anticipating, de Souza said.  The forecast surplus will not be enough to bring the global
stocks-to-use ratio to the historical level of 35 percent to 36
percent, after three consecutive years of deficits “dried up
the pipeline,” Copersucar’s de Souza said.  Center-South Crop  The sugar-cane crop in Brazil’s Center-South, the main
growing region of the world’s biggest producer of the sweetener,
may rise to 520 million to 540 million tons in the 2012-13
starting in April there, he said. That compares with about 492
million tons in the current season, he said. Sugar output in the
region may advance to 33 million to 34 million tons from about
31 million tons in 2011-12, de Souza said.  Prices may be pressured temporarily from July onwards after
the harvest in  Brazil  starts and exports pick up, he said. Rates
probably won’t fall below 22 cents a pound for an extended
period of time as it would encourage millers to produce more
ethanol at the expense of sugar, he said. Both the sweetener and
ethanol are made from the cane raw material in the South
American country. Copersucar has 48 mills in Brazil.  “If the harvest in Brazil disappoints from the
productivity per hectare perspective, the tendency is that you
will have higher prices from July onwards,” de Souza said. “If
the crop in Brazil comes in above expectations, then we can see
a slightly bigger bearish pressure,” he said, adding a
potential switch to ethanol would prevent prices from falling
too far.  Sugar Mix  Growers in Brazil will direct about 48 percent of cane to
sugar production in 2012-13, de Souza said. A potential switch
to more biofuel in Brazil could wipe out 3 million tons of sugar
production, he said.  Both the sweetener and ethanol are made from the cane raw
material in the South American country.  It’s too early to say that there will be another global
surplus next season, he said. While the 2012-13 crop starts in
April in Brazil, harvesting begins in October in most countries.  “The reaction to production we had this year was a
consequence of the price at and over 30 cents a pound,” he
said. “If we are talking about a market between 24 cents and 26
cents a pound, the incentive to expand production has
diminished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  