-- Norwegian Murderer Breivik Tells Court Hate-Killing Targets Were Traitors
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-06T15:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/breivik-makes-handcuffed-salute-in-first-public-glimpse-1-.html
Anders Behring Breivik told an Oslo
court that his decision last year to kill 77 people was guided
by his conviction that the victims were “traitors” who needed
to be wiped out to protect  Norway .  In his first televised appearance since the July 22 attacks
against members of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor
Party, Breivik said he thought he deserved a medal for
perpetrating Norway’s worst mass homicide since World War II.  The Oslo District Court extended custody of the 32-year-old
by 10 weeks until the trial starts on April 16, Judge Wenche
Gjelsten said today.  Breivik, wearing a dark suit and blue tie, entered the
court room handcuffed and raised his arm in a gesture his
attorney, Geir Lippestad, described as “a type of right-wing
extremist salute.” The cameras were cut off as the hearing
started.  “I acknowledge the acts but I plead not guilty,” Breivik
told the court. “Attacks on the government headquarters were
preemptive attacks on traitors committing or about to commit”
crimes against the Norwegian people, he said.  Breivik killed 77 people on July 22 in a shooting spree at
a  Labor Party  Youth camp and a car-bomb attack on Oslo
government ministries. He was found unfit for prison in a
psychiatric evaluation released last year, which sparked
criticism from victims and caused the Oslo court to order a new
assessment of his mental state. His April trial will seek to
establish guilt.  At the latest custody hearing in November, Breivik called
himself a commander in the Norwegian resistance. Breivik has
said that he sought to inflict the “greatest possible loss” on
the ruling Labor Party and railed in a manifesto posted on the
Internet against “cultural Marxism” and “Islamization.”  He has refused to recognize the legitimacy of the court and
demanded to be released since his hearings started.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  