-- Britons’ Employment Fears Ease Though Labor Market Still Weak, Lloyds Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/britons-job-fears-ease-though-labor-market-is-weak-lloyds-says.html
Britons’ concern about losing their
jobs eased last month, even though employment security remains
“weak,” according to Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets.  An index of  job security  rose 9 points to minus 24 from
December, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in an e-
mailed report in London today. However, that’s below the average
seen during the last recession, it said. A measure of consumer
 inflation  expectations fell to the lowest in more than two
years, reflecting the economic slowdown.  Indicators of labor security “remain at weak levels and
within ranges seen during the 2008-9 recession,” Lloyds
economists Hann-Ju Ho and Jonathan Thomas wrote in the report.
While December’s drop in the job-security gauge to the lowest
since it began in 2004 “may have been a blip,” January’s
rebound “did not pare all of last month’s decline and the level
is still below the average” during the recession, they said.  The  Bank of England  will raise its target for  asset
purchases  this week as the debt crisis in  Europe  may have
already pushed Britain’s economy into a second recession,
economists say. Inflation, as measured by the consumer-price
index, has slipped from a peak of 5.2 percent in September and
the central bank has said it will fall below its 2 percent
target this year.  Lloyds’ January index of Britons’ inflation expectations
dropped 6 points to 59 from December, the lowest since November
2009, today’s report showed.  “The continued downward trend in inflation expectations
suggests that actual CPI inflation will continue to fall in
2012,” Ho and Thomas said. “The peak in CPI inflation will
provide leeway for the Bank of  England  to further expand its
asset purchase program to support the economy.”  Asset Purchases  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , will increase its bond-purchase program by
50 billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds on Feb. 9,
according to 35 of 51 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .
Fifteen economists forecast a 75 billion-pound increase, and one
no change.  A separate report today from Grant Thornton LLP and the
Institute of Chartered Accountancy in England and  Wales  said
their Business Confidence Index signals the U.K. economy may
shrink by 0.2 percent in the first quarter, following a similar
contraction in the last three months of 2011. That would be
Britain’s first double-dip recession in more than three decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  