-- Britain Prepares for Worst as EU Strives to End Euro Crisis
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-06T11:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/britain-prepares-for-worst-as-eu-struggles-to-end-euro-crisis.html
As a debt-crisis remedy eludes
European leaders, Britain is readying its economic defenses amid
warnings that a breakup of the euro would spell havoc for the
U.K. economy.  Though Britain has long refused to join the single
currency, deep financial, trade and investment ties mean an
escalation of the crisis might “snowball” and hurt the U.K.,
according to economist Philip Rush at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London. Almost half of British exports go to the 17 euro nations
and U.K. banks are exposed to more than $1 trillion of
borrowings in the region.  “What happens in the  euro zone  effectively determines what
happens in the U.K.,” Rush said in a telephone interview. “You
look at how correlated euro-area and U.K. growth are
historically and it is clear how integrated the U.K. is with the
euro area.”  Leaders are struggling to avert a Greek default and find a
cure for the sovereign-borrowing crisis that is threatening to
tip the $12 trillion euro-area economy into recession. The
turmoil, sparked by a debt emergency in  Athens  more than two
years ago, has led to unprecedented bailouts for Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, cost France its top  credit rating  and shattered
the belief that the 13-year-old single currency was unbreakable.  European stocks fell from a six-month high today and the
euro declined the most in three weeks amid concern that efforts
to secure a second aid package for  Greece  are faltering. The
search for safer assets helped U.K. gilts advance. The benchmark
10-year gilt yield fell 3 basis points to 2.14 percent as of
11:23 a.m. in London.  Exposure Risk  Gilts, which last year outperformed all 26 government bond
markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, are lagging German Bunds and U.S.
Treasuries in 2012 on speculation that current bond yields don’t
reflect the risk of its exposure to the euro region.  Portuguese and Greek 10-year bond yields rose to record
highs even after the  European Central Bank  provided
unprecedented three-year loans to banks to ease market tension,
a sign that investors remain unconvinced the debt crisis has
reached a  turning point .  While the Bank of England and government forecasters say
the effects of a euro breakup are impossible to quantify,
official concern was underlined late last year when Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said that even the best
preparations could do little more than limit the damage.  ‘Fair Warning’  “We are planning for all eventualities, including
successful outcomes,” he told a  parliamentary committee  on Dec.
9. “But I should give a fair warning that however much
contingency planning you do, the disorderly collapse of the euro
would do enormous damage to the British economy at this point.”  The euro-region debt crisis has already pushed up funding
costs for British lenders and a European banking crisis,
possibly sparked by a default, could severely affect their
ability to borrow, triggering a fresh credit crunch.  In December, the Bank of England introduced a new sterling
liquidity facility to address potential financial-market
strains.  Danny Gabay, an economist at Fathom Consulting in  London ,
estimates a disorderly euro breakup would inflict far more
damage on the U.K. than the collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings
Inc. in 2008. Without central-bank intervention, the fallout
could see the economy contract by 8 percent over the next two
years and send the pound and gilt yields higher, torpedoing
government plans to eliminate the  budget deficit , he said.  ‘Vulnerable’  The  Office for Budget Responsibility , a nonpartisan body of
economists that oversees forecasting for the Treasury, predicted
in November that the economy will avoid another recession with
growth of 0.7 percent this year and 2.1 percent in 2013.  While British banks have “limited” holdings of  government
bonds  in “vulnerable” euro-area economies, they have larger
exposures to private-sector debt in  Italy ,  Spain  and Ireland,
the  Bank of England  said in its December  Financial Stability
Report . In addition, they have “significant exposures” to
Germany and France, which in turn have lent heavily to euro
countries with high debt levels  “The U.K. has a large banking sector in relation to its
economy and a large part of that banking sector is exposed to
the euro area, so any meltdown may be potentially cataclysmic,”
said Grant Lewis, an economist at Daiwa Capital Europe Ltd. in
London and a former official at the U.K. Treasury. “The
government’s clearly very nervous about ending up having to pour
more capital into these banks.”  BIS Estimates  U.K. bank holdings of government debt from Greece, Ireland,
 Portugal , Italy and Spain stood at $23 billion as of Sept. 30,
interim data from the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements show. By contrast, lending to banks,
business and consumers in those countries stood at $303 billion.
Out of their $506 billion exposure to German and French debt,
$140 billion relates to lending to French banks.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  had the largest exposure
to euro-area financial-institution debt as a proportion of its
loss-bearing, or core tier 1, capital at more than 30 percent,
the Bank of England said.  “As we found at the time of Lehman Brothers, it’s often
those chains of exposure that imperil the system most because
they’re not visible and therefore the hardest to manage,” Andy Haldane, the central bank’s executive director for financial
stability, said last month. “That is a concern that is still
there.”  Main Market  While Prime Minister  David Cameron  is urging companies to
target  emerging markets  such as China, India and  Brazil , the
euro region is the largest destination for U.K. exports,
accounting for 47 percent of foreign sales in the first 11
months of 2011.  Furthermore, investors fleeing euro-region assets could
push up the value of the pound, making British exports less
competitive and dealing a blow to government plans to rebalance
the economy toward exports.  The Daily Telegraph newspaper reported in December that the
Treasury was considering plans to erect  capital controls  to
restrict the flow of money coming into Britain in the event of a
euro breakup. In September,  Switzerland  imposed a ceiling on the
franc for the first time in more than three decades to protect
its trade-reliant economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  