-- Bullard Says Interest Rate Policy Assuming Economic Slack Risks Disaster
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-06T16:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/bullard-says-rate-policy-assuming-economic-slack-risks-disaster.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said holding interest rates near zero to
counteract a high degree of slack in the  U.S. economy  may be a
costly mistake.  “If we continue using this interpretation of events, it
may be very difficult for the U.S. to ever move off of the zero
lower bound on nominal  interest rates ,” Bullard said today in a
speech in  Chicago . “This could be a looming disaster for the
 United States .”  Better-than-forecast data on the economy such as the
unemployment rate indicate that more Fed purchases of bonds,
known as quantitative easing, aren’t necessary, Bullard told
reporters after his speech. He was the first Fed official in
2010 to call for a second round of asset purchases.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan 25 the central bank
might consider more purchases after the Federal Open Market
Committee pledged to keep the benchmark interest rate at a
record low at least until late 2014.  Such easing is a “potent weapon” to be held in reserve
because it could raise inflationary pressures and complicate an
eventual exit strategy from record easing, Bullard said. He
doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year.  “The risks have to be weighed against the rewards,” he
said. “We shouldn’t do any further QE unless we see
deterioration in the economy and especially a threat of
deflation that is rising considerably higher than it is today.”  Individual Forecasts  FOMC members at the meeting outlined their individual
forecasts for an increase in the target interest rate. Bullard
said he predicted the Fed will probably raise rates next year.  The St. Louis Fed chief said he would have dissented from
an FOMC commitment to keep  interest rates  low until at least
late 2014 because he opposes fixing a date for monetary policy.  “These things are guesses because there is a lot of
uncertainty,” he told reporters. “We are into a game where we
are going to have to change the date every so often as the
economic situation changes, and I don’t think that is a good way
to operate policy.”  An increase in the interest rate on excess reserves could
be part of an eventual tightening, he said.  In the text of his remarks, Bullard told the Union League
Club of Chicago that economists who believe economic performance
is “stunningly far below where we should be” assume the
economy should have grown at normal rates starting in late 2007
when the recession started. Yet growth was artificially boosted
by the housing bubble, so there is little reason to expect
growth to return to an artificially high trend, he said.  Decline in Prices  Instead, a decline in housing prices created a permanent
loss of wealth, so there is no rationale based on economic slack
alone to keep rates near zero, Bullard said.  A zero-rate policy by the central bank “punishes savers in
the economy,” hurting “older Americans” in retirement and
many young people can’t or don’t want to borrow at low rates
because of a weak job market, he said.  Bullard endorsed the Fed’s adoption of a formal inflation
target of 2 percent, which he said “will serve the nation well
for years.”  Inflation has been “moderating in recent reports” and is
“up sharply” from the second half of 2010, when the Fed began
a second round of asset purchases, Bullard said.  The St. Louis Fed official’s comments followed last week’s
report by the Labor Department showing U.S.  unemployment rate 
dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009. Payrolls
rose by 243,000, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Accelerate Next Year  The jobless rate may fall below 8 percent by the end of
2012, Bullard said in response to audience questions. Economic
growth may exceed 3 percent this year and accelerate in 2013, he
said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent to
1,341.43 at 11:37 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 1.92 percent.  Among Fed policy makers, Bullard, 50, has been viewed as a
bellwether for investors. His speeches and interviews moved the
two-year Treasury yield more than any other  Federal Open Market
Committee  member last year, according to a Macroeconomic
Advisers report released Jan. 27.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  Bernanke told Congress last week that the Fed wouldn’t
tolerate higher inflation to create jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  