-- HTC Trails Estimates as It Awaits New Models
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-06T18:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/htc-forecasts-first-quarter-sales-that-miss-analyst-estimates.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
smartphone maker, forecast revenue that missed analysts’
estimates as it awaits the introduction of new products to help
the company rebound from its  first profit drop  in two years.  First-quarter sales will be NT$65 billion ($2.2 billion) to
NT$70 billion, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Revenue is expected at NT$84.9 billion,
according to the  average  of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. HTC didn’t provide a shipment forecast.  Competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
prompted HTC in November to cut its sales forecast, a move that
preceded its first profit decline since 2009. A lack of new
models this quarter may delay HTC’s attempts to catch up with
rivals as the popularity of advanced smartphones drives growth
in the mobile-phone market.  “It’s going to be a transition period because their newer
models were selling badly and they’re awaiting fresh products,”
said Aaron Jeng, who rates the stock “neutral” at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Taipei. “We need to wait for next quarter to
see how those new handsets perform in the market.”  HTC  shares lost 5.2 percent to close at NT$551 in Taipei
before the announcement. The  stock  has gained 11 percent this
year after dropping 42 percent in 2011.  ‘Product Transition’  HTC attributed the forecast for sales, set to be the lowest
since the second quarter of 2010, on “product transition,”
Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said on a conference call.
He declined to provide fourth-quarter shipments or estimates for
the current period, the first time HTC didn’t provide sales
volume data.  “Our weakness in first-quarter guidance also comes from
facing competition in the U.S. from iPhone and Samsung,” Yung
said. “LTE handsets also didn’t meet our expectations.”  HTC in 2009 began offering handsets using the fourth
generation long-term evolution, or LTE, technology which allows
faster downloads than 3G models.  Stiff competition also hurt shipments in  Europe , where the
impact was smaller, Yung said.  Sales in Asia  remain very good,
he said.  Adding local content and cooperating with retailers will
help the company drive growth in  China  where it has “high
expectations” this year, Yung said.  Operating Margin  Operating margin , which tracks the percentage of sales less
operating costs, will drop to 7.5 percent this quarter, from
12.7 percent in the previous three-month period, HTC said
yesterday. That’s the lowest in at least three years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income is expected to drop a record 39 percent to
NT$9.1 billion this quarter, according to the average of 13
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. HTC didn’t provide a
profit forecast.  Demand for smartphones, which connect to the Internet and
have high-quality displays, propelled the category to 54 percent
growth in the fourth quarter, researcher  Strategy Analytics   said
Jan. 26 . That outpaced the 11 percent growth in the wider
handset market which includes less-advanced models, the
researcher said in a  separate statement .  HTC  revenue may drop about 1 percent this year to NT$462
billion, according to the average of 15 analyst estimates
compiled since it reported fourth-quarter earnings.  “There’s a real possibility that  HTC  may not grow
shipments this year, which means they would lose market share
because the rest of market is growing,” said Roxy Wong, who
rates HTC “reduce” at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in  Hong Kong .
He estimates global smartphone shipments will climb more than 30
percent this year.  Twenty of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg  recommend 
investors “hold” the stock, eight recommend buying it and
seven have a “sell” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  