-- HCA Reports Fourth-Quarter Profit Surged and Will Pay Special $2 Dividend
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-06T21:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/hca-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-surged-and-will-pay-special-2-dividend.html
HCA Holdings Inc. , the largest
hospital company by revenue, reported fourth-quarter profit
surged because of an acquisition and said it will pay a special
dividend of $2 a share.  Net income climbed to $1.94 billion, or $4.25 a share, from
$283 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier, the Nashville,
Tennessee-based company said in a statement. The quarter was
boosted by gains from the purchase of the part of the HCA-
HealthONE LLC venture it didn’t already own and from asset
sales, the company said. The shares rose to a six-month high.  HCA may benefit as Americans who avoided spending on
elective procedures return to the doctor in a recovering
economy. The  U.S. jobless rate  fell in January to 8.3 percent,
the lowest in three years, as payrolls climbed. HCA said same-
facility equivalent admissions increased 3.2 percent from the
prior year.  “They had an extremely great quarter driven by volumes,
and in the hospital business, volumes drive results,” said
 Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , with a “buy” rating on the company.  Shares Climb  HCA rose 7.3 percent to $28.40 at the close in New York,
the most since July. The shares have  slipped  5.3 percent in the
last 12 months.  Insurance companies including UnitedHealth Group Inc. and
WellPoint Inc. also predicted more use of health-care services
when determining their earnings forecasts for 2012.  HCA said 2012  earnings  may be $3.35 to $3.55 a share,
compared with the $3.49 average estimate of 22 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg.  HCA, the product of an initial public offering that raised
$3.79 billion on March 9, said last month that Medicaid
reimbursement reductions would lead to lower-than-expected
revenue. Medicaid is the $401 billion U.S.-state government
program for the poor.  Last year, the company acquired the Colorado Health
Foundation’s 40 percent ownership interest in its HCA-HealthONE
LLC joint venture. HCA will continue to focus on buying
companies that don’t require moving into new markets, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Bracken said last month.  The HealthONE acquisition boosted fourth-quarter results by
$3.13 a share, while sales of facilities helped by 18 cents, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  