-- Caesars IPO Discount May Come Up Short as Share Sales Loom
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-02-06T23:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/caesars-ipo-discount-may-come-up-short-as-share-sales-loom.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp., the
casino chain saddled with more than $22 billion in debt, is
planning an $18.1 million initial public offering that some
analysts say doesn’t offer enough of a discount to offset the
threat of further stock sales by private-equity owners.  Caesars, taken private in a $30.7 billion buyout by Apollo
Global Management LLC and TPG Capital in 2008, is selling 1.81
million shares at $8 to $10 each, regulatory filings show. At
the midpoint of the range, the company would be valued at 19
percent less than in a failed 2010 IPO attempt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg based on adjusted pretax earnings.  While the discount may lure some investors, the potential
sale by the Las Vegas-based company’s owners of more than $300
million in shares may subsequently weigh on the stock price.
Caesars postponed pricing the IPO until tomorrow after planning
to complete the sale today, Bloomberg data show.  “What Caesars has done is find a way to get the IPO
through the market, albeit at a smaller scale,” said  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee about $5.1 billion at Bahl & Gaynor
Inc. in Cincinnati. “Investors should understand the dilutive
effect. It would give a lot of people cause for concern.”  The offering gives firms such as Paulson & Co., the hedge
fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , a chance to exit and
potentially return cash to investors. Existing Caesars investors
may sell 34.7 million shares after the offering, according to
the IPO prospectus.  Rights to Sell  Shareholders including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
Deutsche Bank AG have the right to sell 22.3 million shares,
equal to $223 million in stock at the top end of the IPO range.
Paulson & Co., which owns 9.9 percent, has the right to sell
12.4 million shares. Apollo and TPG aren’t selling shares in the
current offering and aren’t among the funds that have registered
for additional sales.  Caesars today pulled a registration filing to sell as much
as $500 million in shares following the planned IPO, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. An amended filing for
the offering today didn’t mention the $500 million registration.  Apollo, TPG and firms that co-invested in the deal will own
about 70 percent of Caesars common stock after the IPO, the
filing shows. The companies announced the deal for Caesars, then
known as Harrah’s Entertainment Inc., in 2006, in the midst of a
record buyout boom.  Enterprise Value  About $1.6 trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed
from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm. Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman led Caesars
during the takeover, which at $30.7 billion, including debt and
fees, made it the biggest U.S. casino buyout.  The midpoint of the  price range  gives Caesars an enterprise
value of $22.5 billion, or 11.8 times adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.92 billion,
and excluding costs such as one-time acquisition expenses, the
filing shows. That compares with a valuation of 14.6 times
Ebitda in the failed 2010 IPO, when the largest U.S. casino
operator sought to raise $531 million.  While Caesars has slashed costs since the buyout, sales
were little changed at $6.7 billion in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, and the company still doesn’t have casino operations
in Macau, the world’s largest gambling market, where  Las Vegas
Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  get the bulk of their sales.  ‘Aggressive’ Valuation  That may weigh on the company’s valuation, said Chris Snow,
a senior analyst at CreditSights Inc., a New York research firm.  “The long-term debate about whether they deserve the
multiple is valid” because Caesars doesn’t have casino
operations in Macau, said Snow. The valuation is “pretty
aggressive.”  Caesars gets more than 90 percent of its sales from the
U.S., with more than 50 properties across the country. Revenue
in  Las Vegas , Caesars’ biggest market, rose 6.5 percent in the
nine months through September as sales in  Atlantic City  and
other smaller U.S. markets sank. By comparison, total gambling
revenue in Macau surged 42 percent for all of 2011.  A spokesman for Caesars declined to comment.  On a non-adjusted basis, Caesars’ enterprise value is 12.5
times Ebitda, little changed from 2010, when the company sought
a valuation of 12.4 times pretax earnings, and more than Wynn,
which traded at 10.5 times Ebitda as of Feb. 3.  Las Vegas Sands 
traded at 15.8 times Ebitda.  U.S. Economy  Caesars stands to benefit as the  U.S. economy  improves,
said Dennis Farrell, a casino-debt analyst with  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . American gross
domestic product grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the final
quarter of 2011, the fastest pace since the second quarter of
2010.  “If you really believe the U.S. economy is really going to
improve, the company has removed a lot of costs from their
 capital structure  and their operations,” Farrell said.  MGM Resorts International, a rival of Caesars which also
operates mainly in the U.S., traded at about 19 times 12-month
Ebitda as of Feb. 3. In contrast, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based
 Penn National Gaming Inc.  had an enterprise value of about $5
billion, or 7 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, Bloomberg data
show.  Caesars plans to list shares on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol CZR. They previously traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol HET until January 2008. Credit
Suisse Group AG and  Citigroup Inc.  are leading the IPO. The
company plans to use the proceeds of the offering for general
corporate purposes including development projects, possible
acquisitions and maintenance capital expenditures.  While the IPO may be an easy sale “because it’s so
minuscule,” the expectation of future offerings may limit gains
in the shares, said  David Bain , a  Newport Beach , California-
based senior analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  “As the stock goes up, we’re sitting here bracing
ourselves for another sale,” said Bain. “It is a tough story
unless you assume the domestic economy comes roaring back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  