-- Obama Blocks California From Charging for Care in Medicaid
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-07T00:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/california-can-t-charge-medicaid-patients-for-hospital-care-u-s-says.html
The Obama administration blocked an
effort by  California  to charge Medicaid patients for emergency
room visits and hospital stays and allow health-care providers
to turn away those who couldn’t pay.  A law signed by Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  in March
would have assessed co-payments in Medicaid for a variety of
medical services, including  prescription drugs . The co-payments
were expected to save California $575 million in the fiscal year
that begins July 1, said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for the
Department of Finance.  The administration was “unable to identify the legal and
policy support” for California’s request,  Marilyn Tavenner ,
acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, wrote in a letter today to Toby Douglas, chief deputy
director of health-care programs for the California Department
of Health and Care Services.  California’s co-payments would have ranged from $3 to $5
for drugs to $100 per day for hospital stays. Doctor visits
would have been $5, and emergency room treatment $50.  Medicaid, the U.S. health insurance program for the poor,
is run by states and the federal government, with the U.S.
approving changes in eligibility standards by granting waivers
from national law. The program is among the  biggest expenses  for
states.  Federal Restriction  Federal law doesn’t allow states to require co-payments
from most Medicaid beneficiaries, including low-income children
and elderly or disabled people. Many states have sought to
increase co-payments to close budget deficits, said Matt Salo,
executive director of the National Association of Medicaid
Directors in Washington.  “Rational, reasonable cost-sharing is something that
everyone is looking at,” Salo said. “Cost-sharing that’s not
enforceable is kind of a silly policy.”  California proposed allowing doctors, hospitals,
pharmacists and other providers to deny service to any Medicaid
patient who couldn’t or wouldn’t provide a co-payment, Palmer
said.  Health providers now “collect little if any co-payments”
in California’s program because they are voluntary, Palmer said.
“We think as a cost-saving measure this is a reasonable step,
as opposed to achieving savings in the program through things
like reduction of services,” he said today in a telephone
interview.  Clashes With Law  California’s request was denied because “it is
inconsistent with statute,” said  Brian Cook , a spokesman for
Tavenner’s agency.  “We recognize the needs of states to keep costs down and
are supportive of the goal to promote cost-effective use of
health-care services,” he said in an e-mail.  California will appeal Tavenner’s decision to Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , Palmer said. The
state isn’t likely to prevail, said Edwin Park, vice president
for health policy at the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
in Washington, a nonprofit research group.  “Federal law’s pretty clear that for the population that’s
subject to these protections, the secretary doesn’t have any
waiver authority,” Park said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  