-- Cameron Faith in Ratings That Don’t Matter Hurts Pound With Anemic Growth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-06T17:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/cameron-faith-in-ratings-that-don-t-matter-hurts-pound-with-anemic-growth.html
The spending cuts that helped the
U.K. preserve its AAA credit rating last year and bolstered the
pound are now weighing on the currency as investors lose
confidence that Prime Minister  David Cameron  will revive
economic growth.  Sterling had its worst January since 2008 against a basket
of nine developed-market peers, falling 0.6 percent, after a 3.1
percent advance in the second half of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gilts are lagging behind lower-rated
Treasuries, after world-beating gains of almost 17 percent last
year.  Investors are beginning to favor policies promoting growth
over austerity just as the biggest government-spending squeeze
since World War II risks sending the U.K. into its second
recession since 2009. U.S. President  Barack Obama  has used
outlays to drive America’s recovery even as near-record deficits
led to an August downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s .  “Given that there was no move from international bond
investors to force this upon them, the U.K. is choosing a macro
policy mix that is negative for the pound,”  Mark McCormick , a
New York-based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. said in a Jan. 31 interview. “The main drag on the economy
is the austerity measures taken to address the government
deficit, which is meant to spur confidence in the bond market.”  Selling Gilts  Overseas investors sold a net 10.7 billion pounds ($16.9
billion) of gilts in December, the most since March 2009, Bank
of England data on Jan. 31 showed. That was after the U.S. said
net  purchases  of its financial assets by international investors
soared to $59.8 billion in November from $8.3 billion in
October.  The pound was little changed at $1.5821 at 12:55 p.m. New
York time today, after falling as much as 0.5 percent. It
strengthened 0.2 percent to 82.20 pence per euro. It’s down 0.8
percent this year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which track 10 developed-market currencies against each
other. Gilts have lost 1.5 percent since December, including
reinvested interest, while Treasuries lost 0.2 percent, based on
 indexes  compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  The combination of austerity and investor demand for a
refuge from the euro-region’s sovereign debt crisis helped the
pound appreciate 2.8 percent against the common currency in
2011.  ‘Free Pass’  Sterling will end the year at $1.55 and 83 pence per euro,
according to the median of no fewer than 40 analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the most-accurate
forecaster for the pound-dollar pair in the six quarters ended
Dec. 31, according to Bloomberg Rankings, predicts sterling will
drop to $1.54 by year-end, the data show.  “People are less willing to give the pound a free pass as
a safe haven,”  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in
Singapore, said in an interview on Feb. 1. The “pound is in the
middle to lower tier of currencies,” he said.  Eliminating the U.K. deficit, equal to 9 percent of gross
domestic product, by 2017 has been the centerpiece of Cameron’s
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s fiscal policy.
By comparison, Obama is seeking re-election in November with a
$1.3 trillion deficit, equivalent to 8.6 percent of GDP.  The U.K.’s top rating will probably not be enough to ensure
demand for gilts and the pound, even as Osborne said on Oct. 3
that bond markets are “ready to pick off the next country that
lacks the will to deal with its debts.”  S&P Downgrade  Deviation from the program would “be abandoning the
deficit plan that has brought us the stability other nations
today crave,” Osborne said then, the same day that S&P affirmed
the nation’s rating.  The  dollar  outperformed all major currencies except the
yen, while Treasury yields fell to records, after S&P cut the
U.S.’s credit ranking one step to AA+ on Aug. 5. The ratings
company, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., cited
weakened “effectiveness, stability and predictability of
American policy makers and political institutions” as reasons
for the downgrade.  The  U.S. currency  rose 5.5 percent against the pound from
the day of the cut through year-end.  “There is limited upside for the pound this year,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said Jan. 30 in an interview. “People
are more comfortable with AA paper.”  Bond Yields  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 10-year gilts
versus similar-maturity Treasuries more than doubled to 0.256
percentage point this year through last week. The spread was at
0.6 percentage point, the most in more than two years, in
September, about a month after the U.S. downgrade.  Yields  on benchmark 10-year gilts climbed 11 basis points
last week to 2.18 percent, while those for Treasuries of similar
maturity increased 3 basis points to 1.92 percent. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  “We perceive their political will to be stronger than the
 United States  to get their fiscal house in order,”  John Chambers , managing director of sovereign ratings at S&P, said in
a Bloomberg Radio interview Feb. 3, referring to the U.K. “Like
the United States they have a  reserve currency , and that gives
them a lot of flexibility on the financing side. As long as they
stick to that plan and maintain that credibility everything
should be all right.”  A weaker pound may end up helping Britain. While  exports 
fell 1.5 percent in November amid sputtering growth in  Europe ,
the U.K.’s top export market, the goods-trade deficit narrowed
by a record in October, fueled by demand elsewhere.  ‘More Flexibility’  “The pound’s going to be a fantastic candidate for a new
breed of safe haven,” Elizabeth Gregory, a market strategist at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva, said in a Jan. 31 interview.
Britain will “have much more flexibility than euro-zone
counterparts to deal with their slowdown in growth,” she said.  Osborne has scope to implement “significant” fiscal
stimulus to spur the economy amid signs that the deficit will be
lower than estimated, an Institute for Fiscal Studies report
said on Feb. 1. The report was produced with Oxford Economics,
which predicts the economy will expand 0.3 percent this year.  The government’s deficit-reduction plan has helped restore
confidence in the U.K. public finances and resulted in lower
market interest rates, a spokesman for the Treasury, who
declined to be identified, said on Feb. 2. This has allowed the
 Bank of England  to keep monetary policy looser than it otherwise
would have been, the spokesman said.  Quantitative Easing  The National Institute for Economic and Social Research
said last week that it forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink
0.1 percent this year and grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared
with previous projections in October for growth of 0.8 percent
and 2.6 percent. Growth in the U.S. may total 2.3 percent,
according to the median estimate of 72 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Unlike in the U.S., Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King ’s
efforts to boost the economy through a bond-buying program may
not be enough to prevent a contraction. The central bank’s
balance sheet assets now total 19.8 percent of GDP, 0.7 percent
more than the comparable ratio for the  Federal Reserve ,
according to Guggenheim Partners LLC.  ‘Moderately Bearish’  Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said last week
there is a case to expand the so-called  quantitative-easing 
program by 75 billion pounds. The Monetary Policy Committee
announces its next decision on Feb. 9. King raised the ceiling
on the bank’s bond purchases to 275 billion pounds in October.  The cash being created by the Bank of England hasn’t
spurred lending by financial institutions. The sterling Libor-
OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend, was at 58.8
basis points last week, approaching the widest since July 2009.  “In the short term, we are moderately bearish” on the
pound versus the dollar, Callum Henderson, global head of
foreign-exchange research in  Singapore  at Standard Chartered
Plc, said in an e-mailed response to questions received on Feb.
2. “The likelihood that the Bank of England will enact even
more QE should keep U.K. yields ultra-low, while the U.K.
economy remains mired in recession near-term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  