-- Carlyle Suit Ban, ECB-Greek Rescue, Pipeline Bill, CDO Charges: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-06T12:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/carlyle-suit-ban-ecb-greek-rescue-pipeline-bill-compliance.html
Carlyle Group LP abandoned a plan to
ban shareholders from filing class-action lawsuits after U.S.
regulators threatened to block a stock sale the private-equity
firm is seeking to complete as soon as April.  The Washington-based firm amended the documents for its
initial public offering on Jan. 10 to include a provision that
would have required future stockholders to resolve any claim
against Carlyle through arbitration rather than in court. The
move provoked controversy among lawmakers and shareholder rights
advocates, who urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
not to approve the arbitration clause.  The SEC subsequently told Carlyle that it wouldn’t sign off
on the IPO as long as the provision was included, according to a
statement the agency issued Feb. 3. In addition, the proposal
was likely to draw opposition from public pensions and agencies,
which provided about 40 percent of the capital commitments to
Carlyle’s funds as of Sept. 30 and would also have been
potential customers for the IPO.  Last week three Democratic senators wrote a letter to SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro , urging her not to clear the IPO unless
Carlyle dropped the arbitration clause.  The Feb. 3 letter was signed by Senators Al Franken of
Minnesota, Robert Menendez of  New Jersey  and Richard Blumenthal
of Connecticut, who wrote that Carlyle’s provision “would
unlawfully deprive investors of their ability to vindicate their
statutory rights.” The senators expressed concern that the
Carlyle public offering filing could set a precedent for future
IPOs and diminish shareholder rights.  Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment on the letter. The American Association for Justice, the
primary trade group for trial lawyers, urged its members to
contact public pension funds and ask them to weigh in with
Carlyle and the SEC, according to Michelle Widmann, a
spokeswoman for the Washington-based association. The Council of
Institutional Investors, an association of pension funds,
endowments and foundations that oversee more than $3 trillion in
assets, had also placed the Carlyle proposal on its policy
committee agenda for review, according to Jeff Mahoney, the
organization’s general counsel.  Carlyle’s initiative followed a series of  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L)  rulings that said arbitration was the preferred method of
resolving disputes between corporations and their customers and
employees. That concept could have been extended to U.S.
securities markets had Carlyle succeeded in going public with a
mandatory-arbitration clause.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ECB Said to Consider Ways to Use Bond Holdings in Greek Rescue  The  European Central Bank  is considering using its bond
holdings to bolster  Greece ’s next rescue program and support
efforts to contain the sovereign debt crisis, three euro-region
officials said.  Under one plan, the ECB could sell its Greek bonds to the
European Financial Stability Facility at the price it paid for
them rather than accept a loss along with private creditors, two
of the people said. The EFSF is against that proposal because it
may stretch its capacity, the officials said. Another plan is
for euro-area central banks to give up profits or take losses on
Greek bonds in their investment portfolios. Several options are
under informal consideration and none have gained traction so
far, two of the officials said. Spokesmen for the ECB and the
EFSF declined to comment.  The central bank’s discussions have taken place as Greece,
its private creditors and international authorities struggle to
assemble a new aid package big enough to contain the crisis. The
European Union is under pressure to reach a deal with Greece and
its creditors soon because of a 14.5 billion-euro ($19 billion)
Greek bond payment due March 20.  In October, the EU, Greece and private creditors agreed to
a deal that includes a loss of more than 70 percent for
bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and 130 billion euros
in official loans. That deal, which also involves the
 International Monetary Fund , requires Greece’s debt burden to
fall to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  For more, click here, click here, and click here.  EU Style of Bank Supervision May Clash With U.K., FSA CEO Says  The U.K.’s changing system of banking supervision may be at
odds with the European Union’s style of financial oversight,
said  Hector Sants , the British  Financial Services Authority 
chief executive officer.  The FSA plans to implement a so-called twin peaks structure
by April 2, Sants said in a speech today in  London , splitting
rule-making and enforcement duties into two separate divisions
within the regulator. The agency will be “more intrusive”
while seeking to limit “unnecessary questioning,” Sants said.  Sants said he believes there’s a “necessity of having
customized risk assessments” for individual firms.  The FSA will be disbanded next year as part of the U.K.
government’s plans to hand responsibility for banking
supervision to the  Bank of England . Oversight of trading and
consumer rules will be taken over by the Financial Conduct
Authority.  Compliance Action  Two Agencies to Lose Roles Under Keystone XL Bill, Officials Say  A Republican-backed bill giving the  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  power to approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL pipeline would remove two federal agencies from
oversight, officials of the Interior Department and U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers said.  The Interior Department is responsible for monitoring
construction and maintenance of pipelines on U.S. land, and the
legislation makes FERC the “sole federal agency responsible for
the project,” Mike Pool, deputy director of Interior’s Bureau
of Land Management, said Feb. 3 at a House subcommittee hearing
in  Washington . The Corps would lose its permitting authority for
the pipeline, an official said.  Republicans are pressing to start work on the $7 billion
pipeline from  Canada  to U.S. Gulf coast refineries, which was
delayed by President Barack Obama in November to consider an
alternate route.  The bill strips the Corps of Engineers of its role in
reviewing and approving pipelines, Margaret Gaffney-Smith, chief
of the Corps’ regulatory program, said at the hearing. It also
poses jurisdictional and legal issues, officials from the State
Department and FERC told the House subcommittee Jan. 25. FERC
doesn’t have the authority to site oil pipelines.  For more, click here.  Espirito Santo Says Does Not Plan to Use Recapitalization Funds  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest bank by market
value, does not plan to use the state’s recapitalization funds,
Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Salgado said in Lisbon Feb. 3.  Espirito Santo ended 2011 with a core tier 1 ratio of 9.2
percent and a tier 1 ratio of 9.4 percent, the lender said in a
statement Feb. 3 on its full-year earnings.  The Salgado also reaffirmed at the press conference that
the bank has no exposure to Greek sovereign debt.  California’s Solo Mortgage Probe Complicated by 2008 Deal  California  Attorney General Kamala Harris objects to giving
banks broad releases of liability for predatory lending. At the
same time, she may be locked into her predecessor’s 2008
settlement with the largest lender in the state during the
mortgage boom that does exactly that.  Facing a deadline today to join a proposed multistate
agreement over foreclosure practices said to be worth as much as
$25 billion if California joins, Harris has said she won’t sign
onto a deal blocking her from investigating whether the five
largest U.S. mortgage servicers misled homeowners about the
terms of their loans, among other issues.  One of the five lenders involved in the talks,  Bank of
America Corp ., reached an agreement in 2008 with Harris’s
predecessor, Jerry Brown, who is now governor, that bars its
Countrywide Financial unit’s mortgage holders from pursuing
claims of the type that Harris wants to investigate.  Harris, 47, whose state is the most populous and leads the
nation in foreclosure filings for housing units, has described
as “inadequate” the proposed settlement state and federal
officials have been negotiating for more than a year.  The foreclosure probe, which had involved attorneys general
from all 50 states, began in October 2010 following disclosures
that banks were using faulty documents to seize homes.  Harris, through spokesman Shum Preston, declined to comment
on the Countrywide settlement or the multistate negotiations.  Gil Duran  , a spokesman for Brown, had no immediate
comment.  For more, click here.  EU May Consider Relaxing Demands on Banks for Sovereign Buffer  European bank  supervisors may discuss easing rules for
lenders to hold capital against sovereign debt this week amid
more than 30 meetings this month that will track banks’ progress
in complying with updated requirements, two people with
knowledge of the discussions said.  Regulators will meet this week at the  European Banking
Authority  in London to review the capital rules issued in
December. National supervisors will likely discuss the sovereign
buffer, according to one of the people, a senior EU official,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  The EBA told banks to raise 114.7 billion euros ($150.5
billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes. The EBA
required banks to keep a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent
and hold additional reserves against the debt of weaker euro-
area countries according to the market price of the bonds, known
as the sovereign buffer.  Banks submitted their plans to raise capital in January.  Supervisory colleges, groups of national regulators that
oversee  Europe ’s largest cross-border banks, will hold 31
meetings this month to decide whether the banks’ proposals
comply with the EBA guidelines, one of the people said. Banks
aren’t allowed to reduce lending to hit the capital ratios, the
EBA said in December.  Courts  Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Surprised by Charges, Lawyer Says  Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a bonus-boosting fraud tied
to a $5.35 billion trading book, was surprised by the U.S.
indictment since he has been cooperating with investigators for
four years, his lawyer said.  Serageldin, 38, a U.S. citizen who lives in  England , was
charged in Manhattan federal court for masterminding a scheme to
fake collateralized debt obligation data to meet targets and
protect end-of-year bonuses. Two of his former subordinates,
David Higgs, 42, and Salmaan Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty Feb. 1
in  New York  to manipulating prices at Serageldin’s direction.
The men were also sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is
prosecuting the case, urged Serageldin after the indictment was
unsealed to come to the U.S. to face the charges. Serageldin’s
lawyer said his client was blindsided by Bharara’s prosecution
because he has been fully cooperating with U.K. and U.S.
investigators, including Bharara.  James McGuire, a lawyer for Serageldin in New York, said
Feb. 2 in a phone interview his client is “studying his
options.” Serageldin denied any wrongdoing.  Higgs and Siddiqui both implicated their former boss,
saying Serageldin told them to overstate the value of mortgage-
backed assets in a Credit Suisse trading book after the collapse
of the U.S. housing market. Both men, who have plea agreements
with the government, face sentences of as long as five years in
prison on one count of conspiracy, the U.S. said.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Cohen Says ‘Laser-Like Focus’ on Europe Is Cause for Optimism  Increased awareness of the seriousness of Europe’s debt
problems is cause for optimism, said H. Rodgin Cohen, a partner
at  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP .  “I am actually more positive, more optimistic because of
the laser-like focus by the entire European community and the
world at large on the necessity of solving Greece and solving
Europe,” Cohen, senior chairman at the New York-based law firm,
said Feb. 3 in an interview on Bloomberg TV.  While there is still “a lot that could go wrong” in
Europe, there is more awareness about the seriousness of the
issues, he said. The U.S. and other countries shouldn’t be too
intrusive in the process, he said.  Cohen worked with U.S. governmental agencies on behalf of
financial and trade associations following the U.S. financial
crisis. He said the Volcker rule, which would ban proprietary
trading under new financial industry regulations, should be
implemented in a way that ensures liquidity in financial
markets.  Comings and Goings  SEC Said to Appoint GAO’s Franzel to Auditor Watchdog Panel  Jeanette M. Franzel, a managing director at the Government
Accountability Office, has been chosen to fill a vacancy on the
Washington-based panel that oversees public-company auditors,
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a statement.  The Securities and Exchange Commission will appoint Franzel
to replace former acting chairman Daniel Goelzer, whose term on
the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  expired late last
year, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
decision isn’t public. The five-member board is weighing several
major changes to core auditing rules, and the new member’s vote
could tip the balance.  The nonprofit panel created under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 began to pursue several policy changes that have drawn
criticism from the accounting industry, including forced
rotation of auditors.  Embraer Nominates Brazil Treasury’s Augustin as Board Member  Embraer SA (ERJ)  said it nominated Brazil’s Treasury Secretary
Arno Augustin as a member of its board, according to a
regulatory filing.  Augustin’s nomination to the company’s board will be voted
on in a meeting of shareholders scheduled for March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 