-- Caterpillar Canada Plant Occupation Is ‘an Option,’ Union Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-06T20:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/caterpillar-canada-plant-occupation-is-an-option-union-s-lewenza-says.html
The Canadian Auto Workers union said
its members may occupy a  Caterpillar Inc.  locomotive factory if
they’re unsatisfied with severance payments offered by the
world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment.  “The CAW has occupied workplaces when employers have shown
disrespect,” Canadian Auto Workers Union President Ken Lewenza
said today in a telephone interview. “It’s a tool. It’s an
option.”  Caterpillar’s Progress Rail Services Corp. unit said Feb. 3
it will close the London, Ontario, plant after failing to reach
a labor accord. Union workers had been locked out since Jan. 1
after year-end talks broke down. Costs at the plant weren’t
sustainable, putting it at a competitive disadvantage, Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar said last week.  The CAW is scheduled to meet with the company tomorrow to
negotiate severance, Lewenza said. About 475 employees
represented by the union and 300 salaried employees work at the
plant, he said last week.  The factory was acquired by Caterpillar as part of its $820
million purchase of Electro-Motive Diesel Inc. in 2010 from
private-equity firms Berkshire Partners LLC and Greenbriar
Equity Group LLC. Caterpillar, which is trying to expand its
share of the locomotive market, said it will move production to
other factories in North and South America.  “The company doesn’t have any updates or comment on this
week’s talks,” Anne Marie Quinn, a spokeswoman for Electro
Motive Diesel, said in an e-mail today.  Legal Minimum  The CAW plans to ask for severance payments that exceed the
minimum mandated by Ontario law, Lewenza said. Workers with less
than five years of employment aren’t entitled to any payment,
while those who have worked for longer stand to get one week’s
pay for each year of  service , capped at 26 weeks, he said. The
CAW will seek a deal that may include pay, temporary health
benefits and employment services such as resume writing, Lewenza
said.  Lewenza said that while the CAW wants workers to wait for
the bargaining process to run its course, individual workers may
take it upon themselves to occupy the plant. With record
profits, Caterpillar can afford to pay benefits that exceed the
legal minimum, Lewenza said.  Caterpillar on Jan. 26 said 2011 sales for Electro-Motive
Diesel rose by $861 million while profit declined by $7 million.
Total full-year net income was $4.93 billion on sales of $60.1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  