-- Chanel’s Wertheimers Seduce With Lush 2009 $100 Margaux: Wine
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/chanel-s-wertheimers-seduce-with-luscious-2009-100-margaux-elin-mccoy.html
Karl Lagerfeld  provoked both boos and
cheers for his rustic sketch of Chateau Rauzan-Segla on the 2009
label of the Bordeaux estate, celebrating its 350th anniversary.
The wine inside, though, is no dashed-off impression.  Deep and ripe, it shows just how much this second growth in
the Margaux appellation has jumped in quality since the estate’s
purchase in 1994 by haute couture house Chanel Inc., where
Lagerfeld is chief designer.  At a recent Wine Media Guild lunch at  New York ’s Felidia
restaurant, eight vintages of Rauzan-Segla were paired with
eight from third-growth Chateau d’Issan, another rising Margaux
star. Both properties’ wines are still a bit under the radar --
labels whose prices haven’t caught up with their growing buzz.  I’ve always been a fan of the seductive, perfumed aromas
and silky, velvety texture that are hallmarks of the best wines
from Margaux. They exude finesse and elegance rather than power
-- what many Frenchmen persist in describing as “feminine.”  From the 1960s to the early 1990s, many chateaux made an
awful lot of green, lean, and joyless wines. Some still do. Yet
the appellation, home to 80 chateaux, including 21 ranked in the
famous 1855 classification, always had great potential. Witness
first-growth  Chateau Margaux  and third-growth Chateau Palmer,
whose 2009s cost $1,300 and $350.  At the walkaround tasting before the lunch, the
sophisticated, precise 2005 Rauzan-Segla ($140), with notes of
mint and blackcurrants, is textbook perfect, quite different
from the more opulent and tannic 2009 ($100), which is packed
with explosive, velvety fruit.  Dense Fruit  The less-powerful 2005 d’Issan, for $90, is rich and very
elegant. The $65 2009, tasted later, is plush and silky, its
dense fruit blanketing the tannin.  The surprises? The pure, seamless, earth and cherry 2006
d’Issan ($75) and well-priced pretty, floral 2004 ($65). Rauzan-
Segla’s fragrant, spicy, cassis-toned 2008 ($75) is almost
gulpable.  Getting on this fast track doesn’t come cheap. Chateau
d’Issan always looked the part. Surrounded by a moat, the
storybook walled chateau with grey stone towers and climbing
roses is one of the most picturesque in  Bordeaux .  Owned by the Cruse family since 1945, its wines were
largely ho-hum in 1998 when 29-year-old Emmanuel Cruse took
over.  “We spent more than $20 million renovating the vineyards
and cellar,” says Cruse. Plots were replanted, a new barrel
cellar and vat house added. After hailstorms twice wiped out 80
percent of the grapes, he spent $300,000 on sonic cannons that
generate shockwaves to disrupt the formation of hailstones. A
second label, Blason d’Issan (a bargain at around $30), was
introduced to insure that only the cream of the crop went into
the 8,000 cases of grand vin.  Latour Battle  Chanel’s owners, the Wertheimer brothers, were smarting
from losing out on the purchase of first growth  Chateau Latour 
to billionaire  Francois Pinault  when they settled on restoring
Rauzan-Segla back to its glory days. (In the mid-19th century,
it was considered just below Mouton-Rothschild in quality.) They
poached Latour manager John Kolasa to oversee the revival.  “The chateau was a mess,” says Kolasa, who invested in 9
miles of new drainage channels. “The workers were harvesting by
machine and dumping all the wine together.”  Kolasa is passionately focused on what sets Bordeaux apart.
“Making wines that age is the magic of Bordeaux,” he says.
“You can go down to your cellar and find a 50-year-old wine
that’s fantastic to drink.”  In today’s instant-gratification world fewer people want to
wait that long to pull the cork. Instead, the rush has been on
to buy top Bordeaux for investment. Neither of these labels has
investment-grade status, yet.  Speculators’ Market  “The first growths, like Lafite, haven’t created a market
for drinkers, only for speculators,” Kolasa says.  Well, yes, but Rauzan-Segla too came under attack last
summer for raising the price of its 2010 40 percent over the
2009. “It’s a ludicrous price,” Laurent Ehrmann, head of
negociant  Barriere Freres , told me. “We refused our
allocation.”  Rather than jump-start d’Issan’s reputation with aggressive
price hikes, Cruse aims to ignite interest in a younger
generation. “We’ll be out of the market if we don’t persuade
them to be interested in Bordeaux,” he says. As the head of
trade organization Commanderie de Bontemps, he pushed to include
U.S. and Asian teams in the organization’s annual tasting
competition for business school wine clubs.  That afternoon I trolled the tables at Bordeaux’s annual
Union des Grands Crus tasting in a big, echoey space at the
 Marriott Marquis  hotel. Among the 105 Bordelais chateau owners
hawking their wines from the great 2009 vintage, which arrives
on retail shelves next month, are 16 from Margaux.  Rauzan-Segla and d’Issan remain my standouts but my
tastebuds were also seduced by the 2009 from another improving
property, Chateau Giscours ($70).  “The 2009s from Margaux are opulent and sexy, the girls
you want to date,” said Giscours’ Alexander Van Beek.  They certainly make a good impression on me.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 