-- Chicago Cabbie Khan Pleads Guilty to One Count of Supporting Al-Qaeda Ally
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-06T23:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/chicago-cabbie-khan-pleads-guilty-to-one-count-of-supporting-al-qaeda-ally.html
Raja Lahrasib Khan, a  Chicago  cab
driver accused of trying to send money to an al-Qaeda ally,
pleaded guilty to providing material support to a terrorist
group.  Khan entered his plea today to one of two such counts in a
2010 indictment before U.S. District Judge  James Zagel  in
Chicago.  “Mr. Khan, what do you plead?” Zagel asked in court after
Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Veatch read a summary of
facts the government would have presented at a trial.  “Guilty,” Khan replied.  A naturalized U.S. citizen, Khan, 58, was arrested in March
2010 after his son was apprehended at a London airport carrying
$700 of $1,000 in marked $100 bills that a U.S. undercover agent
had given the cab driver for delivery to Ilyas Kashmiri.  Kashmiri was allegedly an ally of the al-Qaeda terror
network and a fighter in the movement to expel Indian forces
from Kashmir, the disputed territory between Pakistan and  India 
and where Khan was born. He was reportedly killed in a U.S.
missile strike last year.  Meeting  Khan today admitted meeting Kashmiri twice in Pakistan.  “Khan knew or had reason to believe that Kashmiri was
working with al-Qaeda, in addition to leading attacks against
the Indian government in the Kashmir region,” U.S. Attorney
Patrick Fitzgerald of Chicago said in a statement today.  Khan faced as long as 30 years imprisonment if convicted at
a trial of two material-support counts, defense lawyer Thomas
Durkin told reporters after the hearing. That would have been
tantamount to a life sentence for Khan, he said.  Khan’s plea agreement calls for a sentence of five to eight
years, Zagel said in court.  “Any time you’re looking at 30 years to life and you walk
away with just 5-8 years, you did pretty good,” Durkin said.
“He will at least have a life.”  On a visit to  Pakistan  in the early to mid-2000s, Khan was
solicited for cash donations to the movement to separate Kashmir
from India, Veatch said in court. Khan was also introduced to
Kashmiri, the prosecutor said.  In 2008, Khan again met with Kashmiri, who allegedly told
him that al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden was alive and giving
orders, Veatch said. Kahn gave the militant a sum equal to about
$250, Veatch said. A year later, Khan wired an additional $950
to Pakistan with instructions that about $300 be given to
Kashmiri, he said.  “Is what he said the truth?” Zagel asked Khan.  “Yes,” Khan said.  Durkin told reporters that his client supported Kashmir’s
independence and that the money Khan sent was intended to
support that movement, not al-Qaeda.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 10-cr-00240, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  