-- Chile Bank Borrowing Data Signal Credit Crunch Was Overreaction to Europe
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-06T13:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/chilean-bank-borrowing-data-disprove-dollar-squeeze-on-europe.html
Chilean banks borrowed 19 times more
pesos than U.S. dollars from authorities in December, indicating
that a surge in bank funding costs was more local than external.  Banks borrowed $49.8 million in U.S. dollars from the
 finance ministry  as policy makers fought to control a liquidity
squeeze, according to the budget office’s written response to a
Bloomberg News freedom of information request. That compares
with the equivalent of $952 million in pesos lent by the central
bank during the same period.  December’s surge in short-term debt yields, a sign to
central bank President Rodrigo Vergara that the European
financial crisis was impacting Chilean markets, forced mutual
fund managers to revalue their funds and recognize losses. The
low demand for dollar loans suggests the crunch wasn’t caused by
foreign banks cutting off access, said Felipe Alarcon, who
worked on the central bank’s markets desk until 2010.  “Banks clearly were more concerned about liquidity in
pesos,” said Alarcon, now an economist at Banco de Credito &
Inversiones in Santiago. “There was doom and gloom
internationally and there may have been a bit of a local
overreaction.”  The government lent $25 million for 30 days at an average
annualized  interest rate  of 1.6 percent and $24.9 million for 90
days at an average rate of 2.19 percent between Dec. 22 and Dec.
30, Budget Director Rosanna Costa wrote.  The average yields Chilean banks pay to borrow in pesos for
between 30 and 89 days rose to 6.96 percent on Dec. 22, the
highest since January 2009, according to the central bank. The
rate fell to 5.28 percent on Jan. 31. The average rate at which
banks lend between 30 and 89 days fell to 9.84 percent in
January from 10.2 percent in December.  Worse Than Usual  Liquidity often falls at the end of the year in Chile as
companies seek cash to bolster balance sheets, withdrawing money
from the short-term debt funds that lend to the banks. This
year’s squeeze was worse than usual on concerns that European
banks would cut lending to  Latin America .  “The local financial market has observed increased
friction of late because of the tightening of global financial
conditions,” the central bank’s Vergara said on Dec. 20.  Chile is the most connected to the European banking system
among Latin American economies, according to  research  from the
 International Monetary Fund . Economists at Santiago-based
brokerage Larrain Vial SA wrote on Dec. 26 that the spike in
yields might be “the first symptoms of the financial market
reacting to the euro crisis.”  Repo Window  The central bank bought $952 million worth of assets
denominated in pesos for repurchase in three months or less
between Dec. 21 and Dec. 30. Short-term borrowing costs in pesos
plunged after the intervention. In the repurchase, or repo,
market banks can pawn bonds in exchange for a cash loan. The
central bank will stop providing loans through its repo program
tomorrow.  The government’s announcement that it would lend dollars to
banks was part of an effort to ease funding shortages, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said on Jan. 3. The government auctioned
the funds on Dec. 27 and Dec. 29.  ‘Providing Liquidity’  “From an investment point of view we are getting a better
return from investing those deposits in  Chile  compared to what
we could get outside, but at the same time we’re providing
liquidity to the local market,” Larrain said.  He declined to comment on the amounts involved. Costa’s
response to Bloomberg’s request for more information, submitted
to the finance ministry on Dec. 27 under the country’s
transparency law, does not mention two further auctions that
Larrain had said would be carried out on Jan. 3 and Jan. 5.  Budget office officials weren’t available for comment on
the planned January auctions, a press relations officer said by
telephone after normal business hours on Feb. 3.  After December’s surge in yields, the central bank
unexpectedly lowered its benchmark  interest rate  in January,
saying that while the money market had normalized, financing for
some borrowers was still restricted. Data published since the
bank’s decision have shown that unemployment fell to the lowest
in more than two years and the economy grew faster than expected
in December.  Economic activity  expanded 5.3 percent in December, the
central bank said today, faster than the 3.9 percent median
forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Unemployment
was 6.6 percent in the last three months of the year.  The National Statistics Institute is due to publish data on
Feb. 8 that may show prices rose 0.17 percent in January,
according to the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
Chile’s inflation-linked currency unit.  Annual inflation  of 4.31
percent in January may not slow to the central bank’s target of
3 percent until February 2013, according to the forwards market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  