-- China’s ‘Sunshine’ Trusts Avoid Global Hedge-Fund Malaise to Triple Assets
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-02-07T07:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/china-s-sunshine-trusts-miss-hedge-fund-slump-as-assets-triple.html
Wealthy Chinese investors are turning
to “sunshine” private trusts, the prototypes of  hedge funds  in
the communist nation, as the property market cools, stocks slump
and bank-deposit rates fail to match inflation.  China’s private trust-fund assets tripled to 138.3 billion
yuan ($22 billion) in the 18 months to Sept. 30, according to
the most recent  data  from the  China Trustee Association , while
global hedge-fund assets have stalled at around $2 trillion. The
sunshine funds are exempt from some rules placed on Chinese
mutual funds, even as limitations such as a ban on short selling
means they can’t operate as hedge funds in the same way managers
in Hong Kong,  London  and New York can.  “It comes back to the lack of investment choices,” said
Fraser Howie, a Singapore-based managing director of CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets who co-authored the book “Red Capitalism” on
 China ’s financial system. “The challenge for China will be, can
these funds really differentiate and deliver absolute
performance independent of whether the stock market was rising
or falling.”  The  Rongzhi Hedge Fund Index  that tracks 938 sunshine
private funds almost doubled from the end of 2006 to December
2011, beating the  CSI Stock Fund Index , which includes all
Chinese open-ended stock mutual funds, by 47 percentage points.
China’s mutual-fund industry shrunk about 35 percent from the
end of 2007 to 2.1 trillion yuan in September as the  Shanghai
Composite Index  tumbled almost 60 percent from its 2007 peak.  Beating Key Indexes  The Rongzhi gauge dropped 18 percent last year,
outperforming the CSI Equity Fund Index by 7 percentage points.
The Shanghai Composite retreated 22 percent.  Sunshine private funds are yuan-denominated pools set up by
trust companies that raise money from wealthy Chinese clients of
banks, with a minimum investment of 1 million yuan. Advisers,
such as Beijing-based  Springs Capital Ltd. , are then hired to
run investments.  The pools earned the “sunshine” moniker for introducing
more transparent practices of regular information disclosure,
and by holding assets in third-party banks, as opposed to
earlier private funds, which were largely unregulated. Sunshine
funds are indirectly supervised by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, which regulates the trust companies that set up and
raise capital for the funds.  Buffett Lunch  Zhao Danyang , who in 2008 paid $2.1 million in a winning
bid for  Warren Buffett ’s annual charity lunch auction, is
credited as the grandfather of sunshine private funds. Zhao set
up what is believed to be the first sunshine private fund in
February 2004. It returned 259 percent through March 16, 2007,
or 84 percent a year, according to a  report  by  Ba Shusong , a
researcher at the State Council’s Development Research Center.  Sunshine funds are less hampered by restrictions that
handicap mutual funds, especially in a declining equity market.
Private funds can hold 100 percent of their money in cash when
other investments become unattractive, whereas equity mutual
funds are required to invest at least 60 percent of assets in
stocks, according to 2004 securities fund  rules .  Private funds are permitted to invest as much as 30 percent
of their net-asset value in a single stock. For mutual funds,
the cap is 10 percent.  “Sunshine private funds have been able to outperform
mutual funds due to less restrictions on their asset
allocations,” said Zhang Haidong, a senior analyst at Shanghai-
based consulting firm  Z-Ben Advisors Ltd .  Short Selling  Still, sunshine funds can’t short individual stocks as
there are no detailed guidelines for  trust companies  to do so,
said Z-Ben’s Zhang. At the moment, only securities companies,
the segregated accounts that mutual-fund houses run for
investors, and individuals can short stocks, he added. In a
short sale, an investor borrows shares and sells them, in
anticipation that a decline in the price will allow the loan to
be repaid at a profit.  China in December broadened the securities eligible for
 margin trading  and short sales to include stocks in the Shanghai
Stock Exchange 180 Index and four open-ended exchange-traded
funds including the China 50 ETF.  A regulation in July allowed trust funds to trade stock
index futures once the trust companies that set them up have
approval from the bank regulator. The establishment of a
centralized securities lending exchange and regulatory
relaxations are underway that are set to enable sunshine funds
to profit from short selling individual stocks in much the same
way their international peers can.  First Approval  Shanghai-based Hwabao Trust Co. in December became the
first trust company approved for stock-index futures trades,
according to information posted on the website of the China
Trustee Association. Its first fund was set up at the end of
last year, according to a company statement.  Sunshine private funds that raise money in China can’t
invest in international securities without a government approved
quota. Such quotas are mostly reserved for banks, mutual-fund
companies, insurers and securities firms.  Hedge funds -- investment pools that can wager on or
against any assets --  lost  5 percent in 2011, according to
Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc., as global
stock markets slumped and the European debt crisis worsened.
Investors pulled $127 million from hedge funds in the fourth
quarter, leaving the industry with $2.01 trillion in assets,
according to HFR.  Global Funds  Eighty-eight  Greater China-focused  hedge funds around the
world, including those that trade foreign-currency shares of
Chinese companies quoted in international exchanges such as  Hong
Kong  and the U.S., lost 14 percent last year, according to data
from Singapore-based Eurekahedge Pte.  Sunshine fund adviser  Springs Capital  was founded in 2007
by seven former colleagues at  Harvest Fund Management Co. , one
of China’s oldest and largest asset managers, who said they
believed Chinese mutual funds’ best days were behind them. They
left the industry in a year when average new mutual funds raised
7 billion yuan each, compared with 1.3 billion yuan in 2011,
according to  data  reported by Shenzhen’s  Securities Times  in
December.  ‘Crazy Market’  “The market was crazy, people were crazy,” said Jenny Tian, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at  Springs Capital . “We
thought it was too good to be true.”  They were right. The Shanghai Composite index peaked at
6,092.06 in October 2007; it closed at 2,291.90 today.  Shawn Liu, who once ran 9 billion yuan of assets in the
largest stock mutual fund for Shanghai-based  Guotai Asset
Management Co. , is among newer entrants. In the first half of
2011, he and colleague Gerard DeBenedetto left to set up  An
Zhong Investment Management , an adviser to sunshine funds.  Liu had been an analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in  New York 
and China, and managed fixed-income investments for  China
Merchants Fund Management Co. , an ING Groep NV venture, before
the four-year stint with Guotai.  Managers at the largely government-controlled mutual funds
have to surrender their mobile phones during trading hours and
sit in offices monitored by overhead cameras, he said.  Incentive schemes have also helped drive managers from
mutual funds, where individuals are prohibited from owning
stakes in management companies, Z-Ben’s Zhang said.  More Transparent  Sunshine funds are more transparent than their unregulated
predecessor private funds, and have to make weekly net asset
value announcements, said Zhang. They aren’t required to
disclose some information, such as how they allocate assets,
that mutual funds have to make public, he said.  Springs Capital’s Tian said freer asset-allocation rules
have driven the outperformance of sunshine over mutual funds.  “It is very important because in the A-share market, you
can’t really short,” she said, referring to yuan-denominated
stocks listed in China. “It’s basically cash and stocks. If you
have a flexible cash-level mandate, that will give you much of
the flexibility to manage the volatility in the market.”  Stock holdings of 142 sunshine private funds tracked by  CRC
Trust  declined 11.5 percentage points from the end of 2010 to a
low of 57 percent of their assets in May, the Shenzhen-based
company said in a December  report  on its website. About 41
percent of the funds in the CRC Trust hedge-fund index cut stock
holdings below 50 percent.  Underperform  Not all sunshine funds have outperformed. In April 2011,
Shandong International Trust Corp. liquidated its Deep Blue No.
1 fund after its value fell 39 from its November 2009 start,
according to data posted on fund consultant Howbuy’s website.  Chinese millionaires, who are restricted from international
investments, control $2.7 trillion of wealth, according to a
report by CapGemini SA and Bank of America Corp. last year. They
are willing to pay more in fees to buy sunshine funds for their
higher returns amid low deposit yields and falling property
markets, said CLSA’s Howie.  Sunshine funds charge hedge fund-like rates, including
about 2 percent of assets as management fees and 20 percent of
profit as performance fees. The frequency and amount of
withdrawals allowed after initial lockups are typically
stipulated in the sunshine funds’ contracts, Z-Ben’s Zhang said.  Chinese mutual funds only charge management fees, ranging
from 0.5 percent of assets for fixed-income funds to 1.5 percent
for equity funds, according to An Zhong’s Liu.  The country’s state-controlled bank deposit rates have
trailed inflation for 23 months, while  home prices  in Chinese
cities have declined after the government tightened credit and
introduced purchase curbs to prevent a real-estate bubble.  China’s 4.1 trillion yuan trust industry, which also
includes property trusts, private equity and bank products,
offers a hint at the potential for the growth of sunshine funds,
said Zhang. Sunshine private funds accounted for 3 percent of
total assets under management among trust funds, according to
information posted on the China Trustee Association website.  “People want to invest in sunshine trust funds because of
the poor performance of the stock market,” he said. “Private
funds have delivered market-beating results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  