-- China Money-Market Rate Increases as Central Bank Gauges Demand for Bills
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-06T08:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/china-money-market-rate-increases-as-central-bank-gauges-demand-for-bills.html
China ’s swap rate rose the most in
one month on speculation the central bank will resume bill sales
this week, draining funds from the financial system.  The central bank asked banks to submit orders for  one-year ,
 three-month , 91- and 28-day repurchase contracts this morning,
according to two traders at primary dealers, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public. The sale of
one-year bill sales has been suspended for five weeks and the
auction of three-month debt for six weeks.  “The possible resumption of bill sales may be having an
impact on the market,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest
lender. “Sales may resume, but not all of the maturities will
be sold because the redemption will be only 2 billion yuan ($317
million) this week.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed 10 basis
points to 3.21 percent as of 4:49 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That was the biggest increase since
Jan. 6.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bonds due June
2021 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.47
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, increased 10 basis points to 3.45 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank published last year a list of 50 primary
dealers allowed to participate in open-market operations,
including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., China Citic Bank Corp., Industrial Bank
Co. and Postal Savings Bank of China.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Ven Ram, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 