-- Chinese City to Relocate Smelters After Cadmium Pollutes River
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-06T10:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/chinese-city-to-relocate-smelters-after-cadmium-pollutes-river.html
The southern Chinese city of Hechi
will move all local smelters to an industrial park where their
emissions can be better monitored after cadmium from a plant
contaminated a river and threatened drinking water for millions
downstream, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The facilities will be moved to two industrial parks dozens
of miles away from Hechi’s city center in five years, Xinhua
reported late yesterday, citing Liao Jincheng, director of the
Hechi’s development and reform commission. Hechi is home to 145
heavy metals companies, according to the report. Companies that
refuse to move will be shut, Xinhua reported.  The spill, first detected Jan. 15 upstream of Hechi, killed
fish, prompted panic buying of bottled water and led to the
dismissal of Hechi’s environmental protection chief and six
other local officials.  China ’s Communist Party has sought to
reduce pollution and stop lead poisoning from battery makers,
fluoride leaks from solar panel plants and other contamination
from provoking unrest that erodes its right to rule.  Cadmium, used in batteries and paint pigments, may cause
kidney dysfunction and cancer, according to the U.S. Department
of Labor. The metal will have a lasting environmental impact on
fish and soil when it sinks to the riverbed, China National
Radio reported previously, citing Li Li, a researcher at the
Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences.  The concentration of cadmium near the water plant in
Liuzhou, a city of 1.5 million people that had its water supply
threatened by the spill, met national standards today, the
municipal government said. Water further upstream still had
cadmium levels that exceeded national standards, it said.  Source of Spill  Investigations of the spill in Hechi, located in Guangxi
province, have tracked the contamination to a producer of dye
products and a metallurgical chemical plant, Xinhua reported.  Smaller companies with annual production value of less than
20 million yuan ($3.2 million) will be the first to relocate to
the industrial parks, according to Xinhua.  Plans for relocating the factories were also previously
included in Hechi’s five-year that covers the period through
2015, Xinhua reported. Centralizing the facilities will make
monitoring easier and help reduce the cost of treating pollution,
Xinhua reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 Fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  