-- China Bans Airlines From Joining EU Carbon Levies System
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-06T10:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/china-bans-airlines-from-joining-european-union-s-carbon-emissions-system.html
China , home to the world’s fastest
growing aviation market, banned airlines from taking part in a
European Union carbon-emissions system designed to curb
pollution, saying the program violates international rules.  The system contravenes the United Nations  Framework 
Convention on  Climate Change  and international civil aviation
regulations, the  Civil Aviation Administration of China  said in
a  statement  posted on its website today. Carriers were also
barred from using the EU program as a reason for raising fares,
it said.  The EU hopes to resolve the issue through negotiations or
it may ultimately be ruled on by the courts, Markus Ederer, its
ambassador to China, said at a press briefing in Beijing today.
 India , the U.S., Russia and global airlines have also objected
to the levy, saying it will be less effective than a global
solution.  “I believe all sides will negotiate again and find a
solution,” said Chai Haibo, vice president of the China Air
Transport Association. “I can’t imagine that the worst case,
such as the EU grounding Chinese flights, could happen.”  The airline group has called on the government to oppose
the EU levy and it is working on a legal challenge in  Germany .
Whether the lawsuit will continue will depend on the EU reaction
to the China ban, Chai said. The group’s members include China’s
big three state-controlled carriers,  Air China Ltd. (601111) , China
Southern Airlines Co. and  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)   A call to Civil Aviation Administration of China wasn’t
answered.  Emissions Program  The EU added aviation to a wider carbon-trading system on
Jan. 1. The move could cost Chinese airlines as much as 800
million yuan ($127 million) in 2012, according to the China
airline group.  Based on current carbon prices and the fact that airlines
will get permits for some emissions for free, the system would
boost Beijing-to-Brussels ticket prices by 17.50 yuan, Ederer
said.  “I leave it to you to make a judgment on whether this is
too much for saving the Earth,” he said. There is also further
time for discussion, Ederer said, as airlines have until April
2013 to submit permits for  carbon emissions  this year.  Global System  Other nations’ carriers can be exempted from the EU system
if their own governments introduce similar programs, he said.
The  International Civil Aviation Organization , a UN body, has
said that it plans to form a global system.  The EU Court of Justice in December upheld the legality of
the bloc’s drive to extend the world’s largest carbon cap-and-
trade program beyond its borders. The system covers the EU’s 27
members as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and  Norway .  China Southern Chairman Si Xianmin said last week that
Europe’s emission trading program is not beneficial in the
current economic environment or for Europe’s efforts to escape
the sovereign debt crisis. He made the comments at a briefing
also attended by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Chinese
Premier in Mumbai.  The carrier,  Asia ’s biggest by passenger numbers, flies to
Amsterdam and Paris. It intends to start services to  London  this
year. Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier,
generated 11 percent of revenue in  Europe  in the first half of
last year. Its destinations in the region include London, Paris
and  Madrid .  Sovereignty Issues  Countries opposed to the emission trading program have said
it is illegal and impinges their sovereignty because carriers
are charged for pollution that happens outside of Europe, for
instance, on the first part of a flight from Asia to Europe.  “This is more of a political fight than about protecting
the airlines,” said Konrad Hanschmidt, a carbon-markets analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “The carbon costs would have a
relatively small impact on airfares, as they account for
approximately 1 percent of fuel costs.”  India has asked carriers not to give emissions data to the
EU, K.G. Vishwanath, Jet Airways (India) Ltd.’s vice president
for commercial strategy & investor relations, said in a Jan. 23
conference call. The country also plans to work with other
nations opposed to the program, Environment Ministry Joint
Secretary M.F. Farooqui told reporters in  New Delhi  last week.  Shinichiro Ito, president of All Nippon Airways Co., Asia’s
largest listed carrier by sale, said last month that he favored
a global system over a regional one. The carrier and the
Japanese government are working on ways to oppose the system, he
said without elaboration.  U.S. Opposition  The U.S. House of Representatives last year passed a bill
prohibiting the country’s airlines from participating in the EU
carbon program after the industry estimated that participation
in the system would cost U.S. airlines $3.1 billion from 2012 to
2020. Bills in the U.S. also need approval from the senate and
president before they become laws.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , which is regulated by  Hong
Kong  rather than China, said it was fully complying with EU
emissions systems “under strong protest.”  “The scheme will lead to additional cost, complexity,
distort the global air transport market, could lead to carbon
leakage and it is unlikely to achieve its intended environmental
objectives or contribute to reducing climate change,” the
carrier said by e-mail today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  