-- China Risks 4-Point Growth-Rate Cut in Case of Europe Worsening: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-06T09:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/china-may-see-deeper-economic-slowdown-if-europe-crisis-worsens-imf-says.html
China ’s economic expansion would be
cut almost in half if Europe’s debt crisis worsens, a scenario
that would warrant “significant” fiscal stimulus from the
nation’s government, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy, China’s  growth  could drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection, which is for 8.2
percent this year, the organization said in a report released
today by its China office in Beijing.  The outlook expands on the IMF’s warning last month that
the world could plunge into another recession if Europe’s woes
deepen. Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated last week his government
will “fine-tune” policies to support growth amid the region’s
debt crisis and the cooling domestic  property market .  “China’s growth rate would drop abruptly if the euro area
experiences a sharp recession,” the Washington-based IMF said.
“However, a track record of fiscal discipline has given China
ample room to respond to such an external shock.”  The government should cushion the impact of a deeper
slowdown with measures including tax cuts that amount to about 3
percent of gross domestic product, it said.  Asian stocks climbed after data Feb. 3 showed employers in
the U.S. added 243,000 jobs in January, exceeding the most
optimistic estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  rose 0.4 percent as of 6:28 p.m. in  Tokyo .  China’s economy is unlikely to experience a “hard
landing” and the nation has room to boost fiscal spending,
Anoop Singh, director of the IMF’s Asia-Pacific department, said
last week in  Washington . China should strengthen domestic
consumption, he said.  Forecast Cut  The organization last month cut its 2012 forecast for
China’s growth from an earlier estimate of 9 percent. It
estimates expansion of 8.8 percent next year.  Singapore ’s Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said China’s
economy may have a “rough landing, but they will get through
it,” in an interview that aired yesterday on  CNN .  China’s GDP expanded 8.9 percent in the final three months
of 2011 from a year earlier, the least in 10 quarters, and down
from a 9.1 percent gain in the third quarter. Growth may slow to
7.5 percent this quarter, Nomura Holdings Inc. forecasts.  The IMF said in its report today that “monetary conditions
should be fine-tuned to allow for some modest additional credit
to the economy,” echoing Wen’s pledges last month. At the same
time, “residual concerns about  credit quality  and bank balance
sheets from the 2009-10 stimulus would mean that any monetary
response to an unfolding European crisis should be limited,”
the fund said.  Rate ‘Opportunity’  Slowing price gains in China “should be viewed as an
opportunity to raise” inflation-adjusted  interest rates  on
loans and deposits, so the cost of capital moves “closer to
equilibrium” and household incomes increase, the IMF said. That
would let the central bank “rely less on administrative limits
on credit to achieve its monetary goals,” the fund said.  Chinese officials have held off a cut in lenders’ reserve
requirements that banks including Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. had
forecast for January and have also so far refrained from
lowering interest rates to support growth. Wen said last month
that curbs on the property market will be maintained to bring
prices down to a reasonable level.  The IMF said China should target M2  money-supply  growth of
14 percent this year, which the agency said would “strike the
right balance” between supporting the economy and “being
conscious of the credit overhang” and risks to banks.  M2 Expansion  M2, the broadest measure of money supply,  expanded  13.6
percent in 2011, compared with a 16 percent target set by the
government. The government has yet to announce a 2012 target.  Separately, Markus Ederer, the European Union’s ambassador
to China, said today that the country may become the continent’s
top export market this year, surpassing the U.S. “We simply see
growth grates that most of us don’t see from any other major
economic power,” said Friis Arne Petersen, the Danish
ambassador to China. Both spoke at an EU briefing in Beijing.  In  Australia , retail sales unexpectedly declined in
December as consumers spent less at grocers and on dining out in
an economy where employment growth stalled last year. The 0.1
percent drop from a month earlier was the first fall in six
months, a report showed today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent gain.  Indonesia ’s  economic growth  exceeded 6 percent for a fifth
straight quarter, a report showed today. GDP increased 6.5
percent in the three months through December from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said.  Taiwan Prices  Elsewhere in the Asian region,  Taiwan ’s consumer prices
probably rose 2.2 percent in January from a year earlier, which
would be the fastest pace in 23 months, another Bloomberg News
survey showed ahead of a report due later today.  Asian officials are trying to weather the impact of the
debt crisis in  Europe , which has sapped global economic
expansion and threatens to spark a recession in the 17-nation
euro area. German factory orders may have climbed 1 percent in
December from the previous month, when they slid the most in
almost three years, a Bloomberg News survey showed before a
report later today.  In the U.S., the trade deficit probably widened in December
to a six-month high as imports climbed faster than exports,
economists said a report this week will show.  The gap grew to $48.5 billion from the $47.8 billion
shortfall in November, according to the median of 61 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of Commerce Department figures
on Feb. 10. Consumer sentiment held close to a one-year high and
firings were little changed, other reports may show.  Yuan Pressures  Today’s IMF report omitted providing new comments on the
value of China’s yuan beyond saying that “upward pressures on
the currency have diminished recently” and the “pace of
reserves accumulation should resume this year.”  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s largest at
$3.18 trillion, fell for the first time in more than a decade in
the fourth quarter of 2011.  The IMF, in its annual assessment of  China’s economy 
published in July, pressed for gains in the yuan, saying the
currency “remains substantially below the level consistent with
medium-term fundamentals.” In a report prepared for a Jan.
19-20 meeting of Group of 20 officials, IMF staff said the
currency had been allowed to appreciate “faster than in the
past.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Sunil Jagtiani in Singapore,
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing and Gregory Turk in  Shanghai .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  