-- China’s Stocks Rise to Two-Month High After Coal, Shipping Shares Advance
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-06T05:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/china-s-stocks-rise-for-3rd-after-u-s-jobs-data-beat-estimates.html
China’s stocks  climbed, driving the
benchmark index to the highest level in two months, as improving
U.S. jobs data bolstered the outlook for Chinese exports and on
speculation reports this week will show inflation is easing.  China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088)  and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (600188)  paced
gains for coal producers after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said
prices of the fuel may rebound. China Cosco Holdings Co., the
nation’s biggest shipping line, rose 0.8 percent after U.S.
employers added the most jobs in nine months in January.
Changchun Gas Co. surged 9.9 percent, leading a rally for gas
producers, as the prospects for rapid demand growth and the
outlook on prices attracted investors.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose for a third day, adding
0.3 percent to 2,338.28 at 1:07 p.m. local time, set for the
highest close since Dec. 2. The  CSI 300 Index  advanced 0.4
percent to 2,516.73. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the
most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. advanced 2.3 percent to
106.48 on Feb. 3.  “Investors still remain cautiously optimistic about the
stock market,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “A better-
than-expected U.S. jobless rate and recent economic data have
shown the worst is over, but the fact is, this doesn’t mean our
economy has fully recovered. This is keeping any gains in the
market limited.”  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 7.3 percent this year,
after plunging 33 percent in the previous two years, on
speculation slowing economic growth will push the central bank
to relax monetary policies and the government will take measures
to support stocks. The measure trades at 10.1 times estimated
earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  China, U.S. Economies  Chinese stocks may post 25 percent gains this year, spurred
by the prospects of looser monetary policy,  Michael Kurtz ,
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief Asian equity strategist, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television from Hong Kong.  The Shanghai index rose for a third week last week after
Chinese manufacturing data exceeded economists estimates and
investors speculated the central bank may lower lenders’
reserve-ratio requirements to spur loans to small companies.  China Cosco advanced 0.8 percent to 5.35 yuan. Cosco
Shipping Co. climbed 1.6 percent to 4.46 yuan. In the U.S.,
employers added 243,000 jobs in January and the  unemployment
rate  dropped to 8.3 percent from 8.5 percent in December, the
Labor Department reported last week in  Washington . The
improvement exceeded the most optimistic forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Inflation Report  Economic reports this week may show inflation and export
growth are slowing. China may say on Feb. 9 consumer prices grew
4 percent in January, compared with a 4.1 percent rise in
December, according to economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. January exports may drop 1.5 percent from year-ago
levels, compared with a 13.4 percent gain the previous month,
according to Bloomberg estimates. The trade data is scheduled
for Feb. 10.  China should maintain “stable” trade policies as the
global financial crisis continues to spread, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said, according to a report  published  on the website of the
central government.  The nation’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half
if  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens, a scenario hat would warrant
“significant” fiscal stimulus from the nation’s government, the
 International Monetary Fund  said today.  Policy Outlook  Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy, China’s growth could drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection, which is for 8.2
percent this year, the organization said in a report released
by its China office in Beijing.  The economy can avoid a so-called hard landing in 2012 even
as growth decelerates further and hits a “soft patch” in the
first quarter, Citigroup said in a report dated yesterday. With
inflation contained, policy easing would help create a mild
rebound in the second half, according to Citigroup.  Ting Lu, China economist at Bank of America Corp., predicts
inflation may slow to 3 percent and 3.5 percent in February. The
central bank may cut lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios once in
the first quarter and three times in total this year, Lu said on
Bloomberg Television from  Hong Kong  today. The People’s Bank of
China announced on Nov. 30 it would lower reserve ratios by 0.5
percentage point from a record high of 21 percent, the first
such cut since 2008, as inflation cooled.  Coal Producers  China Shenhua, the nation’s biggest coal producer, advanced
1.6 percent to 27.79 yuan, set for the highest close since Nov.
15. Yanzhou Coal added 1.3 percent to 24.47 yuan. Coal prices in
China, after falling 10 percent since November, may recover as
the weather turns warmer and the economy gains ground, Sanford
C. Bernstein said.  China’s benchmark thermal-coal stabilized after three
months of decline as transportation bottleneck are expected to
support prices. Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories
per kilogram was unchanged in the range of 775 yuan to 785 yuan
a metric ton as of yesterday, according to data today from the
 China  Coal Transport and Distribution Association.  Changchun Gas jumped 9.9 percent to 7.66 yuan. Shenzhen Gas
Corp. rose 2.3 percent to 11.07 yuan, while Shaan Xi Provincial
Natural Gas Co. rallied 4.3 percent to 16.23 yuan in Shenzhen.  “The gas sector is very promising,” Qiushi Qi, an analyst
at China Minzu Securities Co., said by telephone from Beijing.
“We estimate the nation’s gas demand to rise above 10 percent
annually in at least the next five years.”  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  