-- Citigroup’s Capitol Loses Bid to Close Down Online Song Reseller ReDigi
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/citigroup-s-capitol-loses-bid-to-close-down-online-song-reseller-redigi.html
Citigroup Inc. ’s Capitol Records, a
music label set to be acquired by  Vivendi SA , lost a bid to have
online music reseller ReDigi Inc. shut down.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan declined to issue the
preliminary injunction Capitol sought at a hearing yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan , saying Capitol didn’t prove
irreparable harm. He also called ReDigi’s motion to dismiss the
case “premature.”  Capitol, which is now part of  EMI Group , said the service
infringes copyrights to its songs by allowing unauthorized
copying of digital music files. In its complaint, Capitol said
that EMI recordings sold by ReDigi include Coldplay’s
“Clocks,” Lady Antebellum’s “Need You Now” and Nat King Cole’s “The Christmas Song.”  Ray Beckerman, a lawyer for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
ReDigi, told the judge that the company “doesn’t infringe
anyone’s copyrights.” The company stated in court papers that
it provides digital music storage and a marketplace for songs
legitimately bought from Apple Inc.’s  iTunes .  “An injunction would put us out of business, pure and
simple,” John Ossenmacher, chief executive officer and a
founder of ReDigi, said in a declaration filed in court. “The
technology behind our sale process does not involve the making
of even a single copy.”  ‘Very Pleased’  Ossenmacher, who was in court yesterday, said he was “very
pleased” with Sullivan’s ruling.  Capitol claimed in its suit, filed in January, that ReDigi
allows users to upload song tracks to its site, where buyers may
download them for about 79 cents each. ITunes charges 99 cents
for many songs, and music companies take about 70 cents from
each transaction.  The labels get no revenue from a ReDigi sale, according to
Capitol’s complaint. ReDigi takes a fee of as much as 15 percent
of each download, according to the complaint. The user who
uploaded the song collects the rest.  “This is being touted to the public as legal,” Richard
Mandel, a lawyer for Capitol, told the judge. “It’s creating
confusion in the public’s mind. There is a real risk that the
infringement is going to become very widespread.”  First-Sale Doctrine  ReDigi said in court papers that it’s protected from
liability by the first-sale doctrine, which allows people who
lawfully purchase music to sell it to whomever they wish.  Capitol said the item being sold is a digital copy, not an
original song acquired on iTunes. Capitol is seeking damages of
as much as $150,000 for each song infringed.  EMI is the fourth-largest recording company in the world.
New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  acquired EMI when the former
owner, Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., defaulted on bank-
issued debt. Paris-based Vivendi’s  Universal Music Group , the
largest record company, agreed in 2011 to buy EMI’s recording
unit for 1.2 billion pounds ($1.89 billion). The purchase awaits
regulatory approval.  The case is Capitol Records v. ReDigi, 12-cv-95, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  