-- Jordan VC Firms Forging Mideast Silicon Valley: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/cohan-jordan-vc-firms-forging-mideast-silicon-valley.html
Few Americans would pick Amman,
Jordan -- a city of about 2 million in the heart of the war-torn
 Middle East  -- as a vibrant place for entrepreneurs and the
venture capitalists who back them.  But there Amman is, ranked as the  10th-best city  in the
world to launch a tech startup, according to a 2012 list
compiled by Rachid Sefrioui, the founder of Finaventures, a
California-based venture-capital firm.  Not surprisingly, Sefrioui’s list is topped by  Palo Alto ,
 California ;  Los Angeles ,  Boston ,  London  and  New York . These
cities have long been hotbeds of venture capitalists and the
high-tech entrepreneurs who seek them out, and with good reason.  There are billions of dollars in equity capital to be
invested. There is an advanced physical and intellectual
infrastructure devoted to matching venture capitalists with
entrepreneurs. And there is a 30-year-plus record of success --
and failure -- from which investors can learn the winning
combination of a great idea, a receptive marketplace and a
gifted management team.  Amman has very few, if any, of these advantages. Jordan is
surrounded by strife, has few natural resources -- it has no
proven oil reserves and is the fourth-driest country on Earth --
and is among the world’s top recipients of U.S. aid on a per-
capita basis. The official  unemployment rate  is 13 percent but
few believe it; the conventional wisdom is that half the
population is either unemployed or underemployed.  Lack of Capital  When I visited the country last month as a guest of U.S.
Ambassador Stuart E. Jones, the young people I spoke with were
palpably frustrated over whether it would be possible for them
to have a meaningful career. Leading businessmen I met with
lamented the lack of readily available (non-venture) capital in
the country, thanks to the aftershocks of the global financial
crisis and the uncertainties of the Arab Spring.  Jordanians also believe, with experience as their guide,
that government corruption is rampant. The owner of an
engineering firm complained to me that the government owed him
$15 million for a completed project at a defense facility. He
told me he had walked right up to the finance minister at a
government reception and asked him directly why he had not been
paid. (The finance minister promised to look into the
situation.) The businessman suspects the country might actually
be bankrupt. He’s not alone. A year ago, Moody’s Investors
Service changed the outlook to negative on  Jordan ’s Ba2 debt
rating.  And yet, somehow, Jordan appears to be thriving as a home
to young entrepreneurs. There are at least two groups --  Oasis
500  and  Endeavor Jordan , a nonprofit -- that are incubating
promising young businessmen. People in the business estimate
that there is now around $300 million in venture funding to be
invested. One morning, I met with some of the 40 or so
entrepreneurs -- men and women -- that Oasis 500 has backed. I
could just as easily have been in Palo Alto.  Among others, there was Lana Karrain, the founder of
 fakker.me , a website that uses online gaming to match employers
with prospective employees; Abdulhameid Grandoka of  taltol.com ,
an online marketplace for artists and graphic designers; and Ala
Suleiman of  Masmoo3 , a company that provides audio books to the
Arabic-speaking world. At one point, we had a robust debate
about the proposed U.S. laws to combat Internet piracy and
whether Facebook Inc. should be paying its users for data rather
than just taking it free and capitalizing on it.  Money Finds Ideas  Amman is no fluke. Sefrioui told me he included it on his
top-10 list (ahead of runners-up Madrid and Toronto) in his
belief that, on a relative basis, the city has figured out a way
to nurture young people’s startup dreams despite the seemingly
bleak  economic environment . He often found that young
entrepreneurs in Jordan have no choice but to start their own
companies, and that the Internet has enabled that to happen. The
Internet doesn’t care where you live or whether there is oil in
the ground; it rewards those with great ideas for providing
people with a better way to get the things they need.  Can Jordan move up in Sefrioui’s list? One hurdle is a
lingering culture of shame that stigmatizes people who fail in a
business venture. There are no bankruptcy laws that make it
possible for a businessman to work through financial
difficulties with creditors and emerge on the other side, raring
to try again.  Jordan is not unique in this regard. Sefrioui told me about
three entrepreneurs he met in Paris who received venture funding
there but, when their businesses failed, were effectively shut
out from trying again. One moved to New York; the other two to
 San Francisco .  In America, of course, bankruptcy laws help places like
Palo Alto thrive. Most venture capitalists in the U.S.
understand that backing entrepreneurs is a portfolio game, and
not everyone is going to be  Mark Zuckerberg . Americans
understand the role that failure has in success. When Amman gets
that message, too, watch out, Palo Alto.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  