-- Colombia Peso Falls Most in Week on Central Bank $20 Million Purchase Plan
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-02-06T19:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/colombia-resumes-dollar-buying-as-peso-touches-five-month-high.html
Colombia ’s peso fell for the first
time in a week after the central bank said it will resume dollar
purchases in a bid to ease a rally in the local currency and
shore up exports.  Banco de la Republica will buy a minimum of $20 million a
day in auctions for at least three months starting today in a
bid to boost international reserves, according to a statement
issued Feb. 3 after markets closed. The peso fell 0.2 percent to
1,787.30 per dollar from 1,784.50 on Feb. 3.  The peso has advanced 8.5 percent this year and touched a
five-month high on Feb. 3 as central bankers raised the
 benchmark interest rate , luring investment to the country’s
fixed-income market, to cool growth and keep inflation in check.
While the three-month dollar buying program may slow the peso’s
gains, it’s unlikely to reverse the currency’s rally, said Juan
Nicolas Garcia, a currency trader at HSBC Holdings Plc’s
Colombia unit.  “The central bank’s pain threshold seems to be around
1,780,” Garcia said. The peso may weaken toward 1,800 per
dollar before reversing course because “increased appetite for
risk, the carry trade and Colombia’s solid growth” will fuel
demand for pesos, he said.  The carry trade refers to the practice in which investors
borrow funds in a country with lower borrowing costs and buy
assets where interest rates are higher. Colombia’s benchmark
rate is 5 percent, compared with near zero in the U.S.  Regional Efforts  Policy makers in  Latin America  are stepping up efforts to
curb currency gains.  Brazil ’s central bank bought dollars in the
currency forwards market on Feb. 3 for the first time since July
to stem an 8.3 percent rally in the real this year.  While developing nations from Brazil to the  Philippines 
have been cutting borrowing costs to shore up growth amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis, the Colombian central bank has raised
rates to prevent the economy from overheating. Colombia’s gross
domestic product grew 7.7 percent in the third quarter, the
fastest since 2006.  “The pace of appreciation had been picking up and the
central bankers were obviously ready to do something about it
when that happened,” said Daniel Lozano, an analyst at Serfinco
brokerage in Bogota.  Banco de la Republica said in a  statement  today that it’s
scrapping its plan to auction dollar options whenever the peso’s
20-day moving average changes by more than 4 percent.  Unsustainable  Policy makers may buy more than $20 million daily or adopt
additional currency measures should the peso strengthen beyond
1,770 per dollar, HSBC’s Garcia predicts.  Central bank President Jose Dario Uribe said in a Feb. 5
interview with newspaper El Tiempo that without recent increases
in the nation’s benchmark rate, the pace of economic growth
would be unsustainable.  Agriculture Minister Juan Camilo Restrepo said Jan. 31 that
the rate increase will attract more foreign portfolio investment
to Colombia, fueling currency gains and hurting farm exports. He
called for dollar purchases to offset the trend, a sentiment
echoed by flower and banana exporters.  Luis Carlos Villegas, the head of Colombia’s biggest
business association, known as ANDI, criticized the central bank
as being “excessively prudent” by raising rates.  Policy makers said in a statement following the rate
increase that bank lending is growing, housing prices are at
record highs and investors’ inflation expectations have risen.  Foreign Investment  The peso is also being buoyed by foreign direct investment
in crude, mining and energy projects. Mining Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said Jan. 26 that Colombia will receive about $10
billion in foreign direct investment in these industries this
year, similar to 2011 levels.  The central bank ended a yearlong daily dollar purchase
program on Sept. 30 after Europe’s debt crisis led investors to
dump emerging market assets. No dollar options to control
volatility were auctioned since Banco de la Republica announced
Oct. 28 it would sell them.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso bonds due
July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
7.37 percent, according to the central bank. The bond’s price
fell 0.145 centavo to 120.847 centavos per peso.  Earlier today the yield fell to 7.35 percent after a Feb. 4
government report showed annual inflation slowed to 3.54 percent
in January from 3.73 percent the previous month. Policy makers
target inflation between 2 percent and 4 percent this year.  The central bank will probably keep raising interest rates
to keep inflation in check, Barclays Capital Inc. Latin America
analysts Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote in a
report today.  “Despite this benign inflation print, we still expect
Banrep to continue with its monetary tightening,” Arreaza and
Grisanti wrote. “We expect inflation to accelerate in coming
months, driven by higher food prices and the demand pressures
that are likely to start to push up  core inflation .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  