-- Contador Faces $6 Million Bill After Losing Doping Case
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-02-07T13:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/contador-faces-6-million-bill-after-losing-fight-to-save-2010-tour-title.html
Alberto Contador  could face a $6
million bill after losing a legal battle to save his 2010 Tour
de  France  title.  The  Court of Arbitration for Sport  yesterday rejected the
Spanish cyclist’s claim that he failed a drug test because he
consumed a contaminated steak, and banned him for two years. The
tribunal said it will make a separate decision on a request by
cycling ruling body  Union Cycliste Internationale  to fine
Contador at least 2.5 million euros ($3.3 million) and “70
percent of the variable part of his image contract.”  Contador, 29, may already have racked up 2 million euros in
legal fees in defending himself, according to Daniel Malbranque,
former general secretary of the professional riders union, who
has direct knowledge of doping cases.  “The money runs out very quickly in these cases,”
Malbranque said by telephone. “He’s been paying lawyers non-
stop for 18 months.”  Contador becomes the second  Tour de France  rider to be
stripped of his crown following  Floyd Landis , who said in 2007
he’d spent more than $1 million in legal fees in the nine months
following his failed test the previous year.  The case has cost both sides “millions” of euros in legal
fees, UCI president Pat McQuaid said in a Jan. 25 interview in
his office in Aigle,  Switzerland . The court has several options
about how to split the costs, McQuaid added. WADA’s legal costs
ran to $300,000, the agency’s spokesman Terence O’Rorke said in
Lausanne, Switzerland today.  Contador was represented by eight lawyers at the hearing
last November and he also hired a detective company and lie-
detector expert to help in his defense, according to the 98-page
court ruling. The  World Anti-Doping Agency , which along with the
UCI had appealed the Spanish cycling federation’s decision to
acquit Contador, had four lawyers present.  Team Salary  Most of Contador’s earnings come from his team salary,
according to his spokesman  Jacinto Vidarte . Contador, who also
won the Tour de France in 2007 and 2009, earns 5 million euros
with the Saxo Bank team, French newspaper L’Equipe reported. The
team said yesterday in a  statement  it was studying the decision.  A deal to supply him with clothes at public appearances was
withdrawn by  Hugo Boss AG  when rumors of his failed test first
emerged, according to Till Pohlmann, head of sports sponsorship
at the Metzingen, Germany-based luxury clothier. His other
backers include Spanish jeweler Cristian Lay S.A.  Contador is scheduled to hold a news conference today in
 Madrid  at 7.30 p.m. local time.  The case began when a laboratory in Cologne found 50
picograms per milliliter of clenbuterol in a urine sample
Contador gave to anti-doping officials on the last rest day of
the 2010 Tour de France, an amount the UCI called “very small”
and scientists said would not have improved his performance. A
picogram is one trillionth of a gram.  Spanish Decision  The Spanish cycling federation acquitted Contador last year
after the rider argued that there is a history of farmers using
clenbuterol, a muscle-building stimulant, to bulk up cattle. The
UCI and WADA appealed that decision.  The Lausanne, Switzerland-based  Court of Arbitration for
Sport  ruled yesterday that it was “highly unlikely” a steak
Contador ate was contaminated and said submissions by the UCI
and WADA that Contador might have re-infused his own blood to
boost performance, leaving traces of clenbuterol, were “equally
unlikely.”  The court said it was more likely the clenbuterol came from
a contaminated food supplement. WADA rules say an athlete is
responsible for what he ingests.  “We welcome the decision, it demonstrates clearly the
robust nature of our code,” WADA President John Fahey told
reporters in Lausanne. “The onus is on athletes to ensure they
do not take” banned substances, he added.  Contador’s ban was backdated and he can race again from
Aug. 5. The Vuelta a Espana, cycling’s biggest stage race after
the Tour and Giro d’Italia, starts Aug. 18.  “He can still come back and perform at a good level,”
Malbranque said. “But this is very expensive for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  