-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise for First Time in Five Days
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-06T22:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-for-first-time-in-five-days.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose for the first time in five days as  Greece 
struggled to reach a deal with its international creditors.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 94.9 basis points at
5:04 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Contracts
linked to  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  declined.  The swaps gauge, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates, advanced from the lowest level in six
months as Greece’s efforts to win a second bailout from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  hung in a balance. Greece’s biggest
public- and private-sector union groups called a 24-hour general
strike for tomorrow to protest austerity measures.  Today is “Athens headlines all day, all the time,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New
York, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Time is of the essence for
the government to agree to terms of the bond swap and austerity
measures.”  European leaders stepped up pressure on Greek politicians
to meet the conditions of a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout. A gathering of Greek political leaders was delayed by a
day until tomorrow as they struggled for a unified response.  The swaps index earlier touched 94.3 basis points, the
lowest level since August, as the U.S. unemployment rate dropped
to 8.3 percent. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit-default swaps tied to Seagate, which pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt, fell 25.1 basis points to 219.2,
the lowest level since Feb. 14, 2008, according to data provider
CMA. Last week, the world’s largest maker of computer disk
drives forecast higher annual sales than analysts projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  