-- Oil Declines on European Economic Concern; Brent Premium Rises
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-02-06T08:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/crude-declines-on-greek-debt-concern-brent-premium-to-west-texas-widens.html
Oil fell from the highest price in
three days in  New York  on speculation Greece’s steps to avert a
financial collapse may fall short, threatening Europe’s economy
and demand for fuel.  Futures dropped as much as 0.9 percent before political
leaders in Greece meet today to discuss a detailed agreement for
meeting the terms of an international financial rescue. The
premium of London-traded Brent oil to New York contracts rose
for an eighth day after militants in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest
crude producer, attacked and damaged a pipeline.  “The potential now is for disappointment out of Europe,”
said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “I suspect this one is going to
drag on a fair bit. This echoes the very disappointing rhetoric
we’ve heard out of  Europe  many times before.”  Crude for March delivery slid as much as 89 cents to $96.95
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.97 at 4:32 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract rose $1.48 to $97.84 on Feb. 3, the highest settlement
since Jan. 31. Prices are down 1.9 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as 68 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $113.90 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $17.06 to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate, the widest since Nov. 8. The spread was a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  Greece Talks  Greece ’s interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and the
three party leaders backing his government will meet at about
midday, a spokeswoman from the premier’s office said today by
telephone. The parties aim to provide a detailed response to the
European Union,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  on economic measures to meet the requirements for a 130
billion-euro ($170 billion) aid package.  “The market is not that confident that all is good,” in
Europe, said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity markets newsletter in Sydney. “We might
get some clarification. We really have to wait and see.”  The 27 member states of the EU accounted for 16 percent of
global oil demand last year, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  In  Nigeria , the Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger
Delta  said it carried out a Feb. 4 attack on a pipeline
belonging to a unit of Italy’s Eni SpA in the country’s oil-rich
south. About 4,000 barrels a day of production was lost, the
Rome-based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Israel, Iran  Attacks by militant groups in the delta cut Nigeria’s
output by more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation, a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, produces low-
sulfur crude similar to Brent.  Brent’s premium also widened on concern supplies will be
disrupted from Iran, the second-biggest OPEC member. Israeli
Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman traveled to the U.S. yesterday
to discuss security matters including an EU decision to place
sanctions on Iranian oil exports. The Persian Gulf nation has
threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for
about a fifth of the world’s oil, in response to an embargo.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Feb. 2 the country
must consider conducting “an operation” to halt  Iran’s nuclear
program . U.S. President Barack Obama said in an NBC television
interview yesterday he doesn’t think  Israel  has decided what to
do about Iran and that military activity in the Persian Gulf
would have a “big effect” on  oil prices .  “Brent seems to be more sensitive to tensions regarding
the European oil embargo” and tension between Israel and Iran,
Stephen Schork, president of Schork Group Inc., a consultant in
Villanova, Pennsylvania, said in an e-mailed note today.  Technical Support  Oil’s advance in New York is stalling as the moving average
convergence-divergence indicator slips below zero for the first
time in about seven weeks, signaling weakness, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures have technical support along the
200-day moving average at $94.87 a barrel today. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels.  Crude may fall this week as declining U.S. demand pushes up
inventories, based on a Bloomberg News survey. Fourteen of 34
analysts and traders, or 41 percent, forecast futures will drop
through Feb. 10. The country’s petroleum demand declined to 17.7
million barrels a day in the week ended Jan. 27, the lowest
since May 1999, the Energy Department reported Feb. 1.  “That weakness in U.S. demand seems to be the only major
negative on the oil market at the moment,” CMC’s McCarthy said.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil by 1.4 percent in the
week through Jan. 31, according to data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  