-- Cruijff, van Gaal’s Boardroom Fight Weighs on Ajax’s Sponsors, Investors
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-02-06T11:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/cruijff-van-gaal-s-boardroom-fight-weighs-on-ajax-s-sponsors-investors.html
AFC Ajax NV , the most successful club
in Dutch soccer history, is facing unrest among its sponsors and
investors because of a boardroom dispute.  The disagreement, which involves clashes between former
players and coaches Johan Cruijff and Louis van Gaal, comes
after four board members tried to name van Gaal chairman of the
management board last year without consulting Cruijff, a board
member. The arguments have ended up in court and may mean the
panel will be forced to resign or be dismissed.  Ajax is a four-time European champion with a record 30
Dutch league titles, taking its first domestic title in seven
years in 2011. It sits sixth, 8 points out of first this season.
Adidas AG, the club’s main equipment supplier, sponsor Aegon NV,
and  Delta Lloyd NV , second-biggest shareholder, said they want
the disputes to end.  “As a long-term shareholder we’re not happy with what is
going on and one would almost consider to sell though it is not
on the list to be sold currently,” Alex Otto,  Delta Lloyd ’s
chief investment officer, said in an interview Jan. 25. Delta
Lloyd owns 8.56 percent of Ajax and is the second-biggest
shareholder after the Club Member’s Council, which owns 73.3
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The future of the board may be decided by a court hearing
tomorrow, followed by an extraordinary shareholders meeting Feb.
10. Van Gaal’s appointment as well as a confidence vote on the
supervisory board are on the agenda.  Disputed Appointment  Last November board members led by Chairman Steven ten Have
proposed naming Van Gaal as chairman after they couldn’t agree
with Cruijff on an appointment. Previously, the club adopted
Cruijff’s plan to focus on developing talented individual
players, and hired former stars Dennis Bergkamp, Jaap Stam and
Marc Overmars to help with training. The arrival of Van Gaal
would mean the club is opting to focus on the full squad and
ignoring individual talent, Cruijff backers claim.  Cruijff and Van Gaal have publicly said they will never
work together and their relationship is now affecting the club
and its sponsors. “I was hopeful we would come to some sort of
solution for the problems within Ajax,” Cruijff wrote today in
his weekly column in the local paper De Telegraaf.  “We’re unhappy with the unrest within the club and we’re
concerned about the investments we have made,” Ken Aerts,
spokesman of Adidas Benelux, said in an e-mailed statement Jan.
23.  ‘Extremely Concerned’  “This is not what we had in mind,” Aegon spokesman Jan Driessen said in an interview Jan. 24, who said Aegon isn’t
supporting either man. “We’re extremely concerned.”  The stock is the fifth-best performing among the 24-member
 Bloomberg European Football Club Index  over the past 12 months,
gaining 5.1 percent. Since Cruijff attacked the club in a Sept.
2010 newspaper column and called for an overhaul, shares have
gained 13 percent. Ajax shares were little changed at 7.10 euros
at 11:47 a.m. in Amsterdam trading, valuing the company at 130
million euros ($170 million).  Ajax hosts  Manchester United  in a Europa League match Feb.
16, and travels to  England  for a replay a week later. Coach
Frank de Boer told NOS Television yesterday players aren’t
affected by the dispute after suffering a 2-0 loss at home
against FC Utrecht.  Shareholder Votes  Ajax shareholders can dismiss the supervisory board, which
will trigger outside appointments by an Amsterdam court. While
Cruijff is willing to step down, his colleagues aren’t. A
voluntarily resignation by the entire board would mean the club
itself can start a search for a new supervisory board without
court pressure.  That isn’t likely to happen as there are too many egos
involved, Pim de Vos, an attorney at De Vos & Partners in
Amsterdam who specializes in sport matters, said in a Jan. 30 e-
mail.  “Ten Have and his colleagues knew that the Van Gaal
appointment was risky and they were aware that this was not in
line with Cruijff’s vision,” he added. In July, Cruijff
accepted a seat on the supervisory board after Chief Executive
Officer Rik van den Boog, coach  Martin Jol  and the entire
supervisory board left.  Adidas Sponsorship  Ajax in April 2008 extended a sponsorship agreement with
Adidas for 70 million euros, effective on July 1, 2009. Aegon in
October 2007 signed a seven-year deal with Ajax for about 85
million euros. Some of Adidas’ money is not being spent as
agreed upon, the sponsor says.  “We’ve made significant investments that went beyond
traditional sponsorship,” Adidas’ Aerts said in the statement.
“Some of the initiatives haven’t been rolled out as agreed upon
and slowly but surely it raises the question whether these
agreements will be honored at all.”  Adidas declined to comment on whether there is an opt-out
clause in the sponsor deal if Ajax fails to start the programs.
The club’s spokesman Miel Brinkhuis declined to comment on the
story.  “The Ajax brand has lost value and Aegon is unhappy with
all this nonsense going on,” Frank van den Wall Bake, a
marketing consultant who advised on the Aegon deal with Ajax,
said in an interview Jan. 23. “Aegon is a gentleman sponsor and
will honor the agreement but if they do bow out, Ajax will have
a hard time to get a similar deal given the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  