-- Currency Trading at Record $977 Billion a Day in North America, Fed Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-06T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/currency-trade-at-a-record-977-billion-a-day-in-north-america-fed-says.html
Foreign-exchange trading in  North
America  rose to a record $977 billion a day in October, while
slowing in the U.K.,  Australia  and  Singapore , according to
central bank surveys.  The average daily volume in October compares with a revised
$856 billion in April and $809 billion in October 2010, the
Federal Reserve’s Foreign Exchange Committee said in a  statement 
today, citing results from its semi-annual survey. The October
2011 increase was due mainly to a 28 percent rise in spot
turnover from the April period.  Turnover in the euro versus the dollar represented 37
percent, or the largest share, of reported trading. Dollar-yen
trading was the second busiest at 10 percent.  Volatility escalated last year as  Europe ’s debt crisis
roiled markets and fueled concern global economic growth would
slow.  Implied volatility  of Group of Seven currencies reached a
16-month high of 15.77 percent in September, according to the
JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index , which has averaged 12.03 percent
during the past five years.  “There was a greater willingness to back certain movements
amongst well-capitalized banks,”  Andrew Wilkinson  , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview, in reference to North American banks. “The
outlook became cloudier, which means it became more difficult to
substantiate positions, so it’s possible risk takers in general
took a step back.”  Canada Slows  The North American trading gains came even as total
turnover in  Canada  declined 14.4 percent,  according  to a survey
by the Canadian Foreign Exchange Committee, the first decline in
turnover since April 2009. Average daily turnover of foreign-
exchange derivatives fell 15.4 percent to $3.3 billion.  Currency-market trading in the U.K. dropped 3 percent to
$1.97 trillion a day in October compared with April, the Foreign
Exchange Joint Standing Committee said in a  statement  on the
Bank of England’s website today. The fall was led by a 9 percent
drop in foreign exchange swaps activity. Spot turnover rose 2
percent to a record high, the committee said.  In Australia, average daily turnover decreased 23 percent
to $167.9 billion in October from April and fell 14 percent from
the previous year, the Australian Foreign Exchange Committee
 said  on the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s website today.  Trading dropped 1.1 percent in Singapore during the six-
month period,  according  to the Singapore Foreign Exchange Market
Committee. Average daily turnover in over-the-counter foreign-
exchange derivatives fell 2.1 percent to $46 billion.  The U.S. Foreign Exchange Committee obtained data for the
month of October from 25 financial institutions active in the
North American foreign exchange market. It worked in
collaboration with the committees from the U.K., Singapore,
Australia and Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  