-- Dalton’s Charlton Invests in Defensive European Stocks as Fund Beats Peers
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-06T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/dalton-s-charlton-bets-on-defensive-stocks-as-fund-beats-peers.html
Dalton Strategic Partnership LLP’s
Leonard Charlton is betting that  European stocks , such as
 Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , whose profits are less tied to
economic growth cycles can propel his fund to a sixth straight
year of gains.  Charlton’s European Absolute Return Fund beat 99 percent of
its peers as it rallied 6.6 percent in 2011, while the Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index slumped 11 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The fund, which invests in developed-market
equities in Europe and can profit from rising as well as falling
stock prices, has risen every year since it was founded in
October 2006. It has climbed 7.8 percent in the past 12 months,
the data show.  “We’ve a bias towards companies not too dependent on the
economic cycle,” said Charlton, in a phone interview. “This
year is going to be a battle between valuations looking
attractive for equities and the forces of austerity and debt.
Earnings momentum is going to be quite weak in the first half of
the year. More companies will be missing estimates than beating
them.”  The Stoxx 600 rallied 3.6 percent last week as gauges of
 manufacturing from China  to the U.S. and the U.K. rose and a
report showed that American employers added more jobs last month
than economists had predicted. The European equity benchmark has
 rallied 23 percent  from last year’s lowest level as the  European
Central Bank  boosted lending to banks and U.S. economic reports
exceeded estimates.  AB Foods’ Shares  Charlton has bought shares in AB Foods, the U.K. sugar
producer that owns Primark clothes shops. The stock’s 10 percent
rally over the past 12 months has pushed its  price-earnings
ratio  to 13.8 times estimated profits, remaining below its 10-
year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in
the 16 weeks ended Jan. 7 were helped by “particularly strong
trading” during the holiday season, the London-based company
said on Jan. 19.  “AB Foods benefits from the tightness of the consumer and
it’s not expensive,” Charlton said in the interview on Feb. 3.  The  money manager  is also buying  D’Ieteren SA (DIE)  and  BG Group
Plc. (BG/)  D’Ieteren,  Belgium ’s biggest car dealer, trades for 8.8
times estimated earnings, below the multiple of 10.9 for the
Stoxx 600 and too cheap for its forecast profits, according to
Charlton. BG Group Plc may be a potential target for companies
doing mergers and acquisitions, he said.  “The market’s underestimating the quality and scale of the
business and it might be a takeover target,” Charlton said of
London-listed BG Group. “If you want to get a foothold in
 Brazil , this is a company you should be buying.”  Charlton joined Dalton from GLG Partners in 2006. Dalton
manages $2.5 billion.  So-called absolute-return funds involve the  fund manager 
making long bets on stocks that will rise and shorting shares
that they believe will decline. Charlton declined to say which
shares he was shorting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  