-- Denmark’s Credit Crunch Worsening as Retrenching Banks Spur Vicious Circle
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-06T14:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/danish-credit-crunch-deepens-as-firms-face-vicious-circle.html
Denmark’s credit crunch is getting
worse as businesses accuse banks of withholding funds and the
financial regulator warns that deteriorating asset quality may
put more lenders out of business.  “When we ask our companies, small- and medium-sized, they
say they are experiencing a credit crunch and it has become
worse in the last month,” Karsten Dybvad, chief executive
officer of the  Danish Confederation of Industry , said in an
interview in Copenhagen.  Dybvad’s group, which represents 10,000 Danish firms, wants
the financial regulator to give  banks  more leeway in meeting
capital requirements so they don’t call in loans and fuel a
vicious circle that’s stifling the $300 billion economy. In a
December survey of confederation members, two thirds said they
had limited access to financing, while one in five said an
absence of funds was the biggest obstacle for growth.  Three Danish banks, including  Amagerbanken A/S , failed last
year after the FSA required them to restate bad loans, leaving
them in breach of capital rules. Two of the failures pushed
losses on to senior creditors and exacerbated a funding squeeze
that’s frozen most of  Denmark ’s 120 banks out of debt markets.  Bank Failures  More lenders may collapse this year as Denmark’s regional
bank crisis worsens, the Financial Supervisory Authority’s
Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview last week.
The FSA introduced stricter reviews of loan books last year,
after finding banks understated writedowns, and has been
enforcing the more rigorous standards through surprise audits.  The regulator today proposed that lenders tighten reporting
standards further to reflect declining property values more
accurately in loan portfolios.  According to Dybvad, banks are reacting by restricting
credit and calling in existing loans. Even healthy companies are
being denied credit, according to a Jan. 16 report by the Danish
Association of Auditors.  “You have to do it more smoothly so that you don’t over-
react,” Dybvad said. “There’s an increasing number of
companies having difficulties financing their operations and
also difficulties financing investments.”  Denmark’s 173-member all-share index lost as much as 1
percent today before trading 0.6 percent lower at 2:10 p.m.
local time. Danish shares underperformed their European peers,
with the Stoxx  Europe  600 losing 0.4 percent.  Vicious Circle  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
warns an absence of credit may fuel a vicious circle in which
businesses lack the funds to run their operations, leaving them
unable to pay their debts.  “This in turn could worsen loan impairments in the
corporate sector, putting pressure on the financial sector,”
the Paris-based OECD said in a Jan. 26 report. “Some small
banks are especially exposed to agriculture, which faces high
debt, falling land prices and funding problems.”  Agricultural debt swelled 2.6 percent to 359 billion kroner
($63 billion) in 2010, the Danish Agriculture and Food Council
estimates. Commercial farms have lost as much as half their
value in some parts of Denmark, leaving 6 percent of the
industry technically insolvent, according to the council.  Denmark is also struggling to recover from a property
bubble that burst in 2007, throwing the economy into a recession
and killing jobs.  House prices  fell an annual 8.5 percent in
November as the gap between bid and ask prices widened. Prices
will have slumped 25 percent by 2013 since the crisis started in
2007, the government-backed Economic Council estimates.  Bankruptcies  Loans to farming, construction and real estate made up 26
percent of total lending at the end of 2010 at banks with less
than 50 billion kroner in working capital, according to a May
report by the central bank. For the biggest banks, the
corresponding figure was 16 percent.  Small- and medium-sized enterprises, including retailers
and construction-related businesses, are now struggling to stay
afloat. The number of bankruptcies rose to 511 in January,
adjusting for seasonal swings, from 449 at the end of last year,
Statistics Danmark said today. More companies went out of
business in January than in any month since November 2010,
official data show.  “As feared, it looks like the setback in Denmark’s economy
is leaving its depressing mark on businesses,” Jes Asmussen,
Svenska Handelsbanken AB’s chief economist in Copenhagen, said
in a note.  Stagnant Economy  Annual retail sales fell for the fourth consecutive month
in December while gross domestic product, which contracted in
the third quarter, probably stagnated in the final three months
of 2011, the confederation’s Chief Economist Klaus Rasmussen
estimates.  Twin banking and housing crises have so far made little
impression on investors in Denmark’s AAA rated  government bonds ,
thanks to the country’s low debt ratio. State debt will stay
within Europe’s 60 percent rule and be only 44.6 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012, compared with an average of 90.4
percent in the euro area, the European Commission said Nov. 10.  Denmark’s government pays about six basis points less than
 Germany  to borrow for 10 years, with the benchmark 2021 note
yielding 1.87 percent at the end of last week.  Still, Denmark’s debt load has widened every year since
2007, unlike neighboring  Sweden ’s, where debt relative to GDP
has narrowed every year since 2009 and will shrink again in
2013. Denmark has the highest household debt load in the world,
at 310 percent of disposable incomes, Exane BNP Paribas
estimates.  Banks Overreacting  Dybvad said banks are overreacting to the FSA’s stricter
standards and preventing businesses from contributing to an
economic recovery by denying them credit.  “The banks need to be more open, to study things in detail
and to be careful before they just cancel credit lines,” he
said. “Bank regulation must not be enforced as strongly and as
fast as some proposals.”  European banks also face tougher  capital requirements  that
threaten to curb lending to businesses and slow growth. European
trade groups in January issued a joint letter to lawmakers
urging them to take more time to overhaul bank regulations.  “If global financial conditions were to deteriorate
further, leading to liquidity shortages, banks might restrict
lending to the corporate sector,” the OECD said in its report
on Denmark last month. “This would make it especially difficult
for small and medium-sized enterprises, which already face
stricter lending conditions, to access funding and would depress
growth even further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  