-- Antilla: Debit-Card Pitchwoman Orman Flirts With Conflict
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/debit-card-pitchwoman-orman-flirts-with-conflict-susan-antilla.html
Suze Orman, the ubiquitous guru of
personal finance, released a new book on Jan. 10, and her fans
couldn’t part with their $16 a copy fast enough. In less than
two weeks, “The Money Class” rose to fourth place among
paperback advice books on the New York Times best-seller  list .  That Orman’s latest work would be a winner was predictable.
It is her 10th best-seller catering to an audience that has come
to trust and even idolize her. Less predictable was what readers
saw when they got to page 24: a shameless tout for Orman’s own
branded  Approved Card , a prepaid MasterCard debit card that she
had introduced a day before the book came out.  On page 156, readers were hit with another plug, this one
for an investment newsletter that describes Orman as “Chief
Navigator.” Orman wrote that she would give “something
special” to readers: a free 12-month subscription to the Money
Navigator newsletter, which otherwise would cost $63 a year. The
pitch took up the entire page.  Orman, 60, has achieved unrivaled status as a financial
advocate for the public. In her books, columns, television shows
and personal appearances, she preaches a common-sense gospel of
reducing debt and living within one’s means. The people inspired
by her benevolent badgering learn the minutiae of everything
from checking accounts to  life insurance .  Orman was twice named to Time magazine’s World’s Most
Influential People list, and has shows on CNBC and on Oprah Winfrey’s cable-television network. For addressing the needs of
the little guy and gal, she has been rewarded with wealth and
fame. It just isn’t so clear whether her own interests don’t get
in the way of the interests of her disciples.  Card Fees  Through her spokeswoman, Jill Zuckman, Orman declined to
respond to a list of questions.  “Suze is very proud of her work to create the Approved
Card and she is gratified by the overwhelming response to the
card and her effort to overhaul the way credit is scored in this
country,” Zuckman wrote in an e-mail statement. “We’re going
to let others debate the questions that you raise.”  Orman’s  card  costs $3 a month plus other fees. She has said
she hopes that FICO credit scores will one day reflect
consumers’ use of prepaid  debit cards , which might help less-
affluent people who don’t have bank accounts. With that goal in
mind, she will share anonymous information with  TransUnion
Corp. , a credit-tracking company, about users who agree to be
part of a pilot program. As of now, data from prepaid cards
doesn’t figure in credit-score calculations.  After her debit card’s debut, Orman got slammed by critics
who wondered how she could responsibly peddle a product that
will generate income for her while she’s evaluating competing
products.  She responded at first by insulting New York Times
 columnist  Ron Lieber and others, then was shamed into an apology
on Twitter.  “For anyone I called an idiot I too am sorry,” she posted
on Jan. 11. Two days later, after a National Public Radio host
asked about criticism of her card by an online credit-card
research site, Orman was back at it. “He was an  idiot ,” she
said of the author of the analysis, who had pointed to
“marketing fluff” and the number of fees associated with
Orman’s card.  While there’s a lot of fuss right now about Orman flogging
her new card, it isn’t the first time she has pitched personal-
finance products. Orman sells a $14.99-a-month identity-theft
protection product called Trusted ID, which employs a decidedly
consumer-unfriendly policy: Buyers must agree to use arbitration
in the event of a dispute.  Investment Newsletter  The Money Navigator came under fire last month in the  Wall
Street  Journal, which unearthed inaccurate performance claims by
her partner in the newsletter, money manager Mark Grimaldi. The
errors were corrected. Grimaldi didn’t respond to requests for
an interview.  Another product, the Suze Orman  Must-Have Documents  package
(“A $2,500 value!”), includes forms for a will, revocable
trust and powers of attorney. It sells for $29.95 on her
website, www.suzeorman.com, though she sometimes offers the kit
for free on her television shows.  In December, a woman who purchased the kit in 2009 for $15
filed a complaint against Suze Orman Media Inc. in a Missouri
circuit court. She is seeking class-action status on behalf of
Missouri residents who bought the kit, alleging that Orman’s
company engaged in the practice of law without a license. Orman
Media hasn’t yet answered the complaint.  Although Orman wouldn’t discuss the conflict-of-interest
questions with me, she did get into it in a video that was
posted on AOL. Orman told  Arianna Huffington  that she would make
a point not to talk about her card on her weekly CNBC program,
“because that is my platform where I educate you.” From now
on, if you’re a consumer with a question about prepaid cards,
“you’re gonna have to educate yourselves,” she said. But how
do viewers or readers know which “platform” is the one where
she’s educating them, and which are acceptable for pitching her
products?  Readers of O, the Oprah Magazine, might like an answer to
that. In her regular column in the February issue, Orman
responded to a question from a mother wondering whether she
should co-sign a loan for her son.  “I have to tell you,” Orman writes, “your son’s
situation is one of the big reasons I’ve worked hard to bring
out my new Approved Prepaid MasterCard debit card.” A sidebar
that takes up more than a quarter of the same page further touts
the card under the headline, “You Are Approved to Save Money.”
Fourteen pages later, there’s a two-page ad spread for the Orman
card. At least the ad is unmistakably an ad.  Do Your Homework  Alexandra Carlin, a spokeswoman for the magazine, in an e-
mail wrote that Orman clearly states her involvement with the
card and is proud of it.  “In this instance, as in all others, we feature service
information that we know to be accurate, that supports our
editorial mission, and that we believe our readers will find
useful -- they are free to determine whether the advice or
suggestions are right for them,” Carlin wrote.  What’s an Orman fan to do? Orman herself might say do your
homework and read the fine print, and here’s what hers says:
www.suzeorman.com, a Web page that includes a comprehensive
sampling of her investment, consumer and legal ideas, exists for
“informational purposes,” offering neither tax, investment nor
any other kind of professional advice.  Importantly, Orman’s  disclosure  notes that her company
doesn’t hold itself out as an  investment adviser , which would
make it subject to federal securities laws.  Orman has been certified by the Certified Financial Planner
Board of Standards, and has no public disciplinary history with
the group. CFP rules require that a planner on television or in
any other public venue not mislead anyone about the potential
benefits of their service, said Daniel Drummond, CFP spokesman.
Other than that, the standards that seem to apply are those of
journalists, who are exempt from the Investment Advisors Act of
1940, provided that they don’t engage in a fraud, such as
purchasing shares of a stock before writing favorably about it.  Robert Plaze, associate director of the division of
 investment management  at the SEC, declined to comment about
Orman. But he said the question that regulators and others have
to grapple with in regulatory cases involving people who write
newsletters or go on television is, “Who is a journalist?”  In Orman’s case, her role is hard to pin down.  Orman goes to pains in her disclosure to say she isn’t an
investment adviser. O magazine calls her a “contributing
editor,” which sure sounds like a journalist to me.  Meanwhile, Brian Steel, a CNBC spokesman, throws another
possibility into the mix. Orman is “not a CNBC employee or a
journalist,” he said in an e-mailed statement, but the network
does have “editorial guidelines in place to insure that the
‘Suze Orman Show’ maintains its editorial integrity.” He didn’t
respond to a question asking what the difference is between
CNBC’s expectations of Orman and its standards for journalists,
but did say that Orman will neither discuss her debit card on
the show nor buy advertising time for it.  Making an Impression  Call her what you will, but Chris Roush, a professor of
business journalism at the University of  North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  says the public relies, in part, on the impression
it gets.  “She comes across on her show as being a journalist who
has vetted products and issues, and is speaking from a position
of authority,” said Roush, a former reporter for Bloomberg
News.  That impression can “keep the public confused” when the
same news organizations that hire professional journalists mix
things up with “fringe” people, said  Kevin Smith , ethics
committee chairman at the Society of Professional Journalists.
Newsrooms generally have rules that prohibit journalists from
selling financial products or trading stocks they’re writing
about, Roush points out.  So much for my big plans for the  Susan Antilla  Broker-
Vetter Kit, which would have been a steal at $9.99.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 