-- Dombret Says European Leaders’ Fiscal Reforms Aren’t Convincing
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-06T11:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/dombret-says-european-leaders-fiscal-reforms-aren-t-convincing.html
Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said efforts by European Union leaders to strengthen
fiscal rules in the single-currency region may not be enough to
convince investors.  “The initial agreements seem to have been watered down
during the negotiation process,” Dombret said in a speech in
Luxemburg today. “The rules regarding the debt brakes leave
significant room for interpretation, and their application and
enforcement will not be monitored at the European level. It
seems that the new version of the Stability and Growth Pact
might not be followed too strictly at the European level,
either. Altogether, the latest decisions are not entirely
convincing.”  EU leaders last month agreed to accelerate the setup of a
full-time 500 billion-euro ($653 billion) rescue fund and
endorsed a German-inspired deficit-control treaty. In  Greece ,
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  has struck a tentative deal with
political parties on austerity measures demanded by
international creditors as European leaders maintain pressure on
the country to meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro rescue
package.  “Setting up larger and larger rescue packages is not the
way to instill lasting confidence,” Dombret said. “This
strategy ultimately has its limits, be they political or
financial.”  Dombret also said the proposal that the European Central
Bank print money in response to the debt crisis is “dangerous”
because it puts at risk “the key foundation of a stable
currency: the independence of a central bank dedicated to  price
stability . This would throw overboard the very things that need
saving.”  Governments should balance their budgets, implement
structural reforms and establish a “stable architecture” for
monetary union “instead of constantly patching up the results
of fiscal policy mistakes and insufficient implementation of the
Stability and Growth Pact,” Dombret said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  