-- Dubai Group Said to Propose Paying Debt Over 5 to 10 Years
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-02-06T15:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/dubai-group-said-to-seek-up-to-10-year-delay-in-6-billion-restructuring.html
Dubai Group LLC, an  investment
company  owned by the emirate’s ruler, offered to pay creditors
over five to 10 years as it seeks to restructure $6 billion of
bank debt, a banker familiar with the proposal said.  Secured lenders, who are owed $3.2 billion and whose loans
are backed by assets, have been offered payment of principal in
five years, said the person, declining to be identified because
the negotiations are private. Partially secured and unsecured
lenders, who are owed the remaining $2.8 billion, will be paid
over eight and 10 years, the banker said.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate seeking to restructure loans
after property prices and asset values slumped and credit
markets froze. Dubai World, one of the sheikhdom’s three main
state-controlled holding companies, reached a deal in March with
about 80 banks to delay payments on $25 billion of debt.  Dubai Group is “not prepared to discuss the various
aspects of private negotiations,” the company said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Dubai Group is still in
discussions with lenders and is fully committed to reaching a
consensual agreement that is reasonable for all stakeholders.”  Assets backing the secured loans are more than sufficient
to pay those creditors now, although they are prepared to wait
to allow values to appreciate, the banker said. The proposal
plans for interest payments, though at this point no cash
support from the Dubai government is included, the banker said.  Restructuring Help  Dubai Group appointed eight banks to represent creditors in
two committees in 2011 to help with the restructuring. Paris-
based  Natixis SA’ s Nexgen unit and Dubai-based  Mashreqbank PSC 
make up the committee of secured lenders.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  lead the group of partially
secured and unsecured lenders.  Victoria Eideliman, a Paris-based spokeswoman for  Natixis (KN) ,
and a spokeswoman for Royal Bank of  Scotland  in Dubai declined
to comment. A spokeswoman for Mashreqbank said she couldn’t
immediately comment, while the spokesman for Emirates NBD
couldn’t be reached. They declined to be identified citing their
companies’ respective policies.  Dubai World  Dubai Group, which owes another $4 billion, invests in
financial services and owns property in the U.S., according to
its website. It holds stakes in companies including Dubai-based
investment bank  Shuaa Capital PSC , Cairo-based investment bank
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE  and  BankMuscat SAOG  in Oman.  Dubai World reached an agreement with about 80 creditors in
March on its debt restructuring. Of its $25 billion of loans,
Dubai World owed $14.7 billion to financial institutions and
about $10 billion to the Dubai government. It plans to return
$4.4 billion to bank creditors in five years and $10.3 billion
in eight years. It will pay an average fixed interest rate of
2.4 percent on the loans, the company said in March.  Dubai will back “any strategic investment we have,”
Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of Dubai ruler’s court
said Sept. 23. Dubai has an “interest to back up the government
entities and the government-related enterprises -- anything
that’s sizable with a major benefit to the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  