-- Dubai’s Shares Rise to 5-Month High on Bets Investors Accumulating Arabtec
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-06T12:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/dubai-s-shares-rise-to-5-month-high-on-bets-investors-accumulating-arabtec.html
Dubai’s shares rose to the highest in
almost five months, led by  Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC) , amid
speculation investors are accumulating the company’s stock on
bets it will benefit from regional infrastructure spending.  Arabtec, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction
company, surged 9.2 percent.  Drake & Scull International  PJSC,
the Dubai-based construction company, rose to the highest since
August. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  jumped 0.6 percent to
1,476.24, the highest since Sept. 8, at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased 0.1 percent.  “Arabtec continues to surprise and there are definitely
bigger volumes,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based head
of investment and asset management at Royal Capital PJSC.
“There are stories about winning more business from Abu Dhabi
airport, but that does not justify the stellar performance.”  The shares rallied for a sixth day, the longest stretch of
gains since April 2008, bringing this year’s advance to  64
percent . That compares with a 12 percent gain in  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the company with the  heaviest weighting  in
Dubai’s stock measure. Arabtec, the builder of the world’s
tallest skyscraper in Dubai, has been eyeing opportunities
outside its home market after construction slowed.  Arabtec shares rose 9.2 percent to 2.60 dirhams, the
highest level since November 2009, and the  most traded  on
Dubai’s index today. Calls made to Arabtec Chief Financial
Officer Ziad Makhzoumi by Bloomberg News today were not
answered.  Recovering Losses  Drake & Scull jumped 4.2 percent to 92.7 fils, the highest
since Aug. 4. The shares lost 24 percent in 2011.  “We know for sure there was a lot of dumping last year of
real estate stocks,” said Talhaoui. “There could be some
capitulation in selling.”  Arabtec said in November the value of a contract it won in
 Saudi Arabia  may rise to 1.5 billion riyals ($400 million) as it
expands in the biggest Arab market. The company last month won a
25-month contract valued at 561 million dirhams to carry out
expansion at Dubai International Airport. One of its units got
256 million dirhams of contracts in  Abu Dhabi  last week.  Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate transforming itself into a
business and cultural hub, plans to resume projects including
branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums after reviewing
their viability, the government said in January.  In Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah announced a $130 billion
plan last year to build homes and create jobs to stave off
regional protests that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt. The
rulings added to a commitment announced in 2010 to spend $384
billion over five years on housing, transport and education.  Oman’s MSM30 Index rose 0.1 percent, while Kuwait’s  Stock
Exchange Price Index (KWSEIDX)  retreated 0.3 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index (BGCC200)  fell 0.5 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share
Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 0.3 percent, snapping a ten-day winning streak.
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose less than 0.1 percent, while Bahrain’s
gauge dropped 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  