-- Johnson: Financial Services Roundtable Has No Clothes
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-02-06T00:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/the-financial-services-roundtable-has-no-clothes-simon-johnson.html
In a  report  last week, the Financial
Services Roundtable boldly stated that the financial-services
industry “has made significant changes since the crisis and is
safer and stronger than ever.” The message from the lobby
group, which represents 100 of the largest U.S. financial
companies, is clear: When it comes to the risks posed by big
banks, don’t worry, be happy.  I’m not sure which planet these financial-sector lobbyists
are on, but it’s not this one.  The motivation for such optimism is obvious: If the
industry can convince the public that large financial firms have
sorted themselves out, regulators might back off. The  roundtable 
echoes other industry lobby groups, such as the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, which argued in a
recent congressional  hearing  that the Volcker rule, which
forbids most proprietary trading by banks, isn’t needed.  If the financial sector is indeed fixed, the argument goes,
there is no need for anything like the Volcker rule, higher
 capital requirements , or any of the new regulations emerging as
part of the Dodd-Frank reforms. Leading this charge are the
remaining Republican presidential candidates. If there’s one
issue they all agree on, it is to repeal Dodd-Frank.  The roundtable report illustrates exactly what’s wrong with
the industry and raises serious concerns about the people in
charge. It should be read carefully and quoted extensively by
anyone who seeks to reduce the dangers posed by banks that are
perceived as “too big to fail.”  Different Interests  The report seems oblivious to the incentives driving the
executives of banks whose assets are large, relative to the  U.S.
economy . Their interests are not the same as the public’s. No
one running a bank cares sufficiently about the effect their
failure would have on the rest of the system. In candid moments,
even people who are sympathetic to the industry concede that
bankers don’t internalize the impact of their fragility on the
system.  As a result, regulators have long required banks to have a
minimum level of equity funding to provide a buffer against
losses and to reduce the probability of collapse and systemic
crisis. Bank executives and boards, though, prefer to have less
equity and more debt; that very combination gives them a higher
return on equity during boom periods. For large banks, it tilts
the payoff so that executives (and sometimes shareholders) get
more upside when all goes well, while taxpayers are handed
losses when a bank is unlucky.  Megabanks receive large, opaque and unfair government
subsidies. They can borrow more cheaply, for example, because
creditors see them as less risky due to an implicit government
guarantee. This support is also dangerous because it encourages
excessive risk-taking and the boom-bust-bailout cycle, or what
the  Bank of England  has taken to calling the “doom loop.”  Most large bank executives prefer a debt-to-equity ratio --
the amount of borrowing relative to the amount of equity -- that
is too high from a social or taxpayer point of view. This is
perhaps the most fundamental fact to understand about banks and
the hardest lesson we have learned from more than 200 years of
 bank failures .  If you don’t understand this point, you should read the
work of  Anat Admati  and her colleagues at  Stanford University ,
as well as the compelling recent book, “ Zombie Banks ,” by
Yalman Onaran (a Bloomberg News correspondent). I am continually
amazed by how many senior people in the industry, as well as
regulators, legislators and other Washington officials, seem to
be unaware of these analytic and historic basics.  Sleight-of-Hand  Or perhaps they are fully aware of the issues, but seek to
distract us with sleight-of-hand? That is my interpretation of
the Financial Services Roundtable report.  The group claims that U.S financial-services companies now
have “the highest capital level in history.” But aggregate
capital levels mean little. What’s lacking on the balance sheets
of large, global banks is loss-absorbing capital -- share
capital plus retained earnings.  Incredibly, the report barely mentions that  Europe  is in
the grip of the most serious sovereign-debt crisis since the
1930s. And there is nary a word on the risks inherent in the
euro interest-rate swaps market, which could threaten the
creditworthiness of all major European counterparties. (See my
recent  paper  with  Peter Boone  for more detail.)  The roundtable cites a September assertion by the  Clearing
House Association , another bank lobby group, that no banks will
fail in the future because of a lack of capital. The association
made that claim just before Dexia SA, the Belgian bank,
collapsed due to inadequate capital. Dexia’s failure, by the
way, came less than three months after sailing through the
European Union’s stress tests with supposedly high levels of
capital.  The report also fails to mention that Greek banks are on
the brink of failure due to credit losses, mostly on  government
bonds , or that banks in  France ,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  are
carrying on their books large amounts of sovereign debt that has
lost much of its value. The roundtable report cites Federal
Reserve stress tests, conducted at the end of 2011, but they
look far too mild relative to recent events and European
realities.  One glaring example: The tests assume Europe goes into a
recession, but not a 1930s-style wave of sovereign defaults. And
yet a European recession is now in the  International Monetary
Fund ’s baseline scenario. Stress tests are supposed to be about
assessing downside risks, not mapping out what everyone expects
to happen already.  The roundtable claims that “Banking practices that
contributed to the 2008 crisis have been eliminated.” History
shows that, in the aftermath of a big financial crisis, the
survivors are more careful -- for a while. But the fundamental
incentives to take excessive risk remain the same, and the
roundtable’s points about changes to  executive compensation  are
neither here nor there. Management might be more aligned with
shareholders -- at least this is the claim -- but shareholders
also benefit from too-big-to-fail subsidies.  Suspend Dividends  The only sensible public-policy response for the U.S. is to
suspend the payment of bank dividends and share repurchases,
thus forcing banks to build equity as the probability of another
crisis grows. (For more on this, see additional work spearheaded
by Admati  here  and  here .)  The roundtable’s argument that “bailouts have been repaid
and eliminated” is disingenuous. The bankers know that the
damage to the federal government’s balance sheet has been
profound. The U.S. will end up with about a 50 percentage-point
increase in debt relative to gross domestic product as a result
of the deep recession caused by the financial sector.  As I  testified  to the Senate Budget Committee last week,
the  Congressional Budget Office  should factor into its scoring
system the damage that banks with inadequate equity could cause
the U.S. budget. An unstable financial system is more likely to
run into trouble, trigger a recession and a loss of  tax revenue ,
and expand deficits and debt. An honest scoring of the
connection between financial-industry and fiscal risk would
concentrate the minds of lawmakers and regulators.  One of the roundtable’s core principles is: “We are
committed to building long-term stability for the financial
system, and our actions will emphasize long-term instead of
short-term gain.” It is hard to see this report as a reflection
of such principles.  The report reads more like a sophisticated propaganda
campaign by a powerful lobby group demanding that its members
continue to receive large subsidies. The people who run
financial institutions definitely know what they are doing --
picking the pocket of the American taxpayer. The question is:
Will we fall for it again?  ( Simon Johnson , who served as the chief economist of the
International Monetary Fund in 2007 and 2008 and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  as well as a
senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  