-- Health-Care Case Tests Supreme Court’s Ban on Live Broadcasts
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/health-care-case-tests-supreme-court-s-ban-on-live-broadcasts.html
The historic U.S.  Supreme Court 
battle over President Barack Obama’s signature health-care
legislation -- with 5 1/2 hours of arguments planned over three
days on a matter that affects every American and may influence
the 2012 elections -- will test the justices’ refusal to allow
live broadcasts of their proceedings.  Lawmakers and media organizations are pressing for live
television coverage, or failing that, live audio, in a case that
will determine whether the government can force people to obtain
insurance. The length of the arguments has few precedents in
modern court history, and the case will be the court’s highest
profile since the battle between  George W. Bush  and  Al Gore  in
the 2000 presidential election.  “This is the focusing event and this puts more pressure on
the court just because of the high level of interest,” said
Lawrence Baum, a political science professor at  Ohio State
University  in Columbus.  The court has given no indication it will relent on its ban
of live broadcasts, and court observers said it’s unlikely. Even
as Americans have come to expect live coverage of news events,
the justices have made their marble courtroom a technology-free
zone, barring spectators from using recording devices,
telephones and cameras. The court releases its own audio
recordings at the end of the week and has never allowed video,
even on a delayed basis.  National Interest  Justices are considering requests from a dozen lawmakers
and more than 30 media organizations, including Bloomberg News,
seeking live coverage. They say that there’s a strong national
interest in watching live arguments over an issue that touches
everyone and affects the economy and presidential election.  Arguments over the health-care law should be broadcast live
because the 2010 measure is “the most sweeping thing that’s
passed Congress since  Medicaid , Social Security and civil
rights,” said Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top
Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  “It will take the mystery out of the court system and help
educate people about the judicial branch like they’re educated
about Congress now that Congress is televised,” Grassley said
in an interview.  There’s no established procedure for how the court would
decide whether to allow live broadcasts. All nine justices
probably will make the decision behind closed doors, said
Richard Davis, a political science professor at Brigham Young
University in Provo,  Utah  and author of “Justices and
Journalists: The U.S. Supreme Court and the Media.”  TV Concerns  If there’s not unanimous agreement, the court probably
would defer to those members who object, said Barbara Perry, a
Supreme Court scholar and professor at the  University of
Virginia  in Charlottesville.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  said at his 2005 Senate
confirmation hearing that he wanted to listen to his colleagues’
views on cameras before taking a position. He didn’t give his
position on live audio. A year later, he said at a judicial
conference that some of his colleagues had concerns over
television coverage and its affect on the court as an
“institution.”  “We’re going to be very careful before we do anything that
we think might have an adverse impact,” Roberts said at the
judicial conference in Huntington Beach,  California .  Justice David Souter, who retired in 2009, said at a 1996
House hearing: “The day you see a camera come into our
courtroom, it’s going to roll over my dead body.”  Legal Entertainment  Other justices to raise concern about cameras include
 Stephen Breyer ,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas . Kennedy and Thomas said at a House hearing in 2007 that
they feared cameras would change the dynamic among the justices
and strip them of their anonymity.  “There’s something sick about making entertainment about
real people’s legal problems,” Scalia said in a 2005 interview
with CNBC. “I don’t like it in the lower courts and I don’t
particularly like it in the Supreme Court.”  Courts around the country have gradually become more open
over the years. All 50 states have let television cameras in at
least some court proceedings, according to a state-by-state
breakdown on the Radio Television Digital News Association’s
website. Cameras are allowed in two federal appeals courts, and,
on an experimental basis, in 14 trial courts.  C-SPAN, which decades ago began live television coverage of
Congress after overcoming lawmakers’ opposition, is among those
pressing justices for live video.  The Supreme Court is more likely to allow live audio than
live television coverage, said Davis, the Brigham Young
professor. Still, he predicted the justices wouldn’t allow
either option, saying they prefer to work out of the spotlight.  Mocking and Ridicule  “In personal terms, it means their faces and their voices
will be out here much more than they are now,” Davis said.
“They’re afraid the anonymity they have will be lost. They’re
afraid those clips will appear on the  Daily Show  with  Jon Stewart  or the Colbert Report or maybe show up on the Letterman
show and they’ll be mocked, ridiculed or derided.”  Grassley is pushing legislation requiring the court to
allow cameras unless a majority of justices conclude that the
coverage would violate a party’s rights to due process. Similar
measures haven’t advanced in Congress in previous years.  A law requiring the Supreme Court to televise its
proceedings “is likely to raise a significant constitutional
issue,” said Judge Anthony Scirica of the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Third Circuit at a Senate hearing on the bill in
December.  2000 Election  The Supreme Court began audio recording oral arguments in
1955, and made a practice of not releasing tapes until the
beginning of the subsequent nine-month term. Justices made
exceptions.  In 2000, when the court heard arguments in the presidential
election dispute over vote counting in  Florida , justices
released an audio recording as soon as the session ended. The
court also released same-day audio in more than 20 other high-
profile cases in subsequent years.  In 2010, the court began posting audio on its website at
the end of weeks when it hears arguments. Since then, the
justices haven’t done any same-day audio releases to avoid being
in the “awkward position of deciding which cases are of high
public interest,” said Sonja West, a law professor at the
 University of Georgia  in  Athens  who clerked for retired Justice
John Paul Stevens.  States’ Challenge  Justices will hear arguments in the health-care case --
which pits the Obama administration against 26 states -- from
March 26 to March 28, an unusual series. Justices generally hear
arguments for a single hour in each case.  The court will consider whether Congress overstepped its
authority by requiring Americans to acquire health insurance or
pay a penalty. Republican presidential candidates repeatedly
have criticized the measure and demanded its repeal. However the
court rules during the presidential contest underway, it will
become a central issue of the 2012 campaign.  Still, even with the ramifications of the health-care case,
the court probably won’t want to go beyond its precedent of
releasing same-day audio, said Jerry Goldman, a professor at the
Chicago-Kent College of Law and director of the Oyez Project, a
multimedia archive devoted to the Supreme Court.  “If it worked you might as well do it again -- I think
that’s how the thinking would go,” Goldman said  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  