-- Clint Eastwood Heralds Comeback in Detroit With Chrysler’s Super Bowl Ad
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-02-07T01:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/eastwood-calls-halftime-in-america-in-chrysler-super-bowl-ad.html
Clint Eastwood, whose “Gran Torino”
film focused on the heroics of a retired  Detroit  auto worker,
returned to that theme in a two-minute Super Bowl commercial for
Chrysler Group LLC last night, heralding the city’s recovery.  “It’s halftime in America, too,” Eastwood, 81, said in a
two-minute spot just before the  New England Patriots  and New
York Giants emerged from their locker rooms to start the second
half of last night’s game, the year’s most-watched U.S.
television event. “People are out of work and they’re hurting.
And they’re all wondering what they’re going to do to make a
comeback.”  Answers can come from the people of Detroit, Eastwood said.
Wracked by the 2007-2009 recession and collapse of U.S. auto
sales that sent the former Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corp.
into bankruptcy, the  region’s  jobless rate reached as high as
16.6 percent in July 2009. Now it’s 9.7 percent.  “The people of Detroit know a little something about
this,” said Eastwood, who was mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea,
 California , from 1986 to 1988. “They almost lost everything.
But we all pulled together, now Motor City is fighting again.”  The views Eastwood expressed were his own and the
undisclosed fee he received for making them is being donated to
charity, Chrysler Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said
today.  The graveled voice that uttered some of Hollywood’s most
memorable lines, including “Make my day,” in more than five
decades as an actor, director and producer paid tribute to the
U.S. industry’s comeback.  Michigan Rebound  General Motors Co. (GM)  has regained its spot as the world’s
largest automaker, car companies are hiring and Michigan had the
second-best performance on the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States in the third quarter. Only oil-producing North Dakota had
a bigger gain. The U.S. government has exited a stake it
acquired in Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler during the
bankruptcy process, and  Italy ’s  Fiat SpA (F)  today shares ownership
with a United Auto Workers health-care trust.  “He felt really deeply everything he said,” Marchionne,
who is also Fiat’s CEO, said today an interview on WJR-AM, a
Detroit radio station. “I’ve spoken with him. There was not a
single doubt in my mind that when he spoke on the commercial he
was expressing his views.”  Bailout Opposition  In November, Eastwood told the Los Angeles Times’s 24
Frames  blog  that he opposed rescuing the auto companies. “We
shouldn’t be bailing out the banks and car companies,” he said.
“If a CEO can’t figure out how to make his company profitable,
then he shouldn’t be the CEO.”  Eastwood said in an  interview  with  Fox News  today that he
is not affiliated with Obama.  “It was meant to be a message about job growth and the
spirit of America,” he is quoted as saying. “I think all
politicians will agree with it.”  The spot may have special resonance in an election year
where the economy and job growth are key themes of Republican
criticisms of President Barack Obama.  “If it wasn’t for the bailout packages, Chrysler and GM
would probably not be around,”  Jesse Toprak , a  Santa Monica ,
California-based analyst at TrueCar.com, said in an interview.
“Now they’re adding capacity to plants, adding more production,
and the best-case scenario has come to fruition. This was a
commercial to remind people what has happened.”  Politically Neutral  Marchionne said the ad “has zero political content.”  “It was not intended to be any type of a political
overture on our part,” Marchionne said. “Nobody inside
Chrysler was attempting to influence decisions. The message is
sufficiently universal and neutral that it should be appealing
to everybody in this country and I sincerely hope that it
doesn’t get utilized as political fodder in a debate.”  While the president’s lieutenants praised the ad on
Twitter,  Jay Carney , a spokesman for the president, said today
that neither Obama nor his administration had any involvement in
the spot’s creation.  “Saving the America Auto Industry: Something Eminem and
 Clint Eastwood  can agree on,”  Dan Pfeiffer , the White House
communications director, said in a post on Twitter, referring to
Chrysler’s ad with the rap-music star in last year’s Super Bowl.
“Powerful spot,” David Axelrod, Obama’s chief political
strategist, said on Twitter.  Rove ‘Offended’  Karl Rove , a Republican political strategist, said he was
“offended” by Chrysler’s commercial.  “It’s a sign of what happens when you have Chicago-style
politics,” Rove said today on Fox News Channel, for which he
has served as a political analyst. “The president of the United
States and his political minions are, in essence, using our tax
dollars to buy corporate advertising and the best wishes of the
management which is benefited by getting a bunch of money that
they’ll never pay back.”  Dianna Gutierrez, a Chrysler spokeswoman, declined a
request to respond to Rove’s comments.  By exercising options at a cost of $1.97 billion and
meeting certain performance milestones, Fiat boosted its
ownership stake in Chrysler to 58.5 percent in January. The U.S.
government has said it recovered $11.1 billion of $12.4 billion
given to Chrysler under the bailout.  Chrysler Loans  Chrysler continues to seek low-interest loans from the U.S.
Energy Department to develop and produce fuel-efficient cars.
The company sought $3.5 billion in such loans last year, and
that amount has been reduced, Marchionne said.  “I’m not ready to give up,” Marchionne told reporters
Feb. 4 at the National Automobile Dealers Association convention
in Las Vegas. “The department has not indicated an
unwillingness to lend.”  Ener1 Inc., the maker of batteries for electric cars whose
subsidiary received a $118 million Energy Department grant to
make electric-car batteries, last month filed for  bankruptcy
protection  after defaulting on bond debt amid Asian competition.
Ener1’s bankruptcy follows the failure of at least two U.S.
government-backed renewable energy companies, solar panel maker
Solyndra LLC and energy storage company Beacon Power Corp.  Chrysler’s  Super Bowl  ad ran for 2 minutes of the most
expensive television advertising time of the year, during the
National Football League championship game that the Giants won
21-17. The average cost of a 30-second spot was $3.5 million.  Top Score  Chrysler’s commercial edged out Honda Motor Co.’s spot that
used actor Matthew Broderick to promote the CR-V crossover as
the top-scoring automotive ad as measured by Ace Metrix, a
 Mountain View , California-based company that rates video
advertising.  “It really struck a chord,” Peter Daboll, chief executive
officer of Mountain View, California-based Ace Metrix, said in a
phone interview. Chrysler’s ad scored 633 out of 950 on Ace
Metrix’s scale, which is based on likeability, brand
identification, preference, relevance and persuasion, he said.  Chrysler convinced Eastwood, who filmed the 2008 release
“Gran Torino” in Detroit, to make a rare advertising
appearance because he believed in the message, Marchionne said,
adding that Eastwood never uttered the word “Chrysler” in the
spot.  “Clint was sufficiently, was so generous in his approach
to this that any money that we’re paying him is going to go to
charity,” Marchionne said. “This was not done for financial
reasons.”  Chrysler Shots  The ad’s only references to Chrysler came from a few images
of cars and trucks, shots of SUVs being built at a Detroit
factory and the company’s brand logos in the closing shot. The
automaker ran a similar ad during last year’s Super Bowl, using
music and an appearance from hometown rapper Eminem that focused
more squarely on the city of Detroit itself and the Chrysler 200
sedan.  This year’s TV spot is being augmented by a 4-page ad that
wrapped around the outside of  Gannett Co. ’s  USA Today  that
summarizes the spot, said Gutierrez, the Chrysler spokeswoman.  “It’s Monday morning,” reads the newspaper ad, which
contains still images from the TV spot. “Today, Americans will
get up and go to work. And so we’ll go to work. The people of
this nation will think about what they can do today to make
themselves better. And that will be our aim as well.”  The ad ran only in USA Today, Gutierrez said.  ‘Emotional Theme’  “They were trying to tap into an emotional theme” of
surviving hardship,  Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of auto
researcher Edmunds.com in Santa Monica, California, said in an
interview after the game. “This one sounded like an Obama re-
election campaign.”  The closest Eastwood came to addressing the political
environment was in describing “the fog of division, discord and
blame.” America will have to find its way through the tough
times, he said.  “Detroit’s showing us it can be done,” he said. “This
country can’t be knocked out with one punch. We get right back
up again and when we do, the world is going to hear the roar of
our engines.”  “Yeah, it’s halftime, America,” Eastwood said. “And our
second half is about to begin.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  