-- Medco, Express Scripts Decline on Report FTC May Block Deal: Chicago Mover
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-07T00:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/medco-tumbles-on-report-ftc-may-block-express-scripts-deal-chicago-mover.html
Medco Health Solutions Inc.  fell the
most in almost six months after Reuters reported that “key
people” at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission are seeking to
stop the company’s proposed $29.1 billion acquisition by rival
pharmacy benefits company  Express Scripts Inc.   Medco, of  Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , and St. Louis-based
Express Scripts said they still expect to complete the
transaction in the first half of this year.  Medco declined 8.1 percent to $58.47 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day drop since Aug. 8. Express Scripts
lost 4.6 percent to $49.67 in the biggest decline since Oct. 25.  Reuters  reported  that a “source closely watching the
deal” said “key people at the FTC” believe it should be
stopped. The unidentified person said an agency decision on
whether to challenge the transaction is expected by late
February or early March, according to the report.  “We remain confident that the merger will close in the
first half of this year,”  Brian Henry , an  Express Scripts 
spokesman, said today in an interview after the publication of
the Reuters story. The company continues to cooperate with the
FTC as it reviews the deal, he said.  Medco also expects to complete the deal in the first half
of this year, said Jennifer Luddy, a company spokeswoman.  “Medco does not comment on market rumor and speculation,”
Luddy said in an e-mail. “The merger is designed to improve
patient health, enhance pharmacy safety, lower costs and address
waste and abuse to the benefit of our clients and patients.”  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the agency’s review.  Biggest PBM  Express Scripts agreed in July to buy Medco to create the
biggest pharmacy benefits manager in the U.S. Pharmacy benefits
managers act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies and
health-plan sponsors to negotiate prices and manage the use of
drugs by patients.  The Medco takeover, if approved, would increase Express
Scripts’ customer base by 50 percent to 135 million people, said
 Arthur Henderson , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee . CVS Caremark Corp. of Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , the
next biggest pharmacy benefits manager, serves 85 million
people.  Express Scripts today raised $3.5 billion in a second bond
sale to help fund the acquisition. The company issued $1 billion
of three-year notes, $1.5 billion of five-year debt and $1
billion of securities due in 10 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Express Scripts will use the proceeds to
help pay back $14 billion of bridge loans it took on for the
purchase, the company said today in a statement.  ‘Pretty Confident’  “If this deal were on life support,” Express Scripts
probably wouldn’t have sold the additional bonds today,
Henderson said in an interview. “I think we’re very close to
the end of this process. I remain pretty confident that this
transaction gets done.”  Express Scripts and Medco have told regulators the merged
company would help reduce U.S. medical costs, a goal of the 2010
health-care law, in part by extracting lower prices from
drugmakers and tracking if patients take their medicines.  The deal has drawn opposition from drug-store chains and
independent pharmacists who have said Express Scripts and its
competitors have done little to stop drug price increases.  The Food Marketing Institute, representing 26,000 food
stores and 14,000 pharmacies, urged the FTC to challenge the
merger. The combined company would “harm supermarket pharmacies
by significantly reducing reimbursement rates,” the group said
in a Feb. 2 letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  