-- Hedge Funds Underestimating EU’s Will to Force Greek Losses
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-06T18:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/hedge-funds-underestimating-europe-s-will-to-force-greek-losses-on-them.html
Hedge funds  seeking to wring profits
from a Greek debt restructuring are underestimating the will of
policy makers to impose losses on them, according to investors
who say trying to beat the politicians is too risky.  “It’s hard for us to come up with an investment thesis
that makes it interesting,” said Robert Rauch, a partner at
Gramercy Advisors LLC, a $2.8 billion hedge fund in Greenwich,
 Connecticut  that’s avoided investments in Greek debt. “It’s not
clear to us that out of this process you can make any money.”  Greece’s talks with private creditors, led by the  Institute
of International Finance , have dragged on for more than two
months as the nation’s European partners pressure creditors to
accept lower  interest rates  on new debt to ensure a sustainable
debt load for the Mediterranean nation. The agreement must be
voluntary so as to avoid triggering credit-default swaps.  Bruce Richards , who runs Marathon Asset Management LP, said
two weeks ago that a swap would be struck that gives his firm
and other investors new bonds paying an annual interest rate of
as much as 5 percent. His view proved optimistic after European
officials pushed for steeper losses of 70 percent or more,
leading to average coupons of about 3.6 percent.  European banks own most of the 200 billion euros ($263
billion) of Greek debt held by non-government investors. Hedge
funds, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and other “non-
regulated investors,” own a further 60 billion euros, according
to estimates by Pavan Wadhwa, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of
global interest-rate strategy. The International Monetary Fund
wants to get owners of about 88 percent of  Greece ’s bonds to
take part in the swap to reduce the country’s debt-to-gross
domestic product ratio to 120 percent by 2020, Wadhwa said.  Och-Ziff, Marathon  Because hedge funds and other holders could collectively
keep the participation rate below that level, Greece has said it
may approve legislation that imposes losses on investors who
don’t support the voluntary swap by adding a retroactive
collective action clause into its bond documentation. Such a
provision would give a majority of bondholders the ability to
force holdouts to accept the same terms as everyone else.  Hedge funds that hold Greek debt include  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC , York Capital LP, Saba Capital Management
LP, Greylock Capital Management and Vega Asset Management LLC.
Vega resigned from the committee of creditors negotiating the
Swap in December because the Madrid-based hedge fund refused to
accept a net present value loss exceeding 50 percent, according
to e-mail sent to other panel members, which obtained by
Bloomberg News. Marathon, with $10 billion under management, is
still on the credit committee of the Washington-based IIF.  Och-Ziff, Greylock  Och-Ziff and York Capital, hedge funds that manage $42
billion in total, have said their investments in Greek debt
aren’t significant and that they’ve had no involvement in
restructuring talks. Greylock is on the IIF steering committee
that negotiated the bond swap with officials from Greece, Europe
and the  International Monetary Fund .  “This is not the type of deal that the official sector
likes to designate as ‘vulture funds making big windfalls’,”
Greylock President Hans Humes said in an interview. “Hedge fund
holdings aren’t significant and hedge funds that bought are
clearly not going to endanger this deal.”  It will be difficult for holdouts to assemble enough votes
to block any collective action clause, because European banks
have an incentive to support the provision, fund managers said.  A lawsuit against a collective-action clause legislated by
the Greek government may also be difficult to win, because it
would probably have to be filed in Greece, said a hedge-fund
executive whose firm holds the country’s debt and has examined
the legal options. The executive declined to be identified
because the firm’s holdings are private.  Legal Fight  “It’s unlikely that there will be any group that can
represent a blocking vote if they impose a retroactive”
collective action clause, said Gramercy’s Rauch. “If you pursue
a legal battle, it’s really a fight against the entire legal
body of Europe.”  Mark Cymrot, an attorney with Baker & Hostetler LLP in
 Washington  who defended  Peru  in the 1990s against lawsuits
brought by banks seeking repayment on sovereign debt, said hedge
funds considering suing face a “very hard time.”  “You have to have a long time horizon,” he said. “One of
the biggest problems is even if you get a judgment in your
favor, there’s still no guarantee you can actually collect.”  A unit of Paul Singer’s Elliot Management Corp. has been in
litigation with  Argentina  since declining to accept the
country’s defaulted debt restructuring in 2005. Meanwhile,
creditors who agreed to Argentina’s offer of 30 cents on the
dollar have received returns of about 90 percent, according to
estimates by  Morgan Stanley . Elliot won a lawsuit against the
government of Peru in 2000, earning a 400 percent profit on the
debt of two Peruvian banks it purchased four years earlier.  March 20 Payment  Greece has a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment due March 20.
Hedge fund managers including Trung-Tin Nguyen of Zurich-based
TTN AG have been buying debt maturing on that date, betting
holders won’t have had to actually swap their bonds by then. As
a result, Greece may be forced to redeem the bonds at face value
with the 130 billion euros of rescue funds it will have secured
from  Europe  by that time.  Investors were buying these bonds last year, pushing the
price up to 49 cents on the euro on Dec. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt now trades at about 39 cents.  Credit-Default Swaps  Risks include the possibility that March bonds will be
rolled into the swap or that Greece won’t secure its latest
rescue funds as tussles over the indebted nation’s austerity
measures continue. Greece has struggled to meet targets set by
EU officials for cutting its budget to secure the aid.  One way hedge funds may prevent losses on Greece’s debt
exchange is if they insured their holdings with credit-default
swaps. Activating a collective action clause would undermine the
voluntary nature of the exchange, triggering a so-called  credit
event  that allows hedge funds to demand payment on CDS
positions. The losers of that scenario may be European banks.  “If you’re a European bank that holds a lot of Greek bonds
and the financial side of your business wrote a lot of CDS then
you get a double whammy,” said Gramercy’s Rauch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  