-- Telefonica, Oi Must Share Access at Fair Price, Brazil Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2012-02-06T21:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/telefonica-oi-must-share-network-at-fair-price-brazil-says.html
Brazilian phone carriers  Tele Norte
Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP3) , Telefonica Brasil SA and  America Movil
SAB (AMXL)  will be forced to share access to their networks with
competitors without charging an “abusive” prices,
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said.  Companies that have fiber-optic networks must open up their
ducts and passages to allow competitors to lay their own cables,
Bernardo said. Mobile-phone companies that own towers will have
to let other companies put antennas on the structures, he said.  “Companies are going to be required to share networks;
this isn’t anything-goes,” Bernardo said in a Jan. 31 interview
in his Brasilia office. “The company will be able to charge,
but it can’t block access.”  The National Telecommunications Agency, known as  Anatel ,
will vote before the end of June on rules to govern network-
sharing, Bernardo said. Those rules will be part of a  program 
that the agency is analyzing to improve competitiveness. Once
approved, the rules would go into effect in 90 days, Bernardo
estimated.  Tele Norte Leste, which operates under the Oi brand, owns
 Brazil ’s largest telecommunications network. Telefonica Brasil,
a unit of Madrid-based Telefonica SA, has the largest network in
Sao Paulo state, the economic center of the country.  America
Movil  controls phone carrier Embratel Participacoes SA and
mobile-phone company Claro SA.  The telecommunication sector index, known as Itel, closed
0.6 percent lower, while benchmark Bovespa stock index was
little changed at 65,223.72. Tele Norte Leste Participaçoes fell
0.6 percent to 16.97 reais and  Telefonica Brasil (TEF)  rose 0.6
percent to 47.79 reais.  “We can’t attribute this fall only to the access
sharing,” said Leonardo Nitta, Banco do Brasil’s analyst, in an
e-mailed response to Bloomberg. “The movement was expected by
the market, of course that arranging it that way will speed the
evolution of access sharing, which should increase competition
more rapidly.”  Market Power  Oi, Telefonica and Embratel are the three companies
identified as holding significant market power, according to
preliminary studies, and must share their networks, Anatel said
in a Feb. 3 e-mailed response to questions.  The proposals for network access would apply to companies
when they have been deemed to have substantial market power in a
geographic area, said Jose Otero, an analyst at Signals Telecom
Consulting in Montevideo, Uruguay.  Requiring companies to share rights of way and towers will
be “extremely beneficial,” Otero said in an e-mail.  Network-sharing will encourage more services from “small,
regional” companies that can expand to other parts of the
country, Bernardo said.  The prices charged for the use of a network by another
company will be market-based and can’t be abusive, the minister
said. The phone companies themselves will create a self-
regulating body to handle disputes between competitors.  “There will be a kind of reconciliation body to ensure no
one is sticking a finger in another person’s eye,” Bernardo
said. “If the cost is 100 reais, you can’t charge 1,000
reais.”  Supervised Market  The government will monitor the program and, if necessary,
Anatel and the Administrative Council for Economic Defense, or
Cade, can intervene and even ban a company.  “It’s going to be a free market with supervision,”
Bernardo said. “You can’t refrain from selling to another
company, and if you practice abusive pricing, you can be
denounced.”  The sharing rules apply both to internal networks and to
the cables that companies use to connect to homes and
businesses, known in the phone industry as the “last mile.” To
encourage investment, the rules won’t immediately apply to new
last-mile installations as companies boost speeds to customers
by extending fiber-optic lines to residences and offices, Anatel
said in its e-mail.  In another bid to increase infrastructure spending, the
government will propose a temporary measure to Congress by March
to exempt equipment and network construction from some taxes.
The Communications Ministry and the Treasury are recalculating
the size of the exemption, which last year had been estimated at
6 billion reais ($3.4 billion) through 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  