-- EU May Consider Relaxing Rule on Banks for Sovereign Buffer
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-02-06T13:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/eu-may-consider-relaxing-demands-on-banks-for-sovereign-buffer.html
European bank  supervisors may discuss
easing requirements for lenders to hold capital against
sovereign debt this week as part of more than 30 meetings this
month to track banks’ progress in complying with updated
requirements, two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  Regulators will meet this week at the  European Banking
Authority  in  London  to review capital rules issued in December.
National supervisors will probably discuss the so-called
sovereign buffer, according to one of the people, a senior EU
official who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  The EBA told banks to raise 114.7 billion euros ($150
billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of measures
introduced to respond to the sharp fall in the value of
securities issued by euro-area governments. The EBA required
banks to keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent and hold
additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, against the debt
of weaker euro-area countries, based upon the market price of
the bonds.  “Calculating the capital needs on the basis of very
volatile sovereign yields wasn’t the right thing,” Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics
research group, said in a phone interview. “This is the result
of political negotiating and it’s not right to blame the EBA.”  Buffering  A decision to alter the sovereign buffer would be made in
conjunction with the  European Systemic Risk Board , a group of
European central bankers responsible for monitoring market risk,
one of the people said.  The “need to maintain this buffer, and its size, will be
reviewed if and when the policy measures to fight the sovereign-
debt crisis have an effect on the price of  government bonds ,”
EBA Chairman Andrea Enria said in a speech in  Rome  last month.  Sony Kapoor, managing director at Re-Define, a firm that
advises governments on economic policy said “once a sovereign
buffer like this has been included, it’s very hard to put the
genie back in the bottle.”  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt has fallen since December, according to traders of credit-
default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of swaps on 15
governments declined three basis points to 323 basis points
today.  ‘Restoring Confidence’  “This exercise is essential” to help restore confidence
in the European banking sector, said  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services commissioner. “At the same
time, the exercise is being conducted in a way to ensure
continued access to finance for the EU real economy.”  Banks submitted their plans to raise capital in January and
the EBA said in December that lenders aren’t allowed to reduce
lending to hit the  capital ratios .  Groups of national regulators that oversee Europe’s largest
cross-border banks are scheduled to hold 31 meetings this month
to decide whether the banks’ proposals comply with EBA
guidelines, one of the people said.  “The overwhelming majority of measures outlined in the
plans appear to be, in aggregate, in line with the spirit and
the letter of the EBA’s recommendation,” the agency said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The Financial Times had reported that the EBA would
challenge as many as half of the plans.  Shares in  Commerzbank AG ,  Germany ’s second-largest lender,
rose 15 percent on Jan. 19 after the bank said it’s more than
halfway to reaching a 5.3 billion-euro capital goal without
resorting to  government aid .  Spanish lenders must raise 26.2 billion euros in core Tier
1 capital, the  EBA  said in December, more than any other
European country.  Banco Santander SA ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, was
required to plug a 15.3 billion-euro shortfall. Santander said
Jan. 9 it met EBA’s requirements by selling stakes in South
American lenders, issuing new stock in exchange for preferred
equity and paying dividends in shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  