-- EU Transactions Tax Will Hit Hardest in London, ITEM Club Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/eu-transactions-tax-will-hit-hardest-in-london-item-club-says.html
A proposed European tax on financial
transactions may cost British-based companies as much as 22
billion euros ($29 billion) a year and cause 4,500 job losses
whether the U.K. agrees to it or not, according to  Ernst & Young
LLP’s ITEM Club .  The British financial sector would contribute about 64
percent of total revenues from the proposed tax if it was
applied across the euro area to all euro-denominated trades
irrespective of where they take place, the research group said
in a report today. If Britain continues its opposition to the
tax, the U.K. Exchequer would also be denied any of the
proceeds, the ITEM Club report said.  “As many euro-denominated trades take place in  London ,
this could effectively impose an FTT on the U.K. through the
back door,” the ITEM Club said in the report.  The  European Commission  last year proposed a European
Union-wide transaction tax, an idea supported by France and
 Germany . The U.K. has led opposition to the tax, calling it
“madness” and saying it would be ineffective unless applied
globally.  An EU-wide tax applied with British agreement would raise
53 billion euros a year, of which the U.K. would contribute 41
billion euros, the ITEM Club said. If it was applied across the
euro area only and Britain remained opposed, the tax would raise
35 billion euros, of which the U.K. would contribute 22 billion
euros.  ‘Spillover Effects’  The latter option would lead to about 2,100 job losses in
the U.K. financial-services industry. Taking account of
“spillover effects” on other industries, total job losses
could reach as many as 4,500 nationwide, the ITEM Club said.  The EU plan would tax stocks, bonds, money-market
instruments and derivatives at source, including at banks,  hedge
funds  and insurance companies. It would exclude government bond
auctions, while including secondary-market trading and
repurchase-agreement markets, according to EU documents. The
financial-transaction tax would be set at 0.1 percent for stocks
and bonds and 0.01 percent for derivatives.  About 70 percent of all the foreign-exchange trading done
in the U.K. involves euros and about 54 percent of the over-the-
counter interest-rate derivative transactions carried out in the
City are similarly denominated, the ITEM Club said.  German officials have been raising the idea of extending an
existing tax, the U.K.’s stamp duty, to shares across the EU
because of British opposition. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview with broadcaster N-TV last week
that he would discuss such a plan if there’s no agreement on a
transaction tax. Last month,  France  said it would introduce the
tax with or without the rest of the EU.  Britain’s Prime Minister  David Cameron  last month said that
to even consider the transactions tax “at a time when we are
struggling to get our economies growing is quite simply
madness.”  EU estimates “showed a financial-transactions
tax could reduce the GDP of the EU by 200 billion euros, cost
nearly 500,000 jobs and force as much as 90 percent of some
markets away from the EU,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  