-- Euro Rises to Eight-Week High on Greek Debt Speculation; Aussie Rallies
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-07T22:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/euro-holds-decline-before-greek-leaders-meet-on-measures-to-avoid-default.html
The euro rose to the highest in eight
weeks against the dollar as Greek officials and creditors worked
on the final draft of an agreement on budget and structural
measures needed to free up a second aid package.  The 17-nation currency strengthened as Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  prepared to meet with the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  to put
the final touches to the document. The  Dollar Index  fell to its
lowest since December as stocks and commodities erased earlier
losses. Australia’s dollar surged after the central bank
unexpectedly kept  interest rates  unchanged.  “Euro-dollar has driven up through $1.32 and is taking
other currencies with it because people feel this thing just may
be resolved,” said Martin Briggs, senior risk consultant for
AFEX Markets Plc in  London . “In the end, the euro politicians
will strong-arm the Greeks into the austerity measures.”  The euro rose 1 percent to $1.3261 at 5 p.m.  New York  time
after touching $1.3270, the highest level since Dec. 12. The yen
fell 0.3 percent to 76.77 per dollar after dropping to 76.97,
the weakest since Jan. 25. The shared currency gained 1.3
percent to 101.78 yen.  The euro gained 0.2 percent to 1.20904 versus the  Swiss
franc . It rose to 1.21019, breaching the 1.21 mark for the first
time since Jan. 25. Swiss central bank interim Chairman Thomas
Jordan said the currency remains “very strong” and policy
makers can’t allow it to appreciate further. The  Swiss National
Bank  imposed a 1.20 cap on the currency on Sept. 19.  Greek Meetings  A government spokeswoman said a meeting between Papademos
and the leaders of the three parties supporting his government
was postponed to tomorrow morning. Papademos was meeting with
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the International
Institute of Finance, and Deutsche Bank AG Chairman Joseph Ackermann on details of a debt writedown, said the spokeswoman.  The yen fell against all of its major counterparts as
implied volatility of three-month options for Group of Seven
currencies fell to almost a 10-month low, according to the
JPMorgan  G7 Volatility Index . A decrease makes investments in
currencies with higher benchmark lending rates more attractive
as the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase
profits.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six major U.S. trading
partners, sank as much as 0.8 percent to 78.49, the lowest since
Dec. 9.  ‘Austerity Measures’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent, after
falling as much as 0.6 percent. The S&P  GSCI Index  of 24 raw
materials advanced 0.6 percent after earlier losing 0.5 percent.  “If we get the approval that the market is looking for
from political parties, then that can translate into a more
positive risk environment,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “The whole focus on
austerity measures is that it’s the prerequisite for the second
bailout package.”  The euro has fallen 4 percent over the past three months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
risen 2 percent, and the dollar has strengthened 0.6 percent.  The so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate for the euro
versus the dollar was minus 2.28 percent today, from minus 1.5
percent on Jan. 19. A negative rate signals greater demand for
euro puts, the right to sell, relative to calls, the right to
buy the common currency.  ‘Firmer Footing’  Australia ’s dollar gained against the majority of its 16
major counterparts after the  central bank  maintained the
benchmark interest rate at 4.25 percent. All but three of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a cut to 4 percent.  The central bank “is basically saying the world is on
firmer footing than a couple months ago,” said  Greg Anderson , a
senior currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “For
domestic reasons, they should have never been cutting, but they
allowed concern about the international outlook to enter into
their equation last year.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.8 percent to $1.0809 after
rising to $1.0823, the strongest since Aug. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  