-- Euro Markets Rebound as Investors Back Draghi-Merkel Steps
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-06T10:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/euro-markets-rebounding-as-investors-affirm-draghi-merkel-financial-policy.html
Investors are buying what  Mario Draghi  and  Angela Merkel  are selling.  Bloomberg indexes of Europe’s banks and financial
conditions are the highest since August, and money-market
lending rates and bond yields from Italy to Spain are sliding.
Such signs of improvement reflect mounting bets that the euro
will last and the two-year debt crisis won’t, as emergency loans
from European Central Bank President Draghi take hold and
leaders including German Chancellor Merkel pivot from crafting
tougher fiscal rules to considering bigger bailout funds.  “People ended last year thinking everything that could go
wrong would go wrong, and it hasn’t,” said Jim O’Neill,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London. “There is
still an inbuilt skepticism about the euro project, but there’s
a shift away from the dire mood.”  Whether respite extends to recovery isn’t guaranteed.
 Greece  is trying to fend off insolvency and questions about its
membership in the euro as it seeks another bailout, just as
bondholders question Portugal’s ability to dodge default with
10-year yields topping  17 percent  last month. A possible region-
wide recession could be deepened by a credit crunch or budget
cuts, while potential political land mines include Greek and
French elections.  The euro slid the most in a week against the dollar amid
political wrangling in Greece over austerity measures needed to
secure a second bailout. The currency fell as much as 1 percent
to $1.3030 and was at $1.3045 as of 10:54 a.m. in London.  Stiglitz Unconvinced  “I haven’t heard any convincing arguments that  Europe  will
solve its problems,” said Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz .  Investors are starting to signal otherwise, as “a virtuous
cycle is beginning to develop,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief
European economist at Societe Generale SA in London. Bets made
at Intrade.com implied a  39 percent probability  on Feb. 3 of a
country leaving the 17-nation currency bloc by the end of 2013,
down from 56.8 percent Jan. 19.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index,
which includes  Deutsche Bank AG  and  UniCredit SpA , has gained  18
percent  so far this year. The spread between three-month Euribor
and the overnight indexed swap rate -- a barometer of European
banks’ willingness to lend to one another -- narrowed to 76
basis points last week from about 100 basis points on Dec. 8.  Beating U.S.  Meanwhile, the Bloomberg European Financial Conditions
Index has risen to  minus 2.9  from about minus five in early
December. The Euro Stoxx 50 has climbed about 9 percent this
year, and Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  is up  14.7 percent , more
than double the Standard & Poor’s 500’s  6.9 percent  advance.  Government bonds  also are attracting buyers. Italy’s 10-
year yield fell last week to the lowest since October, ending at
 5.7 percent  compared with more than 7 percent at the start of
the year. Spain’s equivalent yield, at  4.988 percent , fell last
week to the lowest since November 2010.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows euro-region
government debt returned 4 percent in December, the most since
the euro started trading in 1999. The currency is up 3.9 percent
against the dollar since Jan. 16, when it closed at the lowest
since August 2010.  “Tensions have eased noticeably,” even though “the euro
crisis is far from over,” said Holger Schmieding, chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “Turning away from the
prior panic mode, markets have drawn a clear distinction between
 Italy , Spain and Ireland on one side and Greece and Portugal on
the other side.”  Giving Credit  Investors are handing credit to Draghi, who took the helm
of the ECB Nov. 1 and almost immediately returned its benchmark
interest rate to a  record low  of 1 percent, eased collateral
rules and loaned banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($642
billion) for three years at the benchmark rate.  Such initiatives buoyed the ECB’s  balance sheet  by 15
percent since late October. The loans also enabled banks to
bolster their own accounts, lend to customers or buy higher-
returning assets, helping to avert what Draghi said Jan. 27 was
a “major credit crunch.”  Banks will have a second chance later this month to borrow
cheap cash until 2015, with analysts saying they may snap up
even more than the original program’s 489 billion euros. The
stigma of using the facility is fading, and the list of assets
that banks can use as collateral will be broadened. The ECB’s
Governing Council meets Feb. 9 in Frankfurt.  ‘Huge Impact’  The three-year loans “had a huge impact across several
asset classes,” said Huw Van Steenis, a banking analyst in
London at Morgan Stanley. “We’ve gone from a period where the
risk of a collapse was material to a situation where the
systemic risk is coming down.”  All this has given governments time to step up efforts to
repel speculators. Leaders last week agreed to accelerate to
July -- a year ahead of schedule -- the introduction of a 500
billion-euro bailout fund. At the same time, Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, may be open to the idea of combining that plan
with the current temporary fund, which still has about 250
billion euros.  Euro-area members also are dispatching 150 billion euros to
the  International Monetary Fund , which is trying to boost its
coffers by $500 billion. The result could be a combined cash
pile of more than 1 trillion euros and likely more if planned
leverage boosts Europe’s totals even higher.  Geithner’s Call  “The only way Europe’s going to be successful in holding
this together, making monetary union work, is to build a
stronger firewall,” U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said Jan. 27.  Political will also may be paying off. Seeking to restore
fiscal credibility, governments last week inked a German-
inspired treaty that requires countries to legislate for
balanced-budget rules and speeds sanctions on nations with
bloated deficits.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti’s standing in opinion
polls rose last month, even after he pushed through 20 billion
euros in tax increases and spending cuts, along with a plan to
liberalize the economy.  Merkel used her Jan. 25 speech to the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos, Switzerland, to underline her commitment to the euro,
saying officials must “dare” to pursue even more European
integration to tackle “a very clear erosion of confidence”
internationally.  Signs of Resilience  Recent data indicate the region may be showing more
resilience than previously predicted. European services and
factory output expanded in January for the first time since
August, led by growth in Germany and France, London-based Markit
Economics said Feb. 3.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week they
now anticipate the euro-area economy will contract 0.4 percent
this year, compared with December’s prediction of 0.8 percent
shrinkage.  The “breathing space” Draghi’s ECB has provided is
“important for Europe certainly, but it has also been very
important for emerging economies, because he has contributed to
the stabilization of currencies and the revival of capital
inflows,” Subir Gokarn, deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of
India, said in a Feb. 2 interview. Still, “it’s not the
substitute for a structural solution, which is needed.”  The ECB’s bank loans have failed to deal with pockets of
insolvency, said  Stuart Thomson , a portfolio manager at Ignis
Asset Management in Glasgow. Greece, for example, is struggling
to cut its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020
from  144.9 percent  in December and is in a protracted recession.  ‘Solvency Crisis’  “Draghi has done the right thing in a very difficult
situation, but he hasn’t solved problems,” said Thomson, who
helps to manage about $121 billion. “Liquidity doesn’t work
when there is a solvency crisis.”  Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  predicts Greece will default
and probably be forced from the euro area.  “The Greek situation is essentially impossible,” he said
Feb. 2 at a conference in Moscow.  Greek officials spent the weekend in talks aimed at
concluding a debt swap with private-sector creditors and winning
a second international bailout as the country faces a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  It could default and still remain a member of the euro as
long as it can balance its budget, billionaire investor  George Soros  told reporters in Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 25.  Florida’s Default  While eight U.S. states and the territory of Florida
 defaulted  on their debt in the early 1840s, “there was never an
issue about the default being a catalyst for leaving,” because
the underlying economic strength and political rationale for the
union were still there, said Bart Mosley, chief investment
officer in New York at Alprion Capital Management.  Even as European leaders say a Greek restructuring is
unique,  Portugal  is striving to persuade investors it won’t
renege on its debt. Investors have been paying the most ever to
insure the debt against default amid speculation Portugal won’t
be able to auction bonds next year before funds from its 78
billion-euro bailout run out.  BNP Paribas SA estimated Jan. 27 that the Portuguese
economy will shrink 5 percent this year and face a 9 billion-
euro funding shortfall at the end of 2013 unless it can sell the
debt. GDP contracted 1.6 percent last year, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Italy also must refinance debt equivalent to half of its
annual GDP between now and 2014, even as its borrowing costs
ease, according to Julien Seetharamdoo, an investment strategist
at Coutts & Co in London. And Spain faces an uphill battle to
cut its  budget deficit  to a target of 4.4 percent of GDP this
year from 8 percent last year.  Keep Retrenching  Lenders also may keep retrenching, with Draghi himself
acknowledging it isn’t clear if the ECB’s cash injections are
finding their way into the economy. Central-bank data last week
suggested a net 31 percent of banks tightened lending standards
in the last three months of 2011 and a net 24 percent are likely
to do so in the current quarter, according to calculations by
Citigroup Inc. economist Guillaume Menuet.  Banks also face regulatory calls to raise an additional
114.7 billion euros of core capital by June.  “Reduced credit availability will dampen economic activity
throughout the first half and push the region into recession,”
Menuet said.  Governments also are cutting back. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
economists estimate budget cuts will subtract about 1.3
percentage points from growth this year, double the U.S. rate.
With unemployment as high as  22.9 percent  in Spain and  10.4
percent  in the euro area, the most since the currency began
trading, the risk is even weaker expansion and higher debts.  Joining Greece  Laurence Boone, chief European economist at BofA Merrill
Lynch, predicts France, Italy and Spain all will join Greece in
recession.  “The most important need is economic growth,” said  Barry Eichengreen , author of a 2006 history of the euro area and a
professor at the University of California, Berkeley. “Europe
doesn’t hold together politically without it.”  The austerity threat is prompting  Francois Hollande , the
front-runner in France’s presidential race, to say he will call
for the renegotiation of Europe’s budget treaty if he wins the
May election. Greece’s feuding political parties also will seek
parliamentary power at some point soon, while Ireland may hold a
referendum on the fiscal pact.  The risks mean officials will need to do more, said  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. He predicts the ECB
will cut its key rate to 0.5 percent and ramp up its bond
purchases, while Germany will bow to greater fiscal ties. The
ECB already is under pressure to take losses or tap profits on
its holdings of Greek bonds to help provide debt relief.  “The financial news has been OK but, all in all, the euro
zone is still facing considerable difficulties,” King said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  