-- European Stocks Retreat on Greece Debt Talks; Glencore Declines
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-06T17:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/european-index-futures-drop-as-greece-nears-deadline-on-funding-agreement.html
European  stocks dropped, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index trimming a six-month high, as Greece
struggled to reach a deal with its international creditors.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slipped 3.1 percent as the shares of
metal producers declined. Glencore International Plc slid 4.5
percent after a report that the commodities trader may offer 2.8
shares for each  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  share. Societe Generale SA,  France ’s
second-biggest lender, and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  decreased more
than 2.5 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx 600  declined 0.1 percent to 264.27 at
the close, paring an earlier drop of as much as 0.8 percent.
More than three stocks retreated for every two that advanced.
The gauge rallied 3.6 percent last week as a U.S. payrolls
report showed that the world’s biggest economy added 243,000
jobs in January, beating the median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “This week is crunch time for  Greece ,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen,
which manages $45 billion. “We can no longer completely exclude
extreme scenarios such as a disorderly default or -- a bit
further down the line -- an exit from the euro area. Investors
have become fairly resilient toward news from Greece, but we are
seeing small signs negative sentiment is taking over after the
positive mood dominating markets recently.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18
western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
slipped 0.2 percent. France’s CAC 40 Index declined 0.7 percent,
while  Germany ’s  DAX Index  fell less than 0.1 percent.  Greece Funding Agreement  Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  struck a tentative
deal with the leaders of the three parties supporting his
interim government to boost economic competitiveness and extend
spending cuts. The politicians agreed in a five-hour meeting
yesterday to make additional reductions this year equal to 1.5
percent of  gross domestic product .  The policy makers meet tomorrow to work on the detail of
plans for bank recapitalizations, ensuring the viability of
pension funds and measures to reduce wage and non-wage costs to
boost competitiveness.  The euro area’s debt crisis will cut China’s economic
expansion almost in half if it worsens, a scenario that would
warrant “significant” fiscal stimulus from the nation’s
government, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy,  China ’s growth would drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection for an expansion of
8.2 percent this year, the organization said in a report
released today by its China office in Beijing.  Mining Companies Drop  Copper declined on the  London  Metal Exchange after the IMF
released its growth prediction for the world’s largest consumer
of the metal. Vedanta,  India ’s biggest copper producer, slid 3.1
percent to 1,317 pence and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, fell 1.1 percent to 3,946 pence.  Glencore retreated 4.5 percent to 460.75 pence as the
Financial Times reported that the company may offer an 8 percent
premium over Xstrata’s closing share price on Feb. 1. The
newspaper cited people familiar with the merger discussions.
Xstrata declined 1.7 percent to 1,261.5 pence in London.  Societe Generale (GLE)  slid 2.9 percent to 23.55 euros, while
 Credit Agricole  fell 2.7 percent to 5.18 euros.  Julius Baer Group Ltd (BAER)  slipped 3.8 percent to 36.40 Swiss
francs. The wealth manager founded in 1890 said it will probably
have to pay a fine to resolve tax matters with the U.S. as  full-
year profit declined  27 percent. The Zurich-based bank paid
Germany 50 million euros ($65.7 million) to end an investigation
over undeclared client assets.  European Stock Valuations  The Stoxx 600 trades at 10.8 times estimated profits,
compared with the average  price-earnings  ratio of 11.9 over the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 65 companies in the gauge that have announced full-
year earnings this quarter, 34, or 52 percent, have reported
 profits per share  that fell short of analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group dropped 4.1 percent to 5.12 euros as
labor unions went on strike in France. The stoppage, involving
pilots, flight attendants and ground workers, will run through
Feb. 9. as unions protest against a bill to go before France’s
senate that would force every employee planning to strike to
give 48 hours’ notice. The measure would help the airline assess
how future strikes would affect passengers.  Vestas Shares Fall  Vestas Wind Systems A/S  fell 7.7 percent to 68.70 kroner,
their largest slide in a month, after ING Groep NV cut its price
estimate for the world’s largest maker of  wind turbines . The
shares rallied 14 percent on Feb. 3.  Vestas Chairman Bent Carlsen has no plans to step down or
change the management, newspaper Berlingske quoted him as saying
in an interview yesterday. The industry faces challenges and
investors shouldn’t confuse a bad market with bad leadership,
Carlsen said, according to the Copenhagen-based newspaper.  A third of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative
Party lawmakers have signed a letter urging him to cut subsidies
for onshore wind farms in favor of other renewable energy
sources, according to a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  