-- Europe Winter Kill Damage to Wheat May Be Average, FCStone Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T16:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/europe-winter-kill-damage-to-wheat-may-be-average-fcstone-says.html
Wheat damage from winter kill in
 Europe  will probably be average after snow cover protected
plants from freezing temperatures in most areas, FCStone
Commodity Services (Europe) Ltd. said.  Bulgaria , where temperatures fell below minus 30 degrees
Celsius (minus 22 degrees Fahrenheit) last week, had good snow
coverage, Jaime Nolan-Miralles, a risk analyst at FCStone in
Dublin, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Milling wheat for March delivery rose 3.9 percent in Paris
last week amid concern the wheat crop in Europe and the  Black
Sea region , which produce more than a third of the global crop,
was damaged by frost. Temperatures are forecast to warm this
week, according to FCStone.  “The overall outlook for the European soft-wheat crop
remains positive,” Nolan-Miralles wrote. “Although we may have
some winter kill at this juncture, there is little reason to
believe that from a European perspective it will be greater than
seasonal averages.”  Damage assessments will have to wait for spring, according
to the risk manager. Soft wheat can typically withstand
temperatures of minus 20 Celsius without “too much adverse
effects” on potential yield, he said.  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. had a “particularly mild”
autumn and “exceptionally warm” early winter, meaning wheat
growth was three weeks ahead of normal in some areas, resulting
in a crop that was slightly less winter hardy than might be
expected, according to Nolan-Miralles.  Temperatures in France and Germany fell below minus 20
Celsius in some areas last week, and are expected to warm up
later this week, Nolan-Miralles wrote. France had “good”
snowfall over the weekend, even as the northeast continues to
suffer from a lack of snow, while Germany also received
coverage, he said.  Snow cover is “patchy” in  Poland , while Hungary got good
snow cover in the past four days, according to FCStone.  Romania 
received good snowfall before the cold snap, though strong wind
left some areas with “lighter than desired depth” and
vulnerable to damage, Nolan-Miralles wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at +33-1-5365-5039 or
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at +44-20-7330-7304 or
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  