-- Ex-Jefferies Paragon Fund Manager Contorinis Ordered to Pay $8.3 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-06T17:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/ex-jefferies-paragon-fund-manager-contorinis-ordered-to-pay-8-3-million.html
Joseph Contorinis, an ex- Jefferies
Paragon Fund  money manager, must pay $8.3 million in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission insider-trading suit, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in  New York  granted
the SEC summary judgment, or a ruling before trial, in a Feb. 3
order, citing the facts proved at an earlier criminal trial.  Contorinis was accused of illegally trading on inside tips
about bids for  Albertsons Inc.  supplied by Nicos Stephanou, an
investment banker who was the government’s chief witness in the
trial. Contorinis was convicted of  securities fraud  and
conspiracy in a scheme that federal authorities said netted more
than $7 million in illegal profits. He is serving a six-year
prison term.  Sullivan, who also presided at the criminal trial, rejected
the defense argument that Contorinis shouldn’t have to disgorge
funds that he “never received or enjoyed” and that he
personally profited by “a small percentage” of the illegal
gains.  “Defendant is fully capable for his crimes, from which he
profited substantially,” Sullivan wrote in his order.  “The jury’s verdict reflects defendant’s trades in ABS
occurred over a period of two months, revealing a high degree of
intent and a willingness to repeatedly exploit misappropriated
information,” Sullivan wrote, referring to Albertsons by its
ticker symbol.  Stephanou, a longtime friend of the defendant employed as
an investment banker at UBS AG, testified he passed him
nonpublic information regarding efforts by Cerberus Capital
Management LP, to acquire Albertsons, which was then the second-
biggest U.S. grocer.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stephanou, 1:09-cv-011042, and the criminal case is U.S. v.
Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  