-- Texas Reaches Accord on Proposed Interim Congressional Redistricting Maps
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T21:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/texas-reaches-accord-with-latino-redistricting-task-force-on-interim-maps.html
Texas  reached an agreement with the
Texas Latino Redistricting Task Force over interim maps for the
districts of state and federal lawmakers, state Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  said.  “Even though these proposed interim maps aren’t fully
supported by all interest groups, modifications have been
incorporated based on requests made by all parties,” Abbott
said today in a statement. “Today’s maps should allow the court
to finalize the interim redistricting maps in time to have
elections in April.”  Three federal judges in San Antonio are creating temporary
maps to replace ones drawn by the Republican-controlled Texas
Legislature that have been challenged as racially gerrymandered.  The Mexican American Legislative Caucus, or MALC, a
plaintiff in the case, views the maps as “a beginning point, not
an end,” the group’s chairman, Trey Martinez Fischer, said in a
statement. MALC won’t compromise for the sake of expediency or
“be forced into a resolution that fails to recognize the
fundamental fact that Texas’ growth is minority growth,” he
said.  The Texas Legislative Black Caucus and the NAACP also
oppose the interim plan, Abbott said. Gary Bledsoe, a lawyer for
the black caucus, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message seeking comment on the state’s proposal.  Delayed Primary  The six-month redistricting fight has already delayed the
state’s party primary elections once, knocking Texas out of the
influential March 6 Super Tuesday presidential primaries. More
Americans vote in primaries or caucuses on that day than on any
other.  The  U.S. Supreme Court  ruled in January that interim voter
maps created by the  San Antonio  judges last year weren’t
deferential enough to maps drawn by the lawmakers. The high
court told the panel to try again, using the lawmakers’
boundaries as the starting point.  If the San Antonio panel can produce new interim maps by
mid-February, primaries can be held by April 17 or April 24,
according to state political party leaders who testified before
the court last month. If that deadline passes, the officials
said, Texas’s primaries would probably be pushed to May 29,
because of conflicts with municipal-election schedules.  The Legislature carved out four new U.S. Congressional
districts to accommodate the 4.3 million residents the 2010  U.S.
Census  found the state added since 2000. Hispanics, who more
often vote for Democrats than Republicans, accounted for about
65 percent of the growth. Republican Governor  Rick Perry 
approved the maps.  Distorted Districts  Latinos and lawmakers whose jobs were threatened by the
Legislature’s new maps sued over claims Republicans distorted
districts to prevent the election of minorities, in violation of
the Voting Rights Act. Republicans claimed they didn’t
discriminate and are legally permitted to draw lines that favor
the elected political majority.  The San Antonio judges last month urged a different federal
three-judge panel in Washington to rule quickly on a lawsuit
Texas brought in July seeking so-called pre-clearance for its
new maps under the voting act. Approval of such changes,
required for states with a history of voting-rights violations,
can be obtained directly from the  Justice Department  or through
litigation.  U.S. Objections  The U.S. objects to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts.  After the  Washington  panel said it doesn’t anticipate a
decision on pre-clearance until next month, Garcia said in a
Feb. 2 order that his court won’t wait for that ruling and will
announce interim maps first.  Garcia said at a hearing last month that the San Antonio
panel must balance two key considerations in addition to
creating voter boundaries that don’t discriminate.  The first is holding primaries early enough so that Texans’
votes count in the presidential selection process and so
political parties can select delegates for their state
conventions based on those primary results.  Both Republicans and Democrats are set to hold their Texas
political conventions in early June, on dates and in locations
committed to years ago. Texas Republican Party Chairman Steve
Munisteri told the court last month the state political parties
may go bankrupt if they’re forced to reschedule thousands of
hotel rooms and meeting places.  The second consideration is whether to split Texas’s
primaries so that the presidential primary is held in April and
primaries for all other offices are held later, after new
congressional and state legislative district boundaries have
been made final, Garcia said.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11-713 (Congressional map), U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 