-- Express Scripts-Medco Deal Criticized by Food Store Trade Group
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/express-scripts-medco-deal-criticized-by-food-store-trade-group.html
A U.S. antitrust regulator was urged
by the Food Marketing Institute, representing 26,000 food stores
and 14,000 pharmacies, to attempt to block  Express Scripts
Inc. ’s bid to buy  Medco Health Solutions Inc.   Officials at trade group said in a Feb. 2 letter to Federal
Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz that the deal, which
would create the biggest U.S. firm for managing employees’
prescription-drug benefits, would “harm supermarket pharmacies
by significantly reducing reimbursement rates.”  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , chairman of the Senate’s antitrust
subcommittee, also wrote Leibowitz on Feb. 2, saying the
acquisition would “reduce choices” for large employers seeking
so-called pharmacy benefit managers.  It’s likely the FTC is examining how a combined Express-
Medco would have dominant market shares in mail-order pharmacies
and drug stores that sell specialty medicines such as those for
HIV patients, said Stuart Gerson, of Epstein Becker Green, who
had no direct knowledge of the investigation. The agency also
probably is looking at the impact on Fortune 100 employers, he
said.  “The heat” of the FTC’s scrutiny “is going to continue”
on the deal, Gerson said. Less important from the perspective of
antitrust are pharmacy complaints about reimbursement rates, he
said.  Stock Drop  Medco, based in  Franklin Lakes ,  New Jersey , fell the most
in almost six months after Reuters reported that “key people”
at the FTC are seeking to stop the company’s proposed $29.1
billion acquisition by  Express Scripts .  Medco declined 8.1 percent to $58.47 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day drop since Aug. 8. Express Scripts
lost 4.6 percent to $49.67 in the biggest decline since Oct. 25.  In its letter, Cathy Polley, a vice president at the
Arlington, Virginia-based group, and Erik Lieberman, the
regulatory counsel, said officials from seven supermarket chains
have talked to the FTC’s staff.  A reduction in reimbursement rates will lead to increased
drug prices and less substitution of cheaper generic drugs for
brand-name medicines, reducing consumer choice, they said.  Kohl said in his letter urged the FTC to “impose all
necessary conditions on this deal to protect competition and
consumers, should you decide to allow it to proceed.”  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the status of the Express Scripts-Medco investigation, which
began after the companies announced the deal in July.  “We remain confident that the merger will close in the
first half of this year,”  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts
spokesman, said yesterday in an interview after the publication
of the Reuters story. The company is cooperating with the FTC as
it reviews the deal, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  