-- MF Brokerage Trustee Traced $105 Billion in Cash Movements in Final Week
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mf-brokerage-s-trustee-traces-105-billion-in-cash-movement-in-final-week.html
A trustee’s investigation found that
the $1.2 billion in missing  MF Global Inc.  customer funds began
to flow out of the brokerage on Oct. 26, five days before its
collapse, as computers and employees fell behind margin calls
and demands for collateral.  James Giddens, the trustee overseeing the brokerage’s
liquidation, said in a statement yesterday that MF Global
regularly used money from the segregated accounts of commodities
customers to finance daily activities. A rush to meet collateral
requirements led to billions of dollars in securities sales,
credit draws and inter-company loans to foreign affiliates, he
said.  “For three months our investigative team has worked to
understand what happened during the final days of MF Global when
cash and related securities movements were not always accurately
and promptly recorded due to the chaotic situation,” Giddens
said. He cited complex transactions such as off-balance-sheet
repurchases involving sovereign debt and derivatives.  During the firm’s final days, MF Global took out larger
amounts as customers fled, he said. A chart filed with his
report shows how an excess of customer money quickly turned to a
shortfall.  The company needed about $6.75 billion in funds segregated
for its customer accounts Oct. 24 and 25, and had more than $7
billion.  Margin Call  On Oct. 26 the company got a $108.8 million margin call,
and a steep decline began, with segregated funds falling to $4.5
billion by Oct. 28, a billion less than was required.  On Oct. 31, the brokerage’s final day, it had a $310
million margin call tied to its European sovereign debt trade.  The trustee didn’t disclose the parties making the margin
calls. Transactions traced in the investigation cover 47 bank
accounts at eight financial institutions, he said.  According to a footnote, an initial calculation by MF
Global had contained an error, and the segregated amounts held
in bank accounts had been overstated.  The New York-based brokerage moved $105 billion in cash in
the week before its parent, MF Global Holdings Ltd., filed for
bankruptcy and made $100 billion in securities trades, according
to the statement. The trades included liquidating customer
securities and the firm’s own positions. After tracing 840
transactions worth $327 billion, Giddens is still analyzing
where some of the money “ended up,” he said.  ‘Larger Amounts’  MF Global Inc., the brokerage, often moved money between
its own accounts and those of customers in amounts of less than
$50 million a day, replacing the cash by day’s end, according to
the report.  As cash demands on the firm surged in the last week of
October, “much larger amounts were used, apparently with the
assumption that funds would be restored by the end of the day,”
according to the report. Starting on Oct. 26, “funds did not
return as anticipated,” the trustee said.  Such mingling of firm money and customer cash isn’t a safe
way to run a futures brokerage, said  Darrell Duffie , a finance
professor at  Stanford University .  “The very practice of reaching into the same account
doesn’t sound prudent to me,” Duffie said. Customer cash should
be operationally distinct from any money belonging to a futures
broker such as MF Global, he said.  Regulations allowed MF Global to use funds in the
segregated accounts only for certain investments, with  CME Group
Inc ., the world’s largest futures exchange, performing audits to
check that the invested funds met segregation requirements.  CFTC Rules  One U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission rule requires
that all customer funds be separately accounted for and
segregated as belonging to commodity or option customers.  Another CFTC rule lists acceptable investments, which
include foreign sovereign debt.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., once run by former New Jersey
governor  Jon Corzine , filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31 citing
credit rating downgrades tied to $6.3 billion in investments in
European sovereign debt.  CME, based in  Chicago , reviewed MF Global’s accounts the
week of Oct. 24, and found them in compliance. MF Global didn’t
report any transfers until early Oct. 31, suggesting the firm
“made subsequent transfers of customer segregated funds in a
manner that may have been designed to avoid detection,”
according to a CME statement on Nov. 2.  Potential Lawsuits  The trustee said he has now traced how most of the more
than $327 billion in transactions played out during the
brokerage’s last days. The banks, clearing houses and customers
that received the funds may be subject to lawsuits that seek to
recover them on behalf of all customers that are missing funds
from their accounts, Giddens said.  Giddens has already returned about $3.8 billion that was
frozen in customer accounts, or about 72 percent of what
customers are owed. He said he estimates that $1.2 billion or
more is missing. Corzine has said he doesn’t know where the
missing money is and didn’t authorize any misuse of customer
money that may have occurred.  The brokerage is liquidating under Giddens through the
Securities Investor Protection Corp. The parent’s Chapter 11
bankruptcy is being handled by a separate trustee, former
Federal Bureau of Investigation Director  Louis Freeh .  Class Actions  Corzine and other executives face two potential class
actions over the collapse. Futures customers of MF Global Inc.
are competing to lead a lawsuit over the alleged theft of $1.2
billion of their assets. An investor suit led by the Virginia
Retirement System alleges that Corzine made misleading
statements that inflated the prices of MF Global securities.  MF Global Holdings’ insurance unit issued $190 million of
liability policies for Corzine, other professionals and the
company through May to cover costs of defending against
allegations of wrongdoing, Freeh said in a Feb. 3 court filing
in Manhattan. The policies don’t belong to the bankrupt estate
and the coverage should be continued, he said.  “Directors’ and officers’ insurance policies tend to be
proportional to the size of the risks that the company might
face if it does something wrong,”  Nancy Rapoport , a bankruptcy
law professor at the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas , said in an
e-mail.  Lehman Brothers  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., which filed the biggest U.S.
bankruptcy in 2008, had $250 million of insurance for civil,
criminal and regulatory claims through last year. The defunct
investment bank said in August that former executives including
ex-Chairman Richard Fuld would settle an investor lawsuit over
losses on Lehman stock and options using a $90 million payment
from insurers.  The MF Global policies, which have a deductible of $25,000
per single claim, cover the insured “for all loss arising out
of a wrongful act which gives rise to a claim,” according to
Freeh’s filing. The policies cover defense lawyers’ bills, as
well as certain damages awards and settlements.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t respond to e-
mails seeking comment on the lawsuits.  Separately, the MF Global parent and affiliates have a $15
million insurance policy from New Hampshire Insurance Co. for
costs of defending against lawsuits, according to a December
court filing. The insurer disclosed the policy in a request to a
judge to let it pay MF Global and a defendant for costs incurred
before and after the Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  Combining Cases  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the
investor cases, saying they make similar claims that Corzine and
other company officials made misleading statements about MF
Global’s financial condition before its Chapter 11 filing.  The Virginia Retirement System, chosen by Marrero to lead
the investor suit together with  Canada ’s Province of  Alberta ,
said in a filing the two together lost more than $19 million on
MF Global stock and debt.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v.  MF Global  Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The main investor
case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  