-- MF Global’s $310 Million Margin Call on Last Day Exceeded Its Market Value
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-02-07T00:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mf-global-faced-a-310-million-margin-call-on-futures-broker-s-final-day.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. , the futures
broker that filed the eighth-largest bankruptcy in October,
faced a $310 million margin call on its final day that exceeded
its market value.  Calls for payments tied to bets MF Global made on European
sovereign debt increased Oct. 24 and continued through Oct. 31,
the day the futures broker formerly run by  Jon Corzine  filed for
 bankruptcy protection , according to a report yesterday from
James Giddens, a trustee overseeing the brokerage’s liquidation.
MF Global had a market value of $198 million on Oct. 28 as it
held $6.3 billion in European sovereign-debt trades.  After tracing 840 transactions of $327 billion in the
company’s final days, Giddens is still analyzing where some of
the $1.2 billion in missing customer money “ended up,” he said
in the report. Corzine’s firm failed after credit-rating
downgrades, a record quarterly loss and revelations about its
$6.3 billion European debt trade unnerved investors. The missing
money has sparked Congressional hearings and former customers
have said it undermined confidence in the futures industry.  “For three months, our investigative team has worked to
understand what happened during the final days of MF Global when
cash and related securities movements were not always accurately
and promptly recorded due to the chaotic situation and the
complexity of the transactions,” Giddens said in a statement.  Contingency Plan  The trustee didn’t disclose the identity of the
counterparties making the margin calls. The trades were cleared
through  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , according to an MF Global contingency
plan drafted before its failure. In the plan, which was designed
to address the effects of a  credit-rating  downgrade on the
company’s solvency and liquidity, MF Global questioned whether
it should move the debt trades out of LCH.Clearnet.  “How will LCH respond, how much in excess margin will be
required, time period, can/will they force us out?” the
brokerage questioned in a section of the plan titled “immediate
decision making required.” The undated plan indicated the
company could move some of the cleared positions to the over-
the-counter market, where it could get more favorable terms.  Congress, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department 
are investigating events surrounding the collapse of MF Global,
including the disappearance of the customer funds.  Corzine, 65, helped run Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 1994
to 1999. A Democrat who served in the Senate and as  New Jersey ’s
governor, he testified three times in December before
congressional panels probing the brokerage’s failure. A hearing
last week focused on the role of risk officers and credit-rating
firms in the run-up to the collapse.  Repo Transactions  The two biggest margin calls were for $108.8 million on
Oct. 26 and $309.6 million on the day of the collapse.  The sovereign-debt trades were so-called repurchase-to-
maturity transactions, where MF Global used borrowed money to
invest in the debt of Ireland,  Italy ,  Spain ,  Belgium , and
 Portugal . At the same time the brokerage was increasing the size
of its bet last year, investors were becoming increasingly
concerned that the countries, along with  Greece , wouldn’t be
able to finance their debt as economic conditions worsened.  The futures broker often moved money between its own
accounts and those of customers in amounts of less than $50
million a day, replacing the cash by day’s end, according to the
trustee’s report.  As cash demands on the firm surged in the last week of
October, “much larger amounts were used, apparently with the
assumption that funds would be restored by the end of the day,”
according to the report. Starting Oct. 26, “funds did not
return as anticipated,” the trustee said.  Operationally Distinct  “The very practice of reaching into the same account
doesn’t sound prudent to me,”  Darrell Duffie , a finance
professor at  Stanford University , said of the mingling of
customer and firm money. Customer cash should be operationally
distinct from any funds belonging to a futures broker, he said.  The company reported it was segregating more than the
required $6.75 billion in customer funds on Oct. 25, according
to a chart included with the trustee’s report.  Starting the next day, that surplus evaporated, with the
amount of segregated funds falling to about $4.5 billion by Oct.
28, less than the $5.5 billion required. The trustee’s
investigation covers 47 bank accounts at eight financial
institutions, according to his report.  MF Global had its credit rating cut to junk on Oct. 27 by
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings as its shares
plunged and bonds began trading at distressed levels amid a
crisis of investor confidence over the Europe trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 