-- MF Had $190 Million of Insurance for Corzine, Professionals
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-06T19:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mf-had-190-million-of-insurance-for-corzine-professionals-through-may.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. ’s insurance
unit issued $190 million of liability policies for  Jon Corzine ,
other professionals and the company through May to cover costs
of defending against allegations of wrongdoing, according to a
court filing.  The wholly owned unit, MFG Assurance, provided $70 million
of coverage for MF Global, its units and professionals for
lawsuits through May 2011, and $120 million for the period
through May of this year, trustee  Louis Freeh  said in the Feb. 3
filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. The policies don’t
belong to the bankrupt estate and the coverage should be
continued, he said.  Corzine, the bankrupt company’s former chief executive
officer, and other executives are facing two potential class-
action suits over the company’s Oct. 31 collapse. Futures
customers of the MF Global Inc. brokerage are competing to lead
a lawsuit over the alleged theft of $1.2 billion of their
assets. An investor suit led by the Virginia Retirement System
alleges that Corzine made misleading statements that inflated
the prices of MF Global securities.  “Directors and officers insurance policies tend to be
proportional to the size of the risks that the company might
face if it does something wrong,”  Nancy Rapoport , a bankruptcy
law professor at the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas , said in an
e-mail.  Lehman Coverage  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., which filed the biggest U.S.
bankruptcy in 2008, had $250 million of insurance for civil,
criminal and regulatory claims through last year. The defunct
investment bank said in August that former executives including
ex-Chairman Richard Fuld would settle an investor lawsuit over
losses on Lehman stock and options using a $90 million payment
from insurers.  The MF Global insurance policies, which have a deductible
of $25,000 per single claim, cover the insured “for all loss
arising out of a wrongful act which gives rise to a claim,”
according to the filing. The policies cover defense lawyers’
bills, as well as certain damage awards and settlements.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, hasn’t responded to
e-mails seeking comment on the lawsuits.  $15 Million Policy  Separately, the MF Global parent and affiliates have a
$15 million insurance policy from New Hampshire Insurance Co.
for costs of defending against lawsuits, according to a December
court filing. The insurance company disclosed the policy in a
request to a judge to let it pay MF Global and a defendant for
costs incurred before and after the Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the
investor cases into one, saying they make similar claims that
Corzine and other company officials made misleading statements
about MF Global’s financial condition before its Oct. 31 Chapter
11 filing.  The Virginia Retirement System, chosen by Marrero to lead
the investor suit together with  Canada ’s Province of  Alberta ,
said in a filing the two together lost more than $19 million on
MF Global stock and debt.  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy, listing
$41 billion in assets, after making bets on European sovereign
debt and getting margin calls. The holding company’s futures
brokerage is being liquidated in a separate court proceeding.  Corzine and MF Global also have been sued by former
employees. A trustee liquidating the MF Global brokerage has
returned about $3.8 billion to customers after calculating that
$1.2 billion or more is missing from their accounts. Corzine has
said he doesn’t know where the missing money is and didn’t
authorize any misuse of customer money that may have occurred.  The main investor case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  