-- Farmers Can Grow Food for All, as Long as Ecosystems Hold
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2012-02-06T18:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/farmers-can-grow-food-for-all-as-long-as-ecosystems-hold.html
     Thomas Malthus, history’s celebrated pessimist,
wrote in
1798 that, should war and disease fail to claim
humanity, “gigantic inevitable famine stalks in the rear, and
with one mighty blow levels the population with the food of
the world.”  The concept of "peak food," that the production will
reach an apex that can't be topped, is more a function of
population than of agricultural limits. The world should be
able to produce enough food to feed everyone when the human
numbers peak late this century, says José Graziano da
Silva, director general of the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO). However, the strains on the
global pantry are real. While the Earth has plenty of natural
inputs -- land, nutrients and water -- humans face a growing
challenge to manage them.  Read Bloomberg's energy & sustainability news.   The human population is headed to 9.3 billion by
2050, with the middle class expanding from 1.8 billion to 4.9
billion consumers, according to estimates by the UN and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Global
farm output must rise 70 percent by 2050 to nourish
everyone, as more people seek a higher calorie count every
day, according to the FAO.  “We need to improve production," Graziano da Silva said.
"The problem is how to do that without destroying the natural
reserves, as we are doing now, wasting water, erosion of
soils, destroying forests."  For the last five years, assurances by agriculture
specialists that  food production  will hold up were
overshadowed by surging food bills, price swings and
shortages, caused mostly by drought and flooding, that
prompted social unrest. During the food price spike in
2007-2008, more than 60 food riots occurred from  Haiti  to
 Egypt . Anger over food prices fueled the Tunisian unrest that
toppled dictator Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.  Food-Price Index  The food-price index tracked by the FAO since 1990 peaked
in February 2011 at 237.9 points. It averaged a record 228
points last year, 23 percent more than in 2010 and 14 percent
more than in 2008. Some food price relief came by the end of
last year, but the cost of food remains historically high.
Prices will probably decline this year, Graziano da Silva said
last month.  Unrest is likelier today because there’s less slack in
the global food system. Inventories of wheat, corn and rice
are lower than a decade ago, even as the world added more than
700 million people. Rising prices, declining crop yield growth
and increasing fertilizer use have caught the attention of
major investors concerned about economic, social and
environmental sustainability.  “These trends do not suggest much safety margin,” wrote
GMO LLC founder  Jeremy Grantham  in an April 2011 note titled
“Time to Wake up: Days of Abundant Resources and Falling
Prices Are Over Forever.” Grantham is no Malthusian, but his
ominous concerns have reverberated among the band of
institutional investors who are leading the push for
sustainability strategy as a hedge against large-scale risks.  Grantham's research conveys urgency, particularly in
laying out the demand picture. In 2009,  China 's booming
economy helped its citizens devour 25 percent of the world’s
soybeans, 37 percent of its eggs and 46 percent of its pig
meat, according to GMO’s research.  The natural systems that enable this growing consumption
are showing signs of strain. The Millennium Ecosystem
Assessment, a report created by 1,360 international
experts, identified 15 of 24 natural systems that “are being
degraded or used unsustainably," including fresh
water, climate stabilizers and protections against natural
hazards and pests. The report also warned that changes in
ecosystems are increasing risks of large, unpredictable
changes, such as fishery collapses and  climate change .  An October 2011 study in the Proceedings of the  National
Academy of Sciences  concluded there's an 80 percent
probability that the crop-wasting Russian drought of
2010, which shut down the nation’s wheat exports, could not
have happened without climate change.  Pricing Stability  Ecological stability provides farmers with what amounts
to a natural subsidy that enables agriculture but is largely
unrecognized by prices. Economics does not account for these
ecosystem services, and scientists are just beginning to
quantify them in a way that might allow pricing. As Pavan
Sukhdev, a Deutsche Bank investment banker turned Yale
environmental economist, says, “Bee pollination is worth $190
billion. But when did a bee ever send you an invoice?”  One area where farmers do face peak supply is in
phosphate, a fertilizer that is increasingly scarce, yet
“essential for rejuvenating soils,” according to Olivier de
Schutter, the UN adviser on the right to food. The Global
Phosphorus Research Initiative estimates the world might have
only 30 years of mineable phosphorus left before availability
peaks.  “Without phosphorus, clearly productivity would suffer,”
said Martin von Lampe, senior agricultural economist at the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Farm
run-off of phosphorus and nitrogen, another key
fertilizer, collects in rivers and bays, creating
oxygen-deprived dead zones for fish, such as the
7,000-square-mile region where the Mississippi River empties
into the  Gulf of Mexico .  Nitrogen pollution, biodiversity loss and climate change
are already outside sustainable limits, according to the
Stockholm Resilience Centre, which estimates “planetary
boundaries” that humanity can't cross without taking on
large-scale risks to ecosystem and economic health.  People farm about 38 percent of the Earth's total
non-iced land. There's room for growth. The total arable earth
is 4.2 billion hectares, 2.7 times the area now in use.
However, that unused land includes forest and pastures, and
converting those areas into cropland has consequences.
Deforestation contributes to climate change by removing trees’
consumption of carbon dioxide.  Agriculture shouldn't run into foreseeable natural
limits, as long as the Earth's resources are managed
effectively, said Josef Schmidhuber, deputy director of the
FAO. “If everything we know today about  population growth  and
consumption levels is somewhere close to reality, then it’s a
finite problem,” Schmidhuber said. “We’ll be able to feed the
world in the future.”  Related Links:   Bloomberg's Special Report on "Peak Everything"   Slideshow: The Great Resource Crunch   Oil, Food, Water: Is Everything Past Its Peak?   Peak Oil Scare Fades as Shale, Deepwater Wells Gush Crude   Peak Water: The Rise and Fall of Cheap, Clean H2O  