-- Fed Inflation Goal Is More Politics Than Policy: Evan Schnidman
-- B y   E v a n   A .   S c h n i d m a n
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fed-inflation-goal-is-more-politics-than-policy-evan-schnidman.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision last
month to set a soft inflation target is the latest in a series
of steps the central bank has taken in recent years to improve
policy transparency. It’s also the most controversial among
economists, and with good reason.  In 2004, Frederic Mishkin, an economics professor at
 Columbia University  who later became a member of the Federal
Reserve Board, engaged in a written debate on the issue with Ben Friedman of Harvard University in the journal International
Finance. Mishkin based his  argument  on work he had done with
now-Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Their work contends that
inflation targeting increases transparency and doesn’t limit
policy options for central bankers but rather provides
“constrained discretion.”  Friedman  countered that if inflation targeting is flexible,
then it can’t improve transparency, and that if instead the Fed
announced a hard target, then it wouldn’t have the necessary
flexibility to deal with inevitable shocks to the economy. He
also pointed out that focusing solely on inflation may signal
that the Fed is indifferent to other variables, most notably its
mandate to deal with employment.  Despite these objections, the Fed is moving forward with
its targeting policy. Not surprisingly, that decision was a hot
topic when Bernanke testified before the House Budget Committee
on Feb. 2. In response to lawmakers’ questions, he indicated
that the central bank would still be concerned with employment,
so long as inflation remains in check. The chairman’s cryptic
response supports Friedman’s hypothesis that a flexible
inflation target does little to improve policy transparency.  Wrong Answer  This new inflation targeting policy, like so much else
produced in  Washington , is designed (in theory) to make policy
simpler and more understandable to the public. The trouble is
whether it’s monetary policy,  tax policy  or  energy policy , it’s
complex for a reason; the world is complex.  Financial instruments are evolving constantly, resulting in
an increasingly complicated system of global trade. It should
come as no surprise that this intricate web has created the need
for increasingly sophisticated financial regulation. Moreover,
in recent years, these markets and the problems associated with
the financial crisis have created a demand for complex methods
of monetary intervention. Whether it is the new quantitative
easing measures or the extension of the maturity of its
securities portfolio, dubbed “Operation Twist,” these actions
are far from simple adjustments to the  Fed Funds rate .  Given that complexity, why should we want or even expect
the Fed to make monetary policy in a simpler way? It would be
nice to be able to say that keeping inflation at or below 2
percent will provide enough growth to maximize  employment 
without allowing the economy to overheat. Unfortunately, we
learned in the 1970s that the real economy doesn’t work this
way. Inflation can run out of control quickly, and employment
might not respond positively. Conversely, as we have seen in the
last few years, unemployment can remain persistently high even
as inflation remains in check.  There are policy alternatives to inflation targeting. The
root problem the Fed hopes to solve is that of expectation
management. It is betting that a clear and transparent goal will
help smooth out the peaks and valleys in the market by reducing
uncertainty and surprise. Politically, the Fed also benefits
from the cover that an inflation target provides; policy actions
are much easier to justify when they are framed as a way to
achieve  price stability .  Reasonable Arguments  Although expectation management, uncertainty reduction and
political cover are reasonable arguments in favor of the new
policy, two of these three benefits can be derived from other
measures, and the third may benefit the policy makers more than
the public.  First, expectations can be managed through better
communication. The policy of news conferences by the chairman
has only been in place for a few months. Fed personnel should be
given time to develop a verbal communication style that does a
better job of explaining why policy is moving in a particular
direction. This would undoubtedly help manage market
expectations.  Second, with better verbal communication, uncertainty and
surprise should be reduced. To go further, the Fed should
release its internal forecasting data and Open Market Committee
presentations. The data will allow market actors to understand
where the Fed believes the economy is going. Although some might
argue that such a release could harm Fed credibility if the
forecasts are wrong, that would be a lesser error than
potentially missing an explicitly declared inflation target.  There also are concerns that the release of presentation
materials from the meetings would inhibit honest deliberations.
If that were the case, then we would also need to eliminate the
release of meeting minutes and transcripts.  Third, the Fed shouldn’t expect political cover for its
actions. The central bank is designed to be insulated from overt
public pressure by the fact that its top officials aren’t
elected and it isn’t funded by Congress. This is intended to
allow the institution to do what is hard, painful and
politically unpopular for the good of the economy. Just ask  Paul Volcker .  In any case, public vilification of Fed policy makers for
doing what they believe is best for the economy isn’t the way to
hold the central bank accountable.  A more reasonable model would be the federal judiciary,
where reasonable grievances can be filed by any person in the
form of a brief. A similar system could be applied at the Fed:
Briefs could be filed or written questions submitted so long as
they are representative of a substantial portion of the
electorate (determined by signatures) or of a significant
portion of the economy (determined by the percentage of gross
domestic product covered by the grievance). Such a system could
reduce the incentives for the Fed to favor corporate interests
and would provide a way for average Americans to air their
discontent with particular Fed policies.  Simpler Isn’t Better  Inflation targeting may make monetary policy easier to
explain to the public and harder for politicians to criticize,
but that doesn’t make it better policy. The solutions proposed
above aren’t as simple, but they enhance communication, increase
data transparency and provide for direct communication between
the public and the Fed. Perhaps most important, they do all of
this without the risk of irreparable harm to Fed credibility
that could result from any missteps in inflation targeting.  (Evan A. Schnidman, a Ph.D. candidate in the  Harvard
University  Department of Government, is a  co-director  of the
Harvard University Workshop on the Economic Crisis, organized
through the Harvard Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Evan A. Schnidman at  evan.schnidman@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 