-- Fiat Declines as S&P Probably to Downgrade on Weak Demand: Milan Mover
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-02-06T12:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fiat-falls-after-s-p-says-downgrade-likely-on-european-drop-milan-mover.html
Fiat SpA  fell in Milan after  Standard
& Poor’s  put the Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler Group
LLC on review for a credit-rating downgrade, citing weakening
demand in  Europe  and increased competition in  Brazil .  Fiat lost as much as 4 percent to 4.48 euros, giving the
company a market value of 5.7 billion euros ($7.4 billion), and
was down 2 percent to 4.56 euros at 1:09 p.m.  “Weakening demand in Europe’s oversupplied mass vehicle
market, particularly Italy’s,” probably will pressure Fiat’s
earnings and  cash flow , Robert E. Richards, credit analyst for
S&P in  Frankfurt , said in a statement today.  Richards said S&P probably will lower Fiat’s rating by one
level to BB- within the next 90 days. Fiat was downgraded one
level by  Fitch Ratings  in October to BB. S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service already lowered their ratings on the company
earlier last year. All of Fiat’s ratings are below investment
grade.  Fiat said last week that earnings before interest, taxes
and one-time items, which it calls trading profit, will increase
this year to 3.8 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros from 2.39
billion euros in 2011.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, is counting on Chrysler to propel growth at Fiat,
whose volume brands lost about 500 million euros in Europe last
year as the region’s debt crisis caused consumers to hold back
on purchases.  Mass Market  Fiat led a decline in auto sales in Europe last year with a
12 percent slump to 947,786 vehicles, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association in Brussels. Deliveries in
 Italy  fell 16 percent in January.  “We’ve got the mass car market in Europe, which is
economically unproductive and which, just in raw, pure economic
analysis, does not deserve capital allocation of any kind,”
Marchionne told analysts last week on a conference call.  Marchionne last week sold 600,000 Fiat shares for 2.79
million euros. The stock was part of the 4 million shares
awarded to the CEO in 2009. The CEO sold the holding “in order
to pay part of the tax liabilities” stemming from awarding the
shares. The executive, who also sold 600,000 Fiat Industrial SpA
shares last week, plans to sell additional Fiat and Fiat
Industrial stock “in the coming days,” Fiat said in a
statement Feb. 3.  Marchionne’s selling may affect the share performance of
Fiat and Fiat Industrial, Martino De Ambroggi, an analyst at
Equita SIM SpA in Milan, wrote in a note today.  Fiat Industrial, the truck and tractor unit spun off from
carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  last year, fell as much as 4.2 percent to 7.65
euros in Milan today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  