-- Fidelity National CEO Scanlon Seeks Restaurants as Insurance Focus Narrows
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-02-06T21:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fidelity-national-to-buy-o-charley-s-as-insurer-increases-restaurant-wager.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. , the
largest U.S. title insurer, is weighing restaurant investments
after exiting some insurance businesses at a profit, Chief
Executive Officer George Scanlon said.  “We’re taking that capital, keeping it as dry powder,” he
said today in a phone interview after the company announced an
agreement to buy restaurant chain O’Charley’s Inc., in a deal
valuing the target company at about $220 million. “One of the
things that we’ve been looking at is the restaurant industry.”  Fidelity has  reached agreements  to divest a stake in a
claims-processing business, its flood insurer and a property-
casualty unit in the past two years. The Jacksonville, Florida-
based company had invested in restaurants before the O’Charley’s
deal, through American Blue Ribbon Holdings LLC, which owns and
operates Max & Erma’s, Village Inn and Bakers Square eateries.  “The restaurant business can scale pretty quickly, and
there are clearly cost benefits to being bigger, particularly on
the purchasing side,” Scanlon said.  Fidelity National’s investment in Village Inn and Bakers
Square in 2009 resulted from the insurer’s bets on distressed
debt of a restaurant company.  Restaurant operators have been forced to raise menu prices
because of higher raw ingredient prices. Food and beverage costs
climbed in the fourth quarter, and restaurant margin narrowed to
10.5 percent of sales from 11.1 percent a year earlier,
O’Charley’s said in a statement today. U.S. food prices may rise
as much as 3.5 percent this year, according to a Department of
Agriculture estimate.  Title Insurance  The O’Charley’s deal helps Fidelity to expand beyond title
insurance, an industry that ex-CEO Alan Stinson once called an
oligopoly, because the declining number of companies selling the
coverage allowed providers to raise prices.  “There aren’t many acquisition opportunities that we could
make in the title-insurance space, for antitrust reasons,”
Scanlon said.  Americans may dine out more as the economy improves. U.S.
consumer confidence rose for the fifth straight month in January
on signs of strength in the labor market, according to the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment. The Bloomberg U.S. Full Service Restaurant  Index ,
which includes O’Charley’s and other casual-dining operators,
gained 3.3 percent last month.  O’Charley’s, which has posted losses for the past four
years, fits the investment profile of Fidelity Chairman William P. Foley II, said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , in a phone interview today. The restaurant chain sells
steaks, seafood and pasta.  ‘Sees an Opportunity’  “It’s the type of business that he likes to buy,” said
Dwelle, who has an “outperform” rating on Fidelity. “He sees
an opportunity to turn it around and create value there over
time.”  Fidelity will pay $9.85 in cash for each share of the
restaurant company that it doesn’t own, compared with its
closing price of $6.92 last week, the insurer said in a
statement today.  O’Charley’s surged 42 percent to $9.81 at 4 p.m. in New
York. Fidelity slipped 1 percent to $18.25. The Nashville,
Tennessee-based restaurant chain gained 26 percent this year
through the end of last week, while the title insurer advanced
16 percent in the period.  Fidelity owns  9.5 percent  of the restaurant chain, meaning
the remaining stake will cost about $200 million.  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  is advising O’Charley’s, which is getting legal
counsel from Bass Berry & Sims Plc, according to a statement
today.  Jefferies  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  is the financial adviser to Fidelity
National. The deal includes a $6.7 million termination fee, the
restaurant company said in a regulatory filing.  Fidelity plans to purchase the shares of O’Charley’s that
it doesn’t own through a tender offer that will begin on or
about Feb. 24 and end on April 2, according to the statement.  O’Charley’s agreed in October to sell 50 restaurants, or
about half of its real estate, to Scottsdale, Arizona-based
Store Capital. The chain said it would use the net proceeds of
about $105 million to retire almost all its long-term debt.  Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is a property’s true owner and that it is free
from liens. The companies collect a one-time premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  