-- Fidelity’s Stairs Believed Chaoda Share Sale News Was Public, Inquiry Told
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-06T10:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fidelity-s-stairs-believed-chaoda-share-sale-news-was-public-inquiry-told.html
Fidelity Management & Research Co.’s
George Stairs believed share placement information he was given
by  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. ’s chairman and chief
financial officer was public, a  Hong Kong  inquiry heard.  Chaoda management said nothing to Stairs to indicate he
would be precluded from trading shares of the Chinese vegetable
supplier, according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers
presented in evidence on the first day of a  Market Misconduct
Tribunal  hearing.  Stairs, then a portfolio manager at Fidelity Management,
traded Chaoda’s shares after being told on a conference call by
Kwok Ho, the company’s chairman and Andy Chan, its chief
financial officer, about a June 2009 share placement before the
information was public, Hong Kong’s government alleges.  Stairs netted proceeds of HK$1.98 million ($255,299) for
his  funds  by selling shares prior to the placement and then
buying more in the stock sale at a lower price, according to a
government  notice . The call was one of six arranged by Merrill
Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd. between Chaoda management and
institutional investors.  Boston-based  Fidelity Investments  conducted a thorough
internal review of the matter in 2009 and believes that Stairs
didn’t violate any laws or regulations, according to spokesman
 Vincent Loporchio . “We have a zero-tolerance policy with regard
to the misuse of material non-public information,” Loporchio
wrote in an e-mail before the hearing.  Wall Crossing  Mark Tsang, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Bank of
America, which bought Merrill Lynch in 2009, declined to comment
on the inquiry and whether the investors were asked if they were
willing to receive material non-public information on condition
of refraining to trade on such information, also known as wall
crossing.  Chaoda abandoned a planned share placement in April 2009
and on the June conference call, Chaoda’s management showed an
“apparent determination” to go through with their plans,
according to a January 2010 letter from Fidelity’s lawyers to
the U.S. securities regulator.  Merrill Lynch bankers would have gone through a different
process to set up the call if they had material non-public
information rather than expose the Fidelity staff to the
information, according to the lawyers’ letter.  Capitial-Raising Proposals  Rodney Tsang, a Hong Kong-based investment banker formerly
at Merrill Lynch, testified today that he had floated more than
one capital-raising proposal to Chaoda chairman Kwok following
the aborted equity placement in April.  Institutional investors in the meantime were “interested
in whether the transaction would happen” while Tsang and his
colleagues sought to gauge interest in a June offering, he said.  “These fund managers are very big customers of Merrill
Lynch,” Tsang said. “We wanted to take advantage of their
interest to gauge their reaction.”  The civil tribunal inquiring into the allegations has the
power to disgorge profits made or losses avoided. It can also
ban individuals from dealing in any securities, and from serving
as a director or manager of a corporation.  Other investors informed about Chaoda’s  placement  included
Janus Capital Management, Wellington Management Company LLP and
BlackRock, the government said.  Jane Ingalls, a spokeswoman for Janus, said in September
that an analyst at the firm reported the information disclosed
on the call to its compliance department and the firm restricted
trading in the stock “immediately.”  BlackRock, Alliance Bernstein  Angela Yu of BlackRock and Matthew Sigel, formerly of Alliance
Bernstein LP, are scheduled to testify from the offices of the
Securities and Exchange Commission in the U.S, according to a
lawyer for the government Jonathan Kwan.  Three Wellington Management employees including Sabre
Mayhugh are unwilling to testify, Kwan told the tribunal today.  Founded in 1994 by Kwok,  Chaoda  first sold shares to the
public in Hong Kong in 2000. Kwok is a member of the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference ,  China ’s top
political advisory body, and has a 19.6 percent  stake  in the
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kwok, who has denied the allegations, and Stairs, now in 
a research position at Fidelity, declined to comment today 
on the proceedings.  Chaoda fell 27 percent on Sept. 26, when the misconduct
proceedings were first reported and its shares were suspended.
Next Magazine also alleged in a May 26 report that the company
exaggerated its farmland, which the company denied. Its shares
fell 81 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  