-- Fisker Stops Work on Car Factory After U.S. Blocks Loan
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-07T22:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fisker-s-delaware-project-delayed-after-u-s-cuts-off-loan.html
Fisker Automotive Inc. said it halted
work on a  Delaware  auto factory to make plug-in sedans after the
U.S. Energy Department blocked access to its federal loan,
citing unmet milestones.  Fisker, behind schedule in selling its first car in the
U.S., laid off 26 people in Wilmington, Delaware, the company
said yesterday in an e-mail. Access to the loan has been blocked
since May, said Roger Ormisher, a spokesman.  “It’s been frustrating that Fisker and the Department of
Energy weren’t able to come to terms on the revisions to the
loan in time to avoid this,” said Brian Selander, a spokesman
for Delaware Governor Jack Markell, a Democrat. “The project is
on hold while the two sides try to get things sorted out.”  The Energy Department awarded Fisker, based in Anaheim,
 California , $529 million in loans in April 2010 from a program
intended to spur development of advanced-technology vehicles.
Part of the loan will be used to redevelop a closed  General
Motors Co. (GM)  auto plant in Wilmington for Fisker’s use.  The development shows more congressional attention is
needed to the Energy Department loan programs, said
Representative James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican who
has criticized loans to bankrupt solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC
and other companies.  Process Reforms  “It is important to understand what happened with
Solyndra, but recent events show congressional oversight should
not stop there,” Sensenbrenner said in a statement. He said a
bill he has introduced would require “a thorough, independent
analysis of all DOE loan guarantees and makes needed reforms to
the process to ensure any future loans make sense.”  Sensenbrenner pushed the White House to release an audit it
ordered of the Energy Department’s loans. White House spokesman
 Eric Schultz  said in an e-mail today that the audit will be
released later this week, without specifying a day.  Fisker sells the Karma plug-in electric sports car
retailing for $102,000 in the U.S. The car is produced by a
contract manufacturer in  Finland . It’s planning to make the
Nina, a lower-priced model, in Wilmington.  “They won’t release any more money, given where they’re at
with the programs,” Ormisher said by telephone. “It’s a fairly
standard procedure. It’s nothing unusual. But these things take
some time to go through.”  Short on Milestones  The Energy Department’s loan programs are under
congressional scrutiny since the September bankruptcy of
Solyndra, a loan-guarantee recipient. Beacon Power Corp., an
energy-storage company, and Ener1 Inc., a supplier of batteries
for electric cars, both filed for  bankruptcy protection  after
receiving Energy Department aid.  The agency last month canceled a $730 million loan
commitment to  OAO Severstal (CHMF) ,  Russia ’s second-largest steelmaker,
that the company had planned to use to expand high-strength
steelmaking operations in  Michigan .  “Our loan guarantees have strict conditions in place to
protect taxpayers,”  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The department only allows the
loan to be disbursed as the company meets certain milestones and
demonstrates results.”  Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat who helped
create the vehicle loan program, and former Delaware Republican
Representative  Mike Castle  wrote letters in 2009 to the Energy
Department to support Fisker’s loan application.  Funding Removal Amendment  Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican, planned to
introduce an amendment to a transportation bill today that would
strip the money left in the advanced-technology vehicle
manufacturing program that’s yet to be committed, an estimated
$1.5 billion over 10 years.  Republicans last year tried to take the money left in the
program to use for disaster aid following storms in the U.S.
Chrysler Group LLC is among the companies with pending
applications for the vehicle loan money.  Fisker sent 225 Karmas to dealers and has 1,200 units “in
the pipeline,” Chief Executive Officer  Henrik Fisker  said in an
interview in December. Toyota Motor Corp. on Jan. 4 reported
sales of 136,463 Prius hybrid vehicles last year.  The U.S. awarded Fisker $169 million for engineering of the
Karma and $359 million for production of the Nina, a midsize
sedan. Fisker has drawn down $193 million from its loans and has
raised $850 million in private capital, according to the
company’s statement. Henrik Fisker said in a December interview
the company had hired about 100 people in Wilmington.  Delaware gave another $21 million in grants and loans to
Fisker for its investment in the state. Fisker’s private
investors include Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers, Palo Alto
Investors LLC and lithium-ion battery maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  