-- Foreclosure Deal Deadline Arrives
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-06T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/foreclosure-deal-deadline-arrives-as-states-consider-releases.html
U.S. states that balked at liability 
releases in a proposed $25 billion nationwide settlement over 
bank foreclosure practices must decide today whether its 
mortgage relief and reforms are worth legal claims they’ll lose.  While some states have already announced their intention to
sign the deal, others including  California  Attorney General
Kamala Harris have yet to publicly commit in part due to terms
that protect the banks from future litigation. Without Harris,
the deal’s value will drop by several billion dollars, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  The agreement is “beyond fixing,” said George Goehl,
executive director of National People’s Action, a network of
community organizations which advocates for fair lending and
affordable housing.  “People are very disappointed in what this is going to be
both in terms of dollars and release of claims,” Goehl said in
a telephone interview. “We’re giving away the store.”  Most states don’t have the resources to go it alone and
fight the banks in court, said James Tierney, director of
 Columbia Law School ’s National State  Attorneys General  Program.
States such as California that may reject the agreement must
decide whether the time and money needed to fight for a better
deal is worth it, given that the settlement provides immediate
relief for homeowners, he said.  “How long does it take and how much better?” Tierney said
of a state pursuing its own deal. “Is it so much better that it
warrants the cost and delay?”  Sixteen Months  Today’s deadline, extended by the parties from Feb. 3,
comes almost 16 months after all 50 states announced they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes.  Officials from a group of state attorneys general offices
and federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , have
since negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with the five
largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and Ally
Financial Inc.        The settlement would set requirements for how the banks 
conduct foreclosures, provide mortgage refinancings for 
underwater borrowers -- people who owe more on their mortgages 
than their homes are worth, fund loan principal reductions, 
and make payments to states and borrowers who lost their homes 
to foreclosure.  Court Approval  The accord, which must be approved by a federal judge, will
allow banks to take steps toward resolving mortgage liability
stemming from the housing bust. The releases protect them from
legal claims tied to foreclosures, mortgage-servicing and
origination of loans, said another person familiar with the deal.  The deal wouldn’t take away any individual’s right to
pursue an individual or class action case, a third person said.
All three declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  The scope of the liability releases has been one of the
biggest concerns for some attorneys general, including Harris
and New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who launched a
separate probe of mortgage operations of banks.  Schneiderman said in an interview Jan. 27 that there were
“outstanding issues” still to be resolved and declined to say
whether he would sign the deal.  The liability releases wouldn’t prevent an investigation
into mortgage securitization, he said. Schneiderman was named to
a state-federal group that will probe the bundling of  mortgage
loans  into securities in the run-up to the financial crisis.
Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, and Danny Kanner, a
spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to comment about whether
their states were signing the national settlement.  Delaware Joined Push  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden , who joined
Schneiderman in pushing for a narrow release that doesn’t
protect banks from claims that haven’t been fully investigated,
won’t support the agreement as drafted because of the scope of
the releases, his office said Feb. 3.  “We are continuing to review the complicated documents
that we received a week ago, and are continuing to advocate for
improvements to address our concerns,”  Jason Miller , a Biden
spokesman, said in a statement.  The settlement, meanwhile, would also require  Massachusetts ,
Nevada and Arizona, which have sued banks involved in the talks,
to settle those cases, one of the people said. Nevada and
Arizona each sued  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America over mortgage-servicing practices, accusing it of
misleading consumers, while Massachusetts sued all five banks
that are part of the proposed deal.  Massachusetts’s Coakley  Brad Puffer, a spokesman for Massachusetts Attorney General
 Martha Coakley  declined to comment about whether the state will
sign.  Jennifer Lopez , a spokeswoman for Nevada Attorney General
Catherine Cortez Masto, said the state hadn’t made a decision on
whether to sign the deal as of Feb. 3.  Amy Rezzonico, a spokeswoman for  Arizona  Attorney General
Tom Horne, didn’t return a call seeking comment. Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , who is helping to lead negotiations on
behalf of the states, couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Another incentive for states to sign is a so-called most-
favored nation provision. It requires banks give those who
accept the deal the benefit of any better terms later given
states that opt out, two of the people familiar with the term
said.  At least three states have announced their intention to
sign the settlement -- Connecticut, Oregon and  Louisiana .  Oregon Attorney General John Kroger said in a statement
last week that he decided to accept the deal, which will provide
$30 million to his state and as much as $200 million in relief
to Oregon homeowners, after considering the potential benefits
that might come through litigation.  “I am not confident we could get a better agreement on
this limited set of issues if we litigated for several more
years,” Kroger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
Or  dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net  and;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  