-- Forint Weakens on Speculation Greece Risks Running Out of Time
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-06T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/forint-weakens-as-greece-approaches-deadline-for-creditor-deal.html
The forint weakened on speculation
 Greece  may run out of time to reach a deal with creditors,
eroding investor demand for riskier emerging-market assets as
 Hungary  strives to obtain a bailout of its own.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, depreciated as much as 1 percent and traded 0.4
percent weaker at 291.7 per euro by 5 p.m. in Budapest. The
slump pared the forint’s advance to 8 percent so far this year.  European leaders stepped up pressure on Greek politicians
to meet the conditions of a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout, saying time was running out. Hungary is struggling to
restart talks with the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  on
a bailout of its own after a dispute over laws which threatened
the independence of the central bank.  “A Greek agreement or positive developments on the IMF
deal may push euro-forint below 290,” Peter Karsai, a Budapest-
based currency trader at Commerzbank AG, and colleagues wrote in
an e-mail today. “In the opposite case, exchange rates above
the 295 level may be ahead.”  Malev Zrt., the state-owned Hungarian airline, ceased
flying at the end of last week after the government withdrew
financing. The demise of Malev, which has debts of 60 billion
forint ($270 million), may force the state to pay about 1.5
billion euros in a one-time obligation to the airport’s
operator, according to a paper published by the Development
Ministry in December, which cited a privatization contract.  Malev Risk  The obligation arising from Malev’s bankruptcy is a fiscal
risk which “provides a further incentive for the government to
push ahead with an IMF/EU program,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a
London-based economist at ING Groep NV, wrote in a research
report today. “We recommend moving onto the sideline in
Hungarian assets.”  Hungary will yield to some EU demands in infringement cases
concerning the central bank and on two other issues the EU
criticized, Magyar Nemzet reported today, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the issue.  “There is still one market where we remain comfortable
expressing a bearish view,” Guillaume Salomon, an emerging-
market strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an
e-mailed report today. “That market is Hungary,” Salomon
wrote, adding that the IMF deal remained a “long shot” and
that Malev’s collapse raised concerns about government finances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  