-- Frankfurt Night-Flight Ban Imperils City’s Ambition as 5,000 Target Runway
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-07T13:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/frankfurt-s-night-flights-ban-imperils-push-for-global-standing.html
German film and television actor
Tankred Benecke isn’t expecting much fan-mail from business
chiefs in his home city of  Frankfurt .  Benecke is one of 5,000 locals to besiege  Frankfurt airport 
on Monday evenings as part of an anti-noise protest that has won
an interim ban on night flights and is now targeting the closure
of a new runway. Civic leaders say the restrictions will hurt
the hub and undermine the city’s international ambitions.  “Before the runway opened it was noisy when the wind came
from the east, but now they are flying directly over our house,”
said Benecke, 46, who lives with his family in the district of
Sachsenhausen, across the River Main from downturn Frankfurt.
“I’m woken at five in the morning and sit bolt upright in bed.”  Europe’s third-busiest airport needs extra flights to
narrow the gap to  London Heathrow  and Paris Charles de Gaulle
and stay ahead of hubs in Amsterdam and  Madrid , owner  Fraport AG 
says. Limits on air links could also thwart Frankfurt’s plans to
build on its status as the German financial capital and become a
tier-one global city, according to the city chamber of commerce.  Fraport fell as much as 2.3 percent and traded 1.6 percent
lower at 44.63 euros as of 1:52 p.m. local time. It has  declined  
1.5 percent since Oct. 10, the day before the night-ban verdict,
while Germany’s 50-member DAX Mid-Cap Index is up 18 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , the airport’s No. 1 user, was 2.2
percent lower today and has added 9.3 percent since the ruling,
lagging a 14 percent improvement for the 30-stock benchmark DAX.  Capacity Boost  The fourth runway, which opened Oct. 21 and cost 760
million euros ($1.2 billion), permits parallel landings for the
first time, lifting capacity from 500,000 flights a year to
700,000, or 120 an hour. The airport handled 453,000 movements
in 2010 from three runways, or about 90 percent of the maximum.  Though not permitted to handle the biggest jets such as
Airbus SAS’s A380, the 2.8-kilometer (1.7 mile) runway should
help increase overall passenger capacity to 88 million by 2025,
according to Fraport projections. The hub attracted 56.4 million
travelers in 2011, a gain of 6.5 percent, compared with 69.4
million at Heathrow and 61 million at  Charles de Gaulle .  Located  northwest of the main airport complex  in the
direction of the city center and less than one mile from the
towns of Kelsterbach and Eddersheim, the new strip operated for
just nine days before the night-flights ban from a Hesse state
court took effect. A final ruling will be made in Leipzig at an
administrative court following a hearing that starts March 12.  Cargo Constraint  The ban, outlawing takeoffs and landings between 11 p.m.
and 5 a.m., comes after Frankfurt handled as many as 50 services
a night last summer, with even a compromise allowing a rump
service pending the Leipzig decision having been disallowed.  The temporary deal would have permitted 17 flights a night,
10 of them dedicated freighter services from  Lufthansa , the
biggest cargo carrier among the world’s passenger airlines.  Germany  contributes 50 percent of European air-freight
consignments, with half of the country’s total, or 2.3 million
metric tons a year, operating out of Frankfurt. One-third moves
at night, especially to and from  North America  and  China ,
according to  Lufthansa Cargo AG , which has put a 1 billion-euro
investment plan on hold pending next month’s final ruling.  Hub Rethink  Confirmation of the ban coupled with a continuing campaign
to limit further growth might even prompt Lufthansa to review
its entire hub strategy, said Martin Harsche, aviation economics
lecturer at Frankfurt’s University of Applied Sciences.  Though the airline moves 50 percent of its goods in the
holds of passenger planes which fly mainly from Frankfurt, and
bases 18  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-11 freighters there, it has alternative
freight hubs at Munich, Leipzig-Halle and Vienna airports.  “Lufthansa will always try to concentrate its cargo and
passenger capacity, and that’s necessary if Germany is to stay
competitive,” Harsche said, adding that the carrier has shifted
hubs in the past, having been based in Berlin before World War
II before focusing on Hamburg, Cologne and finally Frankfurt.  Frankfurt’s freight-handling capabilities will be weakened
by the restricted operating hours, according to Fraport Chief
Executive Officer Stefan Schulte, who said the campaign against
the fourth runway itself could fundamentally undermine Hesse’s
ability to compete with other international metropolitan areas.  ‘Decisive’  “The growth potential of the new runway is of decisive
importance for the economic strength of the state,” Schulte
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  Airport access is the third most important factor for
foreign companies investing in Germany, according to a study by
the European Center for Aviation Development, a think tank set
up by Fraport, Lufthansa and Darmstadt’s Technical University.
Only road links and the supply of skilled labor ranked higher.  “There are many businesses in the Frankfurt region which
are here because of the quality of the logistics and transport
connections,” said Andreas Freundt, head of the Frankfurt
Chamber of Commerce. “Interrupting the supply chain would have
far-reaching consequences for the whole economic cycle.”  Frankfurt airport is Germany’s largest employer at a single
site, with a  71,000-strong workforce , according to Fraport’s
website. The company reckons 300,000 people in the wider economy
depend on the hub for their livelihood, putting the noise issue
high on the agenda in local elections to be held on March 27.  Still, environmental campaigners dispute the economic
arguments, and are pressing for an extension of the night ban to
run from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., a reduction in hourly frequencies
and an immediate shutdown of the new runway.  Not So Local  “The very few jobs that would be affected can’t compare
with the effect on local residents and particularly children,”
said Ingrid Kopp, 60, a spokeswoman for the Coalition of Citizen
Initiatives, which organizes the weekly protests.  The extra runway is also hurting property values, according
to Mark Fiedler, a real-estate agent in Lerchesberg, beneath the
flight path, who hasn’t disposed of a single house since
operations began after selling eight in the prior six months.  “We can’t even say what the actual effect on  house prices 
is because there’s absolutely no demand,” Fiedler said.  Opponents of the growth plan also say that the airport is
as much a hub for Germany and  Europe  as a local gateway. More
than 50 percent of passengers  transfer between flights  and never
enter the city, according to the most recent Fraport figures.  Saskia Sassen, a sociologist at  New York ’s  Columbia
University  who popularized the concept of the “global city,”
said Frankfurt already lags behind other European population
centers for “liveability” and needs to address popular concerns.  “The expansion of the airport, besides the actual noise,
leads residents to ask themselves whose city this is,” said
Sassen, who has advised Frankfurt on its urban strategy.  Air-industry academic Harsche reckons one tactic, though
not attractive to Fraport, might neutralize the opposition.  “The best solution would be to pay compensation,” he
said. “But that will be extraordinarily expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  