-- Fred Dunbar, NERA Securities Expert Who Later Joined SEC, Dies at Age 67
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-06T20:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/fred-dunbar-securities-expert-at-nera-consulting-dies-at-67-from-cancer.html
Fred Dunbar, an oft-cited specialist
on damages in securities lawsuits who helped lead NERA Economic
Consulting for 30 years before joining the Securities and
Exchange Commission in 2009, has died. He was 67.  He died Feb. 1 after battling  brain cancer , according to
Benjamin Seggerson, a spokesman for NERA, a New York-based unit
of Marsh & McLennan Cos.  Dunbar founded NERA’s practices in securities and mass
torts and often testified on behalf of manufacturers targeted by
class-action lawsuits, including ones concerning asbestos and
tobacco.  As an expert witness in the 2004 challenge by Walt Disney
Co. shareholders to the $140 million severance payment to former
company president Michael Ovitz, Dunbar supported the defense of
current and former Disney directors. He said Ovitz’s contract
was “reasonable” based on the 4.4 percent rise in Disney
shares on Aug. 14, 1995, the day his hiring was announced. The
judge in the case, William B. Chandler III of Delaware Chancery
Court, ruled in favor of the company.  Dunbar used mathematical and statistical analysis, known as
econometrics, to challenge plaintiff claims of damages. He told
the Daily Deal in 2003 that plaintiffs “often assume certain
facts are correct, whereas we scrutinize and refute those
facts.”  Dunbar joined the SEC in September 2009 as an economic
 fellow  within the Division of Risk, Strategy and Financial
Innovation.  Reed Graduate  “We at NERA deeply miss Fred -- his sharp intellect, his
keen sense of humor, his deep humanity, and the way his soft-
spoken nature somehow made his words and insights even more
profound,” the firm said in a  statement .  Frederick Charles Dunbar was born on May 1, 1944, in
Seattle and raised in Oregon, according to Seggerson. He earned
a bachelor’s degree in mathematics from  Reed College  in
 Portland , Oregon, and a Ph.D. in economics from  Tufts University 
in Medford,  Massachusetts .  He joined NERA in 1979, focusing on environmental
economics, deregulation and financial risk management for
utilities. He founded the firm’s securities practice in the late
1980s.  He was an adjunct professor at Fordham University School of
Law and Columbia University Law School, both in  New York , and
 co-wrote  “Estimating Future Claims: Case Studies from Mass
Torts and Product Liability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  