-- Gazprom Says EU Gas Gap Narrowing as Cold Keeps Demand High
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-02-06T16:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/gazprom-expects-gap-between-eu-gas-requests-supply-to-narrow.html
OAO Gazprom ,  Russia ’s natural-gas
export monopoly, said supplies to Europe are more balanced as
customers lower fuel requests even as a cold snap claims more
lives across the continent.  The gap between requests and supply will probably continue
to narrow, an official at Gazprom’s export division said today
by phone, asking not to be named in line with corporate policy.  The cold wave from Moscow to London has increased use for
the fuel for heating and pushed up prices at hubs by as much as
39 percent last week. Gazprom, Russia’s export monopoly,
rejected requests for extra gas from some European buyers as
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ordered it to make domestic
supplies a priority in the freezing weather.  Europe  depends on
Gazprom for about a quarter of its gas needs.  Gas supply to the European Union “has become better,”
with flows “back to normal” in some states, European
Commission spokeswoman  Marlene Holzner  said in Brussels.
Utilities in  Italy ,  Austria ,  Germany  and  France  say they’re
still undersupplied.  Shipments to Europe were cut by 10 percent from contracted
volumes “for a few days,” Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Andrey Kruglov said at a meeting with Putin on Feb. 4,
according to a transcript posted on the government’s  website .  ‘No Emergency’  Some customers sought more gas than needed last week for
“psychological reasons” during the cold, given the volumes
they have in underground storage, Deputy CEO  Alexander Medvedev 
said today in an interview with RT state television channel,
according to a transcript distributed by the company.  There is “no emergency” and  member states  are using gas
from storage or liquefied natural gas, Holzner told reporters
today, reiterating comments from last week.  EON AG , Germany’s biggest utility, and  OMV AG , central
Europe’s biggest energy producer, both said imports from Gazprom
are still down about 30 percent today.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, Europe’s
biggest utility by market value, said the shortfall had narrowed
to 20 percent from 30 percent.  “EON is well equipped to cope with the present reductions
in Gazprom Export’s gas deliveries,” Adrian Schaffranietz, a
spokesman for the Essen-based utility said by e-mail today.  Italian gas imports from Russia will probably be 18 percent
lower than requested today, according to forecasts by Milan-
based Snam Rete Gas SpA, the national pipeline operator. Italy
requested 103.4 million cubic meters today and is likely to
receive 84.9 million, according to the operator.  Maximum Capacity  Eastern Europe has been worst affected by the cold, with
temperatures below minus 20 degrees Celsius (minus 4
Fahrenheit). The European part of Russia should remain 8 to 10
degrees lower than average this week, the Emergency Ministry in
Moscow said. At least 64 Russians died and about 1,400 were
treated for cold-related injuries last month.  Gazprom is exporting at the maximum capacity possible, the
export official said today. Some European customers boosted
requests as high as 30 percent in one day last week as they
sought to hedge supply risks, the official said. Some may seek
to fine Gazprom for undersupply at a later date, he said.  Polish imports are now at requested levels, said Joanna
Zakrzewska, a spokeswoman for  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo ,  Poland ’s dominant gas company. Gas demand eased
yesterday to 71.6 million cubic meters a day from 72.3 million
cubic meters on Feb. 3, according to Gaz-System, SA Poland’s
state-owned natural gas pipeline operator.  Prices Jump  Gas supplies to  Bulgaria  were restored to normal on Feb. 3
and the country’s energy ministry reported no cuts in supplies
so far today. Deliveries to  Turkey  have been above contracted
volumes, Medvedev told Putin at the Feb. 4 meeting.  Gazprom boosted production about 30 percent to 1.6 billion
cubic meters a day, Kruglov said. There were no restrictions in
supplies to domestic consumers, he said. The producer last year
limited sales to domestic industrial customers to help satisfy
increasing demand from households in freezing temperatures.  Day-ahead prices at European hubs last week exceeded an
estimated current Gazprom contract price of about $410 per 1,000
cubic meters, Alexander Burgansky, Roman Odarich and Tatyana Kalachova, analysts at Otkritie Capital, said in a research note
today. Austrian natural- gas prices  jumped by more than a third
last week, while rates at the German and Dutch hubs also
climbed.  ‘Rigid Infrastructure’  “Gas prices went up despite sufficient availability of gas
in underground storage, which in our view is clear evidence of
the rigidity of gas infrastructure in Europe,” the Otkritie
analysts said.  U.K. natural gas for day-ahead delivery rose to its highest
in more than five years. Gas for tomorrow surged as much as 19
percent as National Grid Plc forecast demand for the heating
fuel will rise 20 percent above the seasonal norm. CustomWeather
Inc. forecasts sub-zero temperatures in  London  through Feb. 14
that may increase demand.  Gazprom, which ties its gas prices to oil and refined
products, criticized European spot markets as illiquid and
unable to meet demand. Spot prices had been lower than Gazprom’s
rates for most of the past two years.  “All the talk about a liquid spot market is, to put it
mildly, a significant exaggeration, because the spot market is
illiquid,” Medvedev said at the meeting with Putin. “Despite
an increase in spot prices, Europe was unable to meet its needs
under long-term contracts using the spot market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  