-- Georgia Supreme Court Throws Out Law Banning Assisted Suicide Advertising
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2012-02-06T14:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/georgia-supreme-court-throws-out-law-banning-assisted-suicide-advertising.html
A  Georgia (STOGA1)  law barring the
advertisement of services related to assisted suicide is an
unconstitutional violation of free-speech rights, the state’s
 supreme court  ruled.  The statute didn’t outlaw assisted suicide in  Georgia ,
where there is no law against the practice, the court said in
today’s 7-0  ruling . The legislation makes it a crime to publicly
offer help to those who want to end their lives, the court said.
The law doesn’t bar all offers to help, only those that were
publicly advertised, which violates the free-speech guarantees
in the Georgia and U.S. constitutions, the court ruled.  “The state has failed to provide any explanation or
evidence as to why a public advertisement or offer to assist in
an otherwise legal activity is sufficiently problematic to
justify an intrusion on protected speech,” the court said.  The court said that the legislature could have outlawed
assisted suicide or all offers to help commit it.  “The state here did neither,” the justices said.  The case stemmed from the 2010 prosecution of Dr. Lawrence
Egbert, medical director for Final Exit Network Inc., and three
others affiliated with the group for helping John Celmar, who
had cancer, kill himself in 2008 at his home north of Atlanta.  Thirty-nine  states  have enacted laws that criminalize
assisted suicide, according to the Patients Rights Council.
Oregon and  Washington  have passed “Death with Dignity”
statutes deeming physician-assisted suicide a medical treatment
under some circumstances. Otherwise, it’s illegal in those two
states, too, according to the Patients Rights Council, a
Steubenville, Ohio-based euthanasia-information group.  A phone call to Pennington, New Jersey-based Final Exit
wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is Final Exit Network Inc. v. State of Georgia,
S11A1960, Supreme Court of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  