-- German Factory Orders Increase on Demand From Outside Euro Area: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-06T12:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/german-factory-orders-increase-on-demand-from-outside-euro-area-economy.html
German factory orders rose more than
economists forecast in December as demand from outside the euro
area helped its largest nation weather the sovereign debt
crisis.  Orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, rose
1.7 percent from November, when they slumped 4.9 percent, the
 Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists forecast an
increase of 1 percent, according to the median of 36 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey .  “It is too early to call this a rebound,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “However,
there is at least still sufficient demand for goods ‘made in
Germany’ to keep the industrial engine running in 2012.”  German  business confidence  jumped to a five-month high in
January, adding to signs that  Europe ’s largest economy may be
coping with the debt crisis and could avoid a deep recession. At
the same time, the government and the  International Monetary
Fund  have reduced their 2012 growth forecasts as budget cuts
across the 17-nation currency area damp demand for  Germany ’s
goods in its biggest export market.  Orders from euro-region nations fell 6.8 percent in the
month, today’s report showed. Domestic orders slipped 1.4
percent. Orders from outside the euro area jumped 12.3 percent,
more than compensating for their 10 percent decline in November.
Demand for investment goods rose 2.8 percent in December and
orders for  consumer goods  increased 1.9 percent.  Growth in China  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3055 at 12:30 a.m. in  Frankfurt  for a decline of 0.8 percent
today. European stocks dropped, with the  Stoxx Europe 600  Index
trimming a six-month high, as  Greece  struggled to reach a deal
with its international creditors to avoid default. U.S. index
futures fell, while Asian shares rose.  China ’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half if
Europe’s debt crisis worsens, a scenario that would warrant
“significant” fiscal stimulus from the nation’s government,
the IMF said in a report today.  Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy, China’s growth could drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection, which is for 8.2
percent this year, the organization said in a report released by
its China office in Beijing.  In the U.S., the trade deficit probably widened in December
to a six-month high as imports climbed faster than exports,
economists said a report this week will show.  Fourth-Quarter Contraction  From a year ago, German factory orders were unchanged in
December when adjusted for work days. The Economy Ministry said
orders fell 1.4 percent in the fourth quarter of last year from
the third.  Siemens AG , Germany’s largest engineering company, reported
fiscal first-quarter earnings on Jan. 24 that missed analysts’
estimates and warned that its profit targets for this year have
become more challenging to reach.  The IMF on Jan. 24 cut its forecast for German growth this
year by one percentage point to 0.3 percent, citing a growing
threat of recession across the single currency area.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said that view is “too
pessimistic.” The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts 0.6
percent growth for 2012.  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s biggest car-parts supplier,
said on Jan. 25 that revenue rose 8.8 percent last year, driven
by expansion in its home European markets. The Stuttgart-based
manufacturer forecasts sales growth of between 3 percent and 5
percent in 2012.  Investor Confidence  European investor confidence rose to a seven-month high in
February, the Sentix research institute said today. In December,
the  European Central Bank  lent euro-area banks 489 billion euros
for up to three years in an effort to unlock freezing credit
markets.  Since then, money-market rates and the yields on Spanish
and Italian government debt have fallen, signaling the debt
crisis may be easing.  “We’re seeing stabilization on all fronts,” said Jana Meier, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in
Dusseldorf, Germany. “The risk for the German economy is that
governments across the euro area implement additional austerity
measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  