-- German Workers Demand 6.5% Raise as Siemens Sees Recession
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-07T15:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/german-workers-demand-6-5-raise-as-siemens-predicts-recession.html
Two years of minimal wage increases
have left Christoph Schoenau, a metallographer for auto and
aircraft component maker  GKN Plc  at a factory near  Frankfurt ,
feeling left out of  Germany ’s economic rebound.  Schoenau, 39, is one of 3.6 million workers in the metal
and electrical industries clamoring for as much as 6.5 percent
more in their paychecks when unions lock horns with employers
next month. That’s after Germany’s economy, the largest in
 Europe , registered 3 percent  annual growth  last year and 3.7
percent the year before, the most since German reunification.  As manufacturers from  BASF SE  to  Volkswagen AG  prepare to
report a surge in 2011 earnings, workers are calling for a
bigger share of the spoils. Employers contend that raising costs
above productivity gains would hurt Germany’s competitive
advantage as Europe risks slipping back into recession.  “There’s always a reason why labor representatives are
pressed to hold back,” said Schoenau, who checks the quality of
axle components for cars in Offenbach. “Regardless of whether
we are in a recession, or at the beginning or the middle of a
recovery, employers always say that there is no room for a
decent wage increase.”  The last agreement between the  IG Metall  union, of which
Schoenau is a member, and employer representatives for the metal
and electrical industry was in May 2010. It produced a one-time
payment of 320 euros ($420), with a 2.7 percent pay increase
delayed until April 2011. The accord runs out at the end of
March, with talks for a new deal starting next month.  ‘Fair Increase’  “Workers more than deserve a fair increase in wages,” IG
Metall Chairman Berthold Huber said at a press conference in
Frankfurt today, where the union presented its wage
recommendation to the regional negotiation groups.  The duration of accords is typically used as a bargaining
tool by both sides, and agreements in the past have run anything
from 12 to 36 months, according to IG Metall. The union is
seeking a fresh accord well into next year, and both sides
remain bound to a truce agreement until the end of April before
any labor strike could take place.  “We are under pressure from our membership because they
went through two years of low wage increases and demands from
management for salary reductions because of the crisis,”
Christian Brunkhorst, an IG Metall board member, said in an
interview. “They see that German companies are doing pretty
well and make extra profits with overtime work and weekend
shifts.”  Balancing Requirements  Even though the union has to balance the short-term demands
of the workforce with the long-term requirement of the company
to remain competitive, it may still demand more than in the past
because of the “excellent situation of the companies,” said
Brunkhorst, who is responsible for the automotive sector of the
trade union’s policy department.  Germany’s VDMA machinery-manufacturers association said the
union’s demands are “far from reality” and today predicted
order intake for plant and machinery equipment in the country
will fall further in the months to come, following double-digit
declines in November and December.  Carmakers including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and
 Volkswagen  are expected to post record earnings for 2011 next
month as demand for their vehicles climbs in  China  and spending
recovers in the U.S.  Linde AG , the world’s second-largest
industrial gas maker, is expected on March 9 to post record
pretax profit, according to analyst estimates.  Siemens AG ,
Europe’s largest engineer, is sitting on a record order book.  German Exports  German exports probably exceeded 1 trillion euros for the
first time last year as demand from developing states offset
waning sales in Europe, the Berlin-based BGA Exporters and
Wholesalers group said in November.  GEA Group AG  on Feb. 6 said operating profit last year was
the highest in more than 10 years and it expects sales and
profitability to rise further this year.  MTU Aero Engines AG  is
scheduled on Feb 23 to report the highest annual pretax profit
since the company was listed, according to analyst estimates.  German unemployment dropped to a two-decade low in January,
bolstering economic growth as the sovereign-debt crisis prompted
companies from  Spain  to Greece to cut jobs. Germany’s economic
expansion has helped soften a slowdown across the region as
companies boost output and hiring.  Still, Europe’s largest economy is cooling as slower global
growth and weaker demand from debt-stricken euro-area neighbors
erode sales.  Siemens  said last month that meeting targets for
this year has become harder and it predicted that Europe will
slip into recession.  Employers’ View  “We know the sword of Damocles pertaining to economic
development,”  Martin Kannegiesser , president of the
Gesamtmetall employers’ association, said in a statement on the
group’s website. “I’m sure we’ll see higher wages but one
should not expect that the sky should be the limit.”  BASF , scheduled to report annual earnings on Feb. 24, may
post an 8.3 percent increase in earnings before interest and
taxes, the highest operating profit in the company’s 146-year
history. Still, the BAVC chemical manufacturing employers
association urged restraint before it starts negotiations with
union representatives next month.  “Last year we agreed on the highest increase in Germany
with 4.1 percent,” said Sebastian Kautzky, spokesman for the
BAVC. “Now it’s about the future economic development. I hope
that the unions take the economic reality of 2012 into account
when considering their demands.”  Wages Versus Inflation  Average gross pay per hour stagnated while inflation rose
1.2 percent in 2010, and pay gained 2.8 percent with inflation
at 2.5 percent last year, according to the Federal Statistics
Office. Germany may avoid a recession as the low level of
unemployment supports consumer spending, economists including
Aline Schuiling at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam said last month.  Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover, said he
also isn’t expecting a recession in Germany and that higher
wages would boost domestic demand, which was the main driver of
the economy last year. Average wage increases will probably come
in at about 3 1/2 or 4 percent although it will be different
from industry to industry, he predicted.  “Wage increases this year could reasonably be a bit
juicier than in the past,” Kramer said. “It’s justified
because the wage cost development in Germany has been extremely
cheap.”  Outpacing Germany  Increases in employment costs of all euro nations outpaced
Germany’s in the decade through 2010. German hourly labor costs
rose an average 1.7 percent per year, while they jumped 2.9
percent in  Portugal , 3.2 percent in  Italy , 3.4 percent in  Greece 
and 4.1 percent in Spain, the labor union-affiliated IMK
institute in Dusseldorf said Dec. 12. The figures were based on
calculations from Eurostat, the EU statistics agency.  Schoenau, the worker for GKN, said that although he’s weary
of excuses from executives to avoid a boost in pay, he hasn’t
given up. His union has indicated it’s ready to support workers
should they decide to take the battle to the streets.  “Our strike fund is nice and full,” said Detlef Wetzel,
vice chairman of IG Metall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  