-- German Factory Orders Gained in December on Demand From Abroad
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-06T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/german-factory-orders-gained-in-december-on-demand-from-abroad.html
German factory orders rose in
December, driven solely by demand from outside the euro area.  Orders (GRIORTMM) , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, rose
1.7 percent from November, when they slumped 4.9 percent, the
 Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists forecast an
increase of 1 percent, according to the median of 36 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . From a year ago,  orders  were
unchanged in December when adjusted for work days.  German  business confidence  jumped to a five-month high in
January, adding to signs that  Europe ’s largest economy may be
weathering the region’s debt crisis and could avoid a deep
recession. At the same time, the government and the
 International Monetary Fund  have reduced their 2012 growth
forecasts as budget cuts across the 17-nation currency area damp
demand for  Germany ’s goods in its biggest export market.  “We’re seeing stabilization on all fronts,” said Jana Meier, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in
Dusseldorf, Germany. “The risk for the German economy is that
governments across the euro area implement additional austerity
measures.”  Orders from euro-region nations fell 6.8 percent in the
month, today’s report showed. Domestic orders slipped 1.4
percent. Orders from outside the euro area jumped 12.3 percent,
more than compensating for their 10 percent decline in November.
Demand for investment goods rose 2.8 percent in December and
orders for  consumer goods  increased 1.9 percent.  Fourth-Quarter Contraction  The Economy Ministry said orders fell 1.4 percent in the
fourth quarter of last year from the third.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Germany’s largest engineering company, reported
fiscal first-quarter earnings on Jan. 24 that missed analysts’
estimates and warned that its profit targets for this year have
become more challenging to reach.  The IMF on Jan. 24 cut its forecast for German growth this
year by one percentage point to 0.3 percent, citing a growing
threat of recession across the single currency area.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said that view is “too
pessimistic.” The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts 0.6
percent growth for 2012.  Robert Bosch GmbH (RBOS) , the world’s biggest car-parts supplier,
said on Jan. 25 that revenue rose 8.8 percent last year, driven
by expansion in its home European markets. The Stuttgart-based
manufacturer forecasts sales growth of between 3 percent and 5
percent in 2012.  European investor confidence rose to a seven-month high in
February, the Sentix research institute said today. In December,
the  European Central Bank  lent euro-area banks 489 billion euros
($638 billion) for up to three years in an effort to unlock
freezing credit markets.  Since then money-market rates and the yields on Spanish and
Italian government debt have fallen, signaling the sovereign
debt crisis may be easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  