-- New York Giants Ride Salsa Dancer Cruz’s Second Chance to Super Bowl Title
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-06T06:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/giants-ride-salsa-dancer-s-second-chance-to-super-bowl-victory.html
Pamela Marsh-Williams considers
herself an expert on the academic, not the athletic. Yet the
assistant provost and dean for undergraduate advising at the
 University of Massachusetts  said she knew what the outcome would
be when the  New England Patriots  gave Victor Cruz a second
chance in the  Super Bowl .  “You should know, everyone should know, that Victor has
the skill and determination to do what is needed to get the job
done,” Marsh-Williams said via telephone from her Amherst,
Massachusetts, home minutes after Cruz’s New York Giants
defeated the New England Patriots, 21-17, in the Super Bowl.  New York’s first seven points were the product of a tight
spiral from Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Eli Manning to Cruz,
who again got there the hard way.  Cruz had the football in his hands, and then he didn’t. The
Giants were driving when his first-quarter fumble at Lucas Oil
Stadium in Indianapolis was recovered by the Patriots.  This time, Cruz, 25, got a reprieve. It was a second chance 
born from a too-many-men-on-the-field penalty against the 
usually disciplined Patriots.  Two plays, two yards and a quick slant later and Cruz was
in the end zone, displaying his signature salsa celebration
dance.  “I was so happy when Victor scored,” said Marsh-Williams,
whose rooting interest was divided between Cruz and Patriots
safety James Ihedigbo, also a former UMass player who was
covering Cruz on the touchdown play. “It’s an extraordinary
story.”  Cruz, a second-year wide receiver at UMass, ran into
academic trouble: He was not only kicked off the football team,
but dismissed from the university for failing to meet academic
standards.  Meeting With Mom  The player scheduled a meeting with Marsh-Williams, whose
job it was to inform Cruz and his mother, Blanca, who had driven
from her Paterson,  New Jersey , home that the decision was final.  “I felt badly for his mother,” Marsh-Williams said. “She
was literally distraught and felt that her son had let her down.
Never did I think he’d come back.”  He did make it back, taking a circuitous route to the
 National Football League  via Passaic County Community College.
When asked about the meeting with Marsh-Williams, Cruz last week
recounted it in detail. He remembered his mother’s anguish most
of all. And then he parroted the educator’s message.  “A real hard-nosed person,” said Cruz, who finished the
Super Bowl with four catches, including the touchdown.  Taking Responsibility  Marsh-Williams told Cruz to grow up and take responsibility,
to reassess the opportunity he’d been given to get an education.
Mostly, however, she pressed Cruz to consider the sacrifices
made by his mother, the woman who feared that absent a college
degree he’d wind up back in Paterson, where, as he put it,
opportunity doesn’t always knock.  “It was time to stop making excuses,” said Cruz, who
joined the Giants as an undrafted free agent.  Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said neither he nor his
scouts saw anything special in Cruz.  “Just a local free agent, that’s all,” Reese said.
“Anyone who tries to tell you differently is lying.”  Cruz developed into one of Manning’s favorite targets
this season. He caught a team-leading 82 passes for a Giants-
best 1,536 yards and nine touchdowns, each of them followed by a
salsa as a tribute to his mother’s Puerto Rican heritage.  Cruz, who turned down an invitation to appear on the
television program “Dancing with the Stars,” instead has the
stars talking about his dancing.  During her press conference this week Madonna, who
performed at halftime, said she was inspired by Cruz.  Educator’s Reaction  As for Marsh-Williams, whose nerves wouldn’t allow her to
watch the waning minutes of the Super Bowl, she’s happy to have
played a role in helping to mold the man more than the receiver.  She said she wants the story of Cruz to be told. Again and
again.  “I’m certain that more and more players, more and more
kids, will put the work in on the field and off the field,” she
said. “I never thought he’d make it back to school. Look at him
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
NI NFL
NI IN
NI PATRIOTS
NI MA
NI NFLGIANTS
NI NY 