-- Giants Beat Patriots 21-17 to Win Fourth Title
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-06T05:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/giants-beat-patriots-21-17-to-win-fourth-title.html
The  New York Giants  capped their
season of comebacks with one final highlight, scoring a last-
minute touchdown to beat the New England Patriots 21-17 for
their fourth Super Bowl title and second in five seasons.  Ahmad Bradshaw  had a 6-yard touchdown run with 57 seconds
left for the Giants in the  National Football League ’s
championship game at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis. Eli Manning passed for 296 yards, one touchdown and engineered his
seventh fourth-quarter comeback of the season in being named
Super Bowl Most Valuable Player for the second time.  The Giants, who were 7-7 and in danger of missing the
playoffs less than two months ago, scored the game’s final 12
points to erase a 17-9 deficit. They finish this season with a
13-7 record -- the most losses for a  Super Bowl  champion -- and
their victory concludes an NFL season that was threatened by a
labor dispute before setting television ratings records.  “It’s been a wild game, a wild season, but we have a great
bunch of guys who never quit and have great faith in each
other,” Manning, 31, said as he received the championship trophy.  The Patriots’ 10-game winning streak ended as they were
denied a fourth Super Bowl title during the tenure of coach  Bill Belichick  and quarterback  Tom Brady . New England (15-4) reached
midfield on the final drive before Brady’s final pass fell
incomplete in the end zone as time expired.  “It always comes down to one or two plays in this game,”
Brady said. “If you make it you’re celebrating. If you don’t,
you don’t sleep for a week.”  2007 Memories  The Giants’ victory was reminiscent of their Super Bowl
upset of the Patriots after the 2007 season, when Manning threw
the winning touchdown pass with 35 seconds left to deny  New
England  a 19-0 season.  Both games featured an improbable catch in the closing
minutes. Four years ago it was David Tyree’s third-down grab
against his helmet and last night it was  Mario Manningham 
hauling in a 38-yard catch along the sideline amid double
coverage that sparked the winning drive.  “The longer you play you get in these situations and you
have great confidence,” Manning, who completed 30 of 40 passes,
said after engineering his fifth career fourth-quarter winning
drive in the postseason. “You just have a desire and a will to
get it done.”  In leading the Giants to a second Super Bowl upset of the
Patriots, Manning joins Brady and  Ben Roethlisberger  of the
Pittsburgh Steelers as the only active quarterbacks with
multiple championships. He now has one more Super Bowl title
than older brother Peyton, with this win coming in the city
where Peyton has spent the past 14 years, winning four NFL MVP
awards with the Colts.  Oldest Coach  Tom Coughlin becomes the oldest coach to win a Super Bowl
at 65, and his second title matches the achievement of former
Giants coach Bill Parcells. Coughlin is the 13th NFL coach with
at least two Super Bowl wins and seven are in the Hall of Fame.  “What I was interested in was this team making history for
themselves, not to be compared any further with the ‘07-’08
team,” Coughlin said. “We’re very proud of the ‘07-’08 team,
but for these guys there are so many newcomers, so many veteran
guys that had never been in a Super Bowl, that this was a
wonderful thing to carve their own history.”  New York , which also won Super Bowl titles after 1986 and
1990 seasons, was a three-point underdog against the Patriots.  The Giants are the first team to win the Super Bowl after
having a four-game losing streak during the regular season. New
York lost five of six games in one stretch to fall to 7-7,
leaving them with a 28 percent chance of making the playoffs,
according to oddsmakers.  Six Straight Wins  The Giants then beat the  New York Jets  and  Dallas Cowboys 
to finish the regular season and become the first team to win
the  National Football Conference ’s East division title with
fewer than 10 wins.  New York followed with playoff wins over the  Atlanta
Falcons , the 15-1  Green Bay Packers  and  San Francisco 49ers  to
set up a Super Bowl rematch with the Patriots.  The Giants’ resolve was on display one last time last night
in Indianapolis, said defensive tackle  Justin Tuck , who had two
sacks against Brady.  “I don’t think I could have wrote a better script than
this one,” Tuck told reporters. “We’ve talked about it all
year, and it’s just fitting that it came down to a final drive
by Eli and a closing out by our defense.”  Giants’ Safety  Tuck helped the Giants take a 2-0 first-quarter lead when
his pressure led to a safety, with Brady getting flagged for
intentional grounding in the end zone on New England’s first
offensive play. It was the sixth safety in Super Bowl history
and the first since 2009.  New York pushed its lead to 9-0 with 3:29 left in the
opening quarter as  Victor Cruz  made a juggling grab on a 2-yard
touchdown pass from Manning. Calls of “Cruz” echoed through
the stadium as the wide receiver, who led the Giants with 1,536
receiving yards this season, popped to his feet and did a short
celebratory salsa dance.  The Patriots pulled within 9-3 on a 29-yard field goal by
Stephen Gostkowski with 13:52 left in the second quarter. New
England ended the half with a 96-yard drive that matched the
longest in Super Bowl history. Brady completed all 10 of his
passes on the drive, including a 4-yarder to Danny Woodhead, who
scored his first receiving touchdown of the season.  New England extended its lead to 17-9 as Brady, who set a
Super Bowl record by completing 16 consecutive passes, threw a
12-yard touchdown pass to tight end Aaron Hernandez on the
opening drive of the second half.  The Giants responded with field goals of 38 and 33 yards by
 Lawrence Tynes , pulling within 17-15 entering the final quarter.  Manning to Manningham  With 3:46 remaining, Manning lofted a deep pass along the
sideline to Manningham, who just got his feet in bounds for a
38-yard completion, the longest play of the game. Coughlin said
it was a catch that will earn a spot alongside Tyree’s Super
Bowl grab in Giants’ lore.  “The way he kept his feet in bounds and hung on to the
ball was a remarkable thing,” Coughlin said. “Of course
David’s is forever etched in history, that’s never going to
change. This just continues along that fashion.”  The Giants got to the Patriots’ 6-yard line with under a
minute left, when Bradshaw burst up the middle and tried to stop
just before the goal line. His momentum carried him over the
line backwards, preventing the Giants from running the remaining
time off the clock and trying a short field goal as time expired.
The score gave the ball back to the Patriots.  First Loss Since November  New England hadn’t lost since Week 9, when it was beaten at
home by the Giants 24-20.  The Patriots, who won Super Bowl titles after the 2001,
2003 and 2004 seasons, have now lost their past two appearances
in the championship game.  The five Super Bowl appearances for Belichick and Brady are
the most for a coach-quarterback combination. The duo had
previously been tied with Hall of Famers Tom Landry and Roger
Staubach of  Dallas , Chuck Noll and Terry Bradshaw of Pittsburgh,
and Marv Levy and Jim Kelly of Buffalo. Brady’s five Super Bowl
starts tied John Elway for the most by a quarterback.  “We just didn’t make enough plays,” said 2002 and 2004
MVP Brady, who completed 27 of 41 passes for 276 yards, two
touchdowns and an interception. “Eli has had a great season and
he made some great throws in the fourth quarter and they
deserved to win.”  Labor Agreement  One month before the opening week of the regular season,
the NFL and its players completed a 10-year labor agreement that
ended a 4 1/2-month lockout and allowed the U.S.’s richest and
most popular sports league to reopen for business.  The league’s popularity was evident during the postseason,
when ratings for playoff games reached historic levels. An
average of 53.7 million viewers watched this year’s conference
title games, the most since 1982, the NFL said.  The Super Bowl was projected to be the most-watched program
in U.S. television history, according to industry analysts,
surpassing the record 111 million viewers for last year’s game
between the Packers and Steelers.  “I thought four years ago was exciting; that was a dress
rehearsal,” Giants co-owner Steve Tisch said during the post-
game celebration. “This was one of the greatest football games
I’ve ever seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  