-- Gingrich Drops Court Bid to Get on Virginia Ballot
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T20:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/gingrich-drops-court-bid-to-get-on-virginia-super-tuesday-primary-ballot.html
Newt Gingrich , who is seeking the
Republican Party’s nomination for president, dropped his court
bid to be added to  Virginia ’s primary ballot.  Gingrich, the former speaker of the  House of
Representatives , asked the U.S. Appeals Court in Richmond,
Virginia, today to dismiss his case challenging the state’s
primary rules.  Gingrich “has voluntarily dismissed his claims pending in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia,”
according to the two-page filing. “Accordingly, this matter is
moot.”  A three-judge appeals panel last month rejected a request
from  Texas  Governor Rick Perry and Gingrich to block the state
from printing ballots and distributing absentee ballots for the
March 6 primary while their appeals seeking to be included on
the ballots were pending.  The candidates challenged a Virginia law requiring that
people gathering signatures for a candidate’s petition to appear
on the ballot be eligible to vote in the state. The candidates
said the rule violates their rights under the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution.  Mitt Romney , the former governor of Massachusetts, and U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas are the only Republicans to
make it onto the ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called
Super Tuesday.  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail message seeking comment on the court filing.  The district court case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).
The appeal is Perry v. Judd, 12-1067, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  