-- Glencore Gets Free Ship With a Fuel Discount as Charter Rates Go Negative
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-06T18:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/glencore-hires-grain-carrier-at-minus-2-000-a-day-global-marine-says.html
Glencore International Plc  paid
nothing to hire a dry-bulk ship with the vessel’s operator
paying $2,000 a day of the trader’s fuel costs after freight
rates plunged to all-time lows.  Glencore chartered the vessel, operated by Global Maritime
Investments Ltd., a Cyprus-based company with offices in London,
Steve Rodley, GMI’s U.K. managing director, said by phone today.
The daily payments last the first 60 days of the charter, Rodley
said. The vessel will haul a cargo of grains to  Europe , putting
the carrier in a better position for its next shipment, he said.  “Our other option was to stay in the Pacific and earn poor
revenues or ballast to the Atlantic and pay the fuel
ourselves,” Rodley said. Ballasting refers to sailing without a
cargo. Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore, declined to
comment in an e-mailed response to questions.  The  Baltic Dry Index , a measure of commodity shipping
costs, advanced 1 point to 648 points today, rising from the
lowest since August 1986 on Feb. 3. Owners and operators of
vessels are paying as much as $50,000 a day in fuel to travel to
ports to win work, or agreeing rates at zero cost as rates fall
to records.  Australian Grain  Charters for the so-called backhaul routes that reposition
ships to the Atlantic Ocean region from the Pacific are falling
to the lowest since indexes started, exchange data show. Rents
for  Capesize  ships that haul ore and grain on backhaul routes
were at minus $7,342 a day, the lowest since that index began in
1999, exchange data show.  GMI will pay Glencore as the Panamax-sized vessel travels
from near the coast of Yosu,  South Korea  to  Australia  to load
grain, reverting to a daily rate linked to a  Baltic Exchange 
index level once the 60 days expired.  Details about the ship hire were included in a list of
vessels charters published daily by the Baltic Exchange, the
London-based assessor of freight costs. This is the first time
the exchange has published vessel charters with rates at less
than zero, said Derek Prentis, 86, the exchange’s longest-
serving member.  Quarter Century  D/S Norden A/S , Europe’s biggest publicly trading commodity
shipping company, said Feb. 3 it hired a Supramax vessel at no
cost other than fuel charges, its first such transaction in a
quarter century.  Supramax vessels carry about 25 percent less than Panamax
ships. Hire costs for the dry bulk fleet of more than 8,900
vessels are falling as new vessels entering service outpace
demand to carry commodities in bulk. The fleet is forecast to
swell by 12 percent while demand growth rises three percent to
3.7 billion metric tons in 2012, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  