-- Glencore Bonds Show Xstrata Merger to Lower Debt Rates: Corporate Finance
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-06T14:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/glencore-debt-shows-merger-will-reduce-rates-corporate-finance.html
Glencore International Plc  debt
investors are betting that an $88 billion merger with miner
 Xstrata Plc  would lead to lower borrowing costs.  Glencore credit-default swaps have fallen more than any
other European contracts this past month, beating Italian banks
UniCredit SpA and Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA. The cost of
insuring debt of the world’s largest listed commodity trader
plunged 53 percent to 217 basis points since Jan. 3, with the
rally accelerating last week, according to CMA prices.  Investors are gaining confidence that an all-share merger,
which would give Glencore coal, copper and nickel mines from
 Africa  to  Asia , will mean the trader’s  BBB  rating at  Standard &
Poor’s  will rise to meet Xstrata’s BBB+ grade. The yield on
Glencore’s 1.25 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of 5.25 percent
2017 bonds fell 0.5 percentage point since the talks were
announced on Feb. 2. to a record 3.83 percent, BNP Paribas SA
prices show.  “Given the synergies between the companies and the sheer
scale, it’s got to be a positive for the combined credit,” said
Patrick McCullagh, the head of European credit research at
Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in  London , which oversees
$63 billion of bonds. “When you match them together, it’s
something of a juggernaut, and that’s got to be respected by the
rating agencies.”  Swap Gap  The gap between credit-default swaps on Glencore and
Xstrata narrowed to an eight-month low of 51 basis points, from
211 at the start of the year, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, and Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Xstrata in London,
declined to comment.  Glencore trades commodities such as coal and oil and owns
mines, factories and warehouses. The company, which changed its
name after management bought out former U.S. fugitive  Marc Rich 
in 1994, undertook a $10 billion initial public offering in May.  It already holds a  34 percent stake  in Xstrata. Combining
them would form a company valued at about 56 billion pounds ($88
billion) and re-unite two groups that were separated a decade
ago when Xstrata, the biggest exporter of coal burned by power
stations, acquired Glencore mining assets.  Glencore may have to offer three of its shares for each
one in Xstrata. It has until March 1 to make a formal bid.  Glencore  fell 18.5 pence, or 3.8 percent, to 464.1 pence at
2:03 p.m. in London trading. That’s the biggest drop since Nov.
21. The company’s shares climbed to the highest in more than six
months at the end of last week.  Trading Closer  Glencore’s bonds are trading closer to those of similarly
rated peers since the merger talks were announced. The yield on
its 2017 note shrank to within 306 basis points of benchmark
 government bonds , from 619 on Oct. 4, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices show. That compares with the average 237 basis-point
spread for notes in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates, Industrials, BBB Rated Index, which includes
Glencore securities.  “Glencore bonds are coming in on the idea they could move
from being a commodities player to being a mining entity,” said
Michael Ridley, an energy and utilities credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. “Glencore plus Xstrata has lower
business risk than Glencore on its own.”  Glencore has $9.2 billion of bonds denominated in dollars,
euros, pounds and Swiss francs  outstanding , including $1 billion
due in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net Debt  Net debt fell to $8.3 billion as of June 30, from $14.8
billion at the end of 2010, Glencore said Aug. 25. It had  net
debt  of 1.12 times adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in June, down from 2.38 times a
year earlier.  A merger would create a “mining and trading powerhouse”
that would be credit-positive for both companies, particularly
Glencore, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report today.
“Xstrata currently has less debt and is more cash-generative
than Glencore because mining is a higher-margin business than
trading,” according to the report.  Glencore credit-default swaps declined 37 percent last week
on reports of the merger. That compares with a 13 percent drop
in contracts tied to Xstrata’s debt, CMA prices show.  Independent debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. estimated
in a Feb. 3 report that the combined company would have sales of
$200 billion,  cash flow  of $17 billion and net debt of $20.2
billion, if the transaction was financed with stock.  ‘Healthy Credit’  “Given the significant funding needs” of Glencore’s
“trading business, the combined company will likely look to
keep a healthy credit profile, which reduces the risk of
dropping into high yield over the long-term” CreditSights
analysts said in the report.  While the credit rating implied by Glencore’s default swaps
is improving, it’s still below the trader’s actual grade. The
implied rating was Ba2 on Feb. 1, the last date for which
Moody’s Analytics has data, up from Ba3 on Jan. 13.  Junk, or speculative-grade, companies are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Glencore  has never lost its
investment-grade status at either ratings company.  “Glencore, which is the weaker-rated company of the two,
is now tightening versus Xstrata,” said  Maureen Schuller , a
credit strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The market has
started pricing in that the credit ratings between the two
companies will converge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  