-- GM Seeks Volt Sales Boost From Super Bowl Advertisement, Carpool Lanes
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-06T21:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/gm-seeks-volt-boost-from-california-carpool-lanes-super-bowl-ad.html
General Motors Co.  wants its plug-in
Chevrolet Volt, stung by safety concerns, to get a sales boost
from a version due next month that lets solo California drivers
use carpool lanes and a  Super Bowl  ad touting its technology.  A modified version for California, the biggest market for
alternative power autos, should be selling there “by early
March,” according to Alan Batey, vice president of Chevrolet
sales and service.  “Our biggest opportunity is seats in seats,” Batey said
in a Feb. 3 interview in  Las Vegas  at a J.D. Power & Associates
conference. “When people drive the car, they’re wowed by it.”  Sales of the Volt, which can go more than 30 miles on its
lithium-ion battery pack before a gasoline engine powers it,
totaled 603 last month, fewer than half the 1,529 Detroit-based
GM sold in December. The drop came after U.S. regulators late
last year said they were reviewing the car after a fire caused
by a Volt battery pack damaged in a government crash test.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said in
December it was satisfied with modifications GM made to
strengthen the vehicle’s frame that protects the Volt’s battery
in case of a collision. Scrutiny of the car caused “collateral
damage,” GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told reporters
Jan. 25 in  Washington .  To help U.S. customers understand plug-ins, GM yesterday
aired a commercial before the Super Bowl, the year’s most
watched U.S. television event, in which a Volt owner explains
how the car works to visiting aliens.  Explaining the Volt  “Our job is to make sure we explain the technology,”
Batey said. “A lot of American consumers really don’t know how
we’re able to achieve the extended range.”  GM last year set a target of selling 45,000 Volts in the
U.S. this year. For now, “we’re not making any predictions,”
Batey said. “We’re going to balance supply and demand.”  While the Volt has been sold since December 2010, its
warranty and emissions rating initially didn’t meet  California ’s
zero-emission vehicle rules. That prevented the car from winning
the state’s coveted “high-occupancy vehicle” sticker, allowing
individual drivers of low-pollution cars into carpool lanes.  Production of Volts modified for California begins this
month, Batey said. It arrives as  Toyota Motor Corp.  also begins
selling a plug-in version of its Prius hybrid in the state next
month, which goes about 15 miles per charge.  “To a specific subgroup of consumers in Los Angeles and
 San Francisco , where congestion is particularly bad, that
carpool lane sticker has great value,” said John O’Dell, senior
editor for advanced vehicles at Edmunds.com in  Santa Monica ,
California. “It’s certainly going to help them in California.”  The Toyota model has a base price of about $32,000, before
a $2,500 federal tax credit. The Volt starts at $39,195 and
qualifies for a $7,500 credit, owing to a larger battery.  GM rose 2 percent to $26.70 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles , California, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  