-- Google Loses Bid to Exclude E-Mail From Oracle Trial
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-06T18:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/google-loses-bid-to-exclude-e-mail-from-oracle-patent-trial.html
Google Inc., fighting a patent
lawsuit filed by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , lost its appeals court bid to
keep secret an engineer’s e-mail that says the Web search
company should negotiate a license for Java technology.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  today denied Google’s request to overturn a judge’s
order that the information could be presented to a jury when the
case goes to trial. Tim Lindholm wrote the e-mail in August
2010, days before Oracle alleged in a lawsuit that Google’s
Android operating system had been designed using patented and
copyrighted features of Oracle’s Java programming language.  Lindholm’s e-mail was related to an effort by the company
and its lawyers to formulate a response to Oracle’s allegations
and is protected by attorney-client privilege,  Mountain View ,
California-based Google argued. The Federal Circuit disagreed,
saying that Lindholm’s e-mail states “he was responding to a
request from Google’s management, not Google’s attorneys.”  “The e-mail’s discussion is directed at a negotiation
strategy as opposed” to a legal strategy, Circuit Judge Alan Lourie wrote for the three-judge panel. “The e-mail does not
evidence any sort of infringement or invalidity analysis.”  In the e-mail to Andrew Rubin, the executive in charge of
Google’s mobile division, Lindholm said he was asked by company
co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to “investigate what
technical alternatives exist to Java for Android and Chrome.”  “We’ve been over a bunch of these, and think they all
suck,” Lindholm wrote. “We conclude that we need to negotiate
a license for Java under the terms we need.”  Google said the e-mail was mistakenly disclosed to Oracle.  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , has said it’s
seeking at least $1 billion in damages. U.S. District Judge
William Alsup in  San Francisco  has rejected earlier versions of
how Oracle calculated the damages estimate.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  