-- Gorman Embracing Vegemite in New Wall Street’s 15% Bogey at Morgan Stanley
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/gorman-embracing-vegemite-in-new-wall-street-s-15-bogey-at-morgan-stanley.html
James Gorman strides across the stage
of the auditorium on the top floor of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Times
Square headquarters. It’s late October, and he’s in the midst of
the second investor revolt he’s been through in three years --
the first one coming during the financial upheaval of 2008.  Morgan Stanley’s chief executive officer, a 53-year-old
Australian, is addressing employees a day after the bank
released its  earnings . And he has just finished a media blitz to
ward off persistent rumors that Morgan Stanley is heavily
exposed to shaky European debt. The whispers, which the bank has
denied, have helped drive its stock down almost 50 percent over
the course of 10 weeks, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its March issue.  Gorman asks managing director Tom Wipf, a 25-year Morgan
Stanley veteran who’s in the audience, if he felt the strain as
the firm’s shares dropped below $12 a share. Wipf shakes his
head from side to side.  “That’s right; you’re battle-hardened,” Gorman says.
“You’ve seen real stress.” Gorman turns to the standing-room
crowd. “For those of us who lived through the last crisis, that
was real stress.”  That a 50 percent share-price  drop  in a little more than
two months doesn’t trigger real stress says a lot about the past
few years for Morgan Stanley. The 77-year-old investment bank
has proved it can survive under the worst circumstances.  Warding Off Collapse  In 2008, the bank, then headed by  John Mack , warded off
collapse by taking more than $100 billion in Federal Reserve
loans in the two weeks after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
failed -- and by selling more than 20 percent of itself to
Japan’s  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.   Now, Gorman, who came to Morgan Stanley in 2006 as head of
its brokerage after holding the same job at Merrill Lynch & Co.,
must show that the bank can make money at a time when investment
banks are constrained by roiled markets, sharply reduced trading
and deal volume and new regulations that have banned most
proprietary trading.  At the same time, investors frightened by the potential
unraveling of the  euro zone  are shunning bank shares. Revenue
and profits are down and so is compensation -- including
Gorman’s, which fell 25 percent in 2011 from the previous year.  In December, Gorman completed his second year as CEO, and
on Jan. 1 the  board of directors  handed him the job of chairman
after Mack stepped down from a role he had held since 2005. To
put five years of writedowns and government bailouts behind him,
Gorman is unloading unprofitable investments and expanding in
relatively low-risk areas such as currency trading. He has
abolished the bank’s proprietary-trading operations, built up a
$54 billion capital cushion and sharply reduced leverage.  Assets Plunge  Assets on the firm’s  balance sheet  have plunged to $750
billion at the end of 2011 from $1.2 trillion at their 2007
peak, as Mack and Gorman sold off assets, including the Van
Kampen group of mutual funds and a stake in a hedge fund called
FrontPoint.  Gorman has reorganized the firm around three businesses:
wealth management, investment banking and trading, and he has
set a target of 15 percent return on equity -- modest compared
with the 23 percent the bank earned in 2006.  The bank’s ROE in 2011 was 4 percent.  “We’ve been among the most aggressive in repositioning our
firm,” Gorman, wearing a gray suit with blue pinstripes, says in
a conference room down the hall from his office on a rainy
December morning. “All you can do against a backdrop of
uncertainty is build the business as best you can for how you
think the future environment is going to look -- and do so
aggressively.”  Keeping a Checklist  Gorman keeps a handwritten checklist on his desk setting
out tasks to be completed. One of the biggest items on it last
year was closing out the firm’s money-losing exposure to insurer
 MBIA Inc. , which it did in December.  Gorman’s most aggressive move has been to turn back the
clock 15 years and look for profit in his retail brokerage. He
and Mack created a joint venture between the firm’s old Dean
Witter brokerage and  Citigroup Inc. ’s Smith Barney in June 2009
and took a controlling 51 percent stake in the unit, which
Gorman ran before his promotion to CEO.  With 17,000 advisers and $1.65 trillion under management,
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney is now the world’s largest retail
brokerage, surpassing  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch,
which boasts $1.5 trillion. Morgan Stanley in 2011 generated 41
percent of its revenue from that unit compared with 16 percent
in 2006.  Specter of Purcell  The realignment is a belated victory of sorts for  Philip Purcell , the Dean Witter, Discover & Co. CEO who ran Morgan
Stanley for eight years after the two firms merged in 1997.
Mack, who was president under Purcell and headed the investment
bank, resigned in 2001 after he and Purcell clashed.  Mack’s departure was followed by a struggle between
shareholders and management that ended with Purcell’s 2005
ouster and Mack’s triumphant return.  Gorman says he and Mack agreed that bolstering the
brokerage would provide much-needed stability in the wake of
events that brought the bank to its knees. He says it makes even
more sense now, as U.S. and global regulatory agencies impose
new rules and capital requirements that limit banks’ ability to
use leverage to invest billions of their own dollars in
securities such as the risky mortgage-backed debt that drove
profit in the decade prior to 2008.  ‘Balanced Model’  “We have a balanced model of a client-focused, less-
capital-intensive institutional securities business with a
global wealth-management and asset-management business that uses
little capital and carries little risk,” Gorman says. “Over
time, a firm with that mix should trade at a higher multiple
than a traditional bank or a traditional institutional
securities business.”  Gorman has set a target of 20 percent pretax profit on
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which is the bulk of the bank’s
wealth-management division. The unit is run by  Greg Fleming , a
Merrill Lynch veteran whom Gorman hired in 2009.  At the end of 2011, the brokerage was a long way from its
goal. Morgan Stanley reported in January that the brokerage’s
 profit margin  fell to 8 percent in the fourth quarter, down from
12 percent a year earlier. The margin for all of 2011 was 10
percent. Morgan Stanley received $665 million in profit from the
unit in 2011, only 16 percent of the firm’s total.  Unrealized Potential  The brokerage has been held back by delays in the
integration of Dean Witter and Smith Barney technology, Gorman
says, and will prove its worth in the long term.  “The market doesn’t understand the potential of the Smith
Barney acquisition,” he says. “Instead, they’re focused on what
our margins have been in the last financial crisis and during
all the integration.”  It was a dismal fourth quarter for big banks, capping off a
year in which  Europe ’s debt woes and a slowing global economy
drove down deal volumes and trading activity. Mergers and
acquisitions, as measured by deal volume, were down last year by
44 percent, to $2.28 trillion, from their 2007 peak, while U.S.
equity-trading volumes were down 20 percent from 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Morgan Stanley’s main rival, was
hit hard, reporting a third-quarter loss, only its second since
it became a public company in 1999. In January, two of the four
heads of its trading business, Edward Eisler and  David Heller ,
retired.  Trading Swoon  Citigroup last year posted two consecutive quarters in
which it earned less than $300 million in equity-trading
revenue, after regularly generating more than $1 billion before
2008.  Even  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the most profitable of the big
banks since 2008, has fallen back; earnings for the fourth
quarter dropped 23 percent, to $3.73 billion, due to a sharp
fall in income from investment banking and trading.  Revenues from those businesses have slipped just as
dramatically at European banks.  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s fixed-
income trading fell by more than a third in the third quarter
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s equities trading dropped by 38 percent in
the fourth quarter.  The financial firms’ response has been to take a hatchet to
staff and compensation. Banks globally announced more than
230,000 job cuts last year, according to Bloomberg data. Credit
Suisse is likely to suspend its practice, the industry norm, of
automatically boosting pay for junior bankers and traders,
according to people briefed on the plans.  Slashing Pay  For its part, Morgan Stanley said in December it would cut
1,600 jobs, and in January it reduced pay for senior bankers by
20 percent to 30 percent. Among those who took a hit: Gorman
himself, whose compensation package for 2011 totaled $10.5
million, according to people familiar with the decision, a 25
percent drop from the $14 million he was awarded in 2010. He
won’t receive a cash bonus, while 2011 cash bonuses for other
employees were capped at $125,000.  In 2006, cash bonuses for the firm’s top traders and
investment bankers were as high as $12 million.  Gorman has little patience for those who might complain
about the pay cuts.  “You’re naive, read the newspaper, No. 1,” he said he would
tell them, in a January interview with Bloomberg Television.
“No. 2, if you put your compensation in a one-year context to
define your overall level of happiness, you have a problem much
bigger than the job. And No. 3, if you’re really unhappy, just
leave. I mean, life’s too short.”  ‘We’re Stronger’  Gorman hasn’t been able to look to the stock for support of
his decisions. Morgan Stanley shares dropped 44 percent in 2011.  “We’re stronger,” he says of progress made in that year.
“We have $8 billion more capital. We have spun off a bunch of
prop businesses. And we’ve gone down half in value because of
that? Why?”  The stock has rebounded so far in 2012. It’s up 34 percent
through Feb. 3, to $20.31, as U.S. economic growth shows signs
of accelerating and European leaders move closer to a solution
on the region’s debt crisis.  The firm’s shares also got a boost from news that Morgan
Stanley would lead the underwriting of Facebook Inc.’s initial
public offering. The bank’s $20 share price is still well below
its tangible book value of $27.95.  “There’s a little bit of relief,” Gorman said on Jan. 25.
“Europe did not completely collapse. The talks are ongoing.
There seems to be some progress emerging, albeit slowly. There
are signs the  U.S. economy  is doing a little better,
unemployment ticking down.”  Stocks Plunge  Big bank stocks across the landscape had a dreadful 2011.
Bank of America’s  shares  fell 58 percent; Goldman Sachs’s, 46
percent; Citigroup’s, 44 percent;  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s, 27 percent; and
JPMorgan’s, 22 percent.  Gorman doesn’t fit the image of a  Wall Street  titan.
Notwithstanding his $10.5 million pay package, he shows up at
black-tie events in a rumpled tuxedo he bought as a business-
school student in the 1980s. He keeps supplies of  Vegemite  -- a
favorite Australian food that’s made from yeast extract -- in
the executive kitchen and eats it on toast.  He often walks home from his Times Square office to his
Upper East Side townhouse and was spotted on one weekend in a
track suit and sneakers waiting in line at the post office. The
6-foot-3-inch (1.9-meter), 195-pound (88-kilogram) Gorman’s
favorite pastimes include reading John le Carre spy novels and
taking boxing lessons weekly at his gym.  Who’s James Gordon?  Compared with Mack, the Australian was relatively unknown
on Wall Street when he assumed the CEO role. When, a month
before the handoff, Mack took his anointed successor to a
meeting with William Dudley, head of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York , Gorman was listed on the calendar as James Gordon.  Gorman is the sixth of 10 children born to Melbourne
engineer Kevin Gorman. His father, now 90, was home-schooled
until age 14 because he lived in the Australian outback, far
from any town. Kevin Gorman once had each of his children take
an IQ test, James says. He posted the results in the family’s
living room, with each child’s score and expected occupation.  James, whose sister is now a judge on the Supreme Court of
Victoria, came in fifth -- a result that relegated him to an
expected job of “midlevel bureaucrat or manager,” he recalls.  “I think I succeeded in that,” Gorman quipped in a November
speech as honoree of the American Australian Association.  Mack Endorsement  Retired Chairman Mack, a more-extroverted manager whom
Gorman describes as “larger than life,” told employees shortly
after Gorman was selected as his successor in September 2009
that the breadth of Gorman’s experience in banking -- with
stints running marketing and leading research at Merrill Lynch
and as head of strategy at Morgan Stanley -- made him the right
choice.  “He understands people, and he understands the business,”
he said. “I trust him with the franchise.”  That franchise has undergone head-spinning changes since
Gorman’s arrival in 2006. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank law,
enacted in July 2010, bans most proprietary trading and moves
many derivatives onto central clearinghouses. Globally, the
Basel III accord raises the amount of equity capital banks have
to hold against illiquid trading assets. For Morgan Stanley,
that amount is likely to rise to 8.5 percent by 2018.  Gorman has responded to the new strictures by shrinking
some of Morgan Stanley’s derivatives businesses and its
structured-finance units, which create, buy and sell bundles of
debt such as collateralized debt obligations.  Spinning Off PDT  He will also spin off, by the end of 2012, the bank’s
Process Driven Trading group, a proprietary-trading business run
by Peter Muller.  Under the so-called Volcker rule, banks must abolish most
proprietary trading and can’t invest more than 3 percent of
their capital in  hedge funds . From its launch in 1993 through
2010, PDT, which invests only Morgan Stanley money, has returned
an estimated annual average of more than 20 percent, according
to a person close to the group.  Gorman has also been getting rid of the clutter the bank
accumulated in the 1990s and 2000s. Gone are some of the toxic
investments made during the real estate bubble -- everything
from a mortgage-servicing company to a half-built Atlantic City
casino.  In December, the bank discarded another piece of old
baggage when it announced a settlement with bond insurer MBIA.
The deal, which ended lawsuits between the two firms, canceled
credit-default swaps Morgan Stanley bought from MBIA before the
crisis. In the fourth quarter, the bank took a pretax charge for
its losses on the deal of $1.7 billion.  Mitsubishi Stake  The bank has simplified its  income statement  by converting
investments made by Mitsubishi UFJ and Beijing-based  China 
Investment Corp. from preferred to common stock. Mitsubishi’s $9
billion in preferred shares were supposed to convert at a price
Morgan Stanley’s shares never reached, so, last year, the two
negotiated a conversion that gives Mitsubishi a 22 percent stake
in the American bank. CIC’s preferred Morgan Stanley shares,
bought in 2007, automatically converted to common stock in
August 2010. The sovereign-wealth fund now owns an 8 percent
stake.  As Gorman begins his third year as CEO, Morgan Stanley’s
business mix and  revenue breakdown  look almost identical to the
2004 and 2005 versions at Merrill Lynch during Gorman’s final
years there. Like Merrill of that time, Morgan Stanley gets a
little more than half of its revenue from investment banking and
trading, more than 40 percent from the retail brokerage and less
than 10 percent from asset management, which includes mutual
funds, private equity, hedge funds and real estate.  Emulating Merrill  Gorman’s 15 percent ROE target is roughly what Merrill
produced in his last years there. Merrill, however, did it with
much higher leverage -- which can be used to multiply gains --
while under the Basel III rules, Morgan Stanley and other big
banks will have to keep leverage down in order to maintain
reserve capital at required levels.  “Mid-teens ROE is going to be tough: You’re going to need a
pretty darn strong market environment,” says  Glenn Schorr , a
bank analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “And, unfortunately, they
have a tough backdrop to execute against.”  That backdrop includes a global economy that has whipsawed
stocks and bonds. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, or  VIX , rose 32 percent in 2011 to 23.40, the highest
year-end level since 2008.  “We can now focus on a client business, but for that to
work, you need stable markets,” says  Colm Kelleher , who as co-
president of Morgan Stanley’s Institutional Securities Group is
chief of trading. “Volatility scares clients.”  Revenue Drop  Revenue from trading and investment banking at Morgan
Stanley and seven other large global firms likely dropped more
than 15 percent each of the past two years and will remain below
2010 levels through 2013, says  Kian Abouhossein , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase.  “I hope I’m wrong, but at this point, it feels like a slow
recovery,” says Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat.  Even if the new mix of revenue sources is the right one,
 Michael Mayo , a bank analyst at CLSA Ltd., wonders whether the
firm will be any better at executing than it was in the past. In
2007, Morgan Stanley lost more than $9 billion trading mortgage-
related securities for its own account. At the same time, it was
loading up on what turned out to be toxic commercial real
estate, which cost it more than $4 billion in writedowns. And in
2009, it scaled back on risk at a time when markets were
recovering.  Outplayed by Goldman  Goldman Sachs took advantage of the upturn, racking up
record profits of $13.4 billion, while Morgan Stanley posted its
first per-share annual loss of 77 cents.  Mayo says it’s too early to know whether Gorman is the man
to right Morgan Stanley’s ship.  “The problems have really stretched back almost a decade,
so a few quarters only represents early days of measuring their
progress,” Mayo says. “It really comes down to two words: Show
me.”  Gorman insists that the troubles at his bank are short-term
and solvable. He has been declaring Morgan Stanley stock a
bargain since he became CEO, to little visible effect until
recently. He told employees in December 2010, when the stock was
about $27, that the shares were “meaningfully undervalued” and
he expected a “huge inflection point.”  In August 2011, he bought $2.1 million of stock for his
personal account at $20.62, according to government filings. By
the end of 2011, the shares had fallen to $15.13, saddling him
with a paper loss of $549,000.  Europe Rumors  Investor fears that Morgan Stanley may be hard hit by
international financial instability have played a role in the
stock swoon. Faced with potentially lethal rumors about the
bank’s European debt exposure, Gorman says he was pressed by
some investors to report third-quarter earnings early to defuse
the speculation.  The CEO, who takes pride in remaining calm under pressure,
refused. Instead, when the firm reported its earnings, it added
a page of disclosures to show that, after hedges, it had $2.1
billion of exposure to five troubled European countries --
 Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain -- an amount that
represented just 3.6 percent of its common equity.  “The advantage we have is that the facts are on our side,”
Gorman says. “In 2008, the facts weren’t on our side. We had a
liquidity run. We knew it, the market knew it, and we talked
about it, but we thought we could survive through it. This was
different.”  $107 Billion Loan  The firm’s survival in 2008 depended largely on the
government’s help. At one point in late September, Morgan
Stanley had a loan balance with the Fed of $107.3 billion, the
most of any bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News
from Federal Reserve records obtained through a Freedom of
Information Act request.  In October, it absorbed another $10 billion through the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.  By mid-2009, the bank had paid back all of the government
money.  The stock stabilized after Gorman laid out the European
risks. Yet not all investors are convinced that its exposure is
insignificant, says Kenneth Crawford, a senior portfolio manager
at Argent Capital Management LLC, which has about $1.2 billion
under management and doesn’t own Morgan Stanley shares. During
2011, the bank’s stock closely tracked that of the most-troubled
European lenders, and Crawford says that risk is the top concern
at his investment committee meetings.  ‘Kind of Doomed’  “It’s the first question, and the third, and the 15th and
the 27th,” he says. “So as long as Europe becomes a headline on
a daily basis, and people have in their minds ‘bad Europe equals
bad Morgan Stanley,’ then maybe they are kind of doomed.”  Gorman says he and his deputies tried to maintain calm
during the 2011 panic. He sent out a memo to employees urging
them to stay focused on clients and stop watching the stock.
Still, his frustration seeps through. He says he was
particularly angered by one September report.  “There was a rumor about our real estate exposure in
China,” he says. “It’s ludicrous. We have absolutely
inconsequential real estate exposure in China.”  The bank’s critics are relentless, Gorman says.  “It would appear that after multiple attempts to try to
find some great problem, it hasn’t been found -- just possibly
because it doesn’t exist,” he says. “Just possibly.”  Below Book Value  Morgan Stanley  stockholders  share Gorman’s pain. The stock
traded below the firm’s book value for more than 400 straight
days from May 2010 to mid-January. Gorman elicited cheers when
he told a gathering of former managing directors in November
that the company is doing much better than its stock.  Gorman is depending on his former Merrill colleague
Fleming, 48, to charge up earnings at the brokerage and drive up
the stock. Fleming had cut 887 brokers as of mid-January, and he
wants to more than double assets, to $1 trillion, in managed
accounts.  Those accounts assess fees as a percentage of assets,
generally 1 percent to 2 percent, rather than charging
commissions on trades, and are more lucrative for the bank.
Fleming also wants to sell brokerage clients banking services,
from jumbo mortgages to consumer loans.  Brokerage profits will rise as the firm proceeds with its
plan to buy the remaining 49 percent of Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney. Under the contract with Citigroup, another 14 percent of
the brokerage will become available to Morgan Stanley in May,
and Gorman says it’s “more probable than not” that Morgan
Stanley will buy it immediately.  Costly Purchase  The full purchase, while a key part of Gorman’s strategy,
will take two and a half years and will cost the equivalent of
all Morgan Stanley’s earnings over that period, Schorr
estimates.  On the investment-banking side, Gorman says, he wants to
make fixed-income trading a major profit driver. Morgan Stanley
is trying to build up its so-called flow trading -- the high-
volume area of executing customer orders to buy such products as
bonds and interest-rate swaps. That effort is threatened by
competition from other banks driven to the flow business by new
capital rules, under which it’s considered lower risk than
structured finance.  “It’s easier to maintain an established franchise when
volumes are under pressure than it is to build a new one,”
Schorr says. “They’re going through some of those growing pains
now.”  Fixed-Income Fixation  After fixed income fell short of the bank’s expectations in
2010, Gorman placed former Chief Risk Officer Ken deRegt in
charge in January 2011, the third leadership change for the
group in less than two years. In 2011, Morgan Stanley raised its
share of the fixed-income market among the nine largest global
investment banks to about 7 percent from 6 percent in 2010. Yet
even as the bank rose in the rankings, revenue continued
falling, down 6 percent in 2011 as the industry faced a steeper
decline.  Morgan Stanley is holding its own in other areas. Under
Paul J. Taubman, co-president of the Institutional Securities
Group who oversees investment banking, the firm claimed the top
spot among equity underwriters and was in the top three of M&A
advisers each of the past two years. Under Kelleher and Ted Pick, head of equities, the firm posted the largest equity-
trading revenue increase among major U.S. firms in 2011. Still,
lagging performance in fixed-income trading has led to lower
earnings than rivals.  Mitsubishi Partnership  Goldman Sachs earned 45 percent more profit for the two
years ended in 2011 than Morgan Stanley’s $8.81 billion.  The firm is trying to close that gap partly through its
partnership with  Mitsubishi UFJ . The two banks have a global
agreement in which Morgan Stanley offers its investment-banking
clients Mitsubishi’s commercial-banking services in M&A
financing, foreign exchange and cash management. That has helped
both banks find deals they wouldn’t have otherwise, says Masaaki Tanaka, CEO for the Americas at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.  “In many respects, having the benefits of a virtual merger
and not a real merger works better,” CFO Porat says. “The
strength of it is that we’re a strong, independent organization,
but Mitsubishi’s $1.6 trillion of deposits in search of assets
makes it a great partner.”  The downside of the partnership was highlighted in March
2011, when Morgan Stanley took a $655 million charge due to
trading losses in a Mitsubishi-controlled Japanese joint
venture.  Losing Traders  Gorman’s plan to improve the investment bank’s performance
has been based on partnerships and steady contact with clients
rather than trading stars and higher risk. The firm has lost
some top traders, including commercial-mortgage-trading head
Ahsim Khan and equity derivatives trader Glenn Koh, by refusing
to match the pay packages offered by rivals, according to people
who worked with them.  Gorman says he has never liked the star culture of Wall
Street’s trading desks, which he says has led to excessive risk
taking by overconfident traders whose pay is based on short-term
gains.  “Through the financial crisis and my career, I’ve met with
most of the leading people in the industry, and there’s a fair
number of the senior folks who actually believe they are
uniquely qualified on all issues relating to finance,” he said
at an industry conference in 2010. “And as we saw, it’s just not
true.”  Gorman’s overriding goal is to convince employees, and the
markets, that a Morgan Stanley turnaround is imminent.  Playing Catch-Up  “We were the last guys to get through the last crisis,”
says Gorman, whose firm posted per-share losses through the
second quarter of 2009. “Now, we are in much stronger shape than
we were -- and than we are perceived to be. But that’s OK. The
market will eventually catch up.”  Since he took over, Gorman’s checklist has been full of
headaches from earlier years. In January, he told investors on a
conference call that it now features a different kind of
challenge: getting back to business and improving profits.  “For the first time in two years,” he said, “our to-do list
is not our problem list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Friedman at 
 rfriedman5@bloomberg.net  