-- Greece May Retract Bill Legalizing ‘Soft’ Drugs
-- B y   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-02-06T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/greece-may-retract-bill-legalizing-soft-drugs-correct-.html
(Corrects story from Feb. 3 to remove inclusion of Greek
Communist Party among supporters of measure in third paragraph.)  Greece  may withdraw a bill allowing
the possession of small amounts of “soft” drugs for personal use
because of opposition from two parties that support  Lucas Papademos ’s interim government.  Justice Minister Miltiadis Papaioannou said in Parliament
yesterday he would postpone taking the bill on drug use and
possession to a plenary debate in  Athens , scheduled to begin on
Feb. 7, after New Democracy and Laos party lawmakers said they
will vote against it.  The  bill , which was introduced in September and passed
through a parliamentary committee last week, was supported by
Pasok socialist party members and the Coalition of the Radical
Left, or Syriza.  Plans to change the law stem partly from a need to ease
overcrowding in prisons. According to Justice Ministry data, 40
percent of the prisoners now held in Greek jails were involved
in drug-related crimes.  The bill would categorize drug-trafficking cases according
to the gravity of the criminal act, legalize the use and
possession of drugs for personal use and replace imprisonment of
addicts with attendance at rehabilitation facilities, documents
released on the  Greek Parliament’s website  show. The distinction
between “soft” and “hard” drugs was also discussed in the
parliamentary committee.  Several European countries, including the Netherlands,
 Italy  and  Portugal , allow the use and possession of small
amounts of soft drugs for personal use, punishing users with a
warning or a fine in an effort to treat drug addicts as
“patients” rather than “criminals,” according to the  European
Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction . Trafficking
larger amount of drugs is outlawed in most European countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  