-- Guggenheim Said to Weigh Bid for Deutsche Bank’s Fund Units
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-06T21:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/guggenheim-partners-is-said-to-weigh-bid-for-deutsche-bank-s-fund-business.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC is among the
companies preparing to bid for  Deutsche Bank AG ’s asset-
management divisions ahead of a deadline this week, said a
person with knowledge of the matter.  The  fund manager  may get competition from Power Corp. of
 Canada ,  Macquarie Group Ltd .,  State Street Corp .,  Ameriprise
Financial Inc ., and Apax Partners LLP, which have been studying
bids for some or all of the business, said people with knowledge
of the talks, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private.  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which had earlier shown interest
in parts of the unit, is no longer in talks, the people said.  Deutsche Bank, the biggest in  Germany  by assets, said in
November it was reviewing its global money-management business
except for the European and Asian mutual-fund divisions. The
parts for sale, including institutional  fund management , a real
estate investment unit and U.S. mutual funds, comprise about 400
billion euros ($525 billion) of assets under management, people
with knowledge of the effort said last month.  Guggenheim, founded in 2000 with backing from the
Guggenheim family, is based in  Chicago  and New York and manages
more than $125 billion of assets, according to its website.  Deutsche Bank’s entire asset-management unit, including the
DWS businesses being kept, reported 2011 pretax profit of 446
million euros, up 66 percent from the previous year. Kevin Parker, head of asset management, cut costs and headcount by
about a third from 2007 to 2010 while exiting businesses not
considered strategically relevant to boost profit.  Raising Capital  The German lender needs to raise 3.2 billion euros after
 Europe ’s top regulator asked the region’s banks to bolster their
capital buffers amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  Michelle Lee, a spokeswoman for Guggenheim, declined to
comment, as did Klaus Winker, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank. Representatives of Sydney’s Macquarie, JPMorgan
in  New York , Boston’s State Street, Power Corp. in Montreal, and
London-based Apax. Ben Pratt, a spokesman for Minneapolis-based
Ameriprise, didn’t immediately return a call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  