-- ICE’s Peniket Says Will Probably Bid for Interim EU CO2 Platform
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-06T13:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/ice-s-peniket-says-will-probably-bid-for-interim-eu-co2-platform.html
ICE (ICE)  Futures Europe, the biggest
exchange for greenhouse gas trading, and European Energy
Exchange AG in  Germany  will battle to provide platforms selling
carbon allowances to airlines and other emitters.  The European Commission, the Brussels-based regulator of
the world’s biggest carbon market by traded volume, said Jan. 11
it plans to open a tender for a temporary auction platform by
this month, keeping the region on track to start early sales of
allowances for the 2013 phase of the system in the second half
of this year.  Germany, the U.K. and Poland are also setting up systems as
the European Union seeks to sell most allowances starting next
year instead of giving them away for free, as it has since 2005.
The exchanges may sell more than half of the 2.3 billion metric
tons of allowances next year, valued at about 10 billion euros
($13 billion) at benchmark prices.  “We intend to bid for the U.K. one,” and will probably
bid for the temporary EU platform, ICE Futures  Europe  President
David Peniket said Feb. 3 in an interview in London. ICE has
applied with Britain’s Financial Services Authority for status
as a recognized auction platform, he said. “We are going
through the process now.” ICE would also review tender
documents from Germany and Poland before making a decision on
those opportunities, he said.  The exchange is a unit of IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in
Atlanta, the second-largest U.S. futures market.  ‘Bidding For All’  “EEX will submit bids for all tender processes,” Manuel
Moeller, a spokesman for the Leipzig, Germany exchange, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. EEX already handles
auctions for Germany,  Lithuania  and the Netherlands.  EU allowances for December rose 1.2 percent today to 8.60
euros a ton on ICE as of 1:06 p.m. London time. The contract
reached a record low of 6.38 euros on Jan. 4, as the region’s
sovereign debt crisis help curb economic production and
exacerbated an oversupply of permits through this year and
beyond.  The EU cap-and-trade program expanded this year to include
the aviation industry, which is due to buy a part of its
allocation at auctions.  While 24 of the EU’s 27 nations agreed to have a common
auctioning platform, Germany, the U.K. and  Poland  opted to
develop national systems. The temporary common platform will
remain in place until a permanent one becomes operational.  Draft Documents  The contractor will be required to submit to the commission
within two weeks from the entry into force of the agreement a
draft auction calendar for 2012 and 2013 and will have to start
conducting auctions within a month, according to draft tender
specifications published on the EU  website .  As a default, the chosen platform should carry out two
auctions of general allowances per week and one auction of
aviation permits per month, the document shows. For auctions in
2012, the commission may require more frequent sales, according
to the draft.  In 2013, the EU will auction about 60 percent of all CO2
permits and that proportion will increase in later years.
Airlines will get 85 percent of their allocation for free and
will have to buy 15 percent at auctions in the first year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  