-- Detroit Study Team Told by Judge to Stop Closed Meetings
-- B y   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-06T22:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/michigan-judge-orders-detroit-finance-study-team-to-stop-closed-meetings.html
A  Michigan  judge ordered a review
team appointed by the governor to study Detroit’s finances to
stop meeting in private.  Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette today
issued a temporary restraining order after a union official
claimed the closed-door sessions violated Michigan’s open-
meetings law. The financial review team is considering whether
Michigan’s largest city needs an emergency manager.  The review team “flies in the face of the Open-Meetings
Act,” Collette said today in issuing the order.  The panel is “more than an advisory committee,” Collette
said at a hearing in state court in Mason, Michigan. It has “a
right to review records. They have the right to issue subpoenas,
and they have the right to require people” to talk, he said.
This “goes far beyond public advisory power,” he said.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, appointed the
10-member group in December after a preliminary study by the
state treasurer found the city was in “probable financial
stress.”  If the panel declares a financial emergency, the governor
may appoint an emergency manager with sweeping powers to fire
employees, sell assets, void union contracts and assume
authority over the mayor and city council.  Robert Davis , an official of a union that represents city
employees, sued Snyder, the state treasurer and the review team,
contending the team is required under Michigan law to hold
meetings open to the public.  Open-Meetings Law  Davis said the review team also violated the open-meetings
law by failing to keep minutes of a Jan. 10 closed session.  The “review team is not a public body as defined under the
Open-Meetings Act,” the defendants said in a court filing Feb.
3. “A review team essentially performs background work.”  Terry Stanton, a spokesman for the Michigan Treasury
Department, said the injunction “does not stop the review team
process.” The ruling “simply means that review team meetings
must be open, unless or until the court rules otherwise,”
Stanton said.  The review team doesn’t have any meetings scheduled,
Stanton said in an e-mail, adding that the Treasury Department
hasn’t decided whether to appeal or take other action.  “This is a victory for open government and democracy,”
Andrew Paterson, a lawyer for Davis, staff representative of the
American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees, said
today.  Paterson said he will file for a declaratory judgment,
asking the judge to find that the actions of the review team
before today violated the open-meetings law. This would void
anything the panel has already done, Paterson said in an
interview.  Union Concessions  Detroit  Mayor Dave Bing and unions representing a majority
of city employees last week reached a tentative accord on
concessions aimed at avoiding a state takeover. Bing and Snyder
have said they want to avoid an emergency manager for Michigan’s
largest city.  The mayor and Detroit’s police and firefighters unions
continue to negotiate over concessions. Bing has called for a 10
percent wage cut.  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
12-112-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Raphael in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  