-- Mild Flu and Cough Season to Cut Perrigo Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-07T08:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mild-flu-and-cough-season-to-cut-perrigo-sales-israel-overnight.html
Sales for  Perrigo Co.  probably grew
at the slowest average pace in four years in the latest quarter
because of a milder cold season this winter, Canaccord Genuity
Corp., Harel Finance Ltd. and Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. say.  The largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-counter drugs --
which  bought  B’nei Brak, Israel-based pharmaceutical company
Agis Industries Ltd. in 2005 -- has dropped 3.4 percent this
year in New York,  outpacing  the S&P 500 Pharmaceutical Index’s
1.7 percent decline and compared with a 6.9 percent gain in the
 S&P 500 Index . The Tel Aviv shares gained 1.1 percent at 9:59
a.m. today, trimming this year’s drop to 7.1 percent. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the largest New York-traded
Israeli companies fell for the first time in five days
yesterday, led by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.   Perrigo’s  sales  probably rose 13 percent to $817 million
from October to December, according to the median of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after jumping 23
percent in the same period last year. The number of people
reporting influenza-like symptoms to their doctor in December
and January was down 50 percent from 2011, U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention data show.  “Most figures we’re seeing are pointing to a weak cough
and cold season,”  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Corp., which rates Perrigo “hold,” said by phone from
New York yesterday. “Investors are concerned about the consumer
health business and about Perrigo’s full-year target.”  The  Bloomberg Israel-US index  dropped 1 percent to 93,
following U.S. stocks lower on concern  Greece  won’t agree on the
spending cuts needed to get European Union aid and avert a
default on its debt. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped
less than 0.1 percent to 1,344.33. Israel’s  TA-25 Index  rose 0.1
percent to 1,117.85 today after dropping 1.1 percent yesterday.  Doctor Visits  Shares of Perrigo traded in Tel Aviv gained 1.1 percent to
347.60 shekels today, or the equivalent of $93.44. The Allegan,
Michigan-based company was the  best performer  on the benchmark
TA-25 Index last year as consumers switch from more expensive
brand names amid sluggish economic growth.  The percentage of people going to the doctor for a
respiratory or flu-like illness in the U.S. topped 1.5 percent
during December and January, according to  figures  provided by
the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In
the same period of 2011 it was as high as 4 percent.  Bradley Joseph, a spokesman for Perrigo, didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mailed messages seeking comment.  “The weak flu season may lead to lower results and
guidance than expectations in the market,” Jonathan Kreizman,
an analyst at Clal Finance in  Tel Aviv  who rates the U.S.-traded
stock “market perform,” wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Perrigo will report fiscal second-quarter results today at
3 p.m. Tel Aviv time.  ‘Negative Surprise’  Perrigo’s U.S. shares  trade  at 25 times reported earnings,
more than twice the  average  11.3 valuation for companies on the
S&P 500 Pharmaceutical Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s more chance for a negative surprise from the
company,” Steven Tepper, an analyst at Harel Finance who rates
the stock “hold,” said by phone from  Ramat Gan , Israel.
“Shares may take a bigger blow because valuations are so
high.”  While Perrigo has benefited from over-the-counter
medication recalls by  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s second
biggest health-care company, Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon said on Jan. 24 that most of the withdrawn products
should be back on shelves by later this year.  “It’s not clear that the company will continue to benefit
from these recalls,” Tepper said. “This will be a weak
quarter.”  Allot Premium  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Allot Communications Ltd. , a maker of high-speed networking
equipment, climbed 5.7 percent to $17.96. The company’s Tel Aviv
shares fell 0.5 percent to 62.30 shekels, or the equivalent of
$16.76 yesterday. The $1.2 premium was the second-largest among
dually-traded companies. The stock jumped 7.6 percent to 67.06
shekels, or $18.03, today.  The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company was rated “buy” in
initial coverage at Maxim Group LLC.  Teva , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs, dropped
0.8 percent to $45.36 after its Tel Aviv shares declined 0.7
percent to 169.20 shekels, or the equivalent of $45.51. The
stock dropped 0.6 percent to 168.20 shekels, or $45.20, in Tel
Aviv today.  Morgan Stanley  cut  its recommendation on shares of the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company to “equal weight” from
“overweight,” citing valuation, as Teva’s American depositary
receipts posted a 12 percent gain since the start of the year.  BioLineRx  BioLineRx Ltd.  climbed the most in almost two weeks, rising
7.8 percent to $4.44. The Israeli biopharmaceutical developer
jumped 20 percent to 1.87 shekels, or 50 cents, in Tel Aviv
yesterday. One ADR represents 10 ordinary shares. BioLineRx
signed an agreement with Genoscience and RFS Pharma to develop
and market its oral treatment for hepatitis C, the second deal
for the drug in less than a month.  SodaStream International Ltd. , a maker of homemade soda
machines, climbed to the highest level since Sept. 14 in  New
York , rising 4.6 percent to $42.31. The company will buy land to
build a factory in the south of Israel, the Trade Ministry said
in a statement e-mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  