-- Time Is Running Out for Greece to Accept Bailout Conditions, Merkel Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-06T19:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/time-is-running-out-for-greece-to-accept-bailout-conditions-merkel-says.html
European leaders stepped up pressure
on Greek politicians to meet the conditions of a 130 billion-
euro ($171 billion) bailout, saying time was running out.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  in Paris today as Greece’s interim prime minister,
 Lucas Papademos , prepared to negotiate with the so-called troika
of international lenders in  Athens  for a second day. A gathering
of Greek political leaders was delayed until tomorrow as they
struggled for a unified response.  “I can’t quite understand why we need a few more days,”
Merkel said today in a joint briefing with Sarkozy. “Time is
running out.”  With Greece’s stability at stake, a tentative consensus
yesterday among party leaders on an accord framework marked a
step forward as Athens played host to parallel domestic and
international negotiations while persuading Greece’s private
creditors to accept bigger writedowns on their debt holdings.  “An agreement has never been so close, neither for private
nor public creditors,” Sarkozy said. “We have to conclude
it.”  The leaders of  Europe ’s two biggest economies proposed
setting up an account for Greece’s interest payments to
guarantee lenders are paid. Sarkozy said in a later joint
interview that he and Merkel are working “hand-in-hand” to
prevent a Greek default.  ‘Do Its Homework’  Allowing Greece to go bankrupt “isn’t an option,” Sarkozy
said. At the same time, there can be “no community money”
without reform. “The Greek government must do its homework and
carry out its responsibilities,” he said.  Euro-area finance chiefs told Greek Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos in a Feb. 4 conference call that an increase
in the bailout package wasn’t forthcoming, underscoring their
frustration at a lack of progress on fixing the economy. The
effort to keep Greece from tumbling into default presents what
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  called
a “make or break” moment.  The euro was down 0.3 percent at $1.3117 at 8:28 p.m. in
Athens.  Papademos will meet the three party leaders tomorrow to
hammer out the details of the measures. Antonis Samaras, the
head of the second-biggest party,  New Democracy , indicated he
would oppose some measures proposed by the so-called troika of
international creditors -- the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘I Will Fight’  “They are asking us for greater recession, which the
country can’t take,” Samaras said yesterday. “I will fight to
avoid that.”  Adding to pressure on Papademos and political leaders,
Greece’s biggest public-sector and private-sector union groups,
ADEDY and GSEE, hold a 24-hour general strike tomorrow to
protest measures that could include a cut in the minimum wage,
lower pensions and immediate layoffs for state employees.  Administration Minister Dimitris Reppas said the troika
asked for 15,000 state jobs to be cut this year and that he
opposes “blind firings.” He told Athens-based Mega TV that
plans to reduce the number of state employees by 150,000 by the
end of 2015 continue to be government policy.  Lenders’ Demands  Papademos and the party leaders agreed in a five-hour
meeting yesterday to make additional reductions this year equal
to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. They have yet to iron
out differences over policy measures demanded by lenders on
recapitalizing banks, ensuring the viability of pension funds
and reducing wages and non-wage costs to boost competitiveness.  The troika wants the country to detail more than 4 billion
euros of measures to meet targets for 2011 and 2012 because wage
cuts will deepen the recession and cause a shortfall this year,
one government official told reporters in Athens.  The troika argues that cutting payments such as private-
sector holiday allowances is among reforms necessary to boost
competitiveness in the country. Those opposed say the cuts would
deepen the country’s recession, now in its fifth year.  Greece ’s efforts to win a second bailout from the troika
have hung in the balance over the past three days as
negotiations in Athens failed to clinch an agreement. Venizelos
said on Feb. 4 the talks were on a “razor’s edge.”  Debt Swap  Facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20 and
general elections as soon as April, Papademos must heed
international demands for greater austerity to complete the
talks on a second package in time. Open questions involve how
much more aid Greece needs, how much more austerity is required,
and how to involve the ECB in the private-sector creditor debt
swap.  Guarantees from Greek political leaders such as Samaras,
who leads in opinion polls, are key to securing the funds from
the EU and IMF. International lenders want assurances that
whoever wins the next election will stick to pledges made now to
receive financing.  George Papandreou , the former prime minister who still
leads the Pasok socialist party, the biggest in the Greek
parliament, proposed that Papademos’s mandate be extended to
boost confidence among lenders the pledges will be implemented.  That is an option likely to be opposed by Samaras, who has
called for elections as soon as the new financing is agreed.  The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70
percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange and loans
that will probably exceed the 130 billion euros now on the
table. A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13
to allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due.  ‘Greek Drama’  “One thing is clear: the Greek drama continues to
unfold,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a note yesterday. “A really, really bad scenario for the
euro area -- a Greek default and departure from the euro area --
simply cannot be excluded.”  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid and hastening a
German push to make bondholders contribute. The country’s
economy shrank 6 percent last year, according to the most recent
IMF estimates, the  budget deficit  is still close to 10 percent
of GDP and unemployment is about 18 percent.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said he can’t be sure that
Greece will solve its debt crisis.  ‘Not Enough’  While the Greek government has made progress in fighting
the crisis, “that is not enough” because policy makers have no
option than “to correct the mistakes made by their
predecessors.”  Van Rompuy  said during a question-and-answer
session at Humboldt University in Berlin today.  “It takes longer than we thought,” he said. Greece’s
implementation of debt-cutting measures over the past year is
“weaker” than needed.  Even after a second bailout, Greece may be saddled with too
much debt, too little growth and too large a budget hole to do
without even more money, which euro nations led by  Germany  are
increasingly reluctant to offer.  Papademos met yesterday with the lead negotiators on the
debt accord with Greece,  Charles Dallara , managing director of
the International Institute of Finance, and  Jean Lemierre , a
senior adviser to the chairman of BNP Paribas SA. The debt swap,
Venizelos said on Feb. 4 “is now the easiest part of the
process.”  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Paris at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  