-- IMF’s Blanchard Says Greece Probably Needs to Decrease Wages
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-02-06T19:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/imf-s-blanchard-says-greece-probably-needs-to-decrease-wages-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
expects Greece will have to decrease wages to improve its
competitiveness even after the country writes down some of its
debt in cooperation with private creditors.  “There is no secret here, either you increase productivity
growth a lot and quickly and you keep wage growth above it or
you decrease wages,” International Monetary Fund chief
economist  Olivier Blanchard  said in Washington today. Because
structural reforms take a while, Greece “probably has to do
something on the wage side,” Blanchard said.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is meeting with officials
from the IMF, the European Union and  European Central Bank  in
Athens today in a final push to settle the terms that will allow
the debt-strapped country to receive a new 130 billion-euro
($171 billion) rescue package. State spending cuts and labor
reforms are the main sticking points holding up an agreement,
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said on Feb. 4.  Blanchard said “under the most realistic scenario”  Greece 
won’t be able to seek market funding “for a long time” until
structural reforms take root.  Plans to cut about 100 billion euros off Greece’s some 200
billion euros of debt in private-sector hands are “only half of
what it needs,” Blanchard said. “The other half is
competitiveness.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy met German Chancellor
Angela Merkel in Paris and urged Greek officials to meet the
conditions of the bailout today, saying time was running out.  Blanchard said that a firewall to quell the European
turmoil has to be large enough and to amount to a combination of
interventions by the European Central Bank, Europe’s two bailout
funds and the IMF.  The IMF last month cut its global forecast for this year
and next. Since then, data in the U.S. and  Europe  suggest growth
there may higher than the IMF estimates, Blanchard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ; 