-- Indonesia’s Economy Grows at Fastest Pace Since 1996 as Investment Climbs
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-02-06T10:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/indonesia-s-economy-grows-at-fastest-pace-since-1996-as-investment-climbs.html
Indonesia ’s economy grew last year at
the fastest pace since before the Asian financial crisis as
rising investment and domestic spending countered a slowdown in
export demand due to  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.46 percent in 2011, the
statistics bureau said in Jakarta today, after a revised 6.2
percent gain the previous year. The median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 6.44 percent increase. The
economy expanded 6.49 percent  last quarter  from a year earlier.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy has outperformed neighbors
including  Thailand  and the  Philippines  as two rate cuts in the
last quarter aided President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s efforts
to boost GDP by an average 6.6 percent a year. The country
regained investment-grade ratings from Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings after 14 years in recent weeks, boosting
investment prospects as it plans transport and utility projects.  “Indonesia remains the standout in  Asia ,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. While economic expansion will probably ease to about 6
percent in 2012 on weaker external demand, “robust  consumer
spending  and strengthening infrastructure and foreign investment
will support growth,” he said.  The nation’s currency has advanced about 1 percent against
the dollar this year after the Moody’s and Fitch upgrades. The
rupiah traded little changed at 8,990 a dollar as of 4:58 p.m.
in Jakarta today, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  Realizing Gains  The Jakarta Composite index declined 1 percent to close at
3,974.79, falling for a second day. The fourth-quarter growth
report failed to lift the market as investors realized gains in
stocks after the index rose to a five-month high last week, said
Lanang Trihardian, an analyst at PT Syailendra Capital in
Jakarta. The benchmark index gained 1.3 percent to 4,016.9 on
Feb. 2, the highest close since Aug. 18.  The country’s growth in 2011 was the fastest since 1996,
according to International Monetary Fund data. The $707 billion
economy has expanded more than 6 percent for five straight
quarters, showing it’s weathering a decline in global demand
that has hurt growth across Asia.  South Korea ’s economy grew the least in two years last
quarter and  China  reported last month its weakest expansion in
10 quarters. Philippine GDP rose 3.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, while Thailand’s grew 3.5 percent
in the third quarter. Singapore’s economy shrank in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months.  Still Resilient  “Indonesia’s economy is still resilient amid the global
slowdown even as other countries in Asia have started
contracting,”  Destry Damayanti , chief economist at PT Bank
Mandiri, said in Jakarta today. “To minimize the impact of the
global slowdown, the government needs to push state spending as
it won’t be healthy if we push private consumption to boost the
GDP further.”  Yudhoyono plans to boost government capital spending by 19
percent to 168 trillion rupiah ($19 billion) this year to
improve infrastructure such as railways, airports and roads.
Indonesia’s parliament approved in December a land-acquisition
bill that will allow the government to accelerate projects.  Investment in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose 19
percent from a year earlier, according to the Investment
Coordinating Board. For 2011 as a whole, investment gained 21
percent from a year earlier.  ‘Good Fundamentals’  Suzuki Motor Corp., the third-biggest carmaker in Indonesia,
will spend 60 billion yen ($782 million) to increase capacity in
the Southeast Asian nation, including setting up another factory
to build engines, it said in January.  “Indonesia has good economic fundamentals,” said Davy
Tuilan, a director at Suzuki’s Indonesia unit in Jakarta.  Indonesia’s policy makers have signaled they are prepared
to support the economy with monetary and fiscal stimulus as
Europe’s protracted sovereign-debt crisis threatens global
expansion and crimps demand for Asian exports.  Bank Indonesia , which kept its benchmark rate unchanged in
January for a second month after reductions in October and
November, has widened the lower range of its interbank lending
rate since then to push borrowing costs lower. The government
said in September it was preparing a stimulus package, and
Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of fiscal policy at the  finance
ministry , said last month the country will increase spending to
bolster growth and limit the impact of a global slowdown.  Weaker demand could hurt the Asian economy, Finance
Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said in Jakarta today. Even so,
policy makers need to remain alert against food and energy
prices, he said.  Bank Indonesia will keep its benchmark rate at a record-low
6 percent, according to 11 of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before a Feb. 9 decision.  Moody’s raised Indonesia’s sovereign debt rating to Baa3
from Ba1 last month. Fitch upgraded its rating to BBB- in
December, citing “strong and resilient” growth and declining
public-debt ratios.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  