-- Mine Nationalization in South Africa Not a ‘Smart Strategy,’ Minister Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-06T14:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mine-nationalization-in-south-africa-not-a-smart-strategy-minister-says.html
A policy of nationalizing mines would
not be a “smart strategy” for  South Africa  and changes to
taxes or ownership will only be made after extensive
consultation with the industry,  Trevor Manuel , the country’s
planning minister, said.  While a study into nationalization of mines commissioned by
the country’s ruling  African National Congress  has recommended
against the policy, it has proposed increased taxes, a party
official who has read the document said last week, declining to
be identified because it hasn’t been publicly released. Manuel
is a member of the ANC’s Economic Policy Committee, which has
discussed the study.  “It doesn’t call for nationalization, it calls for new
partnerships,” Manuel told the Mining Indaba conference in  Cape
Town  today. “Given the long lead time the industry deserves
policy certainty.”  The ANC commissioned the study after calls by it youth wing
for nationalization because it said the country’s black majority
isn’t benefiting enough from the industry that is the world’s
biggest producer of platinum, chrome and manganese.  Anglo
American Plc ,  Xstrata Plc ,  BHP Billiton Ltd . and  Rio Tinto Group 
own assets in the country  “If you want then to take away those property rights
you’re going to have to pay for it and if you pay for that
you’re not going to be able to pay for health, education or
anything else,” Manuel said, adding that the constitution
protects property rights. “The country does not have the
resources. It clearly is not a smart strategy.”  While elements of the study could concern the  mining
industry , the proposals will undergo extensive debate before
they stand a chance of becoming policy, he said.  “There are proposals in there that would worry many
people,” he said. “It’s important not ever to confuse
proposals with adopted policy.”  The ANC study will be discussed and may influence policy
arguments at party conferences in June and December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  