-- Hintze’s CQS Starts ABS Hedge Fund After Prices Fell Last Year
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-06T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/hintze-s-cqs-starts-abs-hedge-fund-after-prices-fell-last-year.html
CQS U.K. LLP, the $11.2 billion
money-management firm founded by Michael Hintze, is starting a
hedge fund to trade mortgage-backed securities after the value
of the assets tumbled last year.  The CQS ABS Alpha Fund started with $140 million this
month, and investors have pledged additional capital to bring
the fund to $200 million by April, according to a Feb. 2 letter
sent to clients and obtained by Bloomberg News. CQS is limiting
additional investments in the fund because “further inflows
will be contingent on market opportunity,” the letter said.  Some categories of  U.S. mortgage bonds  that lack government
backing fell more than 30 percent in 2011, as America’s economy
struggled, and investors concerned about contagion spreading
from  Europe ’s debt crisis sold assets. The securities have
recouped some of the losses in the past two months as buyers
attracted by low prices moved in.  Money managers such as Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Pine
River Capital Management LP, which invests most of its $5
billion of assets in  hedge funds , say the decline in prices
means bonds tied to the most-default prone U.S. home loans offer
yields of more than 10 percent -- even if almost all of the
borrowers default.  CQS restricted clients from adding money to a bigger asset-
backed security hedge fund last May after the size of the pool
climbed to $2 billion. The CQS ABS Fund, managed by Alistair Lumsden, has gained 29.3 percent a year on average since the
firm started it in 2006.  The latest CQS hedge fund, which Lumsden will also oversee,
plans to use more leverage to boost returns, according to the
letter to clients. The pool will make more concentrated
investments in less liquid securities, and positions won’t be as
hedged as the bigger CQS ABS Fund, according to the letter.  A CQS spokesman declined to comment on the new fund. Hintze
started the firm in 1999 and it now has about 230 employees
globally.  Clients of the ABS Alpha fund will be penalized if they
withdraw their money in the fund’s first year, according to the
letter. They will also only be allowed to redeem 25 percent of
their investment in a given quarter, the firm said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  