-- Turkey’s Lira Depreciates as Greece Debt-Rescue Talks Erode Risk Appetite
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-06T15:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/lira-heads-for-biggest-drop-as-greek-talks-erode-risk-appetite.html
The Turkish lira headed for its
biggest fall this month on weaker investor sentiment as the
debt-swap deal between  Greece  and its creditors remains elusive.  The Turkish currency depreciated 0.5 percent at 1.7614 per
dollar as of 5:04 p.m., paring this year’s gain to 7.4 percent
in Istanbul. The weakening today is the biggest since Jan. 30.
 Yields  on the benchmark two-year bond rose 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 9.41 percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi
index of the securities showed.  European leaders stepped up pressure on Greek politicians
to meet the conditions of a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout, saying time was running out. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Paris today as
Greece’s interim prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , planned to
confer with the so-called troika of international lenders in
 Athens . A gathering of Greek political leaders was delayed by a
day until tomorrow as they struggled for a unified response.  “A lot of people expected a deal would be reached by this
weekend and these expectations have been battered again,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG, said in e-
mailed comments. “The risk appetite is waning which is weighing
on the lira.”  The lira slumped 18 percent in the biggest decline
worldwide and yields soared 390 basis points last year as a
widening  current-account deficit  and worries about the European
debt crisis and Middle East revolts shook investor confidence in
Turkey.  Turkey’s currency has strengthened this year on account of
stronger risk appetite for emerging-market currencies. The lira
was bid higher in January after the U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said  interest rates  will remain
exceptionally low for longer and hinted at the third round of
quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  