-- Iran Crude Ban Difficult Without India, China: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/iran-crude-ban-difficult-without-india-china-chart-of-the-day.html
The U.S. and European Union may
struggle to enforce a ban on Iranian crude because of  Asia ’s
reliance on supplies from the Persian Gulf state, according to
Global Insight Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows  China , Japan,  India  and South
Korea, Asia’s four largest economies, were the biggest users of
Iran’s oil in the first half of last year, relying on the
Islamic Republic for 1.46 million barrels a day, or 59 percent
of its exports, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
Germany, France and the U.K., the EU’s biggest economies,
together imported 77,000 barrels of Iranian crude.  “It will be difficult to enforce a ban as India and China
are not willing to back the ban,” Simon Wardell, energy
research manager at London-based Global Insight Inc., said by
telephone. “ Iran  will still be able to find buyers if they make
concessions and lower their prices.”  The EU agreed on Jan. 23 to ban oil imports from Iran, the
world’s fourth-largest producer, starting July 1 to ratchet up
pressure on the nation’s nuclear program. U.S. President Barack
Obama signed a bill on Dec. 31 that tightens sanctions by
denying access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank
that conducts business with the Central Bank of Iran. India
won’t cut back on imports from Iran, Finance Minister Pranab
Mukherjee said Jan. 29. China “opposes imposing pressure and
sanctions,” a vice foreign minister said last month.  Iran has “no concerns whatsoever for finding new
customers,” the country’s oil ministry said Jan. 23. “The
Iranian nation has many times proved that it would never yield
to pressure and unjust moves.”  Brent crude posted its third annual gain in 2011 on
speculation escalating tension in the  Middle East  would disrupt
supplies amid a recovery in the  U.S. economy . The benchmark has
risen 5.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 