-- Netanyahu Says Strike Threatens Stability of Israeli Economy
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-07T19:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/israeli-union-says-strike-would-close-stock-exchange-banks-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  appealed to the Histadrut labor federation to call off
a strike planned for tomorrow, saying it threatens economic
stability and won’t help solve a dispute over contract workers.  “The Israeli economy is in a sensitive situation, and this
is not the time to endanger the stability we have achieved with
great effort and the cooperation between the government and the
Histadrut in the face of the global economic crisis,” Netanyahu
said today, according to a text message sent by his office.  Histadrut chief Ofer Eini is scheduled to meet with Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz late today in a final effort to hold off
the strike.  If negotiations fail, the strike will shut down banks,
ports and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, according to the
Histadrut, the country’s largest labor organization.  The  Bank of Israel  will also be shut if the strike goes
ahead, the federation said. Airports will be closed for the
first six hours of the strike, which is scheduled to begin at 6
a.m., it said.  The labor federation estimates that 250,000 Israelis
employed through contractors receive on average about 30 percent
less pay than comparable workers directly employed. The
Histadrut is calling on the government to take stronger action
to have them hired directly so they receive higher wages and
benefits.  A Histadrut strike on Nov. 7 was cut short in the middle of
the day by the National Labor Court, which ordered the two sides
to resume negotiations. The court rejected another bid to strike
in January before it allowed the labor organization to organize
the action for tomorrow.  Steinitz said in November that the government “is willing
to do much to improve wages of contract workers and to maintain
their conditions.” He added, though, that the use of contract
workers, especially in cleaning jobs, is part of “the modern
world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  