-- Mitsubishi Motors to End Europe Production
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-02-06T10:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mitsubishi-motors-to-end-europe-production.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  will stop
making cars in  Europe  at the end of this year, underlining
growing excess capacity in the region as demand slackens amid
the government-debt crisis.  The Tokyo-based carmaker will end production of the Colt
compact car and the Outlander sports-utility vehicle at its
only European factory in Born, the Netherlands, at the end of
2012, it said in a statement today. Mitsubishi said it will
continue shipping cars to Europe from Thailand and Japan.  Car demand in Europe has been declining since 2007, as the
region’s debt crisis followed the global recession, sapping 
 consumer confidence . Deliveries may fall to about 13 million 
vehicles this year, marking the fifth straight annual drop, 
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.  “In ending production in Europe, Mitsubishi is taking its
first steps to concentrate production in places like  Thailand 
that are selected as export hubs,” said Takeshi Miyao, a Tokyo-
based analyst at industry researcher Carnorama. “Demand in
Europe is slipping, so they may have chosen to end production
there first.”  Weak demand has increased overcapacity in the region, which
may surge 41 percent to 2.92 million vehicles in 2012, according
to forecasts from IHS Automotive. Standard & Poor’s Rating
Services today put  Fiat SpA (F)  on “creditwatch negative,” citing
weakening demand in Europe’s “oversupplied mass vehicle
market.”  ‘Wildly Fluctuating’  Mitsubishi advanced 1.1 percent to 96 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in Tokyo. The  stock  has gained 5.5 percent this
year, lagging behind the 16 percent surge for Toyota Motor
Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest carmaker.  Started in 1991 as a three-way joint venture between
Mitsubishi, Volvo Cars and the Dutch government, the Japanese
carmaker gained full control of Netherlands Car BV, or NedCar,
in 2001 after buying Volvo Cars' 50 percent stake.  “Due to the wildly fluctuating operating environment which
automobile manufacturers currently face, MMC could not come up
with a reasonable solution to utilize NedCar,” Mitsubishi said
in the statement. “MMC has concluded it is not viable to
allocate a new production model at NedCar.”  Mitsubishi hasn’t decided on closing the factory and may
keep it to build cars for other companies, according to Tomoko Kawabe, a company spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in 東京 at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  