-- Luis Suarez’s Return Fails to Break Deadlock as Liverpool, Spurs Draw 0-0
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-07T00:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/liverpool-tottenham-draw-0-0-in-english-premier-league-as-suarez-returns.html
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez 
returned from an eight-match suspension as his team was held to
a 0-0 draw by Tottenham in English soccer’s Premier League.  Suarez, who hadn’t played since Dec. 26 due to a ban for
racially abusing an opponent, came on as a second-half
substitute at Anfield last night and missed a late chance when
he headed straight at Spurs goalkeeper Brad Friedel. He also was
yellow carded for kicking  Scott Parker  in the stomach.  “Every time Luis gets on the ball you think he’s going to
do something,” Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish told his team’s
website. “We’re delighted to get him back.”  The draw was Liverpool’s eighth at Anfield in the league
this season, making the Reds the first team in  England ’s elite
division to tie at least eight of their first 12 home matches in
31 years, according to Infostrada Sports.  Liverpool stays in seventh place with 39 points, while
third-place Tottenham moves to 50 points, five behind Manchester
United and seven back of league leader  Manchester City . All 20
teams have played 24 of 38 games.  Spurs were without manager  Harry Redknapp , who failed to
attend the match after his flight from London was canceled.
Redknapp spent yesterday in court, where he is fighting charges
of tax evasion.  Midfielder Parker, who took the man-of-the-match award,
said Redknapp was missed as Tottenham sought to close the gap
behind the Manchester clubs. Gareth Bale had Spurs’ best chance
when he went clear on goal with five minutes remaining, only to
have his shot blocked by Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina.  “Harry gives that extra bit of energy,” Parker said in a
televised interview with  Sky Sports . “It was a tough night.
We’ve come and got a point, kept a clean sheet and that’s the
most important thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  