-- TiVo Climbs on Patent Wins, New Customers: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-02-06T20:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/tivo-climbs-on-patent-wins-new-customers-san-francisco-mover.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  climbed to its highest
since May 2010 as the digital-video recording provider expands
technology offerings and benefits from patent-lawsuit
settlements and new client contracts.  TiVo climbed as much as 63 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $11.86
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  Alviso, California-based
company  rose about 4 percent in 2011.  TiVo “solved some of the issues that were challenging them
in the past and are addressing some of the issues important for
the future,” James C. Goss, an analyst at Barrington Research
Associates Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Goss initiated coverage of TiVo last week with an
“outperform” rating and target price of $14 a share.  TiVo has “defended its patents successfully, and while it
benefits from the lawsuit settlements, these relate to past
issues,” Goss said. “What’s more important is how the
relationships are going forward. They may want to renew
relationships and collect royalties on an ongoing basis.”  Last month,  AT&T Inc. (T)  agreed to pay TiVo at least $215
million to settle a patent lawsuit over digital video recorders.  TiVo, a pioneer in the market for set-top boxes that can
record a TV program and play it back at the same time, had lost
customers to offerings from TV-service providers including AT&T
and  Verizon Communications Inc.   TiVo accused those companies of using its patented time-
warp technology, which also was at the center of a dispute with
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  that was resolved with as much as $600
million in settlements.  Media Partners  TiVo is expanding through partnerships with companies such
as  Charter Communications Inc.  and  Virgin Media Inc. , which is
expected to announce a full rollout of TiVo to its television
base later this week, according to an article in Barron’s.  “The Barron’s article helped TiVo today,” Goss said.
“The relationships TiVo has with Virgin and Charter look very
promising going forward. TiVo could benefit from any Virgin
announcement that they are expanding TiVo service in their
subscriber base.”  Cable operators around the world are licensing TiVo
technology in set-top boxes that can connect to the Internet. A
number of smaller and medium-sized cable and satellite companies
in the U.S. and abroad could form partnerships and lead to
additional businesses, Goss said.  TiVo also may be a candidate for takeover by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  or  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Barron’s reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  