-- John Adams and the Jockeys of Anarchy: David Hackett Fischer
-- B y   D a v i d   H a c k e t t   F i s c h e r
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/john-adams-and-the-jockeys-of-anarchy-david-hackett-fischer.html
The idea of liberty, when truly
understood, invites and even obligates us to respect the liberty
of others. Yet, as we so often see, the most exalted virtues in
the world can give rise to practical vices.  One such vice that has often occurred in American history
is the habit of some people to claim that their own endowment of
liberty gives them a power to diminish or destroy the liberties
of others. Among the earliest examples of this were the people
in  New England ’s Puritan colonies who demanded religious liberty
for themselves but used it to destroy the religious liberty of
others.  Another colonial example is the liberty-loving people,
especially in the Southern states, who insisted that they
possessed the right to keep slaves. They created a unique system
in which slavery was justified by the liberty of the master.  This way of thinking gradually attached itself to
libertarian ideas of maximum protection for private property and
minimal government. Long after Emancipation and the end of de
jure slavery in 1865, echoes of these ideas remain very strong.  Another vice derived from a distorted notion of liberty
appeared early in the history of the American Revolution. In the
summer of 1775,  John Adams  was on the road in  Massachusetts  and
met a man he described as “a common horse jockey” who was
“always in the Law, and had been sued in many Actions, at almost
every Court.”  “Oh! Mr. Adams,” the jockey said. “We can never be grateful
enough to you. There are no courts of justice now in this
province, and I hope there will never be another!”  Liberty’s Downside  In response, Adams turned to his diary: “Is this the object
for which I have been contending?” he asked himself. “Surely, we
must guard against this spirit and these principles, or we shall
repent of all our conduct.”  Adams, of course, was not the first, or last, to confront
those who conflate liberty with anarchy. From a very early date
to our own time, some Americans have demanded the benefit of
liberty and have denied any responsibility to bear its costs.  Many libertarians in the U.S. are consumed by an obsessive
hatred of taxation. In the spring of 2008, when federal income-
tax returns came due, hundreds of “tea parties” were organized
to protest the payment of taxes, even though the federal rates
are lower than they have been for many years, and lower than in
most other developed societies.  They claimed to embody the spirit of the American
Revolution, which they characterized, inaccurately, as a tax
revolt. But the American revolutionaries of 1776 objected not to
taxation but to taxation without representation. After 1789,
they taxed themselves more heavily than the U.K. Parliament had
ever proposed to do. Americans of that time understood that
taxes were fundamental to a free republic. In the 21st century,
a great many people in the U.S. reject that idea, and
politicians pander to their selfishness.  Freedom, another fundamental concept in the U.S., is
something distinct from liberty -- and has its own virtues and
vices. Liberty is about the rights and responsibilities of
independence and autonomy. Freedom is about the rights and
responsibilities of belonging to a community of other free
people.  This definition applies not only within our own time but
also across many generations. It asks us to remember that we are
not the first or last generation to walk upon this earth, and
that the responsibilities of mutual belonging make us stewards
of the land, and of our society, for others who will come after
us.  Freedom Means Belonging  The concept of freedom as belonging also has given rise to
many practical vices. One of them is to claim a license for
one’s self-governing community to persecute strangers -- to
exercise freedom in a way that denies it to others. In the 20th
century, for example, an astonishing number of U.S. communities
outside the Deep South were “sundown towns” that forbade blacks
to remain within their boundaries after sundown. Those who
refused to leave were expelled, sometimes brutally. In 1970, the
state of  Illinois  had as many as 475 sundown towns, according to
research by the historian James Loewen.  On rare occasions when the ordinances that perpetuated
these practices were challenged in court, they were usually
found to be unlawful or unconstitutional or both. But local
governments ignored the courts, and communities continued to
enact sundown laws.  With much urging from libertarian conservatives and
neoclassical economists, the great U.S. republic has shifted
from a view of freedom as a right of belonging in a free society
and toward the notion of liberty as an individual’s right to be
left alone by government and to have more complete control of
his property.  This tendency developed rapidly during the administrations
of  Ronald Reagan  and the senior  George Bush . It appeared in some
of the New Democratic politics of  Bill Clinton , who attempted to
combine free-market economics with a social conscience. And it
continued in more extreme forms during the administration of the
younger George Bush.  But while this was happening in Washington, popular
currents began to flow in a different direction. In the summer
of 1998, for example, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal
interviewed Mark Levy, a psychoanalyst in  San Francisco , who
expressed discontentment despite having done very well by most
measures. When he read that a young founder of Yahoo had made a
billion dollars, the news ruined Dr. Levy’s day.  “Here I am about to go to work on a holiday,” Dr. Levy
complained, “and I’m reading about a guy who is 31 and a
billionaire. I don’t know these kids. Maybe they’re not so
happy. But it’s hard to stomach this kind of discrepancy.” He
wanted to know, “Where is the justice in this?”  Life Is Unfair  Here was a very American conception of unfairness as an
idea of relative deprivation of exceptional advantages.  This story demonstrates how people feel when they realize
that the American system is gloriously free, but it is not very
fair. There has been a growing idea that the politics of both
parties have made an unfair system even less fair than it had
been before.  The U.S. system has greatly expanded its ideas of liberty
and freedom, and it has succeeded remarkably in mediating
between competing ideas of what it means to be free. But we have
not done well with fairness which, from time to time -- for
instance, during the presidencies of  Abraham Lincoln ,  Theodore Roosevelt  and  Franklin Roosevelt  -- becomes a preoccupation. The
21st century finds Americans assessing the issue of fairness yet
again. Even in partisan exchanges, both sides speak not merely
of fairness but of fundamental fairness, which elevates the idea
into a moral principle.  Something else has been changing, too: the material
condition of the U.S.  Now that the country is in its fourth
century, the old feeling of boundlessness is not so strong. Many
people fear they may lose their jobs, and that this could happen
without regard to merit or achievement. More Americans are
awakening to the realization that their economic system may be
free, but it can be deeply unfair.  In regard to liberty and freedom, though, something has
gone profoundly right in America. These great ideas have spread
rapidly around the world, changing as they grow. Many nations in
the past generation have invented for themselves fundamental
laws that enlarge and protect freedom and liberty in various
ways.  Democracy also has been spreading around the world. “Fair”
and “free” are ideals that can reinforce each other. After
titanic struggles against many forms of tyranny and cruelty, the
world today is slowly learning to embrace them both. Many
generations have learned from the experience of those who came
before them. So might we.  (David Hackett Fischer, who teaches at  Brandeis University 
in Waltham, Massachusetts, is the author of “ Washington ’s
Crossing” and “Champlain’s Dream.” This is an excerpt from his
book, “Fairness and Freedom: A History of Two Open Societies,
 New Zealand  and the  United States ,” to be published Feb. 7 by
 Oxford University Press . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Hackett Fischer at  fischer@brandeis.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 