-- JPMorgan Agrees to Pay $110 Million in Overdraft Fee Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-02-06T18:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/jpmorgan-agrees-to-pay-110-million-to-settle-overdraft-fee-gouging-case.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, reached a preliminary agreement to pay $110
million to settle litigation saying it gouged customers on
overdraft fees for checking accounts, court records show.  The settlement would resolve claims by customers including
Andrea Luquetta of  Los Angeles , who sued over fees charged to
debit cards attached to her checking account. U.S. District
Judge James Lawrence King in Miami must approve any settlement.
King had earlier rejected arguments by various banks that
customers were legally bound to arbitrate the dispute.  “We’re pleased to have reached an agreement in
principle,” Patrick Linehan, a JPMorgan spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The litigation before King involves more than 30 banks sued
over their overdraft-fee policies. The customers say the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, agreed last year to pay $410 million without
admitting liability to settle an overdraft lawsuit brought by
its customers.  In her lawsuit, filed in 2009, Luquetta claimed JPMorgan
engaged in “unfair, deceptive and unconscionable” assessment
and collection of overdraft fees. Her complaint also refers to
the practices of Washington Mutual Inc., which JPMorgan bought
in 2008.  Insufficient Funds  Chase didn’t decline debit transactions when a customer had
insufficient funds and didn’t warn them an overdraft fee would
be charged, Luquetta alleged. Rather, Chase routinely charged
customers overdraft fees of $25 to $35 for transactions of only
a few dollars, according to the amended complaint.  Chase and Washington Mutual “either refused to allow their
customers to opt out of overdraft protection, or failed to
adequately disclose to their customers that they may do so,”
according to the complaint, which sought to proceed as a class-
action, or group, lawsuit.  “In many instances, these overdraft fees cost the banks’
account holders hundreds of dollars in a matter of days, or even
hours, when they may be overdrawn by only a few dollars,” it
claimed.  In September 2009, Chase announced several changes to its
overdraft fees for  debit cards .  It eliminated overdrafts unless a customer elects the
service, modified the posting order of charges to recognize
debit-card transactions and ATM withdrawals as they occur, ended
fees for accounts overdrawn by $5 or less, and reduced the
maximum number of fees per day to three from six.  Arbitration  Last September, King ruled that customers of  SunTrust Banks
Inc. ,  M&T Bank Corp. ,  Regions Financial Corp.  and  Branch Banking
& Trust Co . can use the federal courts rather than arbitration
to pursue overdraft claims. He said a  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling
last April in AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion didn’t require
arbitration in every case.  In October, a federal appeals court ruled that King should
consider the JPMorgan case in light of the Concepcion ruling.
The judge, the appeals court ruled, should have limited the
pretrial collection of evidence to “issues bearing
significantly on the arbitrability of this dispute until the
question of arbitrability has been decided.”  Bruce Rogow, a lead attorney for the JPMorgan Chase
customers, wouldn’t comment on the accord. Another lead
attorney, Robert Gilbert, didn’t return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment.  Largest Settlement  Bank of America’s settlement, finalized in November, is the
largest thus far in the litigation. The accord won court
approval despite objections the amount was too little for
customers and lawyers were being paid too much.  Union Bank NA agreed to a $35 million settlement with
customers in November; an  Associated Banc-Corp . unit,
Associated Bank, agreed in November to pay $13 million.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 