-- Baer Slides as Swiss Bank Expects U.S. Fine on Taxes: Zurich Mover
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-06T16:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/julius-baer-full-year-profit-drops-after-franc-strengthens-german-payment.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the Swiss
wealth manager founded in 1890, fell the most in three months in
Zurich trading after saying it expects to pay a fine to resolve
tax matters with the U.S. and as profit declined 27 percent.  Full-year net income dropped to 258 million Swiss francs
($280 million), missing the 312 million-franc average  estimate 
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit fell after the
Zurich-based bank paid Germany 50 million euros ($65 million) to
end an investigation over undeclared client assets.  Baer Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  is looking for
acquisitions as Swiss banks seek ways to gain assets after a
crackdown on  tax evasion  in the U.S. and Europe forced some
clients to withdraw funds. The bank said it has “resources to
satisfy a resolution” to tax matters with the U.S.  “Investors would like to see more clarity on the U.S.
matter,” said Arno Endres, an analyst at Luzerner Kantonalbank
AG in Lucerne, Switzerland. “I don’t see Julius Baer making a
major acquisition while this situation is still being
discussed.”  Baer fell as much as 5.4 percent and closed 3.8 percent
lower at 36.40 francs, the biggest drop since Oct. 31, at the
close in Zurich. The stock has declined 17 percent in the past
12 months compared with a 28 percent decline in the 43-company
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Final Settlement  Baer expects to hand over client data to U.S. authorities
as part of a final settlement, said Collardi, adding that the
firm accepted customers from “larger banks,” including UBS AG,
in 2008. That didn’t involve “active targeting” and Baer no
longer takes that type of client, Collardi said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Linzie Janis.  “We expect probably that we will have to pay a fine,”
Collardi told reporters today on a conference call. “I’m
confident we will find a resolution that will be satisfactory.”  Baer doesn’t have to make a provision for the U.S. tax
matter under accounting rules, Collardi said. Credit Suisse
Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, booked provisions
of 295 million francs in the third quarter related to tax
matters in the U.S.  The U.S. is probing 11 Swiss financial institutions
suspected of helping Americans hide money from the  Internal
Revenue Service . Switzerland and the U.S. may reach an agreement
on the treatment of undeclared bank accounts within months,
Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said in an
interview on Jan. 28.  Wegelin Charged  Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old private bank, became the
first Swiss lender to face criminal charges in the latest U.S.
crackdown on offshore firms suspected of helping Americans evade
taxes. Wegelin helped Americans hide more than $1.2 billion in
assets and evade U.S. taxes, according to an indictment filed
last week in federal court in  New York .  The indictment of Wegelin hasn’t “changed anything in our
ongoing constructive dialogue,” said Collardi, adding that
there is “no indication” his bank will be indicted.  Julius Baer has provided support for two employees charged
in October with helping more than 180 U.S. clients to hide at
least $600 million in assets from the Internal Revenue Service,
Collardi told investors in Zurich. He gave no further details.  Client inflows at Baer totaled 10 billion francs last year,
at the top end of the firm’s 4 percent to 6 percent annualized
growth target. Assets under management were unchanged at 170
billion francs.  “We were able to maintain our group’s business momentum in
most dimensions in 2011 despite a challenging market and
business environment,” Collardi said in a statement. “This
again resulted in very healthy net new money inflows from all
regions.”  Targets Lowered  Baer plans to pay a special dividend of 40 centimes a share
in addition to an ordinary dividend of 60 centimes a share.  The bank lowered its medium-term target for pretax profit
to an adjusted margin of 35 basis points from 40 basis points
previously, citing a “changed market environment” and franc
strength. Baer also amended its cost-to-income ratio target to
62 percent to 66 percent, from 60 percent to 64 percent.  Julius Baer  plans to buy back as much as 500 million francs
of shares over two years after the current stock repurchase
program expires on April 11, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  