-- Juventus Maintains Serie A Soccer Lead After Draws; Valencia Ties Atletico
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-02-06T00:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/juventus-maintains-serie-a-soccer-lead-after-draws-valencia-ties-atletico.html
Juventus stayed one point ahead of AC
Milan atop Italian soccer’s Serie A after both were held to 0-0
ties at home. Valencia and  Atletico Madrid  played out a
scoreless draw in  Spain .  Juventus drew with Siena yesterday, while 10-man Milan tied
against seventh-place Napoli. Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic
was dismissed midway through the second half at the San Siro for
violent conduct.  The top two pulled away from Udinese and Lazio, which both
suffered defeats -- 3-2 at Fiorentina and 3-2 at Genoa
respectively. Roma was the only top-seven team to win, 4-0
against fifth-place  Inter Milan  with Fabio Borini scoring twice.  In Spain, first-place Real  Madrid  beat Getafe 1-0 two days
ago and Barcelona defeated Real Sociedad 2-1 as the seven-point
gap remained between the clubs. Third-place Valencia maintained
its seven-point advantage over Atletico Madrid in the race for a
Champions League place after their 0-0 draw last night.  Borussia Dortmund  leads  Germany ’s Bundesliga after this
weekend’s matches following a 2-0 win at Nuremberg on Feb. 3, as
 Bayern Munich , Schalke and Borussia Moenchengladbach were all
held to draws. Bayern and Schalke are two points behind, with
Moenchengladbach another point back.  Yesterday, Werder Bremen tied 2-2 against Freiburg, while
Cologne won 1-0 at Kaiserslautern.  In  France , defending champion Lille had its game against
Sochaux postponed because of freezing conditions. Lyon came back
from two goals down to draw 2-2 at Marseille last night.  Paris Saint-Germain tops the standings with 49 points,
three ahead of Montpellier. PSG beat Evian 3-1 two days ago,
while Montpellier defeated Brest 1-0.  In the Netherlands, Eredivisie leader PSV Eindhoven was
held to a 1-1 draw by Heracles. PSV leads Twente and Alkmaar by
three points. 