-- Kroger Seen as Bargain at Cheaper Than 99% of S&P 500: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-06T22:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/kroger-seen-as-bargain-at-cheaper-than-99-of-s-p-500-real-m-a.html
For potential acquirers, there may
never be a better time to go grocery shopping in the U.S.  Kroger Co. , the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, traded
last week at an 86 percent discount to its projected sales this
fiscal year, leaving it cheaper than 99 percent of companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Cincinnati-based company, which lost $4.7 billion
in market capitalization during the last recession, was valued
at 10.8 times estimated  earnings , the lowest level for a U.S.
food retailer greater than $2 billion, the data show.  Kroger, which has increased  sales  in every year since at
least 1987 even as Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. grabbed
market share from other supermarkets, may now become a target
for retailers outside the U.S. or private equity firms,
according to Northcoast Research Holdings LLC. Valued at $13.7
billion last week, Kroger could still attract a takeover offer
30 percent above its current price, Point View Wealth Management
Inc. said, making it the largest grocery acquisition on record.  “Of the traditional pure-play grocery stores, Kroger is
the crown jewel,” David Dietze, president and chief investment
strategist at Summit, New Jersey-based Point View, which owns
shares of Kroger, said in a telephone interview. “They have a
long consistent record of positive same-store sales performance.
It’s timely to acquire Kroger because it’s cheap.”  Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Kroger, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation.  Today’s Trading  Shares of  Kroger  climbed as much as 1.1 percent today and
closed 0.6 percent higher at $24.06 in  New York . That was the
 fifth-biggest gain  among 42 companies in the S&P 500 Consumer
Staples Index.  Kroger traces its roots back to 1883, when Barney Kroger
used his  life savings  of $372 to open a grocery store in
downtown Cincinnati. Since then, the company has grown to more
than 2,000 Kroger supermarkets, selling Kroger brand food items
such as ice cream, pasta sauce and  fruit juice .  The company also operates retailers including the Fred
Meyer grocery and department store chain, the Turkey Hill
convenience shops and Littman Jewelers.  After losing $4.7 billion in market value during the
 longest recession  since the Great Depression, Kroger has lagged
behind a rebound in consumer stocks. Since June 2009, when the
18-month contraction ended, shares of Kroger gained just 4.9
percent through last week, versus a 41 percent  advance  for the
 S&P 500  Consumer Staples Index.  Relative Value  While Kroger was able to boost  sales  through the recession,
its  profitability  declined in each of the past five years as the
company lowered prices to compete with discount store chains
such as  Wal-Mart .  Kroger earned 2.6 cents in operating income for every
dollar of sales in the past 12 months, the least among U.S. food
retailers with more than $2 billion in market value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The supermarket chain also has
lower operating margins because it operates gas stations, a less
profitable business, according to Charles Cerankosky, a
Cleveland-based analyst for Northcoast.  Shares of Kroger last week were valued at 0.14 times
estimated sales of  $95.8 billion  for the year that started this
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was cheaper
than 488 of 495 other S&P 500 companies with sales projections
from analysts, the data show.  Record Sales  Kroger  also traded at 10.8 times projected profit of $1.3
billion for the current fiscal year. That was about half the
average for five U.S. food retailers with market capitalizations
of more than $2 billion. Both the earnings and  sales  numbers for
this year would be records, the data show.  Food retailers outside the U.S. have bought American
grocery chains in the past and some may be interested in
acquiring Kroger if they are seeking further investment in the
country as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis threatens its economy,
Point View’s Dietze said.  Royal Ahold NV, the Dutch company that bought the Stop &
Shop chain in 1996, also owns Peapod, the online grocery
shopping and delivery service. Tesco Plc, Britain’s largest
supermarket company, owns the  Fresh & Easy  Neighborhood Market
chain on the U.S. West Coast.  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  is the owner of
Food Lion,  Bottom Dollar Food  and Hannaford.  While the 17-nation euro region’s gross domestic product
will contract 0.5 percent in 2012 and the U.K. will only grow
0.5 percent, according to economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, the U.S.’s GDP will rise 2.3 percent, the data show.  U.S. Economy  America’s economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual rate in
the final three months of last year, the fastest pace since the
second quarter of 2010. The  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell in
January to the lowest in three years as payrolls climbed more
than forecast, Labor Department figures showed last week.  “The reason I think of a foreign buyer is because Kroger
represents a large U.S. franchise in the retail  food industry ,”
Northcoast’s Cerankosky said in a telephone interview. “On a
fundamental basis it’s cheap and we very much like the company’s
ability to continue to grow market share.”  While Kroger is an attractive business, its size may make
buyers hesitant to do a deal that large as the industry faces
increasing challenges and competition from unconventional food
retailers, according to Edward Kelly, a New York-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Kroger would be too large,” Kelly said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a good, well-run company, but it’s in a tough
business. There’s a lot of different places that consumers can
go to buy food today and the supermarkets are kind of caught in
the middle because they’re losing share.”  ‘It’s Doable’  Size may not be an issue if private equity were to team up
with an overseas grocery chain such as  Delhaize  or  Carrefour SA ,
the world’s second-largest retailer, Point View’s Dietze said.  A group of buyers could pick and choose which brands and
assets they want and private equity could decide to restructure
the real estate, he said.  “It’s doable,” Dietze said.  In addition to Delhaize and Carrefour, Ahold may also want
to expand its footprint in the U.S. by acquiring Kroger and may
see an opportunity to improve profitability, said  Michael Holland , chairman and founder of New York-based Holland & Co.  “As bad as things look in the U.S. for the consumer, they
look worse in Europe,” Holland, whose firm oversees more than
$4 billion in client assets, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s possible that an industry participant might have a little
bit of an edge simply because they might be able to drive some
efficiencies and some cost savings.”  ‘Fairly Inexpensive’  Steven Vandenbroeke, a spokesman for Brussels-based
Delhaize, didn’t respond to telephone calls or e-mails seeking
comment. An e-mailed request to Carrefour’s media relations
department also wasn’t returned.  Jochem van de Laarschot, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based
Ahold, declined to comment on whether the company has considered
a takeover of Kroger.  Kroger may command a 30 percent premium in a takeover, or
$31 a share based on last week’s closing price, Dietze said. At
that price and assuming its $7.47 billion in net debt, Kroger
would be valued at about $25 billion, the largest acquisition of
a food retailer on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A 30 percent premium is definitely reasonable,”  Malcolm Polley , who oversees about $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , said in a
telephone interview. “If they’ve already got exposure here, it
gives any of the retailers outside of the U.S. the ability to
expand their reach. It looks to me it’s in pretty good shape and
it’s fairly inexpensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 