-- Kyle Stanley Wins His First U.S. PGA Tour Title a Week After Blowing Lead
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/kyle-stanley-wins-his-first-u-s-pga-tour-title-a-week-after-blowing-lead.html
Kyle Stanley had tears in his eyes
after overcoming an eight-shot deficit to win golf’s Phoenix
Open and rebound from last week’s final-hole collapse that cost
him a chance for his first U.S.  PGA Tour  victory.  Stanley shot a 6-under-par 65 yesterday at the TPC
Scottsdale in Scottsdale,  Arizona , to finish 15 under for 72
holes. Ben Crane finished second at 14-under, while third-round
leader Spencer Levin was a shot further back in third.  Stanley, who receives about $1.1 million for his first
victory on golf’s richest circuit, was tied for fifth place at
the start of the final round, eight shots behind Levin. At last
week’s Farmers Insurance Open, Stanley had blown a six-shot lead
on the final day, including his three-shot advantage at the 72nd
hole, and was beaten in a playoff by Brandt Snedeker.  “I’m never going to forget that, but I think it makes this
one a lot sweeter, just being able to bounce back,” Stanley,
24, said at a news conference. “I’m very grateful for the
support I’ve gotten. It’s an unbelievable turnaround.”  Stanley, the 2009 Ben Hogan Award winner at  Clemson
University  as the collegiate player of the year, moved atop the
leaderboard yesterday by making birdies on six of the first 14
holes, while Levin was 3 over after 12 holes.  Levin regained a share of the lead with a birdie at the
14th hole and then double-bogeyed the par-5 15th hole, where he
hit his tee shot into a cactus and then his third shot into the
water in front of the island green.  Stanley led Crane by one shot at the par-4 18th hole and
closed his round by making a four-foot par putt. Stanley last
week made a triple-bogey 8 at the final hole at  Torrey Pines ,
including a missed four-foot putt for the win.  “I just tried to focus on playing golf,” said Stanley,
who was ranked 87th in the world entering the event. “I knew I
was playing well coming into this week. The biggest challenge
was seeing if I could put last week behind me. I think I did.”  The PGA Tour now heads to  Pebble Beach ,  California , for the
$6.4 million AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, where  Tiger Woods  is scheduled to make his 2012 U.S. debut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  