-- National Australia Bank’s Profit Rises 7.7% on Higher Share of Mortgages
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-07T05:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/national-australia-bank-s-profit-rises-7-7-on-higher-share-of-mortgages.html
National Australia Bank Ltd .’s cash
profit climbed 7.7 percent in the first quarter as it increased
lending faster than rivals, even as the profitability of loans
waned on higher wholesale funding and deposit costs.  Unaudited cash earnings for the three months ended Dec. 31
rose to A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion), the Melbourne-based bank
said in a statement today. That compares with the A$1.3 billion
profit reported in the same period a year earlier. Unaudited net
profit was about $1.6 billion, the bank said.  Shares  of Australia’s biggest lender to companies fell the
most in three months after Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne, facing the weakest demand for mortgages since 1977, said
earnings were hurt by lower lending margins and a jump in bad
debts in the U.K. Clyne today announced a strategic review of
U.K. banking due by May as that nation’s recovery is delayed.  The result was “disappointing,” said David Ellis, head of
banking research at  Morningstar Inc . in Sydney. “Strong volume
growth in both loans and deposits was offset by higher deposit
and wholesale funding costs.”  National  Australia  shares extended declines after the
central bank unexpectedly kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 4.25 percent, confounding the forecast of 24 of 27
economists surveyed predicting a quarter-point reduction. The
 shares  fell 4 percent to A$23.21 in Sydney, the biggest drop
since Nov. 10.  Funding Costs  “Higher deposit and wholesale funding costs, softening
credit growth and fragile economic conditions continued to be
key characteristics of the operating environment in most of the
regions in which NAB operates,” Clyne said in today’s
statement.  National Australia said its net interest margin, a measure
of the profitability of its lending business, narrowed in the
quarter to 2.19 percent from 2.28 percent in the half-year to
Sept. 30.  Australia’s banks faced increased scrutiny by lawmakers and
consumers ahead of today’s central bank rate decision, with
government ministers including Treasurer  Wayne Swan  telling the
banks to pass on in full any cut by the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia.  National Australia pledged to offer the lowest standard
mortgage variable home rate among the nation’s biggest banks in
2012, Lisa Gray, group executive of personal banking, said in a
separate statement today. The bank said its rate of 7.22 percent
is below competitors  Australia & New Zealand Banking  Group,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp .  Political Pressure  Clyne drew criticism from Swan in November when he didn’t
pass on to customers all of the central bank’s quarter-point cut
to its benchmark interest rate. National Australia was also
among banks that delayed by days announcing in December a
decision to match the central bank’s similar cut.  The personal banking division continued to increase
mortgage volumes and market share, growing at 2.42 times the
total market, the bank said.  While Australia’s biggest banks have cut their reliance on
credit markets as local households save at close to the highest
rate in a quarter century, debt markets still furnish about 40
percent of the funds they use for lending.  National Australia said it raised about A$7 billion of
wholesale funding, including about A$4 billion of covered bonds.
The weighted-average term to maturity of the funds raised was
4.7 years.  Slowing Demand  Central bank figures show credit to Australian home buyers
rose 5.4 percent in December from a year earlier, the smallest
annual increase since 1977, when the data begin. The gain is
about a third of the average monthly pace recorded in the decade
to December 2009.  The weakening demand for loans may force Australia’s banks
to cut 7,000 jobs in the next two years to reduce labor costs
that account for 58 percent of expenses, UBS AG said last month.  Westpac, Australia’s second biggest lender, said last week
as many as 400 people will lose their jobs. ANZ Bank is
preparing to cut as many as 900 positions, according to the
Finance Sector Union, which represents bank workers.  Clyne said today that the U.K. economy is likely to
“experience a much longer period of subdued growth” and that a
recovery is “now a longer-term prospect.”  “NAB has commenced a strategic review, and will work with
U.K. management to appropriately reposition its business mix and
structure for the changed economic environment and improve
returns,” Clyne said. “We will inform the market of the
outcomes of the review, which we expect to occur by the time of
our interim result in May.”  The number of group loans more than 90 days overdue was
“stable” at 1.78 percent on Dec. 31 compared with Sept. 30.  National Australia’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its
ability to absorb potential losses, rose to 10.02 percent from
9.7 percent on Sept. 30, the bank said. The core Tier 1 ratio
was 7.89 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  