-- Netflix Gains on Report of Apple TV Ties: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-06T23:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/neflix-gains-on-report-of-tv-ties-with-apple-los-angeles-mover.html
Netflix Inc (NFLX) ., the online video
operator, rose 2.8 percent on a website report suggesting the
service would be included in an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  TV set.  Netflix rose to $129.25 in  New York  following
TheVerge.com’s report that retailer  Best Buy Co . surveyed
customers on their interest in an Apple TV set that would offer
Netflix streaming. The stock rebounded from an earlier drop of
3.6 percent on news of new competition from  Verizon
Communications Inc.   Best Buy’s survey asks customers about a 42-inch Apple
television for $1,499, with services including Netflix, Google
Inc.’s YouTube and Flickr. The survey was hypothetical, said
Tara Mulcahy, an outside spokeswoman for the Richfield,
Minnesota-based retailer.  “The customer survey was a routine offer effectiveness
survey conducted by one of Best Buy’s research partners,”
according to a statement. “Any brand reference was
hypothetical.”  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.  Netflix Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has been
working to expand globally and add new content, some exclusive,
to forestall competition.  Amazon , Hulu LLC and other providers
have been expanding their online streaming offerings in recent
months.  Verizon Communications Inc., the second-largest U.S. phone
carrier, said today it had formed a joint venture with  Coinstar
Inc . to compete beginning in the second half with Netflix in
offering a video-streaming service.  Time Warner Inc .’s Home Box Office invested $10 million  in
 Quickflix , an Australia-based online streaming service and DVD
rental service, in exchange for a 15.7 percent stake, Quickflix
said in a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange.  Quickflix reported on Jan. 23 that it signed a content deal
with  HBO  to stream more than 500 hours of content through its
service, including television shows “Entourage,” “Sex and the
City” and “The Sopranos.” Quickflix had 94,097 subscribers as
of the end of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  