-- Nevada’s Masto Won’t Decide Today on Foreclosure Accord
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-07T00:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/nevada-s-masto-won-t-decide-by-today-s-deadline-on-u-s-foreclosure-accord.html
Nevada  Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said she won’t decide by today’s deadline whether
to join a nationwide settlement with banks over foreclosure
practices.  Nevada is “continuing to review the intricate draft
settlement terms and advocating for improvements to address
Nevada’s needs” in the proposed nationwide settlement over bank
foreclosure practices, Masto said in an e-mailed statement.
Masto said in a Jan. 27 letter to state and federal officials
involved in negotiating the accord that she needed answers to 38
questions to evaluate the deal.  “State-specific information is necessary to make our
determination and my office is still in discussions regarding
that information,” Masto said in the statement.  While attorneys general in some states have already
announced their intention to sign the deal, said to be worth as
much as $25 billion, others including California Attorney
General Kamala Harris have yet to publicly commit in part due to
terms that protect the banks from future litigation. Without
Harris, the deal’s value will drop by several billion dollars,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  ‘Less Concerned’  “I’m less concerned with the timeline than the details,”
Harris said in an e-mailed statement. “For the past 13 months
we have been working for a resolution that brings real relief to
the hardest-hit homeowners, is transparent about who benefits,
and will ensure accountability. We are closer now than we’ve
been before but we’re not there yet.”  Today’s deadline, extended by the parties from Feb. 3,
comes almost 16 months after all 50 states announced they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes.  Officials from a group of state  attorneys general  offices
and federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , have
since negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with the five
largest mortgage servicers --  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .,  Citigroup Inc .,  Wells Fargo & Co ., and  Ally
Financial Inc .  Masto, Harris  In December, Masto, who has criticized the proposed
nationwide settlement as inadequate, joined Harris in announcing
they would jointly investigate wrongdoing in mortgage loan
origination, servicing and securitization, and will share
litigation strategies, information and evidence.  Masto’s office sued Bank of America in December 2010 to
undo an agreement over home-loan modifications tied to the
bank’s Countrywide Financial unit, claiming the lender failed to
meet its obligations. The case is being litigated in federal
court in Reno.  Masto’s lawyers in a court filing have accused the bank of
stalling tactics that they said “underscores the gamesmanship”
the state faces.  Bank of America  said in a court filing that it has engaged
in an “aggressive, systematic, and unprecedented” collection
and production of documents. Bank of America has been
“exceedingly open” with Masto’s lawyers, according to the
filing.  Commenting on the current status of the accord,  Dan Frahm ,
a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, said
“We’re interested in finding a path forward with a
comprehensive settlement that benefits homeowners and
communities.”  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment. Tom Goyda, a spokesman for San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo,  Tom Kelly , a spokesman at New York-based
JPMorgan, and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally Financial also
declined to comment.  The case is Nevada v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-00135,
U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at
   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  