-- New York Police Officer Pleads Guilty to $1 Million Gun-Running Conspiracy
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-06T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/new-york-police-officer-pleads-guilty-to-1-million-gun-running-conspiracy.html
A  New York  police officer admitted to
taking part in a scheme involving the illegal interstate
transportation of guns and stolen cigarettes, federal
prosecutors said.  William Masso, 48, of  Brooklyn , pleaded guilty today to
four counts of conspiracy before U.S. District Judge John G. Koetl in  Manhattan , U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said in
a statement. He was fired from the police department as of his
plea.  Masso was one of 12 men, including eight active-duty and
retired New York police officers, charged in October with
scheming to transport M-16 rifles and handguns with defaced
serial numbers across state lines.  Prosecutors said Masso met a confidential informant working
for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in late 2009 and
expressed an interest in getting and selling cigarettes and
other contraband. The informant supplied Masso with cigarettes
that he said were stolen from out of state, and Masso sold them,
prosecutors said.  In 2010, Masso discussed helping the informant’s “boss,”
actually an undercover agent, transport and sell stolen goods,
prosecutors said. Masso said he could recruit police officers to
help with the scheme, according to the U.S.  M-16 Rifles  The FBI supplied Masso and his co-conspirators with
purportedly stolen goods including three M-16 rifles, a shotgun,
16 handguns, 12  slot machines  and thousands of cartons of
cigarettes, prosecutors said. The goods had a street value of
about $1 million, prosecutors said.  Masso told his co-conspirators to carry their badges during
the operation and tell anyone who asked that they were working
off-duty to deliver items bought at auction, prosecutors said.  Masso pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
transport firearms interstate, one count of conspiracy to
transport defaced firearms interstate, one count of conspiracy
to sell a firearm to an out-of-state resident and one count of
conspiracy to transport and receive stolen merchandise.  He faces as long as 20 years in prison at sentencing,
scheduled for June 15, although non-binding federal sentencing
guidelines call for a term of 57 to 71 months, according to
court documents. He’s free on a $100,000 personal recognizance
bond and subject to home detention with electronic monitoring.  Masso has agreed to forfeit $50,000, representing the
amount of the proceeds of his crimes and his interest in three
guns that were seized, prosecutors said. He was suspended by the
 New York City Police Department ’s Internal Affairs Bureau in
October and terminated as of his plea today without pension or
benefits,  Paul Browne , a department spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  The case is U.S. v. Masso, 11-02730, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  