-- New Jersey Asks to Join U.S. in GenOn Energy Emissions Fight
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-06T22:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/new-jersey-asks-to-join-u-s-in-genon-energy-emissions-fight-1-.html
New Jersey  asked to intervene in a
legal fight between  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to force a cut in power plant emissions that
the state said are harming its air quality.  The EPA last year granted a request by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection to force GenOn to cut
emissions at a plant in Portland, Pennsylvania, 60 percent by
2013 and by at least 81 percent in three years. GenOn appealed
to a federal court in Philadelphia, where New Jersey today  filed
a motion  to intervene, according to a statement from the state
agency.  “The amount of emissions coming from the Portland plant is
staggering,” Commissioner Bob Martin of the state environmental
department said in the statement. “The continuing negative
effects on public health cannot be tolerated. We intend to press
the courts to force GenOn to meet Clean Air Act requirements.”  The  Portland  plant in 2010 emitted more than 30,000 tons of
sulfur dioxide plus mercury and other contaminants into the air
across the Delaware River from New Jersey, affecting residents
in Warren, Morris, Sussex and Hunterdon counties, according to
the statement.  New Jersey’s request to the EPA is part of the Christie
administration’s effort to reduce air pollution by targeting
out-of-state power plants. The state has joined  New York ,
Connecticut, Maryland, Pennsylvania and the U.S. government in
lawsuits against an Edison International subsidiary and
subsidiaries of First Energy Corp. to reduce emissions at power
plants.  Laurie Fickman, a spokeswoman for Houston-based GenOn,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment on the state’s
action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  