-- N.J. Fracking Opponents Take Second Shot at Ban Christie Vetoed
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-06T19:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/new-jersey-fracking-opponents-take-second-shot-at-ban-after-christie-veto.html
New Jersey  Democrats will try for a
second time to prohibit fracking for natural gas in the most
densely populated U.S. state, after Governor  Chris Christie 
vetoed a ban in August and lodged a one-year moratorium.  While  New Jersey  produces no natural gas, the Utica Shale
formation, a largely unexplored deposit running from Ontario,
 Canada , to  Tennessee , runs under Warren and Sussex counties in
the state’s northwest. A ban would head off future fracking in
an area that provides almost half of New Jersey with drinking
water, said Senator  Robert Gordon , who sponsors it.  “Support has been growing for this, and as that support
for a full ban builds, I’m hopeful we can get enough votes to
override any veto,” Gordon, a Democrat from Fair Lawn, said in
a telephone interview today. “The message that I want to give
the governor is that I want him to put the brakes on this.”  Gordon’s measure is scheduled for a Feb. 9 hearing before
the Senate Environment and Energy Committee. The lawmaker said
he’s optimistic the bill will be approved a second time by the
Legislature, and he hopes to pick up a few votes.  Democrats control the Assembly, 48-32, and the Senate,
24-16, and would need a two-thirds majority, or 54 members in
the Assembly and 27 in the Senate, to override Christie vetoes.  Drinking Water  Fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is a process by which
companies inject water, sand and chemicals under high pressure
thousands of feet underground to break up shale-rock formations
and release trapped natural gas. Advances in the technology have
pushed gas from shale to almost 30 percent of U.S. production in
the past 15 years, according to data from the U.S. Energy
Department.  Environmental groups say fracking contaminates drinking
water and pollutes the air. The Environmental Protection Agency
is studying the issue and weighing nationwide regulations.
France and  Bulgaria  have banned the practice, while Ohio is
considering tougher drilling rules in response to unprecedented
earthquakes in fracking areas.  New Jersey was set to have the first statewide ban on
fracking in the U.S., after Gordon’s measure passed both houses
of the Legislature in June. Christie, a first-term Republican,
issued a “conditional veto” of the bill in August, saying he
wanted to wait for the results of two federal studies before
agreeing to a permanent prohibition.  In his veto message, Christie said the “potential
environmental concerns with fracking in our state must be
studied and weighed carefully against the potential benefits of
increasing access to natural gas in New Jersey.” His
moratorium, which lawmakers agreed to last month, expires in
January 2013.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment on the pending legislation.  “The dangers of fracking to the environment and our water
supply were well-known a year ago when this legislation passed
with overwhelming bipartisan support,” Derek Roseman, a
spokesman for Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , said in an e-
mail. “Since they have only become even more well-known, the
bill should still have that support now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  