-- Nigerian Militants Threaten New Attacks in Oil-Rich Niger Delta
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-02-06T15:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/nigeria-s-main-militant-group-vows-more-attacks-in-oil-rich-niger-delta.html
Nigeria ’s main militant group in the
oil-rich Niger River delta said it’s planning more attacks after
it damaged a pipeline belonging to a unit of  Italy ’s  Eni SpA .  The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta said
in an e-mailed statement today that the Feb. 4 attack affected
200,000 barrels a day. Rome-based Eni said yesterday it lost
“around 4,000” barrels per day of “equity production” from
the incident. The pipeline carries crude to an export terminal
in the coastal town of Brass, about 250 kilometers (155 miles)
southwest of the oil-industry hub of  Port Harcourt , said MEND’s
spokesman, Jomo Gbomo.  MEND said that in the next few weeks it would carry out
“major attacks on oil installations to demonstrate to the world
the helplessness of  oil companies  and the Nigerian military.”  Attacks by MEND and other militant groups in the Niger
delta, home to Nigeria’s oil industry, cut the nation’s crude
output by more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Disruptions eased after thousands of fighters, seeking a
greater share of oil revenue for the region’s inhabitants, laid
down their weapons and accepted an official amnesty. MEND
refuses to disarm, saying the government hasn’t met its demands
for control of the delta’s oil.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s top oil producer and the fifth-biggest
source of U.S. crude imports.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp .,  Chevron Corp .,  Total SA  and Eni run joint ventures with
the state oil company Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that
pump more than 90 percent of the country’s crude.  The Nigerian military has identified eight people who
sabotaged the pipeline and they aren’t backed by the MEND
leadership, spokesman Colonel Timothy Antigha said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “For the avoidance of doubt, people who were the
leadership of MEND are not responsible members of society,
having accepted the amnesty,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  