-- No Change in India’s Fundamentals to Justify Rally, Kotak Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-02-06T05:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/no-change-in-india-s-fundamentals-to-justify-rally-kotak-says.html
Sanjeev Prasad, senior executive
director and co-head of Kotak Institutional Equities, comments
on the outlook for Indian shares. He spoke in an interview with
Bloomberg UTV today from  Singapore .  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 1.2 percent
to 17,809.09 at 11:18 a.m. in Mumbai.  On the market rally:  “I don’t think much has changed on the ground to justify
the optimism. What has changed is that globally we are seeing
surplus liquidity conditions triggered by developments in the
 euro zone . The ECB is following a very loose monetary policy
that has added to the loose monetary policy being followed by
the Fed. People are willing to take more risks now. All asset
classes --  emerging markets , developed markets, equities, gold,
crude -- have gone up dramatically.  The reason why India has surprised so much on the upside is
that  India  has been beaten down quite a lot toward the end of
November and December. If this rally has to sustain India has to
get its act right. Governance must improve, execution challenges
have to be overcome and fiscal consolidation process has to
begin in earnest.”  On returns for rest of the year:  “From here, we can expect 5 percent to 8 percent return on
a fundamental basis” from the Sensex.  The Sensex surged 11 percent in January, the best opening
month to a year since 1994, as the rupee rose, the central bank
eased monetary policy, inflation slowed and  earnings  of some of
the nation’s biggest companies exceeded estimates, prompting
 foreigners  to buy $3 billion of stocks so far this year. That
compares with an outflow of $512 million in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  