-- China Nod for Citibank Credit Cards May Show Market Opening
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-02-07T02:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/nod-for-citibank-s-credit-cards-may-signal-chinese-banking-market-opening.html
China’s decision to allow  Citigroup
Inc.  to issue credit cards may signal an opening of the banking
market as the government relaxes restrictions that are the
subject of a U.S. complaint at the  World Trade Organization .  New York-based Citigroup is the second foreign bank, and
the first Western one, allowed to issue credit cards in the
world’s most populous nation.  The announcement yesterday came as the WTO, acting on a U.S.
complaint, probes the legality of China’s refusal to let foreign
companies issue their own bank cards denominated in its currency,
or to permit companies such as  Visa Inc. ,  American Express Co. ,
 MasterCard Inc. ,  Discover Financial Services  and  First Data Corp. 
to process card transactions in  China .  “It’s perhaps not a coincidence that this is coming at
this point when this case is going on,” said Fredrik Erixon,
director of the Brussels-based European Centre for International
Political Economy. “But I think it’s more connected to changes
on the ground in China, in its policy on competition in banking
in China, where we see a cautiously gradual opening.”  China requires foreign banks to “co-brand” with Chinese
operators to issue credit cards, and to execute payments through
 China UnionPay Data Co.  The U.S. says the rules contravene a
pledge the world’s most populous nation made when it joined the
Geneva-based WTO in 2001 to open its debit- and credit-card
markets to foreign processors by the end of 2006.  Consumer Spending  Credit cards are becoming more popular among China’s 1.3
billion people as rising incomes stoke  consumer spending .
Chinese banks issued 268 million credit cards as of Sept. 30, up
20 percent from a year earlier, according to the central bank.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. ,  Hong Kong 's third-largest lender,
was the first non-mainland issuer of credit cards in 2008. More
banks will probably follow, Erixon said. Hong Kong is a special
administrative region of China.  Citigroup had co-branded credit cards with Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank Co. since 2003, by providing technical and
personnel support. Citigroup recalled its staff at the end of
last year from the Chinese bank, whose credit cards will no
longer bear Citigroup’s logo, a spokeswoman for Pudong said by
phone today, declining to be identified in line with company
policy.  Citigroup, which owns 2.7 percent of Shanghai-based Pudong,
said yesterday the two lenders remain close strategic partners.  HSBC Holdings Plc , the largest foreign bank in China, in
2009 agreed to set up a credit-card joint venture with partner
Bank of Communications Ltd.  Testing the Waters  “If China really wants to stabilize its own shaky banking
sector through competition, the right to issue credit cards in
your own currency is a critical part of that,” Erixon said by
phone from  London . “You need to give it to others, too. China
moves slowly, it wants to test the waters, see if it’s going to
work, if there are going to be any political reactions to it.”  The approval for Citibank probably came with some strings
attached, said Jacques Bourgeois, a trade attorney at Wilmer
Hale in Brussels.  “If I were in the Chinese authorities’ shoes, I would
subject that authorization to a number of conditions that would
safeguard my position in the WTO,” he said by telephone from
Brussels. “Making a move like this in the middle of a case
otherwise appears to me like caving in.”  Single Processor  China requires all yuan-denominated credit card
transactions to go through China UnionPay, the nation’s largest
electronic-payment network, established by more than 80 banks
and other state-owned companies.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, declined to
comment on whether conditions were attached to the permission.
Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Trade Representative’s
Office in  Washington , didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Foreign banks held 1.85 percent of China’s banking assets
by the end of 2010, compared with 2.38 percent in 2007. Overseas
lenders had 360 outlets in China as of December 2010, compared
with the 16,000 owned by  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the nation’s biggest lender.  Under Chinese rules, foreign banks must incorporate their
operations locally to tap the mass retail market and offer
products such as credit cards. They also need regulatory
approvals to open outlets and offer new products.  Citigroup operates 13 corporate bank branches and 46
consumer outlets in China.  Citibank said in a statement from  Shanghai  that the Chinese
government’s consent followed preliminary regulatory approval in
January 2012 for the lender to set up a joint-venture securities
firm in China with Orient Securities Co. Ltd. Citi Orient
Securities Co. Ltd. will be involved in  investment banking  in
the Chinese domestic market, including securities underwriting
and sponsoring and any other business as approved by China
Securities Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  