-- Obama Freezes Iranian Government Assets Under Mandate Passed by Lawmakers
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-06T19:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/obama-orders-freeze-on-iranian-government-s-assets-including-central-bank.html
President  Barack Obama  ordered a
freeze on all Iranian government and financial institutions’
assets that are under U.S. jurisdiction, the White House said
today.  The president cited “deceptive practices” of the Iranian
central bank in hiding transactions of sanctioned parties and
its failure to prevent money laundering, concluding that Iran
activities pose an “unacceptable risk” to the international
financial system.  Obama’s executive order follows comments by U.S. officials,
such as Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta , who have expressed
concern that  Israel  may attack if international sanctions fail
to stop Iran’s suspected pursuit of nuclear-weapons capability.  “The practical impact is less important than the message
it sends to Iran,” Nigel Kushner, chief executive officer of
Whale Rock Legal, a London-based  law firm  whose clients include
Europeans involved in legal trade with Iran, said in a telephone
interview today. “It’s a declaration of economic warfare, to
the extent that it’s not already been declared,”  The order blocks all property and interests in property
belonging to the Iranian government, its central bank, and all
Iranian financial institutions, even those that haven’t been
designated for sanctions by the U.S. Treasury Department.  Lawyers such as Kushner who specialize in Iran sanctions
said the blanket freeze on Iranian government assets, including
those belonging to entities not proven to be involved in illegal
activities, underscores the mounting pressure on Iran.  ‘Severe Reaction’ Predicted  Kushner predicted a “severe reaction by Iran” that might
include further naval exercises or threats related to the  Strait
of Hormuz , the Persian Gulf sea passage through which one-fifth
of the world’s globally traded oil transits.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast 
couldn’t be reached to comment on the asset freeze when called
at his office in Tehran after work hours.  Previously, only assets of sanctioned Iranian entities or
individuals determined by the U.S. to be involved in weapons
proliferation or other illicit activities were frozen.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for
Defense of Democracies, a Washington policy group that has
advised the administration and Congress on sanctions, called
Obama’s executive order the logical next step in the
“administration’s economic war on the Iranian regime.”  Dubowitz, an attorney and sanctions specialist, said that
freezing assets of Iran’s central bank and its government
institutions, including the National Iranian Oil Company, makes
them “subject to much tougher enforcement by the U.S.
government and the global financial sector.”  Obama ‘Crystal Clear’  NIOC is owned by the government of  Iran  and is the world’s
second-largest oil company by volume produced, after the Saudi
Arabian Oil Co.  David A. Harris, president of the National Jewish
Democratic Council, which promotes Jewish support for Democrats,
said the action today demonstrated Obama’s record of building
economic and diplomatic pressure to halt any illicit nuclear
activities by Iran.  This “should end any doubt about the president’s singular
commitment to ensuring Iran does not obtain a nuclear weapon,”
Harris said in a statement. “Obama’s record is crystal clear;
he has done more than any president in history to isolate Iran
and encourage Iran’s leaders to change course.”  Long-standing U.S. regulations already prohibited American
citizens or entities from virtually all direct and indirect
transactions involving Iran or its government, aside from those
exempted under general licenses for transactions involving food,
medicine, remittances and humanitarian relief.  ‘Deceptive Practices’  The new measure was mandated as part of Iran sanctions
legislation that was passed by Congress and signed by the
president Dec. 31.  “I have determined that additional sanctions are
warranted, particularly in light of the deceptive practices of
the Central Bank of Iran and other Iranian banks to conceal
transactions of sanctioned parties, the deficiencies in Iran’s
anti- money laundering  regime and the weaknesses in its
implementation, and the continuing and unacceptable risk posed
to the international financial system by Iran’s activities,”
Obama said in his congressional notification.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in OPEC after  Saudi
Arabia , pumped about 3.545 million barrels of oil a day last
month, a Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58
million barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.
Crude for March delivery fell 93 cents to settle at $96.91 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  