-- Oil Rebounds From Two-Day Low in New York; Brent Premium Widens on Weather
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-07T02:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-on-europe-debt-concerns-rising-u-s-supplies.html
Oil rebounded from a two-day low
before international creditors decide on a bailout for  Greece .
Brent crude’s premium to West Texas Intermediate widened a ninth
day amid freezing temperatures in  Europe .  Futures gained as much as 0.6 percent after sliding 1
percent yesterday to near a technical support level. Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  plans to meet the nation’s political
leaders today to discuss additional measures needed to secure a
second European Union-led bailout. Brent prices rose for a sixth
day as record-low temperatures in Europe boost fuel demand.  “Weather conditions appear to be the key reason for the
disparity between the two crude oil grades, with Europe dealing
with unseasonably cold weather and the U.S. experiencing mild
weather conditions,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
a note today.  Oil for March delivery gained as much as 53 cents to $97.44
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $97.36 at 1:15 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract yesterday fell 93 cents to $96.91, the lowest
settlement since Feb. 2. Prices are down 1.5 percent this year.  Futures are rebounding after settling above technical
support along the lower Bollinger Band yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator is around $96.33 a
barrel today. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels.  Brent oil for March settlement advanced 59 cents to $116.52
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The benchmark
contract’s premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
widened to $19.16, the biggest gap based on closing prices since
Oct. 24. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Temperature Drop  Temperatures have plunged across Europe, reaching as low as
minus 50 Celsius (minus 58 Fahrenheit) in parts of Kazakhstan
and minus 30.2 Celsius in the Russian city of Smolensk. Snow has
blanketed  London  and fallen in Italy as far south as Naples.
U.K. natural gas surged 27 percent yesterday as National Grid
Plc forecast demand for the heating fuel will rise 16 percent
above the seasonal norm.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned  oil company , closed a
second crude-export terminal in the  Gulf of Mexico  after weather
conditions worsened. The facility at the port of Coatzacoalcos
was shut, Mexico’s Merchant Marine said yesterday in a weather
bulletin on its website.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show  crude
inventories  in the U.S. rose for a third week while gasoline use
fell to a 10-year low, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. Supplies probably climbed 2.5 million barrels last
week, according to the median of 7 analyst estimates. Gasoline
stockpiles increased  500,000 barrels  for a second weekly gain
and inventories of distillates, a category that includes diesel
and heating oil, dropped 1 million barrels, the survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  