-- Oil-Tanker Hire Rates Slide for Ninth Session as Demand Dwindles
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-06T17:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/oil-tanker-hire-rates-slide-for-ninth-session-as-demand-dwindles.html
Rates to charter the largest  oil
tankers  fell for a ninth session, extending a second weekly
drop, as demand for cargoes dwindled.  Daily hire costs for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage declined 0.3 percent to
48.88 industry-standard Worldscale points, according to the
 Baltic Exchange  in London today. Charter rates have slid 25
percent during the longest losing streak since August. Each of
the ships can hold 2 million barrels of oil.  Demand to haul Middle East crude to  Asia  typically slows
after February, according to Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an Oslo-
based analyst at Fearnley Consultants AS, a unit of shipbroking
group Astrup Fearnley. Stronger oil buying boosted VLCC hire
rates before  China ’s Lunar New Year holiday closed markets in
the country for a week last month.  “Winter markets start heating up from October to February,
when they start calming down,” Svenning said by phone today.
“This is usually a quieter period. There are typically stock
draw downs worldwide during February and March.”  VLCC charter rates climbed 31 percent from the start of the
year through Jan. 20, the last session before the Chinese
celebrations.  The global fleet of VLCCs will expand 6.5 percent this year
to 187 million deadweight tons, according to Clarkson Research
Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker. That’s
more than double its estimate for 3.1 percent growth in demand
to 152.4 million tons.  $8,627 a Day  Daily returns  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage gained 14
percent to $8,627, the Baltic data show. That reduced the plunge
since the start of the year to 30 percent.  The exchange’s assessments don’t account for owners cutting
ship speeds to reduce fuel costs, their biggest expense. The
price of ship fuel, or bunkers, gained 0.1 percent to $699.36 a
metric ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from 25
ports worldwide.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
declined 0.6 percent to 785, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  