-- Crude Oil Decreases as Greece Wrestles With Agreement to Avert Default
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-06T20:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/oil-decreases-on-greek-debt-default-concern-as-brent-crude-premium-widens.html
Oil declined in  New York  on concern
that Greece will fail to take sufficient steps to avert a
default, threatening Europe’s economy and fuel consumption.  Futures dropped 1 percent as European leaders pressured
Greece to accept terms demanded by international lenders on a
bailout package. Brent oil in London traded at the biggest
premium to the American benchmark grade in 13 weeks as record-
low temperatures in Europe bolstered fuel demand.  “There’s disappointment in the market because there’s been
no resolution of the Greek crisis,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst
at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Cold temperatures in Europe along with
concerns about Iran and other trouble spots are helping keep
Brent strong.”  Crude oil for March delivery fell 93 cents to settle at
$96.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 1.9 percent this year.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  struck a tentative
deal with party leaders to extend spending cuts after euro-area
finance chiefs told them an increase in the 130 billion-euro
($170 billion) aid package wasn’t forthcoming.  Brent oil for March settlement rose $1.35, or 1.2 percent,
to end the session at $115.93 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Today’s close was the highest since Aug. 2.  The Brent contract traded at $19.02 premium to West Texas
Intermediate oil, the grade traded in New York, based on
settlement prices. It was the widest closing price spread since
Nov. 7. Brent’s premium narrowed to $6.82 in intraday trading on
Jan. 3 from a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  European Cold  A wave of Siberian air is bolstering heating demand in
Europe. The cold snap affected more than 50 regions of  Russia ,
where temperatures fell 7 degrees to 12 degrees Celsius below
average (13 to 22 degrees Fahrenheit), the country’s Emergency
Ministry said on its website. Austria closed part of the Danube
River, the continent’s second-longest, because of ice for the
first time this year.  The spread also widened as  stockpiles  at Cushing, Oklahoma,
the delivery point for New York futures, advanced 1.48 million
barrels to 30.1 million in the week ended Jan. 27, the biggest
gain since March, in an Energy Department report Feb. 1.  Prices also fell after the  International Monetary Fund  said
the economic expansion in  China , the world’s biggest energy-
consuming country, could be cut almost in half this year if
 Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  Growth  may drop by as much as 4
percentage points from the fund’s current projection, which is
for 8.2 percent, according to report released today by the IMF’s
China office in Beijing.  Economic Outlook  “With stagnant growth in Europe likely to be a permanent
feature, prices seem a touch overbought and may either
consolidate or retrace,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “Looking out much
further, a recovering U.S. economy, prospects for a soft landing
in China and continuing Syrian insurrection will mean higher
prices.”  Forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad pressed
artillery attacks against the central city of Homs after Russia
vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution aimed at
ending the fighting. Officials from Syria’s ally  Iran  have
warned they may shut the Strait of Hormuz, passage for a fifth
of global oil trade, in response to an embargo on crude sales.  U.S. Economy  Oil in New York climbed for the first time in six days on
Feb. 3 after the U.S. jobless rate fell to the lowest level in
three years. The Labor Department said the  unemployment rate 
dropped to 8.3 percent in January, the least since February
2009. Nonfarm payrolls increased 243,000, the most since April.  “The Greek crisis is making people mildly bearish,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester, Massachusetts. “The U.S. economy is showing
signs of strength. We will be on the outlook for signs of a
rebound in demand, but there haven’t been any yet.”  U.S.  fuel demand  dropped 8.3 percent to 17.7 million
barrels a day in the week ended Jan. 27, the lowest rate since
1999, an Energy Department report on Feb. 1 showed.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil in New York by 1.4
percent in the week through Jan. 31, according to data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Money managers increased
net long positions on  Brent crude  by 171 contracts to 86,423
lots in the same period, data from ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London  showed.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 604,829
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 754,775 on
Feb. 3, 28 percent above the three-month average. Open interest
was 1.46 million contracts, the highest since Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  