-- Oil, Food, Water: Is Everything Past Its Peak?
-- B y   E r i c   R o s t o n
-- 2012-02-06T18:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/oil-food-water-is-everything-past-its-peak-.html
     An unprecedented crisis faced America. Oil
production was
going to peak in just three to five years, resulting in
foreign oil addiction and economic calamity. The scientist
responsible for slapping the nation into consciousness
implored industry and government to act: "The smug complacency
that habitually blinds the American public must be torn,"
wrote David White, chief geologist of the  U.S. Geological
Survey . It was 1920.  More than 90 years later, tempers still flare over the
prospect of global "peak oil." Last week a commentary in the
prestigious journal Nature argued, "oil's tipping point has
passed." It's the most recent high-profile salvo about
whether, or how soon, the petroleum extraction that drives the
global economy will reach a plateau and
then, inevitably, decline.  "Peak" alarms going off aren't unique to oil. There's
peak coal: Production could top out around 2025, according to
the Energy Watch Group, an international group of legislators
and scientists studying long-term trends. Peak food: The
U.N.'s Food Price Index reached a new high in February
2011, exacerbating poverty in  developing countries  and
creating potential for civil unrest. "Peak water" entered the
popular lexicon in 2010, after two scientists classified
threats to human use of rivers and underground aquifers, and
to ecological stability. Peak coffee, peak chocolate, peak
rare earth metals, peak travel have all followed suit. It's
"peak" season.  Read Bloomberg's Special Report on "Peak Everything."   Two simple trends are driving these concerns. The world
has more people than ever, and more of those people than ever
are breaking out of abject poverty and competing in a global
market for goods and resources.  The human population passed 7 billion last year, and the
U.N. projects it will top 9.3 billion by 2050. Most of the
growth is occurring in  Asia , where the population is on track
to balloon 40 percent, to 8 billion, by midcentury.   An even bigger human accomplishment, and cause for
worry, is the rise of the middle class. It's expected to
nearly triple in the next two decades, to 4.9 billion people
in 2030 from 1.8 billion today, according to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation & Development. The Global Footprint
Network, which developed a resource-accounting tool for
countries, puts it this way: At current consumption
rates, we'll need two Earths by 2030.  That's a lot of new consumers. It's the reason Starbucks
is extending its franchise to  India , U.S. beef exports may
rise 11 percent this year, and Kraft is spinning off its
sleepy U.S. grocery business and focusing on Brazilian
chocolate. And those reports are all from just last week.  The private sector's reaction to these global trends and
others -- including  climate change  -- has a name:
sustainability. It's the global race among nations and
corporations for secure, long-term access to strategic
resources and burgeoning markets. Companies are preparing for
this race by probing deeper into their operations to find
sources of value and risk that had eluded them before. It's
not about do-gooder business. It's about smart business.  The concept of peak oil, or peak anything, is imperfect.
New technologies and new discoveries have proven most
estimates of the world's limitations to be overly pessimistic.
Unconventional petroleum products such as  tar sands  and shale
gas products show that even if the extraction of conventional
oil in its purest form has peaked, "peak cars" or "peak
electricity" aren't yet on the horizon. But as a framework for
anticipating the world's resource needs, peaks are a good way
to survey the horizon.
 