-- On China, Donald Trump Brings Out the Worst in Mitt Romney: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/on-china-donald-trump-brings-out-the-worst-in-mitt-romney-view.html
On most economic issues -- notably
the source of his personal fortune -- Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  seems to believe in the most extreme form
of let-the-chips-fall-where-they-may capitalism. An exception is
China.  Last week, accepting the endorsement of Sinophobe  Donald Trump ,  Romney declared  that “on my first day in office,” he will
slap tariffs on any Chinese goods that arrive on American shores
through “unfair trade practices” that “have cost American jobs.”
He openly threatened a “trade war” because “you have to stand up
at some point and say enough is enough -- you have killed too
many jobs.”  Romney’s critique of China is a blur of accusations -- they
manipulate their currency, they “steal our designs, our patents,
our know-how,” they “hack into our computers” -- all of which
contain some truth. But the political power of trade as an issue
is the more general accusation that they “unfairly attack our
markets and kill jobs here.”  If Romney limited himself as president to addressing
Chinese behavior that actually violates laws and treaties to
which they have agreed, we would have no objection. But that
will not save many American jobs. The main reason American jobs
are moving to  China  is that Chinese workers are willing to work
long hours for low wages under squalid conditions that no
American will -- or should have to -- put up with.  A stunning series of recent articles in the New York Times
described the horrific lives (and sometimes deaths) of Chinese
workers manufacturing parts for iPhones. The question is whether
these kinds of working conditions (common, or probably worse, in
much of the developing world) alone constitute an unfair trade
practice -- or even a human rights abuse -- that would justify a
tariff or outright ban on imports into the United States. The
complicated, unsatisfying answer: at some point, yes; but in
general, no.  As Romney surely knows, the eternal temptation of a trade
war is that, especially at first, the benefits of barring the
door against foreign competition are evident, and the costs are
hidden. Jobs saved by tariffs and other forms of protectionism
are concentrated and identifiable. Jobs created or saved by free
trade are diffused throughout the economy, as are the more
general benefits of free trade -- and even of unilateral or
unreciprocated free trade. Economics, however, teaches that the
benefits almost surely exceed the costs.  A nation cannot enrich itself, or stay rich, by denying its
citizens the benefit of cheap foreign labor. And throwing up a
tariff wall against Chinese goods is no favor to the workers of
China, either. They take these horrible jobs because they regard
the jobs (probably correctly) as better than any alternative.  Certainly we in the prosperous  United States  are not
offering them any better alternative. China is going through a
stage of development that all societies must go through on their
way to prosperity. The U.S. itself went through it in the 19th
century. We wouldn’t be an affluent country today if we’d been
held back then to the standards that some people would like to
impose on China today.  Of course, there are limits. Slavery, for example, or
conditions of servitude tantamount to slavery. There are working
conditions so appalling that we don’t wish to be implicated in
them by buying the products that result -- even if the immediate
result is to leave the workers worse off. But those who would
ban those products on moral grounds must keep in mind that this
would, in fact, be the immediate effect. And they must have good
and specific reasons to believe that the threat of a tariff or
boycott can lead to some improvement.  Romney’s anti-Chinese passion may well be an election-year
convenience. President  Barack Obama  was only slightly less
adamant in his  State of the Union address , in which he announced
the creation of a “Trade Enforcement Unit” to protect us against
“unfair trading practices in countries like China.” But we would
have expected Romney, as such a preacher of capitalism, to show
a bit more backbone against the constant and ruinous danger of
protectionism.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 