-- London Luxury-Home Prices Rise as Foreigers Shelter Wealth Amid Turmoil
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-06T10:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/london-luxury-home-prices-rise-for-15th-month-as-foreign-buyers-seek-haven.html
Luxury-home prices in central  London 
gained for the 15th consecutive month in January as overseas
investors seeking to protect their wealth competed for the few
properties for sale, Knight Frank LLP said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($5.8 million) rose by an average of 0.9 percent
from the previous month, the London-based broker said in a
 report  today. Prices advanced almost 12 percent from a year
earlier.  Non-U.K. buyers have turned to London real estate to
preserve wealth as they face political, economic and financial
turmoil including  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the
overthrow of regimes in the  Middle East . That investment helped
lift values of luxury residences by 42 percent since March 2009,
the low point for London’s prime residential market following
the credit crisis.  “Economic and even political turmoil have provided the
impetus for growth -- with a sharp growth in investors looking
for a safe-haven location for at least part of their wealth
portfolio,”  Liam Bailey ,  Knight Frank ’s head of residential
research, said in the report.  Property Shortage  Knight Frank predicts prices of high-end properties in
central London will gain 5 percent this year because of the
shortage of properties for sale.  The ratio of prospective buyers registered at Knight
Frank’s outlets in London and the number of properties the
broker had for sale was about 4.1 to one, according to the
statement. That was up from 3.7 to one during the past five
years.  In the two most expensive boroughs, Kensington & Chelsea
and Westminster, “supply remains constrained and competition
for the best property is rife,” said  Turnbull Property , a
broker that advises wealthy buyers.  Thirteen percent of homes sold in central London last year
achieved prices of more than 1,500 pounds a square foot, a
proportion that exceeds the levels of the previous peak in the
market, Turnbull Property said, citing the  Land Registry .  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from its own
appraisal values of a sample of the same properties in the 13
most expensive neighborhoods of central London, including
Belgravia, Kensington and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 