-- London City Job Openings More Than Double, Recruiter Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-02-06T10:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/london-city-job-openings-more-than-doubles-recruiter-says.html
Job vacancies at London’s financial-
services companies more than doubled last month as medium-sized
banks and fund managers sought staff, recruitment firm  Astbury
Marsden  said.  The number of new job vacancies in the capital’s City and
Canary Wharf financial districts rose to 4,050 last month from
1,490 in December, the recruiter said in a statement today. That
was still 25 percent lower than the 5,420 vacancies created in
January 2011.  “With recent widespread redundancy programs and many of
the biggest banks withdrawing their horns, many firms have
realized that there is now a wide pool of talented bankers that
they may not have been able to recruit a year ago,”  Mark Cameron , chief operating officer at Astbury Marsden, said in the
statement.  Jefferies Group Inc. , which focuses on the mid-market, has
been expanding its investment-banking unit, hiring bankers and
traders.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
state-owned lender, agreed to sell its Hoare Govett corporate-
broking unit to Jefferies this month as the U.K. lender shrinks
after getting a government bailout. About 50 employees will join
Jefferies’s London office, including all of Hoare Govett’s
corporate-broking team. The move is part of RBS’s plan to cut
about 4,800 jobs, including 3,500 at the investment bank, as it
jettisons unprofitable units.  “Smaller firms are now the ones creating the lion’s share
of City vacancies,” Cameron said. “We saw a similar trend in
2008 when many of the smaller City firms saw the post-Lehman’s
crisis as an opportunity to swoop and pick up some very talented
senior bankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  