-- One Hyde Park’s Developer Plans to Sell Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank Location
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-02-07T10:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/one-hyde-park-s-developer-plans-to-sell-abu-dhabi-islamic-bank-location.html
The developer of the One Hyde Park
luxury-home complex in  London ’s Knightsbridge district is
seeking to sell a store on the ground floor for at least 21
million pounds ($33 million).  Project Grande (Guernsey) Ltd. is offering the space rented
by the  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank , the developer said in an e-mail
yesterday. It’s the bank’s first branch in the U.K., according
to Project Grande.  “You can’t buy a shop on  Bond Street  or Oxford Street at
the moment because they’re not available,” Paul Cockburn, a
 Savills Plc  director who’s handling the sale, said by telephone.
“London retail is very inaccessible and Knightsbridge is no
exception.”  One Hyde Park was developed by a venture between Christian Candy’s CPC Group and Qatar Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al Thani’s closely held Waterknights. Candy
conceived the 86-apartment complex with his brother, Nick.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  has a 14-year lease on the site and
is one of three stores in the building, Project Grande said. The
bank leases the property for 800,000 pounds a year, giving its
landlord an initial yield of 3.6 percent at a 21 million-pound
purchase price, according to the developer.  Russian Buyer  Grigory Guselnikov, a Russian entrepreneur, bought a store
rented by Rolex at One Hyde Park for more than 13 million pounds
in August, Savills said. Two months later, the space housing a
McLaren sports-car dealership sold for more than 11 million
pounds, two people with knowledge of the deal said at the time.  More than 1.5 billion pounds of sales have been completed
at One Hyde Park, Project Grande said in the e-mail.  A five-bedroom apartment with almost 9,000 square feet (840
square meters) of space at One Hyde Park sold for 60 million
pounds last week, the developer said. The building, which
overlooks Hyde Park and is attached to the Mandarin Oriental
Hotel, is 300 meters (980 feet) from Harrods department store.  Luxury-home prices in central London gained for the 15th
consecutive month in January as overseas investors turned to the
city’s real estate amid political, economic and financial
turmoil at home, according to Knight Frank LLP report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 