-- More Private Screeners to Be Allowed at U.S. Airports Under Bill
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-06T23:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/more-private-screeners-to-be-allowed-at-u-s-airports-under-bill.html
Companies wanting to take over
passenger screening at U.S. airports from the  Transportation
Security Administration  will have an easier time getting
contracts under Senate legislation.  The U.S. agency must allow airports to switch to private
companies for screeners unless it can show the move wouldn’t be
cost-effective and would be detrimental to security, according
to the legislation, which the Senate cleared today for President
Barack Obama’s signature. The House approved the measure Feb. 3.  “They’ve been trying to force the door open for several
years,” Jeff Price, a Denver-based consultant who has written a
textbook on aviation security, said of U.S. lawmakers. “It
reverses the burden of proof. It is definitely trying to
checkmate the TSA.”  TSA Administrator  John Pistole  raised the ire of House
transportation committee Chairman  John Mica , a  Florida 
Republican, last year by freezing the number of airports using
non-government screeners. Mica, who proposed the House version
of the FAA bill, has said the TSA should get out of passenger
screening to focus on intelligence gathering and security
oversight.  Before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, airlines were
responsible for aviation security and hired security companies
to operate checkpoints.  The law that created the TSA put it in charge of security
while requiring five airports to have private screeners under a
two-year pilot program. The number later grew to 16. Pistole
halted new participation in January 2011.  Orlando Airport  Pistole had said he wouldn’t allow more airports to convert
to private screeners unless there was a “clear and substantial
advantage to the federal government,” said Greg Soule, a TSA
spokesman.  The four-year Federal Aviation Administration blueprint
approved by the House Feb. 3 and set for a Senate vote today
will force TSA to reconsider applications it rejected. One of
those is from the Orlando Sanford International Airport, in
Mica’s congressional district.  “The business cases submitted by these airports failed to
demonstrate an operational, security, or cost advantage that
provides a clear and substantial benefit,” Soule said.  Closely held Covenant  Aviation Security  LLC has won at
least $692 million in contracts since 2002, more than any other
private-screening company, according to a Bloomberg review of
TSA contracts.  Florida Offices  Covenant maintains offices in Casselberry, Florida, which
is in Mica’s district, and provides screening at San Francisco
International Airport, the largest U.S. airport with private
security.  Covenant would be interested in bidding on the Orlando
airport contract if TSA approves the airport for private
screeners, Janine Morris, a company spokeswoman, said by
telephone.  The biggest change will be that the TSA will have a
deadline to act on airport requests, Morris said.  “They will have to provide an explanation,” she said.
“That has not been done in the past.”  Yellowstone Airport  The TSA has already reconsidered and approved an
application at Yellowstone Airport in  Montana , Soule said. The
airport operates four months a year, and private screeners will
allow the TSA to reassign government resources to other
airports, he said.  Pistole is scheduled to appear at a House Homeland Security
subcommittee tomorrow in a  hearing  entitled, “Why is a Job-
Creating, Public-Private Partnership Meeting Resistance at
TSA?”  In June, the American Federation of Government Employees
won the right to bargain for the TSA’s 44,000 screeners. Emily
Ryan, a union spokeswoman, declined to comment on the FAA
legislation.  The existing market for private screeners is about $144
million a year, compared with $2.9 billion a year spent on TSA
screeners. The agency spent $925 million on screener contracts
through 2011.  Private-screeing companies have come and gone in the years
since TSA was created, but most haven’t stuck around because the
agency made it known it wasn’t interested, said Price, the
Denver consultant. A new batch of startups is likely, he said.  Seventy-four companies registered last year when the TSA
sought bids for contracts at six airports.  “You’ll see companies make themselves known,” Price said.
“They’ll make sure every airport operator knows the rules have
changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  