-- Most Takeovers Since 2007 Seen Spurred by Data Torrent: Tech
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-06T16:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/most-takeovers-since-2007-seen-spurred-by-data-torrent-tech.html
Cisco Systems Inc.,  the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, estimates that by 2015
the data equivalent of all movies ever made will cross Internet
networks every five minutes. How to manage all that data is what
will be driving technology mergers and acquisitions in 2012.  In a bid to transform that torrent into profits, a cash
rich industry is poised to surpass 2011’s almost $200 billion
volume of announced mergers and acquisitions as companies such
as Cisco and International Business Machines Corp. search for
deals that will boost their capacity to provide new storage,
analytics and security services to enterprise customers.  Big data, mobile and cloud technologies will drive “bold
investments and fateful decisions,” market researcher IDC said
in a recent report. The volume of digital information may
balloon from 2.7 zettabytes this year -- the equivalent of
filling 2.7 billion of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s priciest desktop iMacs to
capacity -- to 8 zettabytes by 2015, according to IDC.  “The speed at which technology innovation moves is such
that you can’t miss a step,” said Jon Woodruff, the San
Francisco-based co-head of technology investment banking at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the industry’s top adviser on deals
last year. “Every tool has to be used for speed and nimbleness
sake, and M&A is one of those significant tools.”  Abundant cash and investor pressure to jumpstart sales
growth will also propel deal-making. Cash levels have expanded
21 percent in the past year to $513 billion, based on holdings
of the 35 members that comprise the Morgan Stanley Technology
Index.  ‘Aggressive’ Acquiring  Large companies will be leading the charge.  Hewlett-Packard
Co. ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp.  led a 36 percent gain in
technology deals last year, outpacing an advance of about 4
percent for all M&A worldwide, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  In one of the biggest deals last year, Hewlett-Packard
agreed to buy Autonomy Corp. for $10.3 billion in a bid to build
its software business and scale back on its PC manufacturing.
Though viewed negatively by some  investors , the move will enable
Hewlett-Packard to offer database search services and other
cloud-related services for business. Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said in November that the company doesn’t plan “large
M&A” this year, though it may seek small software deals.  Cisco, which has made about 150 acquisitions in its history
and has $44.4 billion in cash on the  balance sheet , said in
November it will “continue to be aggressive in acquiring
technologies.”  Cisco shares fell 0.6 percent to $19.97 at 11:04 a.m. in
 New York .  ‘Cloud Powerhouse’  “This year’s technology deal volume could be bigger than
last year’s and 2007’s,” said Chet Bozdog, global head of
technology investment banking at Bank of America Corp.  Industry takeovers in 2007 reached $264.4 billion, the
biggest year since 2000’s record high of $585.2 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Convergence between hardware, software and services will
continue to add products to the same sales chains,” said
Bozdog, who is based in  Palo Alto ,  California .  Cloud computing, which allows companies to access
information over the Internet from external data centers, and
desktops’ shift to mobile devices, will continue to be “huge
multiyear trends,” said Drago Rajkovic, head of technology
mergers and acquisitions at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  As part of this trend,  SAP AG , the largest maker of
business-management software, agreed to buy SuccessFactors Inc.
for $3.4 billion in December to create a “cloud powerhouse,”
co-CEO  Bill McDermott  said at the time.  Google Deal  Google announced in August it would buy Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion in its largest acquisition,
gaining mobile patents and expanding in hardware. Microsoft
purchased Skype Technologies SA for $8.5 billion in October, the
biggest Internet takeover in more than a decade, in an effort to
catch Google in online advertising and Apple in mobile software.  While Google and  Microsoft  paid in cash for their deals,
the purchases didn’t put a dent in their funds. Microsoft’s cash
and equivalents jumped 41 percent from a year earlier to $51.7
billion, based on its latest filing, while Google increased cash
by 28 percent to $45.4 billion.  Apple , which has no debt and the most cash among technology
companies at $97.6 billion, said Jan. 24 that it is discussing
ways to spend its funds and would consider acquisitions.  “There’s more cash in technology than in any other sector
and the low level of debt makes it very easy for companies in
the industry to buy growth,” said JPMorgan’s Rajkovic, who is
based in  San Francisco .  Falling Valuations  As cash piles have increased, some potential targets have
become more affordable. Shares of  F5 Networks Inc.,  whose
software helps companies manage  Internet traffic , lost 18
percent of their value in 2011 even as sales grew 31 percent.
 Riverbed Technology Inc.,  a provider of equipment to boost
networks’ speed, fell 33 percent while revenue increased 32
percent. Shares of  Acme Packet Inc.,  a maker of devices that
help networks transmit phone calls and video, dropped 42 percent
last year while sales jumped 33 percent.  “You will see more M&A than last year with some very
strategic technology companies involved as valuations have
become more reasonable,” said Larry Sonsini, who co-founded
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati LLP, the  law firm  that
brought public Apple in 1980.  With stock prices sinking, some investors are also losing
patience. Third Point LLC, the hedge fund run by  Daniel Loeb ,
built a 5.3 percent stake in  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  last year, demanding
two board seats and asking co-founder  Jerry Yang  to step down as
director -- a goal achieved on Jan. 17. Meanwhile, Yahoo is in
talks to sell stakes in  China ’s Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
Yahoo Japan Corp., a person close to the matter said last month.  More Volume  Hewlett-Packard added activist investor Ralph Whitworth to
its board Nov. 18, after his Relational Investors LLC
accumulated 17.3 million of the company’s shares, which last
year lost 39 percent of their value.  Brocade Communications
Systems Inc. (BRCD) , in which Elliott Management Corp. has a 7.5
percent stake, has gained 14 percent since the beginning of the
year on renewed reports of a potential sale.  “Volume last year was much higher than in 2010, and we
expect this year to be the same or slightly larger,” said
Goldman’s Woodruff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 