-- Mota-Engil Targets Overseas Growth After Winning $703 Million Malawi Deal
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-06T13:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/mota-engil-chief-plans-overseas-growth-after-african-contracts.html
Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL) , Portugal’s
biggest construction company, plans to counter a recession at
home by expanding abroad and building on a $703 million deal in
Malawi, its chief executive officer said.  Helped by contracts in Angola and Malawi worth $1.2
billion, the order book this year will be “much higher” than
the more than 3 billion euros ($3.92 billion) predicted for
2011, CEO Jorge Coelho said in a phone interview. Two-thirds of
the Porto-based company’s orders this year will be generated
outside its home market as “Mota-Engil is increasingly worth
more abroad than it is in Portugal,” he said.  The $1.2 billion in contracts, which include the deal to
build a railway line in Malawi for  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest
iron-ore producer, helped double Mota-Engil’s order book this
year to 1.6 billion euros in  Africa , Coelho said. Mota-Engil
hopes to partner with Rio de Janeiro-based Vale on other
projects, he said.  “The new contract that was signed with Vale is of a brutal
strategic importance to the group,” said Coelho. “We hope they
will see us as a partner for other projects in other parts of
the world.”  Mota-Engil rose 4.6 percent to 1.31 euros at 11:58 a.m. in
Lisbon, giving the company a market value of 267 million euros.
The shares climbed 20 percent to 1.25 euros on Feb. 3, the
biggest jump since 1999, after the company announced the
contracts in Angola and Malawi.  Acquisition Plans  A deepening recession in  Portugal  amid austerity measures
aimed at complying with a 78 billion-euro bailout package from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  have
prompted Portuguese building companies to seek more work away
from home.  Mota-Engil operates in 20 countries, Coelho said. Declining
orders in Portugal are being offset by “much stronger growth
outside,” he said.  Plans announced last year for two small acquisitions in
Brazil and  Colombia  are “ongoing,” said Coelho. The company is
also looking at entering other markets, including Qatar.  Work on the railway in Malawi, which is part of the Moatize
coal mining project’s Nacala Corridor, is due to be completed in
27 months.  The Portuguese company will also be part of the group
building the Calueque dam in  Angola  for the government,
according to a Feb. 3 regulatory filing. Other orders in Angola
include a project to expand Sonangol EP’s gas stations and real
estate work.  Mota-Engil is scheduled to announce full-year results for
2011 on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  