-- Motorola Mobility, Nikon, MSF, EFF: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-06T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/motorola-mobility-nikon-msf-eff-intellectual-property.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  won a
German patent ruling over  Apple Inc. ’s iCloud service that may
allow the company to block sales of devices including iPhone and
iPad in the country if they use the software that accesses it.  The Mannheim Regional Court found Apple infringed a patent
used to synchronize e-mail accounts. The ruling holds Apple
liable for damages and allows Motorola Mobility to ask for
information about past device sales, Presiding Judge Andreas
Voss said.  “The court has come to the conclusion that the wording of
the patent does cover functions that were at issue here,” Voss
said Feb. 3. Apple “wasn’t able to convince the court that it
isn’t infringing.”  ICloud is a service that automatically stores photos, songs
and other files on servers at Apple’s data centers for use on
all of a customer’s gadgets.  The case is the second Motorola Mobility, the mobile-phone
maker being acquired by  Google Inc ., has won in a German court
against Apple. The company is seeking to enforce an injunction
in the first case involving a cellular-communications patent
that led Apple to remove some older iPhones and iPad models from
its online store in  Germany  overnight.  Apple said in a statement that it will return the products
to the online store after another court temporarily barred
Motorola Mobility from enforcing the injunction. The Karlsruhe
appeals court said it is reviewing Apple’s request to halt the
execution of the order during the appeal of the December ruling.  The first bid by Apple for such a delay was rejected in
January because of a dispute over license terms, the appeals
court said in an e-mailed statement. The judges will now look
into an amended license offer by Apple.  Google is buying Motorola Mobility to gain mobile patents
and expand its hardware business. Google’s Android is also the
operating system for smartphones made by companies such as  HTC
Corp.  and  Samsung Electronics Co.  that compete with Apple’s
iPhone.  In the iCloud case, Motorola Mobility must post 100 million
euros ($132 million) as collateral if it seeks to suspend sales
of Apple products while Apple appeals the decision. Apple had
asked the court at a November hearing to set it at 2 billion
euros.  German courts often require the winning side to post
collateral in order to enforce a ruling while the loser appeals.
The amount reflects the losses the party may suffer when forced
to comply with the ruling. If it wins the appeal, it can seek
damages and recover the collateral.  The Feb. 3 iCloud ruling is LG Mannheim 7 O 229/11, the
suspension appeals case is OLG Karlsruhe 6 U 136/1  Nikon ,  Anvik  Patent Infringement Trial Date Set for May 7  Nikon Corp. ’s seven-year-old patent-infringement case with
 Anvik Corp.  will go to trail beginning May 7, according to a
statement from the Japanese camera maker.  Anvik, a maker of lithography equipment for the
microelectronics industries, sued Nikon in federal court in
 Manhattan  in September 2005, claiming seven patents relating to
lithography were infringed by 12 Nikon lithography systems.  In a Feb. 3 statement, Nikon said the claims made by
Hawthorne,  New York ’s Anvik, “are incorrect and unsupported.”
The Tokyo-based camera company said it didn’t infringe any of
the patents at issue in the case.  The case is Anvik Corp. v. Nikon Precision Inc.,
1:05-07891-AKH-LMS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Ball Challenges Crown’s Patents on Easier-Pouring Beer Can Lids  Ball Corp. , a company best known for its glass canning
jars, sued  Crown Holdings Inc . to challenge its competitor’s
patents for easier-pouring aluminum-can tops.  Ball, which makes containers for Miller beer and Pepsi-
Cola, won a court ruling Jan. 31 that an earlier version of its
so-called can ends --  the side from which people drink -- don’t
infringe Crown patents. Based on a Feb. 1 filing, Ball is now
asking a federal court in Dayton,  Ohio , for clearance of its
newest cans, especially those designs for beer containers.  The dispute centers around can tops that use less metal and
are marketed as being easier for beverage makers to fill and for
consumers to pour. Crown, best known for inventing the bottle
cap, has said the SuperEnd cans that it began selling in 2000
reduce metal use by 10 percent. More than 300 billion SuperEnd
beverage ends have been produced, Michael Dunleavy, a spokesman
for Philadelphia-based Crown, said Feb. 3.  Dunleavy said the company won’t comment on the litigation.  In dispute are Crown’s patents 6,848,875 and 6,935,826.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  MSF Trademark Dispute Settled, Boston Non-Profit Changes Name  Medecins Sans Frontieres , the French non-profit medical-aid
organization known in the U.S as Doctors Without Borders,
settled a trademark dispute with a  Massachusetts  charity.  Children Without Borders  of Milton, Massachusetts, filed
suit in federal court in Boston in March 2010, seeking a
declaration it didn’t infringe MSF’s trademarks. The
Massachusetts group said it had used its name since 2007, and in
August 2009 had received a cease-and-desist notice from the
French group objecting to the name.  MSF responded in a May court filing, saying it had
identified itself through the “Doctors Without Borders” name
since 1971, claiming the public would be confused by the
Massachusetts group’s name similarity, and accusing Children
Without Borders of trademark infringement.  The parties came to an agreement and the case settled at
the end of November.  The Massachusetts group, which provides orthopedic,
psychiatric, ophthalmological, dental and health-education care
to children, said in a  Feb. 2 statement  that it’s changing its
name. It is now known as Children’s Well-Being Foundation. The
new name “captures the range of benefits and programs we offer
our clients who rely on us to stay healthy and escape poverty,”
Executive Director Jennifer Tegan said in the organization’s
statement.  The case is Children Without Borders Inc. v. Doctors
Without Borders, 1:10-cv-10362-RWZ, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts ( Boston ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  EFF Called ‘Radical Interest Group’ by Adult Film Maker  The  Electronic Frontier Foundation , a San Francisco-based
digital-rights group, was characterized as a “radical interest
group” in a court filing by a maker of adult films.  Hard Drive Products Inc. sued 1,495 unidentified defendants
in federal court in Washington in September. The suit was
related to the defendants’ alleged unauthorized use of the film
“Amateur Allure -- MaeLynn” through the BitTorrent file-
sharing protocol.  EFF has entered a number of file-sharing cases against
unidentified defendants, arguing that the subpoena power
plaintiffs seek is overbroad, and attempting to protect the due
process rights of those who have been sued.  The foundation filed a proposed friend-of-the-court brief
in which it argued that Hard Drive wasn’t seeking information
about the alleged defendants for the purposes of litigation.
Instead, EFF said that Hard Drive hoped to take advantage of the
threat of an award of damages and attorney fees “as well as the
stigma associated with downloading pornographic movies” to
induce the defendants into settling without mounting any defense
to the infringement allegations.  Hard Drive argued, in a Jan. 30 filing, that it’s not
appropriate for EFF to be permitted to participate in the case.
It called the San Francisco organization “an anti- intellectual
property  group which appears in the present action merely in
order to obstruct or delay” the infringement case.  EFF is seeking “to inject interest-group politics” into
litigation, Hard Drive. It argues that the court “should reject
the idea than an interest group like the EFF can help the court
by providing any unique insight or perspective.”  “Obviously, Hard Drive would rather pursue their lawsuit
campaign without anyone standing up in court for the rights of
 Internet users ,” EFF Staff Attorney Mitch Stoltz said in an e-
mail. Stoltz, who submitted the friend of the court brief, said
“Unfortunately for them, many courts have allowed and even
requested EFF to file briefs in mass copyright suits like this
one. We’re confident that the court will focus on the law, not
ad hominem attacks.”  Hard Drive is represented by Paul A. Duffy of the Law
Offices of Paul Duffy in  Chicago .  The case is Hard Drive Productions Inc. v. Does 1-1495,
1:11-cv-01741-JDB-JMF, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  Premier League Wins U.K. Ruling Against Pubs on Broadcasts  The Premier League, home to some of  Europe ’s most
successful soccer clubs including  Manchester United , won a
copyright ruling against British pub owners who saved money
using non-U.K. decoder cards to show matches.  While the use of any European Union card is legal in the
U.K., following a ruling last year by the bloc’s highest court,
taverns still violate the league’s copyright when their patrons
can view footage of previous matches, logos, pre-recorded video
sequences and anthems that aren’t authorized for use across
borders, Judge David Kitchin ruled in  London  Feb. 3.  “The defendants who are continuing to trade must be
entitled to carry on their business in a way which avoids
infringement” of the Premier League’s copyrights “if they are
able to do so,” Kitchin said. He issued an injunction against
the pubs and referred the case for monetary damages.  The ruling incorporated a judgment from the European
Union’s highest court in October, which limited how pub and bar
owners may show copyrighted material to customers. The ruling by
the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg held that the Premier
League’s geographic restrictions on broadcasters showing its
soccer matches breach EU antitrust rules.  The judgment “is consistent with the ECJ ruling,” Nick
Noble, a Premier League spokesman, said in a statement. “The
law gives us the right to prevent the unauthorized use of our
copyrights in pubs and clubs when they are communicated to the
public without our authority.”  A call to Smithfield Partners in London, a  law firm  for one
of the lead defendants, wasn’t immediately returned.  The Feb. 3 ruling was still a partial setback for the
Premier League because it voided contract provisions that
restrict foreign authorized broadcasters from supplying decoder
cards to subscribers outside of their territory, said  Daniel
Geey , a lawyer with Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in London.  Territorial licenses are contrary to competition law if the
license agreements “prohibit the supply of decoder cards to
television viewers who wish to watch the broadcasts,” the EU
court said last year. Pubs can’t show the feeds via foreign
decoder cards without the permission of the copyright owner,
such as the broadcasters and the league, it said.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest pay-
TV operator, has said the foreign decoder cards are “illicit”
because they’re used outside their specified area.  For copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 