-- Contador Banned for Two Years After Failing Tour de France 2010 Drug Test
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-02-06T16:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/tour-de-france-champ-contador-gets-2-year-suspension-for-failed-drug-test.html
Alberto Contador  got a two-year ban
for failing a drug test and will lose his 2010 Tour de  France 
crown, becoming the second rider to be stripped of a victory in
cycling’s most prestigious race.  The  Court of Arbitration for Sport  in Lausanne,
 Switzerland , overturned the Spaniard’s acquittal by his national
cycling federation, according to a statement on the tribunal’s
website. He tested positive for muscle-building stimulant
clenbuterol in winning the 2010 race. The court rejected his
defense of eating contaminated meat.  As well as being stripped of his third Tour title, Contador
loses his win at last year’s Giro d’Italia, the court said. The
tribunal will make a separate ruling on a request by cycling
ruling body  Union Cycliste Internationale  to fine the rider at
least 2.5 million euros ($3.3 million). UCI and the World Anti-
Doping Agency appealed the Spanish federation’s decision.  It’s the latest setback to cycling’s credibility.  Floyd Landis  lost his Tour title for doping when the American was
stripped of his 2006 win after testing positive for synthetic
testosterone. The 1996 champion  Bjarne Riis , who manages the
Saxo Bank team Contador races for, in 2007 said doping was part
of his everyday life as a cyclist.  “This is a sad day for our sport,” Pat McQuaid, the UCI
president, said in a statement. “Some may think of it as a
victory, but that is not at all the case. There are no winners
when it comes to the issue of doping: every case, irrespective
of its characteristics, is always a case too many.”  August Return  Contador’s ban was backdated and he will be eligible to
compete again on Aug. 5 this year, the court said. That rules
him out of competing at July’s  Tour de France . Contador, 29,
won’t make any comment about the ruling until tomorrow, his
spokesman Jacinto Vidarte said by telephone.  The court found that it was “highly unlikely” a steak
Contador ate was contaminated and said submissions by WADA and
UCI that Contador might have re-infused his own blood to boost
performance, leaving traces of clenbuterol, were “equally
unlikely.”  Instead, the court said it was more likely the clenbuterol
came from a contaminated food supplement.  WADA rules say an athlete is responsible for what he
ingests, although the same court has cleared some athletes
recently for what it saw as extenuating circumstances. Last
July, it backed a ruling not to punish Olympic champion swimmer
Cesar Cielo and two Brazilian compatriots who blamed
contaminated food supplements for testing positive for the
diuretic furosemide.  New Winner  Andy Schleck , the 2010 runner-up, said he won’t feel happy
if he is promoted to race winner.  “I feel sad for Alberto,” Schleck said in an e-mailed
statement. “I always believed in his innocence. My goal is to
win the Tour de France in a sporting way, being the best of all
competitors, not in court. If I succeed this year, I will
consider it as my first Tour victory.”  The case has cost both sides “millions” of euros, McQuaid
said in an interview last month. Contador was represented by
eight lawyers at the hearing last November and he also hired a
detective company and lie-detector expert to help his defense.
WADA had four lawyers at the hearing.  The case began when a laboratory in Cologne found 50
picograms per milliliter of clenbuterol in a urine sample
Contador gave to anti-doping officials on the last rest day of
the 2010 race, an amount the UCI called “very small” and
scientists said would not have improved his performance. A
picogram is one trillionth of a gram.  Contaminated Meat  Veterinarians in  Spain  rejected Contador’s defense that the
presence of the drug in his system came from beef.  While farmers have been known to use the stimulant
illegally to increase muscle mass in cows,  Ministry of
Agriculture data  shows there was one finding of the category of
drug in almost 38,000 tests on cattle in Spain from 2004 through
2009. Contador had said the beef was brought from a shop in
Spain near the border with France.  Closing a separate doping inquiry last week, U.S. Attorney
Andre Birotte Jr. said federal investigators dropped an
investigation into allegations of criminal conduct on seven-time
Tour winner  Lance Armstrong ’s former team.  Landis alleged that doping was commonplace among team
riders. Armstrong and other team members denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  