-- Pakistan ‘Highly Vulnerable’ to Economy Shocks, Needs Tax Reform, IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-02-07T02:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/pakistan-economy-is-vulnerable-and-spending-needs-cuts-imf-says.html
Pakistan  must stem risks to a
“highly vulnerable” economy that include inflation projected
at 12 percent, a widening budget deficit and declining currency
reserves, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The Washington-based IMF called on Pakistan to broaden the
tax base, eliminate some subsidies and curtail central bank
financing of a budget shortfall that may rise to 7 percent of
gross domestic product this fiscal year.  Floods in August that forced more than 1 million people
from their homes have added to the woes of the world’s second-
largest majority-Muslim nation, a key U.S. partner in the battle
against al-Qaeda. Economic growth estimated at 3.4 percent in
the fiscal year ending in June 2012 will fall short of the 7
percent pace needed to provide work for the 2 million people who
enter the  labor force  each year, the fund said in a report
release yesterday.  “Two major floods, difficulties in implementing key policy
reforms, and a more challenging global environment have combined
to limit growth and employment creation and made the economy
highly vulnerable, with few buffers to absorb shocks,” the fund
said.  The government of Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  has
struggled to revive an economy hurt by political instability and
militant attacks that have killed at least 35,000 people since
2006, according to estimates from the government. Gilani himself
faces a contempt of court charge that threatens to force him
from office.  Rupee Weakens  Pakistan’s rupee weakened to a record low against the
dollar on Jan. 9 on concern foreign reserves will shrink as
international aid dwindles. Reserves have fallen by about $2
billion in the last six months and may weaken further, the IMF
said. The local currency slipped to 90.5988 per dollar as of
4:30 p.m. in Karachi yesterday, from 90.4713 on Feb. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A continuing decline in the reserves “would be credit
negative,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement
yesterday, adding they stood at $12.5 billion at the end of
January. While the outlook on Pakistan’s B3 rating is stable,
the nation hasn’t eliminated economic imbalances that arose
after the 2008 global financial crisis, Moody’s said.  The U.S., the country’s largest export market and aid
provider, held back $800 million in military assistance in July
out of $2 billion pledged for this fiscal year because of
disputes over how to combat terrorism.  U.S., Pakistan Ties  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan are critical to the
Obama administration’s battle with al-Qaeda’s leaders in
Pakistan and its plans to end the American combat role in
 Afghanistan  within two years. Ties have become strained since
U.S. special operations forces killed  Osama bin Laden  in a
compound in the Pakistani city of Abbottabad last May.  An $11.3 billion IMF loan to Pakistan expired in September,
with disbursements suspended in May 2010 after the country
failed to meet conditions attached to it. The South Asian nation
turned to the IMF for aid in 2008 after its foreign reserves
shrank.  Pakistan needs to start repaying the loan this month, and
authorities have not requested another one, IMF mission chief
Adnan Mazarei said on a conference call yesterday.  “The way we recommended to the authorities to address
these vulnerabilities is to recognize that we are all, including
Pakistan, living in a more dangerous environment because of the
deteriorating global environment and to build buffers,” Mazarei
said.  ‘Too Accommodative’  The Washington-based IMF last month lowered its estimate
for global growth this year and next and warned that the
European debt crisis could plunge the world into another
recession if it were to worsen.  The IMF report said Pakistan’s “monetary policy is now too
accommodative, and should be tightened if inflation or external
pressures increase.” It added that “central bank financing of
the budget needs to be curtailed, and greater operational
independence of the central bank needs to be secured.”  Emerging markets  from  India  to  Thailand  have eased policy
as  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers the global economy. Pakistan’s
central bank left the discount rate at 12 percent in November,
pausing to gauge the impact of a 2 percentage-point reduction
since the end of July. The next rate decision for the $175
billion economy is due Feb. 11.  Pakistan’s gross domestic product rose 2.4 percent in the
year through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a
decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  