-- Panasonic Rating Cut by Fitch After Prediction for Record Loss
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-06T11:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/panasonic-rating-cut-by-fitch-after-prediction-for-record-loss.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  had its rating cut to
one level above junk by  Fitch Ratings  after Japan’s biggest
maker of home appliances forecast the worst loss in its history.  The long-term ratings were reduced to “BBB-” from
“BBB,” Fitch said in a statement today. That is the last of
the 10 investment grades by the ratings company, which also cut
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s rating to the same level two months ago. Fitch said
it had a “negative” outlook on Panasonic because of weak
economic conditions and competition with South Korean companies.  The rating cut came after the Osaka-based maker of Viera
TVs almost doubled its annual  loss forecast  to a record 780
billion yen ($10 billion). Panasonic was the latest Japanese
electronics maker to predict weaker earnings because of the
strong yen, slowing demand for TVs, and production setbacks
caused by  Thailand ’s floods and  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and
tsunami.  “The downgrade reflects the material deterioration in
Panasonic’s operating results during the first nine months of
the financial year,” Fitch said. “The company’s credit profile
is likely to remain vulnerable over the next 12-18 months.”  Panasonic’s credit ratings were cut last month by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said today that the maker of Lumix
cameras may be downgraded further if the company fails to
improve its financial strength and show signs of significant
earnings recovery in the year to March 2013.  Separately, Moody’s lowered its outlook for  Sharp Corp. (6753)  to
“negative” from “stable” after the maker of Aquos TVs
forecast a 290 billion-yen annual loss -- its worst in a
century.  The rating company also said it will monitor Sony’s
strategies for improving profitability, particularly in its TV
business. Moody’s cut Sony’s rating by one level to “Baa1”
from “A3” last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  