-- Papademos Seeks Greek Consensus on Cuts
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-07T11:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/papademos-meets-creditors-as-sacrifice-looms-for-greece-to-stay-in-euro.html
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
plans to convene the nation’s political leaders to seek
consensus on the cuts required for a bailout as unions called a
strike to protest and European leaders pressed for answers.  While Papademos and the party chiefs have agreed to make
further cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product, they have yet to close gaps over measures demanded by
creditors for a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) rescue. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said “time is running out,” while
unions derided the conditions as “blackmail.”  “It is clear we are going into another drama for Greece
with many questions unanswered,” Patrick Legland, head of
research at Societe Generale SA, told Bloomberg Television
today. “It’s kind of a catch-22 where they have to reduce their
deficit but there is no growth. It’s very tricky.”  At stake is whether  Greece  wins the bailout, secures a debt
writeoff with private creditors and remains in the euro region.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters late
yesterday that “failure of these talks, failure of the plan,
the country’s bankruptcy, means even greater sacrifice.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3123 as of 1:05 p.m. in
Athens as investors await the outcome of the Greek talks. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.5 percent and the Euro Stoxx 50
also dropped 0.5 percent.  Bill Auction  The country raised 812.5 million euros in a sale of 26-week
Treasury bills today, a sale held a week earlier than usually
scheduled to allow for the rollover of 26-week bills due on the
Feb. 10. The yield fell to 4.86 percent from 4.9 percent in the
last sale of such bills on Jan. 10  Short-term debt sales are the only source of market
financing available for the nation. Bonds repayable in 2022 are
worth about a third of their face value.  Greek political leaders have yet to resolve issues from
recapitalizing banks, ensuring the viability of pension funds
and reducing wages and non-wage costs to boost competitiveness.
Greece still needs to agree on 600 million euros of fiscal
measures for 2012, a government official told reporters in
 Athens  yesterday. Meantime, unions called their first general
strike of the year.  Papademos met overnight with representatives from the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  to continue talks on possible
spending cuts.  ‘Great Sacrifices’  “The salvation of the country, remaining in the euro,
means great sacrifices,” Venizelos told reporters in Athens
late yesterday after his meeting with the so-called troika of
representatives. He described the talks in Athens as a “Hydra’s
head,” a reference to the monster in Greek mythology that grew
back more heads than the one cut off.  Venizelos met again today with the officials ahead of the
meeting of political leaders. Papademos hasn’t yet set a time
for the meeting with leaders.  With the country set to pay a 14.5 billion-euro bond due on
March 20, Merkel said in Paris that “I can’t quite understand
why we need a few more days.” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said there could be no funds without reforms. Allowing Greece to
go bankrupt “isn’t an option,” he said.  Greece’s efforts to win a second bailout from the troika
have hung in the balance over the past four days as negotiations
in Athens failed to clinch an agreement on measures demanded by
lenders, which could include a cut in the minimum wage, lower
pensions and immediate layoffs for state employees.  Bailout Package  Citigroup Inc. raised the probability that Greece will be
forced to leave the euro area in the next 18 months to 50
percent from 25 percent to 30 percent previously.  “To remain in the euro area, the Greek government needs to
exhibit a minimum degree of compliance with the fiscal and
structural conditions of the bail-out program,” the firm’s
chief economist,  Willem Buiter , said in an e-mailed note. “The
hurdles for Greece set by euro area negotiators to receive the
second bail-out are high.”  Adding to pressure on Papademos and political leaders, the
biggest public-sector and private-sector union groups, ADEDY and
GSEE, held a 24-hour general strike today, shutting down
government services, courts, schools and ferry services.
Dockworkers and bank employees also walked off the job while a
walkout by culture ministry workers forced the closure of
museums and other tourist attractions.  ‘Cynical Blackmail’  “What is taking place isn’t a negotiation,” GSEE
president Yannis Panagopoulos said in an e-mailed statement.
“It’s raw, cynical blackmail against a whole people.”  Police estimated the number of protesters who marched
through rain to Parliament House in the center of the city at
about 10,000. No violence was reported.  Administration Minister Dimitris Reppas said the troika
asked for 15,000 state jobs to be cut this year, part of plans
by Greece to gradually phase out 150,000 employees by the end of
2015. He told Athens-based Mega TV he was opposed to “blind
firings.”  The troika argues that lower wage costs is among reforms
necessary to boost competitiveness in the country. Those opposed
say the cuts would deepen the country’s recession, now in its
fifth year.  Antonis Samaras, the head of the second-biggest party,  New
Democracy , has indicated he will oppose measures that will
deepen the country’s downturn.  Guarantees Sought  Guarantees from Greek political leaders such as Samaras,
who leads in opinion polls, are key to securing the funds from
the EU and IMF. International lenders want assurances that
whoever wins the next election will stick to pledges made now to
receive financing.  The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70
percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange that will
slice 100 billion euros off 200 billion euros of privately-held
Greek debt and loans that will probably exceed the 130 billion
euros now on the table. A formal offer for the debt swap must be
made by Feb. 13 to allow all procedures to be completed before
the March 20 bond comes due.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  Greece has lagged behind budget targets set when it won an
initial, taxpayer-funded rescue of 110 billion euros in May
2010, prompting euro-area threats to cut off aid. The country’s
economy shrank 6 percent last year, according to the most recent
IMF estimates, the  budget deficit  is still close to 10 percent
of GDP and unemployment is about 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  