-- Paul Capturing Delegates Could Force Fed Changes on Republicans
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/paul-capturing-delegates-could-force-u-s-fed-changes-on-republican-party.html
Ron Paul , trailing in delegates
needed for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, could be
positioning himself to force his party to accept changes in the
way the  Federal Reserve  operates.  The Texas congressman is attracting an expanding base of
supporters passionate about his plainspoken message of sapping
government power in favor of individual freedom. It’s not enough
to make him his party’s standard bearer, say Republican
strategists, yet if he follows through on a promise to remain in
the race and collect delegates until the party’s convention in
August, he could gain the clout needed to highlight his
signature goal of curtailing the power of the central bank.  “He’s going to ask for a speaking role at the convention
and try to have some influence in the party platform,”
Republican strategist  John Feehery  said of Paul.  That would likely mean adding some tough anti-Fed language
to the party’s formal agenda, such as mandating an audit of its
monetary policy or sharply curtailing its power by eliminating
its task of promoting employment so it focuses exclusively on
 price stability .  “The main things you could get Republicans to sign off on
are removal of the dual mandate or an audit of monetary
policy,” said Mark Calabria, a former senior Republican staff
member of the Senate Banking Committee who is now director of
financial-regulation studies at the libertarian  Cato Institute 
in Washington. “Those are the sort of things Ron Paul could
look at trying to get in the Republican platform.”  Delegate Power  Paul, 76, has improved his percentages in the first five
nominating contests, most recently with his performance Feb. 4,
when he won 19 percent in  Nevada (BEESNV) ’s caucuses -- 5 points better
than the 14 percent he drew there in 2008.  His 23 percent, second-place showing in  New Hampshire (NFSENH)  Jan.
10 and 13 percent, fourth-place finish in  South Carolina (STPISC)  Jan. 21
both amounted to about triple the share of votes he received in
those states in 2008. His third-place finish in  Iowa (BEESIA)  with 21
percent on Jan. 3 and fourth place in  Florida (MBASFL)  Jan. 31 with 7
percent reflected a doubling of his support since 2008.  Those improvements suggest that Paul could garner 200
delegates or more for the Aug. 27 convention, sending him in
with a strong negotiating hand.  Some of Paul’s rivals have praised his focus on the Fed
while stopping short of endorsing his proposal to scrap it.
Front-runner  Mitt Romney , a former governor of  Massachusetts ,
has spoken little about the central bank during his campaign,
even as he acknowledges the power of Paul’s supporters.  Igniting Enthusiasm  “He ignites an enthusiasm with a number of people that’s
very exciting to watch,” Romney said of Paul at a Dec. 10
debate in  Des Moines ,  Iowa .  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  called for a gold
commission and said Jan. 23 that Paul was “right” about the
Fed and “the importance of monetary policy.”  Paul is likely to have only limited backing from the
 Republican Party  in incorporating his central campaign proposals
into the platform. There’s a good chance the party will go along
with his call for substantial cuts in federal spending -- though
not his specific goal of slashing $1 trillion in the first year.
And most Republican leaders and presidential candidates disagree
with Paul’s non-interventionst military stance, which calls for
withdrawing U.S. troops from most places overseas.  It remains to be seen how warmly the party may embrace
Paul’s anti-Fed proposals, which are regarded with alarm by some
of Romney’s Wall Street supporters whose firms benefited from
bailouts from the central bank.  ‘Dire Consequences’  Meddling with the Fed’s independence could have dire
consequences for financial markets, said  Diane Swonk , chief
economist of Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago .  “The more influence politicians have on central bank
behavior, the worse off we are,” said Swonk, who helps oversee
$59.2 billion in assets under management as of Dec. 31. “When
you try to hamstring the Fed, you risk undermining long-term
growth.”  Paul already has had some success with efforts to force an
audit of the Fed’s monetary policy. He introduced legislation to
do so that drew more than 300 cosponsors and passed the House in
2010 as part of a broader overhaul of financial regulation. It
died in the Senate and was omitted from the Dodd-Frank Act that
ultimately was signed into law.  Instead, Congress directed the Government Accountability
Office to audit the Fed’s emergency-aid programs from the
financial crisis and review the system of directors of regional
Fed banks for possible conflicts of interest. The Fed also was
required to identify borrowers in crisis-lending programs.  Fed Resistance  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  opposed Paul’s bill, saying it
would infringe on the central bank’s independence in setting
 interest rates .  There’s little chance Republicans will endorse Paul’s
central goal -- as he advocated in his book, “End the Fed.”  Still, some Republicans are proposing legislation to limit
the bank’s role, taking away its power to promote job growth and
leaving it with a single mandate of curbing inflation.  Representative  Kevin Brady  of  Texas , the top Republican on
the Joint Economic Committee, has drafted legislation that would
accomplish that goal -- the “Sound Dollar Act.”  Paul has criticized this approach, telling the American
Prospect in 2010 that it amounted to “grandstanding” on the
issue compared with his own call to abolish the Fed. Still, he
said he would probably support this to lessen the bank’s power.  Bernanke a Casualty  It’s unclear whether such legislation could make it through
Congress even under a Republican president, said Andrew Laperriere, senior managing director at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc. in Washington.  “Democrats would be very likely to oppose and it’d be
something you’d probably need 60 votes in the Senate for,”
Laperriere said in an interview.  One casualty already of Paul’s anti-Fed thrust and its
growing appeal within the Republican Party is any chance that
Bernanke could be reappointed if a Republican won the White
House. Even Romney has said he wouldn’t name Bernanke for
another term as Fed chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  