-- Peak Water: The Rise and Fall of Cheap, Clean H2O
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-02-06T18:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/peak-water-the-rise-and-fall-of-cheap-clean-h2o.html
     The Earth's surface is mostly water, yet across
increasingly large swaths of the planet, H2O reservoirs are
drying up. This isn't a metaphor, and it's not hyperbole. It's
a fact that's changing the destinies of companies and nations.  Three of the world's greatest rivers, the Colorado in the
U.S., the Nile in  Egypt  and the Yellow River in China, have
been so depleted by cities, farms, factories and dams along
their banks that they often no longer reach the sea. Growth in
the desert city of  Las Vegas , which depends on Colorado River
water contained by the Hoover Dam, has been stunted not only
by a spectacular real estate crash, but by a 46 percent drop
in the amount of water in Lake Mead, behind the dam. Simply
put, there's no more water to be taken.  Read Bloomberg's energy & sustainability news.   It's not that the world is running out of water, says
Peter Gleick, president of the Pacific Institute, an
environmental research organization in  San Francisco . It’s
that there's not enough water where it's needed, and it can't
be easily transported. Globally, the amount of renewable water
available for each inhabitant has dropped from over 10,000
cubic meters in 1990 to 7,770 in 2010. It could trickle to
4,870 by 2050, as the world's population grows.  "There are limits to how much water we can get and
use, and how we use it and where we use it," Gleick said.
"People think of water as a renewable resource, and mostly it
is. But there are very important nonrenewable stocks of water
that society depends on."  Gleick coined the term "peak water" and in 2010, with
colleague Meena Palaniappan, laid out the case that much of
the world -- the U.S. especially -- may have already passed
its greatest possible rate of consumption.
Citizens, government and business must realize that the taps
are about to slow.  China 's 'Growth Dilemma'  The limitations of the world's water supply and mankind's
unquenchable thirst for fresh water collided in China last
year, when the National Iron and Steel Association decided
there wasn't enough water for the  steel mills  around Beijing
to continue at their current growth rate. Under China's
five-year plan -- an anomaly of forethought among nations --
Beijing mills responsible for a fourth of the Chinese steel
production were told to stop expanding in the water-starved
capital and move to the coast. There they'll use desalted
seawater to cool hot steel from the furnaces.  China's North has just a fifth of the country's water to
supply nearly half its population and industry. The North is
also home to most of China's vast coal reserves, which require
tremendous amounts of water to extract and transport.
Already, water pollution combined with a shortfall of about 40
billion cubic meters a year in available fresh water have have
sapped China’s growth by 2.3 percentage points, according to a
recent World Bank estimate.  Water will be China’s “next growth dilemma,” said Su
Gao, water analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  In the U.S., rising temperatures and decreasing rain and
snowfall in the U.S. Southwest are drying up the  Colorado , the
region’s lifeline, and will make the current use of water from
the Colorado “unsustainable” in the future, according to a
team of climatologists from the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography and the  U.S. Geological Survey , writing in the
Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences  in December
2010. While couched in the cautious terms of science, there
was no mistaking the study’s conclusion: Drought will become
“more extreme” by the middle of this century, “call[ing] into
question whether we can sustain the water resources that we
have come to depend upon in the 20th century.”  Groundwater Depletion  A growing school of thought suggests that, as with
traditional oil supplies, the world has surpassed its peak
water availability, where it will be ever more expensive to
obtain the next gallon of water we need. Sure, rainfall will
replenish some rivers, he says, but in key sources like the
Colorado that feeds the American West, the hydrological cycle
can no longer keep up.  Trickling rivers and sinking lakes are the most visible
examples that the availability of water has passed its peak
while demand still grows. The worst threat to water supplies
is the overuse of underground reservoirs. Some 30 percent to
40 percent of the world's food is irrigated with groundwater
from once-ample aquifers that took millennia to fill. These
irreplaceable deposits are being depleted in a matter of
decades, leaving behind withering tomato fields in  Mexico 's
 Baja California  and dusty plains in central India.  Dwindling rivers and sinking aquifers are going to stymie
growth in some areas and cause major shifts in industry and
population as people and business chase the least mobile raw
material they all need -- water, said Will Sarni, who leads
Deloitte Consulting's Sustainability and Climate Change
Practice.  Expect chipmakers and gas drillers to head for the U.S.
Northeast where water is abundant enough to feed both
manufacturing and the newly exploited shale gas fields that
run under  Pennsylvania ,  New York  and  Ohio , said Sarni, who
advises Deloitte clients on strategies to cope with the
world’s dwindling water supply. "Water can behave as a finite
resource in individual watersheds," Sarni said.  For companies, like Coca-Cola, that see endless
opportunity for new customers amid the expanding middle
classes in  developing countries , water risk is paramount. In
the past two years, Coca-Cola built 320 rainwater harvesting
structures in 17 states as it expanded in  India .
Worldwide, the company has reduced its water use per sales by
more than 30 percent in the last five years, according to
company data.  In southern  Texas , a multiyear drought is hitting natural
gas prospectors whose wells can each use as much as 13 million
gallons of water -- enough to satisfy a town of 240 people for
a year. The Edwards Aquifer Authority, which oversees
underground water supplies around  San Antonio  and the northern
edge of the  oil fields , ordered a 30 percent cut in water
usage last summer after nearly a year with only 2 inches of
rain.  Demand for water used in the extraction process, called
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, will jump 10-fold by
2020, and double again by 2030, said Robert Mace, a deputy
executive administrator of the Texas Water Development Board.
That may be more water than the region’s depleted aquifers and
the  Rio Grande  can supply.  Semiconductor plants, toilets and clothes washers have
cut their water usage by as much as two-thirds in the past two
decades, said Gleick, and industry can do more to reduce its
water use. Ultimately, just as  New England ’s early
industrialists built their mills along the area's fast-flowing
rivers in the 19th century, today’s businesses will move to
where they have the resources they need most.  Related Links:    Bloomberg's Special Report on "Peak Everything"     Slideshow: The Great Resource Crunch     Oil, Food, Water: Is Everything Past Its Peak?     Peak Oil Scare Fades as Shale, Deepwater Wells Gush Crude     Farmers Can Grow Food for All, as Long as Ecosystems Hold 
