-- Peak Oil Scare Fades as Shale, Deepwater Wells Gush Crude
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-06T18:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/peak-oil-scare-fades-as-shale-deepwater-wells-gush-crude.html
     When Daniel Lacalle, in his early 20s, took a
job with
Spanish oil company Repsol YPF SA in 1991, friends chided him
for entering a field with no future. "They all said, 'Why do
you want to do that? Don't you know only 20 years of oil is
left in the whole world?'" he recalls.  Two decades and four energy crises later, the  U.S.
Geological Survey  estimates that more than 2 trillion barrels
of untouched crude is still locked in the ground, enough to
last more than 70 years at current rates of consumption.
Technological advances enable companies to image, drill and
shatter subterranean rocks with precision never dreamed of in
decades past. Trillions of barrels of petroleum previously
thought unreachable or nonexistent have been
identified, mapped and in many cases bought and sold during
the past half decade, from the boggy wastes of northern
Alberta, to the arid mountain valleys of Patagonia, to
 Africa 's Rift Valley.  "Betting against human ingenuity has been a mistake,"
says Lacalle, who today helps oversee $1.3 billion as a
portfolio manager at Ecofin Ltd. in  London . "The resource base
is absolutely enormous, so much so that we will not run out of
oil in my lifetime, your lifetime, our children's lifetimes or
our grandchildren's lifetimes."  Read Bloomberg's Special Report on "Peak Everything."   Worries about energy supplies have abated, several years
after the 9/11 attacks and  Iraq war  made them central to daily
chatter about the  U.S. economy  and  homeland security . In that
environment, the late Texas investment banker Matt Simmons was
able to jolt traders, policy makers and media with a
prediction that global oil production was on the cusp of a
death spiral. Goldman Sachs warned that crude price were
headed for a $200-a-barrel "superspike." Concerns about Peak
Oil dominated environmental conferences, academic debates
about natural resources, and energy-policy discussions for
much of the 2000s. They still persist despite dramatic
transformation within the industry.  What changed? Engineers at  Brazil 's state-controlled oil
company, Petrobras, figured out how to bore holes in mountains
of salt beneath the ocean floor that concealed vast reservoirs
of crude. In the Gulf of Mexico, prospectors such as Chevron
and Shell were doing similar things hundreds of miles
offshore, farther out and in deeper water than anyone
envisioned just a few years earlier. Ultra-deepwater drilling
vessels that cost $750 million and can remain at sea for
months at a time enabled explorers to burrow 5 miles into the
Earth's crust to strike their pay zones.  Small-time explorers such as Kosmos Energy Ltd. reckoned
that since the South American and African landmasses had once
been conjoined, Africa's Atlantic coast probably held  oil
deposits  similar to those off Brazil. About that same time, a
Texas oil man named  George Mitchell  was perfecting a
40-year-old technique known as hydraulic fracturing that would
trigger a renaissance in U.S. oil and natural-gas production.  Read Bloomberg's energy and sustainability news.    The Peak Oil hypothesis got its start in 1956 when M.
King Hubbert, then a Shell Oil geologist, suggested that all
 oil fields  were subject to peaks followed by
inevitable, irreversible and predictable declines. U.S. oil
production did peak in 1970. Hubbert’s prediction turned out
to be correct, though not entirely for the right reasons, and
he gained widespread renown, particularly among
environmentalists, whom he gave a data point about nature’s
limits just when they were looking for one.  Hubbert’s ideas gained currency as  oil prices  tripled
from 2000 to 2007 and producers struggled to keep pace with
rising demand in China and  India . The geologist’s work leapt
from history to current events through media and
books, including "Hubbert’s Peak" in 2002 by Kenneth
Deffeyes, a Princeton University geologist who worked with
Hubbert. The word “peak” became commonly applied to many
strategic natural resources in media and on the
Internet, often without rigorous consideration of whether it
was technically applicable.  Another of Hubbert's most ardent apostles, the banker
Simmons, expanded on the theme in his 2005 book, "Twilight in
the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock & the World Economy."
The crux of Simmons's particular variant of the Peak Oil
argument was that  Saudi Arabia , the world's biggest exporter
of crude and home to the largest pool of reserves, was less
than transparent about its capacity to grow or even sustain
production. It was only a matter of a few short years, Simmons
argued, before the Saudi juggernaut would falter, tipping the
world oil market into an apocalyptic frenzy of panic
buying, shriveling supplies and skyrocketing prices.  Simmons's ideas really began to resonate in 2007 as crude
prices marched steadily higher, touching a record $147.27 a
barrel in July 2008, and investors, analysts, policy makers
and consumers struggled to understand why, says David
Arseneau, senior economist with the Federal Reserve Board of
Governors in  Washington . "We were experiencing price
spikes, and people had a hard time dealing with it," Arseneau
says. "That's where the Peak Oil scare came from -- it was
trotted out as an explanation."  Simmons' fellow-travelers included Colin
Campbell, founder of the Association for the Study of Peak Oil
& Gas, and Jeffrey Rubin, who during his tenure as chief
economist at CIBC World Markets Inc. had been warning clients
of an imminent peak in world crude output since October 2000.
In February 2007, the U.S. Government Accountability
Office, the research arm of Congress, issued an 82-page report
urging the Energy Secretary to "prioritize federal agency
efforts to reduce uncertainty about the likely timing of a
peak and to advise Congress on how best to mitigate
consequences." The  International Energy Agency , the
Paris-based adviser to 28 oil-importing nations, warned in
November 2008 of an "oil-supply crunch" by 2015.  Critics Weigh In  The theory was castigated as "misleading" and based on
incomplete data in a November 2006 study by Cambridge Energy
Research Associates, a consulting firm founded by  Daniel
Yergin , author of "The Prize," the Pulitzer Prize-winning
history of the oil industry. The study forecast a 50 percent
increase in global crude output by 2030, to 130 million
barrels a day. Six years later, production has risen nearly 5
percent, just shy of 90 million barrels a day, according to
IEA figures. CERA now is a unit of IHS Inc.  Oil prices dipped last week, but diplomatic tensions over
 Iran’s nuclear program  have pushed them 7 percent higher than
a year ago. Even with crude down 50 percent from the record
high set in the summer of 2008, producers have plenty of
financial incentive to continue searching for reserves in such
places as the Bakken shale beneath  North Dakota  and the
deepwater  Gulf of Mexico . Harvesting such fields costs $50 to
$60 per barrel, says Guy Caruso, the former head of the Energy
Department's statistical arm and now a senior associate at the
Center for Strategic International Studies.  As Peak Oil debates recede, petroleum will remain an
object of both passion and logical debate for reasons that
have less to do with production histories and reserve
estimates than with geopolitics and geophysics: How does the
U.S. rely less on unfriendly oil-producing nations? How much
oil can we save as more cars run on both gas and electricity?
How can we reconcile fossil fuel combustion with the risks of
 climate change ?
 