-- Pension Fund Asks Class Status in Lehman Auditor E&Y Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-06T21:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/pension-fund-asks-class-status-in-lehman-auditor-e-y-suit-1-.html
The Alameda County Employees’
Retirement Association asked a judge to certify a class-action
lawsuit against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s former auditor
Ernst & Young LLP over investment losses.  The retirement system is seeking to lead the group suit on
behalf of investors who lost money on bankrupt Lehman’s common
stock and options, it said in a court filing. Ernst & Young
helped to mislead investors by making false and misleading
statements in regulatory reports about Lehman’s finances before
its 2008 bankruptcy, the retirement system alleged in the Feb. 3
filing.  The investors originally sued Lehman, former executives
including ex-Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld and
underwriters, adding Ernst & Young as a defendant in 2010. Since
then, they have settled with many defendants -- Fuld and other
Lehman executives used a $90 million insurance payment to pay
for the accord -- while continuing to litigate against Ernst &
Young and a UBS AG unit that sold Lehman structured products,
according to the filing.  Charlie Perkins, an Ernst & Young spokesman, declined to
comment on the Oakland, California, retirement system’s filing.
The auditing firm has said its work for Lehman met all
applicable professional standards and applied rules that existed
at the time. It also is fighting a lawsuit over Lehman’s
collapse by the  New York  attorney general.  Alameda County and other pension funds amended their
lawsuit in 2010 to add findings contained in a 2,200-page report
published by Lehman bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukus.  According to Valukas, Lehman used balance-sheet devices
such as so-called Repo 105 transactions to make its debt load
look lighter than it was.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with
$639 billion in assets. It has said it will spend the next few
years completing a liquidation to pay unsecured creditors less
than 18 cents on the dollar.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-05523, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  