-- Pfizer, Ranbaxy Sued Over Alleged Anti-Competitive Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-06T23:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/pfizer-ranbaxy-sued-over-alleged-anticompetitive-scheme.html
Pfizer Inc. and  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY)  were sued in an antitrust case filed in federal court in
 New York  alleging the drugmakers engaged in an anti-competitive
scheme to delay a generic version of Lipitor into the market.  The AFL-AGC Building Trades Welfare plan, a health and
welfare benefit plan based in Mobile,  Alabama , claims that two
drugmakers engaged in a monopolization scheme after the Pfizer’s
original patent for the cholesterol-lowering drug expired on
March 24, 2010.  In the proposed class-action, or group, lawsuit, the
plaintiffs allege the drug companies agreed to delay the entry
of generic Lipitor for 20 months. As a result of an unlawful
agreement with generic-maker Ranbaxy, Pfizer cost purchasers to
pay more for Lipitor than they would have paid for the generic
version of the drug.  “Defendants’ scheme was successful -- generic Lipitor did
not become available for sale until November 2011,” the
plaintiffs said. “As a result of defendants’ illegal acts,
plaintiffs and the indirect purchaser class were forced to pay
billions of dollars more for Lipitor than they would have absent
defendants’ anticompetitive scheme.”  Both drugmakers were sued in a complaint making similar
allegations filed in federal court in  San Francisco  by 11
California pharmacies in November. In that case, the plaintiffs
alleged that they held back on a generic version of the
cholesterol-lowering drug in the U.S. and then fixed its price.  Inflated Costs  Lipitor sells for more than $4 a day compared with prices
as low as 10 cents day for the generic, the drug stores said in
their complaint. Lipitor’s purchasers in the U.S. are paying
inflated costs as a result, the pharmacies said.  Sales of Lipitor generated $10.7 billion in revenue for New
York-based Pfizer in 2010. A legal settlement with Pfizer gave
New Delhi-based Ranbaxy six months’ exclusivity to market
generic Lipitor, the world’s best-selling drug.  The lawsuit seeks disgorgement of profits from the
allegedly illegal arrangement and triple damages.  “The Federal Trade Commission reviewed the terms of the
2008 settlement,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman said in a
telephone interview. “Pfizer believes the suit has no merit. We
are confident that the Lipitor patent settlement with Ranbaxy is
appropriate,” he said.  Chuck Caprariello, a spokesman for Ranbaxy, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is AFL-AGC Building Trades Welfare Plan, v.  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  12-CV-931, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  