-- Putin Will Avoid Russian Presidential Election Debates by Sending Proxies
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-06T18:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/putin-will-avoid-russian-presidential-election-debates-by-sending-proxies.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who
pledged to develop democracy, won’t participate in Russia’s
presidential election debates on television and will send
representatives instead.  Putin is seeking to extend his 12-year-rule in March 4
presidential elections amid protests in major Russian cities.
Tens of thousands of people braved temperatures as low as minus
20 degrees Celsius (minus 4 Fahrenheit) in Moscow two days ago
in the third such demonstration since alleged fraud by the
ruling party in December parliamentary polls. While Putin, 59,
is forecast to win the presidency, his opponents have vowed to
keep up their rallies to push for democratic elections.  The Russian leader will introduce initiatives to widen the
public’s role in government, including requiring parliament to
debate any initiative that wins the support of 100,000 people
via the Internet, he wrote in an article published in Kommersant
newspaper today.  Putin himself won’t debate against his four opponents in
the presidential race on television before the election, said
his spokesman, Dmitry Peskov. “This won’t have any effect on
the democratic process,” Peskov said by phone today.  The premier was due to face off on TV tomorrow against the
leader of the nationalist  Liberal Democratic Party ,  Vladimir Zhirinovsky , followed by a Feb. 14 debate with billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov  and later with the two other contenders,
according to a scheduled published today in the official Russian
government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta.  Proposals Dismissed  At a meeting with political analysts today, Putin dismissed
as unrealistic Communist proposals to overhaul the judicial
system and nationalize industry as well as plans by Prokhorov to
accelerate state-asset sales.  “When a candidate proposes something unfeasible and then
begins to implement it after becoming president, nothing but
harm will come of it,” he said at his residence outside Moscow.  Putin, who has accused foreign powers of financing the
protests, warned in his article that democracy can’t be imposed
from outside or at a forced pace in  Russia , recalling the
“anarchy and oligarchy” of the 1990s after the collapse of the
 Soviet Union  led to the dominance of big business in politics.  Pro-Putin Rally  As many as 138,000 Putin supporters gathered in Moscow for
a rival rally on Feb. 4, according to police, with the
opposition accusing the authorities of forcing government
employees from Moscow and outside the capital to attend.  Putin denied in a meeting with journalists just before New
Year that he had decided not to debate against other candidates
because he was afraid of public sparring.  “It’s not about being afraid,” Putin said on Dec. 28.
“The point is that the opposition doesn’t carry out practical
work and it always demands the impossible, and then usually
nothing is implemented.” Dialogue is required, “and I will
decide what form it will take exactly.”  Putin will be represented in the debates by Stanislav
Govorukhin, a film director who chairs his presidential
campaign, and political analysts Sergei Markov and Dmitry Orlov,
the Vedomosti newspaper reported last week.  Kremlin Return  The Russian head of government and President  Dmitry Medvedev  in September announced Putin’s return to the Kremlin
after four years as prime minister because of a constitutional
limit on more than two consecutive presidential terms. Putin
under the law can now win two more six-year mandates, which
would make him the longest-serving leader since Soviet dictator
 Josef Stalin .  Medvedev announced changes to the political system after
the December protests that make it easier to register new
parties, run for president and restore more pluralism to
parliament. The measures won’t have an impact until scheduled
parliamentary and presidential elections in 2016 and 2018.  Putin has enough support to win the election in the first
round with 52 percent of the vote, according to an opinion poll
by the All-Russian Center for the Study of  Public Opinion . He
needs to win more than 50 percent to avoid a second-round
runoff.  Backing for the premier rose from 49 percent in a poll
published the week before, the state-run pollster known as
VTsIOM, which interviewed 1,600 Russians from Jan. 28-29, said
on Feb. 3. The margin of error was 3.4 percentage points.
Putin’s support is as low as 37 percent, according to a Jan. 20-
23 opinion poll by the independent  Levada Center .  “We face a long and tough battle with cynical and cruel
swindlers and thieves,”  Boris Nemtsov , a former deputy prime
minister who is one of the opposition leaders said on his blog.
“This is a marathon which we will definitely win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  