-- Rand Falls Most in Three Weeks as Greece’s Leaders Continue Bailout Talks
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-06T14:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/rand-declines-from-4-1-2-month-high-as-metals-drop-on-greece-debt-concerns.html
The rand fell the most in three weeks
from a four-month high against the dollar as commodity prices
declined and Greek leaders wrestled with austerity measures to
get a bailout, damping demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 1.8 percent
against the dollar, the most since Jan. 13. It traded 1.4
percent weaker at 7.6293 per dollar at 3:45 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Against the euro, it slid 0.6 percent to 9.9519.  A measure of  commodity prices  declined and South Africa’s
benchmark stock  index  fell as Greece’s interim prime minister,
 Lucas Papademos , and chiefs of the three parties supporting him
sought to find consensus in  Athens . The rand climbed 3 percent
last week to the strongest against the dollar since Sept. 19
after U.S. unemployment dropped to the lowest in three years.  “The rand has steamed ahead, and it is time for a bit of a
correction,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by
phone. “It is just prudent if you’re an importer now to sell
rand after this huge rally. The next trigger is  Greece .”  Raw materials account for 60 percent of South
Africa’s exports, according to government data.  Papademos struck a tentative deal with political parties to
extend spending cuts after euro-area finance chiefs told them an
increase in the 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) aid package
wasn’t forthcoming. Greece’s next tranche of payouts in maturing
debt is due next month. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
speaking after a meeting with French President Nicola Sarkozy
today, said “time is running out” for Greece to accept
conditions.  “The market is likely to remain preoccupied with the
situation in Greece,”  Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “The nervousness is thus likely to persist.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 declined for a
second day, driving the yield up nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 7.77 percent. The yield rose the most since
Jan. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  