-- Treasuries Advance Amid Concern Greece May Consider Debt-Default Option
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-06T22:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/treasury-yield-is-3-basis-points-from-one-week-high-before-debt-auctions.html
Treasuries rose, with the yield on
the 30-year bond dropping from almost the highest level in more
than a week, amid concern Greece may default on its debt.  The yield on the 10-year note  fell  after a report that
Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  requested the country’s
finance ministry to prepare a document on the implications of a
Greek default. Treasuries fell earlier before an auction of $32
billion in three-year notes tomorrow. The Federal Reserve
purchased $1.8 billion in long-term Treasuries today.  “The odds of a Greek default have been increased as of
late,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-
income strategist for Morgan Stanley. “Anytime you get those
negative headlines, it provides a bid to Treasuries.”  The 10-year note yield declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.91 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities due in November 2021 rose 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 26/32.  The 30-year bond yield lost two basis points to 3.1 percent
after earlier reaching 3.14 percent. On Feb. 3 the yield touched
3.16 percent, the most since Jan. 25.  Fed’s Holdings  The Fed is  replacing  $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June. The central bank today purchased securities
maturing to from February 2036 to May 2041 as part of the plan,
according to the  New York  Fed’s  website .  The outstanding amount of zero-coupon Treasury notes and
bonds fell for a sixth straight month in January, the longest
stretch of declines since 2009, as the Fed’s Operation Twist
program soaked up securities.  Zero-coupon debt, or strips, short for separate trading of
registered interest and principal securities, is created by Wall
Street firms that split bonds into their face amount and
individual coupon payments. The amount of strips fell $290.6
million, or 0.15 percent, to $195.2 billion last month, Treasury
Department data show. Strips reached a more-than 10-year high of
$207.5 billion in July.  The amount of  marketable securities  outstanding rose to
$10.07 trillion as of Jan. 31, up from $9.94 trillion at the end
of last year.  Debt Sales  The U.S. begins its first of three auctions this week
tomorrow with the three-year note sale, followed by $24 billion
of 10-year debt on Feb. 8 and $16 billion of 30-year bonds the
next day. The U.S. previously auctioned three-year notes on Jan.
10 at the highest demand on record. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
notes offered, was 3.73, the highest since at least 1993 when
the government began releasing the data. The notes drew a yield
of 0.37 percent, near the record low of 0.334 percent reached at
the sale in September. The note traded today at 0.317 percent.  “Supply is definitely on the radar,” said Justin Lederer,
an interest-rate strategist at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald
LP in New York. “It’s always tricky to gauge where the auctions
will go. The 30-year is always the wild card.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and 30-year
bonds may widen as investors prepare for a sale of the longer
maturities on Feb. 9, Barclays Plc said today in its market-
outlook report. The spread widened to 1.22 percentage points on
Feb. 3, the most since September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap was at 1.19 percentage points today.  Greek Talks  Treasuries halted declines from last week as European
officials maintained pressure on  Greece  to accept terms demanded
by international lenders during a weekend of talks to avert a
financial collapse.  “Fitch expects Greece to undertake an orderly debt
restructuring, which would ensure that a payment system is in
place,” the ratings company said in a statement today.
“However, a disorderly default, which may include an exit from
the  euro zone , cannot be wholly discounted.”  The Greek prime minister yesterday told the leaders of the
three political parties supporting his interim government that
he asked the ministry “to record accurately and realistically
all the consequences of the country’s exit from the euro zone,”
Panos Beglitis, spokesman for the socialist Pasok Party, said
today in an interview with Radio 9, according to a transcript of
his comments e-mailed from the Athens-based offices of Pasok.  Federal Reserve  Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said holding  interest rates  at almost zero to counteract a high
degree of slack in the  U.S. economy  may be a costly mistake.  Better-than-forecast data on the economy such as the
 unemployment rate  indicate that more Fed purchases of bonds,
known as quantitative easing, aren’t necessary, Bullard told
reporters after his speech. He was the first Fed official in
2010 to call for a second round of asset purchases.  U.S. government bonds tumbled on Feb. 3 after the Labor
Department said employers added 243,000 jobs in January. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for
140,000. The jobless rate declined to 8.3 percent, the lowest
level in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  