-- Renewable Energy’s Funding to Be Doubled by Indian State Lender
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-02-07T04:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/renewable-energy-s-funding-to-be-doubled-by-indian-state-lender.html
Power Finance Corp. ,  India ’s largest
state-run lender to electricity utilities, plans to more than
double lending for renewable energy projects within a year as
coal-fired plants become riskier investments.  The company’s approved loans to projects, particularly
solar and wind plants, will increase to 15 billion rupees ($305
million), or 4 percent of the total in the next financial year,
from 6.75 billion rupees, or just 1.2 percent in the year ending
in March, Chairman Satnam Singh said. The company does not plan
to increase its total loan outlays of 450 billion rupees in
2013, he said.  “Given that fossil fuel costs have gone up, investments in
wind and solar are surging,” Singh said in an interview in New
Delhi. “We’re not afraid to go at renewable in a big way where
lending happens much faster, within six months.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to spend more than $300
billion to expand India’s electricity systems in an attempt to
spur 9 percent economic growth by 2017. An increasing share of
that may be directed toward clean energy projects as lenders
shun new conventional power projects that are facing risks such
as rising fuel costs.  Coal imported from Australia and  Indonesia  climbed about 28
percent in the last two years, according to weekly  benchmark 
prices from McCloskeys on Bloomberg. That eroded profit margins
at plants burning the fuel.  Power Finance  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 194.85 rupees at
9:26 a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 41 percent
this year, beating India’s benchmark Sensitive Index, which has
gained 15 percent over the same period.  The company started a subsidiary, Power Finance Green
Energy Ltd., in July to broaden its exposure to renewable energy
projects. To date, Power Finance has approved almost 30 billion
rupees to renewable projects, with 13.4 billion rupees in loans
outstanding as of Dec. 30.  ‘Clean’ Versus Coal  The balance and all future loans will be managed by the
green energy unit in the new financial year, Singh said.  “Purely from an investment perspective, a clean energy
project in India is a lot more attractive than a coal-based
project, right now” Praveen Kadle, managing director for Tata
Capital Ltd. said by phone yesterday in Mumbai. “Solar and wind
can’t possibly replace the capacities of conventional projects,
but the risk involved in coal certainly has institutions looking
for alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  