-- Republican Voters Moving Toward Romney as Tempo of Primaries Accelerates
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-06T18:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/republican-voters-moving-toward-romney-as-tempo-of-primaries-accelerates.html
Republican voters are beginning to
coalesce around the presidential candidacy of front-runner Mitt Romney even as his opponents vow to continue their campaigns
into a series of contests this month and beyond.  Republicans will cast ballots this week in Colorado,
 Missouri , Minnesota and Maine, all states where Romney has a
financial and organizational advantage over his remaining three
opponents. He won a majority of the vote in the Nevada caucuses
Feb. 4, days after his 14-point triumph in the  Florida  primary.  While some party loyalists and elected officials already
support the former Massachusetts governor, his show of strength
in recent contests demonstrates that socially and fiscally
conservative voters -- long critical of his ideological
credentials -- are starting to accept his march toward the
nomination.  “ Newt Gingrich  had what was likely to be in the final
analysis his best moment in  South Carolina ,”  Tea Party  leader
and former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” yesterday, referring to the former U.S.
House speaker’s Jan. 21 win. “We are not going to get a
reliable small-government conservative out of this nominating
process.”  Attack on Santorum  Romney’s campaign today began an offensive against another
of his primary rivals,  Rick Santorum , as the former Pennsylvania
senator gunned for a strong showing in tomorrow’s  Minnesota 
caucuses. Santorum delivered a speech hammering Romney for
having backed a Massachusetts health-care plan that required
state residents to purchase medical insurance, and Romney’s team
deployed former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty  to try to
tarnish Santorum’s credibility with fiscal conservatives.  “He clearly has been part of the big-spending
establishment in Congress and in the influence-peddling industry
that surrounds Congress,” Pawlenty told reporters in a
conference call today, detailing Santorum’s support for earmarks
-- the targeted spending lawmakers use to steer federal money to
the districts and states they represent.  “Rick has been holding himself out as the perfect
conservative or the only real conservative in the race,”
Pawlenty said. “If you look at his record, it’s not a perfect
conservative record by a long shot.”  Pawlenty wouldn’t predict a Romney victory in Minnesota,
whose caucuses he said typically draw low turnout and voters who
“gravitate toward the most conservative candidate -- real or
perceived.”  Romney’s own record is “not perfect, but conservative,”
Pawlenty said. “Mitt will be competitive, but it’s hard to tell
who’s going to be the top of that pack.”  Tea Party  In  Nevada , Romney, 64, won almost every voting group,
including those traditionally skeptical of his candidacy such as
Tea Party supporters, according to  entrance polls . Among self-
described “very conservative” voters, 51 percent supported him
at the polls, as did 48 percent of evangelical Christians.  The polling also showed he won support from three-quarters
of those who listed the ability to beat Obama in November’s
general election as the most important candidate quality for
them, a group that was 44 percent of the electorate.  “We would rather have a Republican president that’s not
fully the guy we adore wanting our affections than a Democrat
president who despises us,” said Armey.  Conservatives’ Conference  This week, Romney and his rivals plan to address party
activists at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference
in  Washington , where Tea Party favorite Sarah Palin, the former
Alaska governor and 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee,
is scheduled to give the keynote address. The reception they
give Romney will be a test of his support within the base of his
party.  Gingrich, 68, dismissed the Nevada results, saying contests
in the South will put him in a “very competitive” position.  “Our goal is to get to Super Tuesday where we’re in much
more favorable territory,” he said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet
the Press” program. “We believe by the time  Texas  is over,
we’ll be very, very competitive in delegate count.”  Super Tuesday’s 11 contests on March 6 include  Georgia ,
which Gingrich represented in the House, while Texas is
scheduled for April 3. Gingrich and his aides have been
retooling his campaign, he told reporters Feb. 4 at a news
conference in  Las Vegas , without providing any details. He plans
to campaign today in Golden,  Colorado , and tonight in
Bloomington, Minnesota.  Regaining Strength  Santorum, 53, insisted that his candidacy would regain
strength. He beat Romney by 34 votes in the lead-off Iowa
caucuses on Jan. 3 and has seen his support drop since then.  “We’re going to show improvement,” he said on “Fox News
Sunday” yesterday. “This race is a long, long way from being
over.”  Santorum spent yesterday campaigning across Minnesota, with
stops at churches and at the mill that manufactures his
trademark sweater vest embroidered with his campaign logo.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, who came in third in
Nevada after campaigning heavily in the state, also said that
voters are still making up their minds.  “There’s a large number of people who are looking for
another option,” he said on ABC’s “This Week” yesterday.
“Romney doesn’t satisfy a lot of people.”  With all Nevada precincts reporting, Romney had just over
50 percent of the vote and Gingrich had 21 percent, followed by
Paul with almost 19 percent and Santorum with 10 percent,
according to an Associated Press tally.  Five Contests  Following Nevada, there are five nomination contests in
February, including caucuses in  Maine  that started over the
weekend and will end later this week. Caucuses in Colorado and
Minnesota on Feb. 7 are followed by primaries in  Arizona  and
 Michigan  on Feb. 28. A non-binding primary will be held Feb. 7
in Missouri.  Many of the contests will award delegates on a proportional
basis, rather than winner-take-all as was the case in Florida,
giving Romney’s rivals an incentive to stay in the race.  The primaries at February’s end will garner the most
attention because of the size of Michigan, the nation’s eighth-
most-populous state, and Arizona, the 16th. Romney has potential
advantages in both states.  Born in Michigan, he was raised in a Detroit suburb and his
father, George, served as the state’s governor.  Mitt Romney ’s
opposition to illegal immigration may help in Arizona. The U.S.
Supreme Court is reviewing Arizona’s immigration law, which
requires police to check the immigration status of anyone they
arrest or stop and suspect may be in the U.S. illegally.  Restore Our Future, a group supporting Romney, has already
purchased advertising time in both states.  Hefty Bank Account  At the end of 2011, Romney reported having $20 million in
his campaign bank account, while Gingrich had $2.1 million, as
well as $1.2 million in reported debts. In recognition of his
trailing finances, Gingrich scaled back his campaign schedule in
Nevada to make more time for fundraising calls.  Also working against Gingrich is a decrease in nationally
televised debates, forums that helped boost his candidacy. So
far in February, just one debate is scheduled, making it harder
for Gingrich to keep his name in front of the media and voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Las Vegas, Nevada at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Las Vegas, Nevada at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  