-- Revised Autism Definition Too Important to Rush Into Print: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/revised-autism-definition-too-important-to-rush-into-print-view.html
When is a person just a little
different, and when is his peculiarity a symptom of a disabling
disorder?  An expert panel has taken a new crack at that question,
proposing a redefinition of autism and related conditions for
the manual used by U.S. mental health professionals. The plan
has  aroused fears  that it may strip many people of a diagnosis
and thus the insurance and government benefits that can go with
it.  So far, it’s not certain whether this would be the result.
But until the consequences are known, it’s premature for the
 American Psychiatric Association  to change the autism diagnosis
in the fifth edition of its  Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders .  The stakes are high.  About 1 percent  of American children
are affected by autism and related disorders, according to the
Centers for Disease Control. This represents a  dramatic
increase , which has been attributed to changes made to the
diagnostic manual in 1994. That version, the DSM-IV, carved out
a separate diagnosis for Asperger’s disorder, typified by social
awkwardness and an all-absorbing interest in specific topics.  For the DSM-5 (the manual will use Arabic numerals from now
on), the APA’s autism working group has proposed combining
classic autism, Asperger’s and two related conditions into
 autism spectrum disorder  and has tightened the requirements for
arriving at the new diagnosis. For example, to diagnose an
Asperger’s case under the proposed changes, a clinician would
have to identify impairment in five of seven categories rather
than only three in eight, as under DSM-IV.  The autism working group is confident that its language
would not disqualify those who are truly autistic. It cites
still-unpublished research indicating that the DSM-IV criteria,
if literally applied, lead to diagnoses that two clinicians
cannot agree are warranted.  Panelists cite additional analysis showing that those whose
diagnoses are confirmed by two clinicians also meet the criteria
of the proposed DSM-5 rules.  Unfortunately, the APA doesn’t plan to publish this
research until the DSM-5 rules are final. That’s backward. Far
too many people are potentially affected by the planned changes
for the working group to say, in essence, “Trust us on the
evidence.”  Psychiatrists know there is a relatively simple way to
clear all this up. In addition to releasing the research, the
APA could order a modest new study that uses a stronger means of
determining who is truly autistic than clinician judgment, a
method so weak  the APA gives it no validity . The study would
screen children with autism characteristics using both DSM-IV
and the proposed DSM-5 criteria. To check the validity of the
diagnoses, researchers could rely on family history, a strong
validator because the disorder runs in families.  If a portion of children lose the diagnosis in the switch
to DSM-5, it should be relatively easy to tell how many of them
were falsely diagnosed under DSM-IV. They would be the ones
without a family history of autism. If significant numbers had
such a history, however, it would suggest that the proposed new
standards would deprive children who genuinely have autism
disorder of the care they need. Then the APA would have an
opportunity to change the rules before they did any harm.  It’s conceivable that such a study could be done in time
for a full airing of the issues so that the APA could still make
its  Dec. 31 deadline  for the DSM-5. If not, the organization
should resist pushing through, without sufficient evidence, a
change that would mean the end of insurance, education and
social support for children who need it. Although this might
save some tax dollars in the short term, it would cost society
more in the long run, because without support these children
would be less likely to succeed as independently functioning
adults.  The reason the APA dropped the Roman numerals this time
around was  to allow for interim revisions  of its manual. The
matter of autism disorder could be a perfect subject for DSM
5.1.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 