-- Rockland Capital to Buy Beacon’s New York Power-Storage Plant
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-06T17:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/rockland-capital-to-buy-beacon-s-new-york-power-storage-plant.html
Beacon Power Corp., the power-storage
developer that filed for bankruptcy after winning a U.S. loan
guarantee, agreed to sell its only plant to Rockland Capital for
$30.5 million in cash and a promissory note, plus additional
obligations.  Rockland will continue operating the 20-megawatt plant in
Stephentown, New York, and help develop a second facility in
 Pennsylvania , Beacon said today in a statement. Rockland also
will assume Beacon’s funding obligations to the U.S. Energy
Department of $6.6 million.  Beacon, based in Tyngsboro,  Massachusetts , sought
protection from creditors Oct. 30 after receiving a $43 million
federal loan guarantee to build the world’s first commercial
plant using spinning flywheels to retain energy. The agreement
means the government may get back almost 71 percent of that,
said  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman.  “This agreement improves the prospect of recovering
taxpayer funds,” LaVera said today in an e-mail. “Rockland’s
commitment to this project demonstrates the viability of the
Stephentown plant.”  Beacon’s systems use 2,500-pound (1,134-kilogram) carbon
fiber  cylinders  rotating as fast as 16,000 times a minute to
store kinetic energy. The power can be converted into
electricity quickly when the grid needs an immediate bump to
meet surges in demand. It also works in reverse when the grid
has more power than it needs.  Rebuilding the Business  “It’s a good technology, and I think it’s something that
if properly funded and financed can really grow into a grid-
supporting role,” Walter Nasdeo, director of research at Ardour
Capital Partners LLC in  New York , said in an interview. “This
deal gives them the opportunity to go out and rebuild their
business without the challenge of finding future capital.”  Flywheel power-storage “has tremendous capabilities to
help maintain the balance between grid supply and demand,”
Shane Litts, a Rockland Capital spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“The need for these types of technologies will only increase as
more and more intermittent resources, such as wind and solar,
are added to the generation mix.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  