-- Romania May Delay Share Sales This Year, IMF Mission Chief Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-06T15:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/romania-may-delay-share-sales-this-year-imf-mission-chief-says.html
Romania  may delay the sale of shares
in a few state owned companies this year because the high
number of approvals needed from authorities means it is taking
longer than anticipated, Jeffrey Franks, the International
Monetary Fund mission chief to the country said.  The Balkan nation, which failed to sell a minority stake in
 OMV Petrom SA  in July because of market turmoil, will also try
to sell interests in other companies before reviving the Petrom
sale, Franks said in an interview in Bucharest today.  “There have been a couple of cases where the reforms are
not going as quickly as anticipated and we will have to move
some companies further down the list of privatization,” Franks
said. “It’s not a question of lack of committment. We always
knew that the agenda for reforms of state-owned companies is
extremely ambitious and there will be some delays.”  Franks declined to name those companies affected.  Romania, which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion)
precautionary accord from the IMF and the European Union,
pledged to sell 15 percent holdings in power-grid operator
 Transelectrica SA  and natural gas companies  Transgaz SA  and
Romgaz SA this year as well as majority stakes in chemicals
producer  Oltchim SA  and mining company Cupru Min SA.  It will also seek to sell 10 percent of hydro-power
generator Hidroelectrica SA and nuclear-power operator
Nuclearelectrica SA this year.  Budget Deficit  The government plans to use the money it gets from the
sales to fund infrastructure investments as it aims to narrow
the country’s  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 4.4 percent last year.  Franks also said that the international banks, which own
about 90 percent of the Romanian banking system, haven’t reduced
exposure to the country compared with the level in March 2009,
when a so called Vienna Initiative agreement was signed with the
banks to prevent a credit shortage.  Erste Group Bank AG ,
 Unicredit SpA  and Raiffeisen Bank International AG, are among
the nine banks that signed the Vienna accord.  “We essentially see no sign of aggregate deleveraging in
the system,” Franks said. “There are some individual banks
that are deleveraging but there are other banks that are
bringing in more money.”  The European Banking Authority told banks in October to
increase their core reserves to 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets by the end of June as part of measures introduced to
respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes.  The new capital and liquidity requirements for the western
lenders controlling three-quarters of eastern  Europe ’s banking
system threaten to curb credit needed to fund the region’s
companies and households.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  