-- Romanian Premier-Designate Seeks Quick Formation of Government
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-06T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/romanian-premier-designate-seeks-quick-formation-of-government.html
Romanian Premier-designate Mihai- Razvan Ungureanu begins talks today on forming a Cabinet that
must rebuild the ruling coalition’s support after violent
protests over austerity measures mandated under a bailout loan.  Ungureanu, 43, the head of the Romanian Foreign
Intelligence Service, was nominated by President Traian Basescu
late yesterday to take over from Emil Boc, who resigned to
“ease political and social pressures” through the creation of
a new government. The premier-designate has 10 days to put in
place an administration, which then must be approved in a
confidence vote within 60 days.  “My political independence enables me to fulfill the
mandate I’ve received, and reforms will continue,” Ungureanu
said in a televised address after being nominated. “My key goal
is to form a government as soon as possible and I’ll start talks
with the ruling coalition” on Feb. 7 “to agree on a Cabinet
and a governing program.”  The coalition headed by Boc saw its support fall by more
than half after a 25 percent public-sector wage reduction and a
value-added tax increase prompted the most violent protests in
more than a decade last month. The government made the moves to
lower the  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent of economic output this
year from 4.35 percent in 2011 to meet pledges under a loan
accord with  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  Leu Weakens  The leu snapped two days of gains yesterday, depreciating
0.1 percent to 4.3426 per euro. The benchmark BET index of
shares fell as much as 2.7 percent and traded 1.2 percent weaker
at 4,942.61 by the close in Bucharest, the biggest drop on a
closing basis since Nov. 28. Romania’s euro-denominated bonds
maturing in 2018 declined, lifting the yield 14 basis points to
6.4 percent.  Europe ’s debt crisis has roiled financial markets, sparked
protests and taken its toll on political leaders. Boc is among
seven EU leaders who have already given up power, while Slovakia
will hold snap elections in March.  Boc’s resignation “should be seen more as a sign of
desperation, given the strong pressure on the government to cede
to protests over the last few weeks, versus the stark position
of the EU and IMF on issues such as public sector wages and
pensions,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a London-based economist at ING
Groep NV, wrote in a research report yesterday.  Honor Loan Terms  The IMF, which together with the EU granted  Romania  a 5
billion-euro ($6.6 billion) precautionary loan, expects the
country to honor its terms and any new government must keep the
fiscal terms laid out in the agreement after Boc’s resignation,
Jeffrey Franks, a mission chief for the Washington-based lender,
said yesterday in an interview in Bucharest.  “The new government must remain committed to Romania’s
agreement with the international lenders and continue the fight
against corruption,” Basescu said after announcing his choice
to lead a new Cabinet.  To win a confidence vote in Parliament, Ungureanu needs the
backing of the current ruling governing coalition of the  Liberal
Democrats , the ethnic Hungarians, the independents’ party and
the minorities. The opposition alliance of  Social Democrats  and
Liberals are demanding early elections and won’t support
Ungureanu, Liberal leader Crin Antonescu said.  Liberal Democrat and Senate Chairman Vasile Blaga said in a
phone interview from Bucharest yesterday that he’s confident the
coalition has the votes to pass the new government through
Parliament.  Violent Protests  If Ungureanu, a former foreign minister under a Liberal
government from 2004 until 2007, fails to get the backing of
lawmakers, the president will nominate another candidate. A
second failure to win support may trigger early elections,
according to the constitution.  With the next regularly scheduled vote to take place late
this year, people took to the streets across the country to
protest against an austerity budget, low  living standards  and
corruption. The protests turned violent on Jan. 14 and Jan. 15,
injuring 60 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  