-- Russia Accuses West of UN Sabotage Before Assad Diplomatic Push
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-06T12:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/russia-accuses-west-of-un-sabotage-before-assad-diplomatic-push.html
Russia  accused Western powers of
sabotaging a deal over  Syria  at the  United Nations  as its
foreign minister headed to Damascus in a bid to nudge President
Bashar al-Assad toward a political settlement.  Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the head of the Foreign
Intelligence Service, Mikhail Fradkov, meet Assad tomorrow after
Russia and  China  drew condemnation for vetoing a UN Security
Council resolution that backed an Arab League plan to facilitate
a political transition in Syria.  “We have supported and continue to support the Syrian
people’s wish for a better life and justice,” Lavrov said today
in Moscow. “We repeatedly have urged Damascus to accelerate the
reforms it’s announced and we will continue to do so.”  Russia, which maintains its only military base outside the
former  Soviet Union  in Syria and sells it weapons, is
maneuvering to preserve some influence with its top Mideast ally
as pressure builds on Assad after almost a year of escalating
unrest that has killed more than 5,400 people, according to the
UN.  Syria’s opposition umbrella group, the Syrian National
Council, which accused Russia and China of giving Assad a
“license to kill” through their double veto on Feb. 4, must
agree to hold talks with the government, said Foreign Ministry
spokesman Alexander Lukashevich.  Start of Dialogue  “We hope that this meeting will promote the start of a
process of dialogue between the different sides in Syria,”
Lukashevich said by phone today, referring to the talks with the
Syrian leader. “The only way to resolve the issue is through
political means.”  Lavrov said Russia had asked the U.S. and its European and
Arab allies to delay a vote on the resolution until after the
Damascus mission, and was rebuffed. Russia urged making changes
in the text that would have called on opposition armed groups in
Syria to halt attacks and endorsed the  Arab League  plan without
backing any specific timetable for Assad’s departure.  “It was more important to attach blame for what is going
on and distract attention from the activities of armed groups,
which are receiving weapons, advice and other forms of help from
abroad,” said Lavrov. “It was more important than reaching
consensus at the UN Security Council, which was absolutely
realistic.”  Russia argues that the UN-sanctioned bombing of  Libya  last
year by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was used to bring
about regime change and that the U.S. and western European
governments are trying to repeat that scenario in Syria.  Secret Aid  Clandestine help for armed opponents of Assad is already
taking place, according to Jonathan Eyal, director of
international  security studies  at the  Royal United Services
Institute  in  London .  Without a UN mandate, Western powers will be reluctant to
get involved militarily in Syria, and the Arab League won’t have
the stomach to fight with one of its members, Eyal said. Qatar
last month proposed sending Arab troops to Syria to halt the
violence.  Russia said its aim in the talks with Assad tomorrow is to
“achieve a rapid stabilization of the situation in Syria based
on the swiftest implementation of democratic changes which are
required now,” according to a Foreign Ministry statement.  Russia has invited Syria’s government and the opposition to
hold talks in Moscow, and is ready to consider any alternative
venues for negotiations, Lukashevich said.  While the Russian leadership isn’t intent on propping up
the Syrian leader, it will resist any Western efforts to
dislodge him, said Irina Zvyagelskaya, a Middle East analyst
from the Russian Academy of Sciences.  “Assad may have to go, but it’s not right for force him
out,” she said by phone. “The Syrians have to sit down at the
negotiating table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  