-- Syrian Leader Assad Asks Russian Envoy to Help Broker Opposition Talks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-07T15:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/russia-aims-to-prod-assad-after-vetoing-un-action-on-syria-power-transfer.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
asked  Russia  to broker talks with opposition groups in a bid to
end 11 months of violence, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said after talks in Damascus today.  “It’s clear that the efforts to end the violence must be
accompanied with the initiation of a dialog among all political
forces,” Lavrov said, according to a pool report from Russian
state news service Itar-Tass. “Today we received confirmation
of the Syrian president’s readiness to cooperate on this.”  Lavrov and the head of Russia’s Foreign Intelligence
Service, Mikhail Fradkov, met Assad three days after Russia and
 China  drew condemnation for vetoing a UN Security Council
resolution that backed an Arab League plan for a transfer of
power in  Syria . Russia, accused by Syria’s opposition umbrella
group, the Syrian National Council, of giving Assad a “license
to kill” through its UN vote, argues that political change can
only be achieved through negotiations.  Russia is seeking to maintain influence in its Middle East
ally as pressure builds on Assad after escalating unrest that
the UN estimates has killed more than 5,400 people since March.
Syrian forces killed 98 people in the central city of Homs
yesterday, continuing an assault that started last weekend,  Al
Jazeera  said, citing activists.  ‘Too Late’  “It’s too late,”  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow, said by phone
today. “The international reaction is already clear: Western
and Arab nations are delegitimizing Assad and the opposition
recognized by them won’t enter into any talks with the regime.”  Assad said he is committed to ending the violence and
reiterated a pledge to hold a referendum on a new constitution
that would curb some of the ruling Baath party’s power,
according to Lavrov.  “Every leader in every country should acknowledge their
share of responsibility,” Lavrov told Assad at the start of
their talks. “You acknowledge yours.” Russia is interested in
the “peace and cohesion” of Arab nations, he said.  Assad asked Russia “to bring influence to bear on
opposition groups, which aren’t engaging in dialog yet,” Lavrov
said. Russia supplies arms to Syria, where it has its only
military base outside the former  Soviet Union .  Tacit Welcome  “While the West will probably not endorse Russian
mediation, a Russian attempt to ease or end the violence would
be judged by the results,”  Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New
York-based research firm Eurasia Group, said by e-mail. “It
would be tacitly welcome as one of several efforts to stop the
bloodshed.”  The Russian delegation was greeted by crowds of Syrians as
it reached the center of Damascus, with some chanting “Russia”
and waving their hands, Itar-Tass said. Thousands of people,
including students, children and the elderly came out to thank
Russia for its support along streets bedecked with Russian and
Syrian flags, the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said on its Twitter
Inc.  account .  As Russia pursued its diplomatic efforts, Western and Arab
nations ratcheted up pressure on Syria after their failed bid to
win international endorsement for Assad’s departure.  German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  called today on
Russia to demand that Syria end its crackdown and said increased
pressure on Assad will include a new round of sanctions.  Violence Must End  “We expect that Russia makes clear -- with no ifs, ands,
or buts -- that this violence and repression must come to an
end,” Westerwelle said in a statement.  Gulf Arab countries said they are expelling Syrian
ambassadors from their capitals in response to the “massacre”
against the country’s people by forces loyal to Assad. The six
members of the Gulf Cooperation Council also withdrew their
ambassadors from Damascus, the country’s capital, the group said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Russia blocked the UN resolution on Feb. 4 after
unsuccessfully pressing for changes to the text that would have
called on opposition armed groups in Syria to halt attacks and
endorsed the  Arab League  plan without backing any specific
timetable for Assad’s departure. The U.S. said it was
“disgusted” at the Russian and Chinese veto.  The Arab League in November imposed sanctions on Syria and
sent monitors to the country in an effort to stop the violence.
It later drafted a plan that called for the formation of a
national unity government within two months to implement a
peaceful handover of power and announced an end to the observer
mission.  Regime Change  Russia argues that the UN-sanctioned bombing of Libya last
year by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was used to bring
about regime change and that the U.S. and western European
governments are trying to repeat that scenario in Syria.  Clandestine help for armed opponents of Assad is already
taking place, according to Jonathan Eyal, director of
international security studies at the  Royal United Services
Institute  in  London .  Without a UN mandate, Western powers will be reluctant to
get involved militarily in Syria, and the Arab League won’t have
the stomach to fight with one of its members, said Eyal. Qatar
last month proposed sending Arab troops to Syria to halt the
violence.  Alternative Venues  Russia has invited Syria’s government and the opposition to
hold talks in Moscow and is ready to consider any alternative
venues for negotiations, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman
Alexander Lukashevich said yesterday.  Assad inherited power in 2000 from his father, Hafez al- Assad, a Soviet ally who ruled for three decades and received
weapons and financial support for the Arab standoff against
 Israel .  Russia has a naval base in the Syrian port of Tartous and
billions of dollars of arms contracts with the Middle Eastern
state. After the 2003 overthrow of Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein 
and  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi last year, Syria is the last major
customer for Russian weapons in the region.  “The West views Russian policy toward Syria with
frustration and some anger,” Kupchan said. Even so, “the West
has neither good options nor much influence over the situation
on the ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  