-- Sarkozy Says Pacts Reflect ‘France’s Word’ in Rebuff of Hollande
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-02-06T14:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/sarkozy-says-pacts-reflect-france-s-word-in-rebuff-of-hollande.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
criticized a suggestion by  Francois Hollande , his Socialist
rival in the presidential campaign, for proposing revisions to
the  1963 treaty  that sealed Franco-German cooperation.  “When we sign a treaty, we sign in the name of the French
people, not the people of the right or the people of the left.
It’s an expression of a country, not of politics,”  Sarkozy
said . “It’s France’s word. It’s the basis of international
relations and democracy,” he said in a joint press conference
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Paris.  Hollande, who has also said he’d renegotiate an accord
tightening budget rules endorsed by 25 European Union leaders,
said that if elected, he would seek to push for an updated
version of the Elysee Treaty to establish more “equal”
relations between  Europe ’s two biggest economies.  The treaty was signed in 1963 at the French president’s
palace by General  Charles de Gaulle  and Konrad Adenauer. It laid
down the basis of cooperation between the two countries in
economics, politics, foreign affairs, education and defense.  Hollande said in his first campaign speech  on Jan. 22  that
he would seek to have a new version signed in January 2013 for
the 50th anniversary of the Treaty.  “The treaty is not the property of the president,” Merkel
said today at the press conference that concluded a Franco-
German cabinet meeting. She said both countries’ parliaments
were preparing a celebration for January. “The treaty is a
historical document that was ratified by parliament.”  Hollande made an official request to meet with Merkel
during the campaign time, a German government spokesman said
today. The government hasn’t taken a decision yet he said,
asking not to be named according to government ground rules.
 France ’s first round election will be held April 22 and the run-
off on May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  