-- Seabird Falls After Warning on Quarterly Results: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-06T11:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/seabird-falls-after-warning-on-quarterly-results-oslo-mover.html
Seabird Exploration Plc (DBX)  fell the most
in more than a month in Oslo trading after saying fourth-quarter
earnings would be lower than expected and announced it may sell
multiclient data and cut costs further.  Seabird, which conducts seismic surveys for the oil and gas
industry, fell as much as 19 percent, the most since Dec. 28,
extending the decline over the last 12 months to 93 percent. The
 share s fell 3.9 percent to 0.25 kroner as of 12:31 p.m. local
time.  “The achieved utilization rate is lower than expected,”
the company said. “There are several reasons for the reduced
utilization, among the primary reasons are delayed startup dates
on firm contracts and contracts materializing to a lesser degree
than forecasted.”  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization are expected to be at break-even to $2 million for
the quarter, Limassol, Cyprus-based Seabird said in a statement.
Chief Executive Officer Tim Isden will step down and will be
replaced by Dag Reynolds, the company also said. Seabird had an
Ebitda loss of $3 million in the third quarter.  “They’ve been struggling with profitability through all
2011 and the restructuring, at least at this point, doesn’t seem
to have been a sufficient remedy for their problems,” Thomas Orner, an analyst with RS Platou Markets AS, said by phone.  The company said it has started a process that may lead to
a sale of so-called multiclient data, which would “have an
immediate positive effect on the liquidity situation.” Seabird
also said it will seek easements in creditor terms, reduce
 capital spending  and operating costs.  The company last year sold its “ocean bottom node”
business to Fugro Norway AS for $125 million and raised $6
million in a share sale in conjunction with a debt
restructuring.  The book value of SeaBird’s multiclient library at the end
of the third quarter was $14.1 million, according to Egle Domataite, an analyst at Terra Markets AS.  “With the existing financial constrains, the company has
weak pricing power when negotiating the sale,” she said in a
note. “In addition, this does not solve the core problems. We
see SeaBird’s current fleet composition and balance sheet
dragging down the equity value in the long term.”  Multiclient seismic data is shared by more than one
customer and imaging helps producers get more information out of
the data. Companies use seismic surveys to locate oil and gas
and determine the size and structure of reservoirs and to decide
whether to acquire licenses in areas.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  