-- Seasonal Weather May Bring Heating Demand to Near Normal Levels
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-06T13:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/seasonal-weather-may-bring-heating-demand-to-near-normal-levels.html
Lower temperatures across the central
U.S. may mean the amount of energy needed to heat homes will be
near normal levels this week.  The heating degree days value across the country for the
week is expected to be 165, or 28 below normal, according to the
 U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs , Maryland. The
value for natural gas use is 182, also 28 below normal.  The value is calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses.  Traders watch temperature predictions and heating degree
days values to gauge energy use and demand. About 51 percent of
U.S. households use natural gas for heating, according to the
Energy Department.  The predicted heating degree days value adjusted for home
heating oil use is 202, or 52 below normal, and for electricity
it’s 126, or 25 below normal.  Energy demand for heating through the central U.S. from the
western  Great Lakes  to Texas should be at normal levels this
week, according to  David Salmon , meteorologist at Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  In the Northeast, including  New York , demand may be about
10 percent less than normal, he said.  Normal in Texas  Temperatures across the southern Great Plains and Texas may
range from 5 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to 4.4 Celsius) below
normal, according to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Rogers said computer forecast models over the weekend were
inconsistent. The result is a divergent forecast for the 6- to
10-day forecast period.  Rogers and MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland,
predict the northern U.S. from  Montana  to Maine will be warmer
than normal with more seasonal temperatures in the rest of the
country and along the East Coast.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Salmon calls for the eastern
U.S. to be cooler than normal. Temperatures in New York,
Philadelphia and Boston may average about 6 degrees lower than
usual from Feb. 12 to Feb. 16, he said.  MDA said the cold weather in the Midwest and East can’t
sustain itself and, as in previous weeks, warmer air will push
the lower temperatures out.  The normal average temperature in New York for Feb. 10 is
about 35 degrees, according to MDA. In Boston, it’s 31; in
Chicago, 27; Atlanta, 46; Houston, 54; Seattle, 43; and Burbank,
California, 56.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  