-- Serbia Says Airbus 319, 320 Jets May Be Added to JAT’s Fleet
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-02-06T16:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/serbia-says-airbus-319-320-jets-may-be-added-to-jat-s-fleet.html
Serbia may choose  Airbus SAS’s (EAD)  310
and 320 jets for a planned overhaul of the aging  fleet  of JAT
Airways, the state-owned flag carrier, officials said.  The government will decide within four months, before
parliamentary elections, whether it can find a buyer for JAT,
following a failed tender, or streamline it with local private
investors, Infrastructure Minister Milutin Mrkonjic said after
meeting today with Xavier Deniau,  France ’s ambassador to
Belgrade, the ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  “Serbia is resolved in its intention to preserve the
national airline” and may remain its majority owner, along with
several Serb businessmen, with whom it would turn around the
unprofitable carrier and renew the  fleet , the ministry quoted
Mrkonjic as saying.  A reorganized JAT would initially only lease aircraft,
“but by 2015 we could buy new airplanes from Airbus. Those
would be four aircraft of the 319 or 320 type,” said JAT
General Manager Vladimir Ognjenovic.  The state may cut the JAT workforce to a third of 1,200 now
to make it profitable by the end of the year, Mrkonjic said.  Serbia   made an advance payment of about 20 million euros
($26.2 million) to Airbus SAS more than a decade ago for a
purchase of eight planes that was later canceled. Economy
Minister Nebojsa Ciric said in a Sept. 28 interview that Serbia
would try to include the amount in future negotiations.  The French ambassador met with Serbian officials shortly
after reports that the Balkan country might opt for Sukhoi Co.’s
SuperJet 100 to rejuvenate JAT’s fleet.  Cooperation with Airbus is supported by the plane maker’s
arrangement with JAT Tehnika, Serbia’s state-run aircraft
maintenance company, spun off from JAT Airways, which began
servicing Airbus models last year, Ognjenovic said.  “I am sure that once the state comes out with a final plan
for JAT restructuring, we will a more active cooperation with
our French colleagues from Airbus,” Ognjanovic was quoted as
saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  