-- Sergei Bubka Plays Down Concerns Over Euro 2012 Accommodation in Ukraine
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-06T16:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/sergei-bubka-plays-down-concerns-over-euro-2012-accommodation-in-ukraine.html
Former Olympic pole vaulting champion
Sergei Bubka played down concern by soccer fans there won’t be
enough hotel rooms during this summer’s European Championships
in Ukraine and  Poland .  “Huge progress was made in the last two years, when the
new president and government came in,” Ukraine’s Bubka, who is
a member of the organizing committee for the European
Championships, said in a round table interview in  London  today.
The country is hosting with Poland.  London’s Daily Telegraph reported in December that England
fans could face “a chronic shortage” of rooms. All of
England’s group matches will be played in Ukraine. Dutch
newswire ANP reported in January that the majority of Dutch fans
would be flying in and out of Ukraine on the same day because
there aren’t enough hotel rooms available. Dutch tour operators
may also put some fans up in hotels in  Turkey , and fly them in
and out for matches from there, ANP reported.  “It will be sorted,” said Bubka, who is also president of
the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine. “They’re trying to
use additional facilities, like a sanatorium. They are doing it.
They will be prepared. Because this is so important for Ukraine,
it’s opening Ukraine to the world to see.”  Bubka, who still holds the pole vault world record, is in
London for the Laureus World Sport Awards. The six-time world
champion, who retired after the 2000 Sydney Olympics, said he
will be meeting with London mayor  Boris Johnson  and
representatives of England soccer supporter groups tomorrow.  Soccer Tournament  Sixteen teams will compete in the European Championships
held in Poland and Ukraine from June 8 to July 1. The tournament
is the most-watched sporting event after the  World Cup  and
 Summer Olympics . It’s the first time it has been held in eastern
 Europe .  Although the European Championships has already led to the
construction of new airport terminals, runways and fast trains,
a possible Ukrainian bid to host the Winter Olympics “could
really speed up and accelerate the development,” of the
country’s Carpathian mountain region, Bubka said.  “In the western part, there aren’t that many jobs,” Bubka
said. “This will give a lot of jobs because many people from
that area go somewhere else to find work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 