-- Sloan-Kettering Chief, Celgene Sued Over Cancer Research
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-06T22:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/sloan-kettering-chief-accused-in-lawsuit-of-appropriating-cancer-research.html
The head of  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  was accused along with biotechnology company
 Celgene Corp.  of using research he helped develop at another
cancer institute to start his own company.  The Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute at Philadelphia’s University of Pennsylvania sued Dr.
Craig Thompson in federal court in  Manhattan  for fraudulent
misrepresentation, asking a judge to decide on the ownership of
intellectual property rights to the research. The institute
seeks damages from Thompson of more than $1 billion, according
to the complaint.  Thompson studied cancer metabolism while he was scientific
director of the institute, which was created by a $100 million
donation from the Abramson family foundation to the university,
according to the complaint filed Dec. 13. Without telling the
institute, Thompson formed Agios Pharmaceuticals Inc. to exploit
the research and got funding from Summit, New Jersey-based
 Celgene , the institute said.  At Sloan-Kettering, Thompson’s laboratory studies how cells
use nutrients and how that affects DNA and cell growth,
according to the hospital’s website. Cancer occurs when cells
divide and grow out of control. Agios is working to develop
drugs with the ability to “starve” cancer cells of the
nutrients they need to survive, according to the company’s
website.  “The allegations in this lawsuit are unfounded and without
merit,” Thompson said today in a statement. “It is unfortunate
that the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute has chosen to
go down this path.”  Kathy Lewis, a spokeswoman for Sloan-Kettering, and Jay
Mayresh, a lawyer for Celgene, declined to comment on the suit.  ‘Chose to Abscond’  Thompson, who became president and chief executive officer
of New York-based Sloan-Kettering in 2010, “chose to abscond
with the fruits of the Abramson largess generated by his work at
the institute and thereby cheat future generations of the
intended benefits of the donation and the institute’s
intellectual property,” according to the complaint.  Agios was also sued.  “While Agios does not comment on the specifics of pending
litigation, the claims asserted in this case are without
merit,” a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Agios
said in a statement. “There are no allegations of wrongdoing by
Agios.”  The lawsuit was reported earlier by the  New York  Times.  The case is Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer
Research Institute v. Thompson, 11-09108, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  