-- Smith & Nephew Settles Bribe Cases With U.S. for $22 Million
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T18:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/smith-nephew-agrees-to-pay-22-million-to-settle-u-s-bribery-allegation.html
Smith & Nephew Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, agreed to pay $22.2 million
to settle allegations by the U.S.  Justice Department  and
Securities and Exchange Commission that it engaged in a scheme
to pay bribes in Greece.  Smith & Nephew admitted in filings today in federal court
in Washington that two of its units were involved in a scheme
for more than a decade to make “illicit payments” to doctors
employed by government hospitals or agencies in Greece in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The London-based company, which entered into a deferred
prosecution agreement with the U.S., agreed to pay a
$16.8 million fine to settle the criminal allegations and
another $5.4 million to settle a civil suit filed by the SEC.  “Smith & Nephew’s subsidiaries chose a path of corruption
rather than fair and honest competition,” Kara Novaco Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC enforcement division’s FCPA unit,
said in a statement. “The SEC will continue to hold companies
liable as we investigate the medical device industry for this
type of illegal behavior.”  Had Smith & Nephew been convicted of the allegations the
company could have been excluded from participating in U.S.
health-care programs, according to prosecutors.  In a criminal information filed in the U.S. District Court
in  Washington , the Justice Department charged Smith & Nephew’s
U.S. and German units with one count of conspiracy, one count of
violating the FCPA and one count of aiding and abetting.  Corporate Monitor  Prosecutors said they’ll seek to have the charges dismissed
after three years as long as Smith & Nephew abides by its
agreement with the Justice Department. The agreement requires
the company to hire a corporate monitor and cooperate with any
bribe probes.  “We have what I believe to be a world-class compliance
program, having enhanced it significantly since this
investigation began in 2007,” Olivier Bohuon, Smith & Nephew’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement. “These legacy
issues do not reflect Smith & Nephew today.”  Smith & Nephew, which began an internal probe in 2007 at
the request of the SEC and Justice Department, said the
individuals involved in the bribery are no longer with the
company.  Smith & Nephew admitted that from 1997 until June 2008, its
U.S. and German units bribed public doctors in  Greece  to win
business. The bribes were paid through a person described in
court documents as a “Greek distributor.” This person used
shell companies that masked bribes as “marketing services,”
according to the statement of facts filed in the criminal case.  Competitors’ Payments  The document cites a March 2002 e-mail from the Greek
distributor to a Smith & Nephew vice president in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , complaining that the “marketing services” payments
weren’t enough, noting that competitors were paying 30 percent
to 40 percent more.  “I absolutely need this fund to promote my sales with
surgeons,” the distributor said in the e-mail, according to
prosecutors.  Reforming a corrupt and dysfunctional public health system
was one of the conditions of Greece’s acceptance of a European
Union and International Monetary Fund bailout package in 2010.
Doctors also supplement their income with payments from
patients, called “fakelaki,” small envelopes with cash for
prompt treatment.  On Feb. 2, Smith & Nephew said it would cut its 11,000-
person workforce by 7 percent in the next three years, including
220 positions cut to date, as it seeks to save
$150 million a year and shift spending toward  emerging markets ,
research and development.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
 Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , 12-00187, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 