-- Sohu Leads Internet Stock Tumble as Earnings Disappoint: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-06T22:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/sohu-leads-internet-stock-slide-as-profit-disappoints-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc.  tumbled the most in two
years, and an index of Chinese U.S.-traded stocks dropped from a
five-month high, as the owner of  China ’s third-biggest search
engine posted an unexpected decline in profit.  Sohu sank 15 percent in New York, leading a slump in
Chinese Internet stocks in the U.S.  Changyou.com Inc. , Sohu’s
online gaming unit, and social-media companies Renren Inc. and
Sina Corp. all slid, paring advances spurred last week by
Facebook Inc. filing for an initial public offering.  The
Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese shares in
the U.S. dropped 2.1 percent to 104.26 yesterday in New York,
the biggest daily decline since Dec. 12.  Fourth-quarter net income for Sohu fell 39 percent to $25
million, compared with the $48.7 million average of seven
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Beijing-based
company also forecast revenue for this quarter that missed
analysts’ estimates by as much as $21 million as the slowing
Chinese economy translates into less advertising.  Sohu’s stock price dropped “mainly because its first-
quarter sales forecast is far below our expectations due to
slower growth in advertising revenue,” said Qi Guo, an analyst
at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco . In a conference call with
investors after the release of the results, “Sohu’s management
said they’re not optimistic about the outlook for advertising
revenue growth. Investors connected it with other Chinese
Internet companies relying on advertising,” Guo said.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., snapped a four-day advance,
sliding 1.5 percent to $39.87, the most since Jan. 30.  Impairment Charge  Sohu put the drop in net income down a $27.5 million
impairment charge canceling out higher revenue from more
advertising and game sales. ThinkEquity’s Guo maintained his
“hold” recommendation on the stock after the report, while
cutting the 12-month price target to $59 from $68. Two other
analysts reiterated ratings of “sector perform” or “market
perform” yesterday.  Sohu  declined 15 percent yesterday, the most since October
2009, to a three-week low of $53.41 in  New York  trading.  Brand advertising revenue, or revenue from online
advertising excluding search-engine pages, is expected to be in
the range of $60 million to $63 million, down about 21 percent
from the previous three months. That would still constitute an
increase of 5 percent to 10 percent from a year earlier, Sohu
said in the statement yesterday.  The lower first-quarter forecast “is due to lower revenue
from the advertising businesses” and a $7 million increase in
costs, Sohu’s Chief Financial Officer Carol Yu said, according
to a transcript of the conference call. The first three months
of the year is “a slow season” for advertising, she said.  ‘Not So Optimistic’  “We are not so optimistic about the macro-economy in
2012,” said Belinda Wang, Sohu’s chief operating officer.  China’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half
should  Europe ’s debt crisis worsen, warranting “significant”
fiscal stimulus from the government, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report released yesterday by its China office in
Beijing. The growth rate may drop as much as 4 percentage points
from the Washington-based lender’s current projection, which is
for 8.2 percent this year.  Changyou.com Inc., Sohu’s online gaming unit based in
Beijing, fell 13 percent to $25.31, the biggest drop since its
initial public offering in April 2009 and the second-biggest
decliner on the Bloomberg China-US 55 index yesterday. The stock
surged 14 percent last week, the most since the five days to
Dec. 2.  ‘Pressure to Sell’  Shanghai-based Sina, which owns the Twitter-like Weibo
service in China, retreated 6.6 percent, the most in a month, to
$70.08, after surging 55 percent in the past four weeks.  “There was psychological pressure to sell after the recent
gains, especially as there’s still a lot of concerns about the
economy,” Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co.
in  Shanghai , said in a phone interview.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. , a Chinese developer of computer
security software, sank 6.1 percent to $17.89, the most in a
month, after its products were removed from Apple Inc.’s online
store for wireless applications.  Qihoo, based in Beijing, said in a statement e-mailed
yesterday that it’s seeking information from Apple about the
withdrawal and that people who have previously downloaded its
apps should continue to use them as normal.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. , a Macau casino operator,
slumped 3.4 percent in New York to $11.66, trading at a 2.2
percent discount to its shares in Hong Kong, the most in a week.  Macau Land Grants  The Macau Daily Times reported over the weekend that two of
three land grants for the Cotai area of Macau may be approved
this year, citing Lands and Public Works Bureau Director Jaime
Carion. Casino operators MGM China Holdings Ltd., SJM Holdings
Ltd. and Wynn Macau Ltd. have applied for grants, though the
bureau may only be able to approve two of the three applications
this year, the newspaper said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  was little changed at
1,344.33, ending a three-day rally, on concern  Greece  won’t be
able to agree on the spending cuts necessary to get European
Union aid and avert a debt default. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
was steady at 2,331.14, with most stocks on the gauge rising.  Seaspan Corp. , a container ship operator based in  Hong
Kong , jumped 6.6 percent to an eight-month high of $16.65 after
the company said it will pay a fourth-quarter dividend this
month. Seaspan will pay a dividend of 18.75 cents per common
share on Feb. 22 to all shareholders as of Feb. 13, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Chinese consumer prices rose 4 percent in January, compared
with a 4.1 percent gain in December, according to the median of
31 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The government
data is due to be released on Feb. 9. January exports may drop
1.4 percent from year-ago levels, compared with a 13.4 percent
advance the previous month, a separate survey showed. The trade
data is scheduled for Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  