-- Solar Tariff’s Effects Can’t Be Measured in Jobs, Professor Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-06T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/solar-tariff-s-effects-can-t-be-measured-in-jobs-professor-says.html
A report that concluded a tariff on
importing Chinese solar panels into the U.S. would threaten more
than 60,000 jobs is “nonsense,” a researcher said.  It’s impossible to accurately estimate the number of jobs
that would be lost either directly, through closed factories, or
indirectly, when people spend less on goods and services, said
Russ Roberts, a professor of economics at  George Mason
University .  “I’m sympathetic to the idea that keeping out Chinese
solar panels is not good, but to say it’s not good because it
will destroy American jobs is silly,” he said in an interview
Feb. 3 from Arlington, Virginia.  Tariffs of 100 percent on solar cells and panels would
eliminate almost 50,000 net jobs, and 10,000 more would be
jeopardized if  China  retaliated, according to the Brattle Group,
a Washington-based consulting firm that prepared the Jan. 30
report for U.S. companies that oppose a trade case filed in
October.  SolarWorld AG’s  U.S. unit asked the U.S. International
Trade Commission and the Commerce Department to impose tariffs
on Chinese solar products from companies such as Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)   SolarWorld Industries America Inc., acting on behalf of
U.S. solar manufacturers, said it was harmed because China’s
government uses cash grants, discounts on raw materials,
preferential loans and tax incentives to boost exports of solar
cells.  The Commerce Department is scheduled to make a preliminary
finding March 2.  Direct, Indirect, Induced  The study examined three types of jobs that may be affected
by tariffs, direct, indirect and induced, Mark Berkman, one of
its authors, said by telephone. A direct job, for example, would
be a factory worker, and an indirect job would be someone
employed elsewhere in the supply chain.  Induced jobs result when those with direct and indirect
jobs contribute to local economies, such as factory employees
buying groceries, Berkman said. As many as 24,409 induced jobs
would be threatened by duties on panels, according to the study.  A tariff of 50 percent would result in the loss of 14,877
to 43,178 jobs, according to the report.  While short-term job losses may occur, it’s impossible to
calculate the exact number, Roberts said.  “When a pro- or anti-free trade group publishes job losses
to the single digits, it doesn’t really make it more
scientific,” he said. “Trade, or opposing trade, changes the
kinds of jobs we have in America, not the number of jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  