-- Spain’s Property Purge No Panacea for Loan Drought: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-06T10:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/spain-s-property-purge-no-panacea-for-loan-drought.html
Spain ’s bid to unblock the flow of
 credit  to its economy by imposing 50 billion euros ($66 billion)
of charges on banks for their real estate may not be enough to
make them lend and persuade consumers to borrow.  “Everyone I speak to in the banking world tells me the
same thing, which is that there is no solvent demand for
credit,” said Edward Hugh, an economist and board member of
CatalunyaCaixa, a banking group seized by the Bank of Spain last
year. “The underlying problem is that there is no growth
horizon for Spain.”  Spain is forcing banks to take more losses on 175 billion
euros of real estate assets, including land and apartment
blocks, as the government seeks to rebuild confidence in the
financial industry, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said Feb.
2. Investors charge about 753 basis points more yield to own
Bankia SA bonds maturing in 2017 than German bunds of similar
maturity. That’s up from about 46 basis points when the
securities were sold in 2007, the year before Spain’s property
crash began. Bankia, based in Valencia, is the nation’s third-
biggest lender.  The aim is “for Spanish banks to be able to extend credit
by being cleaner, stronger and more transparent,” de Guindos
said. Credit is shrinking at the fastest pace on record as the
Spanish economy enters a recession that the  International
Monetary Fund  says may last two years. Lending fell at an annual
rate of 2.9 percent in November, the biggest drop since the  Bank
of Spain  started keeping records half a century ago.  ‘Lack of Demand’  “What they are trying to do is put the banks in a position
to lend,” Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in
Madrid, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “It’s a
bigger issue of there being a lack of demand for credit.”  Under the program announced by de Guindos, the government
will give lenders a year to make 50 billion euros of combined
additional provisions and capital against real-estate holdings.
They get an extra year for agreeing to merge with another
lender.  “The objective is to eliminate uncertainty regarding
banks’ balance sheets, and particularly the value of land-
related assets value,” the Bank of Spain said in a Feb. 4
 presentation  to analysts, a copy of which was posted on its
website.  The Treasury will sell debt to top up the coffers of the
government bank rescue fund by 6 billion euros to support
mergers. Banks that tap those funds will have to commit to lend
more, de Guindos said.  Time for Action  Property assets have been valued unrealistically for too
long, said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300 million
at Abaco Financials Fund in  London .  “We need to see some action here,” Lecubarri said. Even
so, Spanish banks won’t be able to lend efficiently until their
funding costs shrink, he said.  The yield on  Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond  has dropped to
5 percent from about 5.4 percent when Spain’s new Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  took office on Dec. 21. In addition to carrying
out a real-estate cleanup, Rajoy has pledged to cut the  budget
deficit  to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product this year from
an estimated 8 percent in 2011, through spending cuts and tax
increases.  The rally in  government bonds  helped  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
the country’s biggest bank, sell 2 billion euros of covered
bonds on Feb. 1, the first Spanish bank sale in eight months.
The three-year debt was priced to yield 210 basis points more
than swap rates, compared with a 12 basis-point spread on five-
year notes that the bank sold in 2007.  Funding Woes  “The situation is still very far from being normal for the
banks, and dealing with real estate is just part of a much
bigger picture,” Lecubarri said. “To get credit flowing again,
you need government bond yields to come down because if banks
can’t fund themselves properly, they can’t lend.”  De Guindos has to convince bondholders that the banking
plan won’t swell the deficit as it boosts the rescue fund, known
as FROB, said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. Moreover, the prospect of further
declines in  house prices  for consumers “is going to decrease
your willingness to engage in longer-term investment,” he said.  Angel Ron, chairman of Spain’s fifth-biggest bank  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP) , said on Feb. 1 that the government’s plans
to drive down house prices may erode  consumer confidence .  The  European Central Bank ’s provision of unlimited three-
year loans will do more to ensure banks have cash available for
clients that want it than the government’s endeavors, said
Nomura’s Quinn. Popular’s Ron said last week his company tapped
the facility for 8.5 billion euros and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  said on Feb. 2 that it took 11 billion euros.  “Ultimately if you don’t have the demand, improving the
capital or the liquidity of the banking system isn’t going to be
enough on its own to get credit growing again,” Quinn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  