-- Spain Needs $466 Million in Carbon Credits to Meet Kyoto Limit
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-06T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/spain-needs-466-million-in-carbon-credits-to-meet-kyoto-limit.html
Spain  may need to buy at least 355
million euros ($466 million) of  carbon emissions  permits to meet
its obligations under the  Kyoto Protocol , Agriculture Minister
Miguel Arias-Canete said.  The country will need at least 67 million metric tons of
emissions permits to cover greenhouse gas emissions that exceed
the volume allowed under the 1997 Kyoto agreement, Arias-Canete
told a parliamentary committee last week.  “The government needs a lot of permits,” the minister
said. Its liabilities “are far higher than forecast by the
previous government so the situation is really worrying.” Under
the Kyoto Protocol, developed nations can meet their goals by
buying so-called Assigned Amount Units from other countries with
surplus permits, or by investing in emissions reductions in
 developing countries  in exchange for  carbon offsets .  Spain has already spent about 750 million euros over the
past five years accumulating emission permits and offsets after
the economic boom that followed the Kyoto negotiations saw
Spanish emissions overshoot. Spain’s 2010 greenhouse gas
emissions are about 22 percent higher than they were in 1990
compared with a Kyoto-mandated ceiling of a 15 percent rise over
1990 levels by 2012, Arias-Canete said.  United Nations carbon futures for December 2012 delivery
gained 3.9 percent to 4.24 euros a ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange at 4:45 p.m. in  London .  Two Recessions  The volume of carbon dioxide emitted by the country’s
factories, power plants and transport system in 2006 was 50
percent higher than their 1990 level, Arias-Canete said.  While two recessions since then have reduced emissions,
those reductions have fallen more at the factories and power
plants covered by the European Emissions Trading System compared
with the transport system and waste management industry which
are the responsibility of the government.  Manufacturers and utilities “had many permits assigned to
them and they have had a surplus,” Arias-Canete said. “There
are industrial plants open simply to justify receiving emission
permits and sell them in the market.”  The European Commission has set Spain a target of reducing
its  budget deficit  to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product this
year from about 8 percent in 2011. The  International Monetary
Fund  forecast last month the deficit will be 6.8 percent as
declining output crimps tax receipts and pushes up unemployment
claims.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the economy may
shrink by 1.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  