-- Speculators’ Bullish Wagers at 12-Week High as Growth Emerges: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-02-06T20:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/speculators-bullish-wagers-at-12-week-high-as-growth-emerges-commodities.html
Speculators raised bullish bets on
commodities to a 12-week high on signs that global growth will
boost demand at a time when shortages are forecast for
everything from copper to palladium to cocoa.  Money managers expanded their combined net-long position
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 11 percent to 823,917
 contracts  in the week ended Jan. 31, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. That’s the highest since Nov. 8. Gold
wagers surged the most since September 2009, silver holdings
rose for a fifth week and cattle bets climbed to a 10-week high.  The U.S. jobless rate fell to the lowest in three years in
January as payrolls rose more than forecast, the government said
Feb. 3. Reports last week showed that manufacturing is expanding
in  India , the U.S. and  China , the world’s biggest energy and
metals consumer.  Investments  in commodities are expanding at the
quickest pace in six years after prices rebounded 16 percent
from a 10-month low in October.  “Growth is back in vogue,” said John Stephenson, who
helps manage $2.7 billion of assets at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto. “It definitely helps commodities
that we’re seeing strong economic numbers, especially the
payrolls in the U.S. That’s a very welcome sign.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities was
little changed last week, losing less than 0.1 percent. The
gauge jumped 1.3 percent on Feb. 3, the most in a month, after
the U.S. jobs data topped economist estimates. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities climbed 2.3 percent last week,
and the U.S. Dollar Index, a measure against six trading
partners, was little changed. Treasuries fell 0.3 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Natural Gas  Twelve of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P climbed last
week, led by  Brent crude , which gained 2.8 percent. Hogs rallied
1.8 percent, and wheat rose 2.1 percent. Declines were led by
 natural gas  and cocoa. The S&P gauge rose 0.3 percent to close
at 668.53 today.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 243,000 in January, the most since
April, Labor Department figures showed Feb. 3. The  unemployment
rate  dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009.
Purchasing managers’ indexes for China and India gained in
January, while a report from the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s gauge of U.S.  manufacturing  expanded at the fastest
pace in seven months.  January Performance  Funds put $1.84 billion into commodities in the week ended
Feb. 1, the most since November, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks investment flows.
Gold and precious metals made up most of last week’s increases,
according to  Brad Durham , a managing director at EPFR. Inflows
last month totaled $1.09 billion, the best January performance
since 2008, he said.  “The resilience of the economic data has underpinned the
rebound in risk sentiment,” Ric Deverell, the head of global
commodities research at Credit Suisse Group AG in  London , said
in a report Feb. 2. “We think that many prices will continue to
increase over the remainder of 2012.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have
warned that prices for some commodities rallied too fast after a
London gauge of six industrial metals had its best January since
2006. The  International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  cut their
global-growth forecasts last month, citing the risks of a
slowdown in Europe.  This year’s surge in metals prices isn’t sustainable
because the economy lacks the demand “spark,” Michael J. Jansen, an analyst at JPMorgan in London, said in a report Jan.
30. Goldman’s commodity research team, led by London-based
 Jeffrey Currie , withdrew a recommendation to buy copper on Jan.
31 after a 16 percent gain in about six weeks led the bank to
say the rally was “too much, too soon.”  Silver Bets  The number of contracts outstanding across the 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI climbed 9.3 percent last
month, the most since January 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Funds lifted bullish gold  holdings  by 26 percent last week
to 159,509 contracts. Silver bets jumped 17 percent to 18,702
contracts, and copper wagers climbed for a third straight week
to 7,695 contracts, the highest since August.  Consumption will outpace supplies for copper, palladium and
 iron ore , Morgan Stanley analysts Peter Richardson and Joel Crane said in a report Jan. 17. Rabobank International is
forecasting shortfalls for soybeans, coffee and cocoa, according
to its January monthly outlook report.  Farm Goods  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators
increased  wagers  on higher agricultural prices by 9.7 percent to
393,567 contracts, the highest in three weeks. Corn bets jumped
17 percent, the most in a month. Investors trimmed their bearish
holdings in cocoa and wheat.  Hot, dry conditions may cut corn and soybean output in
Argentina and  Brazil , the world’s top producers after the U.S.,
prompting Goldman to raise its price forecast for both crops
last week. Plunging temperatures in eastern  Europe  threaten
wheat, while adverse weather in West Africa may limit cocoa
supplies. Accelerating global growth signals improving demand
after food costs  tracked  by the  United Nations  fell 5.5 percent
last year, the first retreat since 2008.  “Agricultural prices have really benefited from the cold
weather in Europe and the relatively poor weather in  South
America ,” said Nic Johnson, who helps manage $30 billion in
commodity assets at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport
Beach ,  California . “The latest expectations for supplies have
come down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  