-- SS&C Considering Offer for GlobeOp After TPG Deal
-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-29T20:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/ss-c-says-it-s-considering-offer-for-globeop-after-tpg-deal-1-.html
(Corrects spelling of company name in first sentence of
story published Feb. 6.)  SS&C Technologies Holdings Inc. (SSNC)  said
it’s weighing a potential cash offer for  GlobeOp Financial
Services SA (GO/) , even after TPG Capital LLP agreed to buy the hedge
fund administrator last week.  SS&C, a U.S. developer of software for financial firms, has
been conducting due diligence on GlobeOp since Jan. 14, the
company said in a statement today. GlobeOp, which confirmed it
had provided information to SS&C, said in a statement it hasn’t
received any formal indication of interest from the company.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman , agreed
to buy GlobeOp for about 508 million pounds ($800 million) on
Feb. 1. The Fort Worth, Texas-based firm said it would pay 435
pence a share in cash, 49 percent more than the closing price on
Jan. 5, the day before GlobeOp said it was in talks to be
acquired.  “As a direct competitor, SS&C has the advantage over a
financial buyer of being able to drive material cost and revenue
synergies with GlobeOp, enabling it to pay a higher headline
multiple,” Jonathan Imlah, an analyst at  Collins Stewart  in
London, wrote in a report to clients today. “That said, the
move would be a very sizeable acquisition for SS&C, far bigger
than the small bolt-ons that it has done in the past.”  The stock climbed 5.6 percent to 455 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 482 million pounds.  GlobeOp, which calculates funds’ management and performance
fees, and determines monthly net asset values, has increased the
amount of hedge fund assets it does administrative work for by
about 16 percent to $173 billion over the past year. While 2011
was the hedge fund industry’s second worst year ever in terms of
 investment performance , money managers still opened more than
1,100 new firms, according to data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Evans in  London  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  