-- Stanford Claimed $5.1 Billion, Had $173 Million, Ex-CFO Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-07T01:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/stanford-claimed-5-1-billion-had-173-million-cash-cfo-says-at-trial.html
R. Allen Stanford told his top
brokers in late 2008 that his Antiguan bank “was sitting on
$5.1 billion” more cash than it needed as his treasury manager
was privately e-mailing him that there was just $173.6 million
on hand, Stanford’s former finance chief testified.  “At the present burn rate of withdrawals we had 35 days to
45 days of cash left,” James M. Davis, the former  Stanford
Financial Group  Co. chief financial officer, told jurors today
at Stanford’s criminal trial in federal court in Houston.  Davis, testifying under a plea deal, said customers spooked
by the global financial meltdown accelerated redemptions of
certificates of deposit from Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. in the second half of 2008. By December
of that year, the bank’s cash balance had dropped to $88.2
million, according to an e-mail shown to jurors.  Stanford, who was monitoring the bank’s falling cash
balance on “pretty much a daily basis at that point,” decided
to shore up investor confidence and slow the run on the bank by
making a $541 million capital infusion from his personal assets,
Davis said.  “He told me just to make a paper entry into the accounting
records that it had been made,” Davis said in testimony before
U.S. District Judge David Hittner.  “How would that pay off people at the bank if it was just
a paper entry?” Hittner asked. “It was just to stop the
withdrawals and get more CD purchases coming in?”  Davis replied that was the plan.  Plugging the Hole  As U.S. securities regulators began pressing for
documentation of the bank’s investment portfolio, Stanford
concocted a way to inflate the values of real estate and
private-equity holdings to “plug the hole” between the bank’s
reported and actual assets, the ex-CFO said.  Davis showed jurors how Stanford boosted the purported
value of some island real estate by more than 5,000 percent to
$3.2 billion in late 2008, when property values “were
plummeting.”  When the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued
subpoenas for Stanford executives in January 2009, Stanford
suggested he provide regulators with “the same report you give
the regulators in Antigua that lists all the fictitious assets
in the fictitious accounts,” Davis testified.  “He said, ‘They won’t know the difference. They’re not
that smart,’” Davis said. “I told him they are that smart and
they will know.”  Truth-Telling  Davis said he told Stanford he planned to tell regulators
the truth.  “I was not going to lie to the SEC even though I’d been
lying for 16 to 17 years,” Davis told jurors. “If you lie
under oath, the future’s not very bright. It’s never a bad time
to tell the truth, never too late.”  After Davis refused to meet with the SEC, he and Stanford
asked Laura Pendergest Holt, Stanford Financial Group’s chief
investment officer, to meet the regulators, Davis said.  Davis previously told jurors he had a three-year love
affair with Holt that ended in 2003, and that Stanford approved
of the romance between his two top deputies. Holt, who denies
wrongdoing, was indicted and will be tried in September.  Stanford continued to fly prospective CD customers on
junkets to his Antiguan bank in one of his private jets until
the month before regulators seized the operation in February
2009 on suspicion it was a $7 billion  Ponzi scheme , Davis said.  Effective Lure  “It was a very effective program” for luring new
investors, Davis said, citing Stanford. “He said no trip had
been made that had failed to produce new CD sales.”  The investors’ travel expenses, as well as the cost of the
private jets, were funded with money taken from other CD
depositors, Davis testified.  “The bank’s money was used to pay for everything,” he
told jurors.  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with 14
criminal charges of mail fraud,  wire fraud  and obstructing an
SEC investigation.  He faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the
most serious charges. He has been in custody as a flight risk
since his indictment in June 2009.  Davis said Stanford rewarded Stanford Group financial
advisers who pushed the most Antiguan CDs, with an incentive
program introduced in late 2000. The bank then had barely enough
liquidity to cover CD redemptions while Stanford was borrowing
millions of dollars to secretly fund his other businesses and
personal expenses, Davis said.  Meetings With Sizzle  Top salesmen were treated to quarterly meetings that
featured “extravaganza, Hollywood, lots of sizzle, excitement,
with skits, videos and special speakers,” Davis testified. The
new incentives and an inter-office sales competition “caused a
mushrooming of sales of the CDs. They went from thousands sold
to hundreds of thousands sold per quarter,” he said.  Under questioning by Stanford’s lawyer Robert Scardino,
Davis told jurors he destroyed evidence in February 2009, by
throwing two computers and a flash drive into the 7-acre lake in
front of his home near Baldwin,  Mississippi .  Davis testified he took almost $1 million in cash loans
from the bank in the two months before regulators seized it.
When he said his former boss approved these loans, Stanford
began to slowly shake his head, his eyes locked on Davis.  “We have to take your word for it, don’t we?” Scardino
said more than once to Davis’s explanation of how the alleged
fraud was conducted.  “Just follow the money if you don’t believe me,” Davis
replied.  ‘A Hypocrite’  “I committed adultery, I was a hypocrite and I lied,”
Davis said. “I stole and I lied, and I lied and I stole, for
more than 10 years.”  In addition to admitting a romance with Holt, Davis
testified that he also had an affair with his personal
assistant, Holt’s cousin.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 