-- Stanford’s Taylor Tells Policy Makers to Abandon Temporary Fixes
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-06T23:08:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/stanford-s-taylor-tells-policy-makers-to-abandon-temporary-economic-fixes.html
John Taylor , the Stanford University
economist who created a rule for guiding monetary policy, said
policy makers need to abandon temporary programs as they seek to
boost and maintain growth.  “We have to get away from all these temporary things”
such as tax rebates and recent monetary-policy measures, Taylor
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street
Smart” with Trish Regan. “We have to get back to a strategy. I
believe that will get the strong growth.”  The  Federal Reserve  on Jan. 25 released federal funds rate
forecasts by policy makers for the first time and extended its
pledge to keep rates near zero at least through late 2014. The
central bank had said it would keep borrowing costs low at least
until the middle of 2013.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference last
month that the Fed is considering buying more bonds. The Fed
pushed down the main  interest rate  close to zero in December
2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling
$2.3 trillion to boost the economy and reduce the jobless rate,
which fell to a three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  That’s “contributing to this slow recovery because the Fed
has bought so much of the debt that people don’t know how
they’re going to undo that,” said Taylor, a former U.S.
Treasury Department undersecretary. “This uncertainty has led
people to sit on all this cash at the banks.”  Payroll Tax-Reduction  House and Senate negotiators are seeking to extend a two-
percentage point reduction in the tax for workers through 2012,
which would cost the Treasury about $100 billion. Congress in
December passed a two-month extension of the  tax cut , which
expires Feb. 29, because they couldn’t agree on how to finance a
longer continuation.  Taylor has said that monetary and fiscal policy based on
clear rules, without surprise interventions, would lead to
better economic performance. The central bank contributed to the
housing bubble by keeping rates too low in 2003 and 2004,
according to Taylor.  The Taylor Rule’s calculations for the federal funds rate
are based on economic growth compared with the long-term
potential for growth and inflation.  He said today that there’s evidence economic expansion
comes from “getting the tax rates down and keeping it there,
not doing all of this temporary stimulation.”  Taylor is author of a new book “First Principles: Five
Keys to Restoring America’s Prosperity,” which calls for an
expansion of economic freedom in U.S. fiscal, regulatory and
monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  