-- Summers, Hubbard Clash on Economic Outlook Following Jobs Report
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/summers-hubbard-clash-on-economic-outlook-following-jobs-report.html
Former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said the January jobs report shows the economy
is “on the right road” while  Glenn Hubbard , an adviser to
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , said he’s
skeptical about the meaning of the latest numbers.  “Unlike many of the favorable past reports, if you look
beneath the surface of this one almost every indicator within it
is favorable,” Summers said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week,”
where he appeared with Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business
School.  Employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the biggest gain
in nine months, and the unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent
from 8.5 percent in December, the Labor Department reported last
week. The improvement exceeded the most optimistic forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Hubbard, who was chairman of the  Council of Economic
Advisers  under Republican President  George W. Bush , said the
decline stemmed from fewer people looking for jobs while the
rate of underemployment remains high. Administration policies
have stood in the way of the recovery, he said.  “There needs to be a serious debate on what we can do in
tax policy, in health care, in regulation and financial reform
to actually create jobs,” Hubbard said. He also called on the
administration to address long-term funding of entitlement
programs.  Build on Momentum  Summers, director of the National Economic Council under
Democratic President Barack Obama until last year, said the
administration needs to build on the momentum of the easing
unemployment.  “We are in the presidential election season when the
stakes are high and sometimes facts get twisted or dumbed down
in order to put the candidates in a better light,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York . “Growth accelerated strongly over the
last three months and that’s a fact when looking at Friday’s
employment report.”  The drop in the jobless rate reflected a 381,000 decrease
in unemployment at the same time 250,000 Americans entered the
 labor force .  The portion of the population counted as participating in
the workforce declined in January to 63.7 percent from 64.0
percent in December. In December 2007, at the start of the
recession, 66.0 percent of the population held jobs or were
actively seeking employment.  ‘Unambiguously Good’  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
 West Chester , Pennsylvania, called the January employment report
“unambiguously good.  “Job growth at the start of 2012 is strong and broad-based
across industries,” he said. “The decline in  unemployment rate 
is for real as it is driven largely by a surge in employment.”  Summers said the economy will face heightened risks if
Congress fails to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment
insurance. A U.S. House and Senate panel is negotiating a way to
maintain the payroll tax reduction, which expires on Feb. 29,
through 2012.  Administration officials offered a guarded public response
to the report last week, with nine months to go before the
November election and the U.S. economy still vulnerable to risks
such as a worsening of the European debt crisis.  ‘Growing Stronger’  Obama said that while too many people in the U.S. still
don’t have jobs, the data show “the economy is growing
stronger.”  Romney, 64, upon winning  Nevada ’s caucus on Feb. 4,
attributed the drop in joblessness to the “innovation of the
American people in the private sector,” saying Obama could take
no credit.  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum
and former economic adviser to U.S. Republican Senator John McCain’s 2008 presidential bid, said yesterday unemployment will
go up before it comes down permanently.  “We got one month’s good news in the labor market, that’s
great, but the truth is the debt is bad and the recovery is not
very strong,” Holtz-Eakin said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Alice Rivlin, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
and former vice chairman of the  Federal Reserve , said on CNN
that the key to the  U.S. economy ’s future is for congressional
Republicans and Democrats to work with the president to address
the country’s long-term debt.  “Gridlock is the greatest threat, much greater than
anything else that could happen to our economy,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  