-- Super Bowl Scene: Giants Women Tackle Football in Tisches’ Owners Box
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-06T15:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/super-bowl-scene-giants-women-tackle-football-in-tisches-owners-box.html
Laurie Tisch and her daughters,
Carolyn and Emily Tisch Sussman, wore red, white and blue nail
polish as they celebrated the  New York Giants ’ Super Bowl win
last night in Indianapolis.  The daughter and granddaughters of Preston Robert Tisch,
who bought half the Giants in 1991, take their fandom seriously.  During the game, that meant pained expressions when the
Patriots scored a touchdown eight seconds before halftime and
loud cheers when  Justin Tuck  sacked Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  in the third quarter. A round of “Let’s Go Giants” took
place right before Chase Blackburn intercepted Brady in the
fourth quarter.  And when the Giants finally moved ahead of the Patriots 21-
17 on an Ahmad Bradshaw touchdown with 57 seconds left, the
Tisch women fled their box on the top of Lucas Oil Stadium so
they would be ready to partake in victory with their team.  “This is so surreal,” Laurie, 61, said, standing in the
middle of the field moments before the trophy ceremony, with
confetti flying through the air and thousands screaming around
her.  High-Powered Guests  There were other high-powered football fans at the game --
 Lloyd Blankfein , chief executive officer and chairman of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. ,  BlackRock Inc.  President  Robert Kapito , and
Paul Taubman of Morgan Stanley. But the Tisch women are some of
the most dedicated, along with their counterparts in the Mara
family, which owns the other half of the Giants.  “As many Giants fans know, we’re one of the few teams
without cheerleaders,” said Steve Tisch, Laurie’s brother and
chairman and executive vice president of the team. “Laurie,
Carolyn and Emily are probably three of our loudest
cheerleaders.”  Football and the Tisch family go way back. Laurie went to
University of  Michigan  games when she was a student, including
the  Rose Bowl  in 1969. She is a board member of the Giants as
well as president of the Laurie M. Tisch Illumination Fund,
which provides fresh produce in underserved  New York 
neighborhoods.  Her parents, Joan and Preston Robert Tisch, also went to
games at Michigan. Bob, as he was known, sold key chains outside
the stadium -- one for a dime, two for 15 cents. It was the
start of building a fortune with his brother Laurence. In 1991,
Bob bought his stake in the NFL.  “I want to be part of the fraternity and live out my life
as a Giants owner,” he said, according to his New York Times
obituary published in 2005.  Giants Sisterhood  To the Tisch women, being a part of the Giants feels like a
sisterhood.  They search out Giants blue paraphernalia, from bedazzled,
suede handbags to pumps. The most accurate Giants blue nail
polish, by the way, is OPI’s “Dating a Royal.”  They wear necklaces with the National Football Conference
Championship ring from 2000, and on their fingers they wear
their  Super Bowl  ring from 2008.  And they watch almost every game, if not physically
together, then virtually, texting or talking on the phone about
it.  “I do think there’s something unique about being women who
love the sport,” said Carolyn, 27. “When we’re in the box, it
doesn’t matter how many men there are, it feels like it’s just
us watching.”  When the family became owners, Carolyn was 6, Emily 9 and
Laurie 40. Attending Sunday games was a ritual, with the girls
making cakes to serve at halftime. They dyed the cakes red and
blue and decorated them as football fields. Tooth picks made up
the end zones, sprinkles were the fans.  Post-Game Analysis  After the game, they’d have dinner with their grandfather,
reviewing plays. They revered the man they called Po, short for
Postmaster General, a title he held under President  Ronald Reagan . He adored them, and always made room for the friends
they wanted to bring to the box.  Football is dear to the Tisch women, both because it brings
them together as a family and because they like the game.  “I love that there are two levels you can take it on,”
said Carolyn. “You can understand it at a pretty simple level,
follow the ball and hope your team scores. But you can never be
an expert. There are so many different plays you can run -- you
can always get better at being a fan.”  “What I really love is the pace,” said Emily, 29,
executive director of the Young Democrats of America. “You’re
focused, you go and then you take a break. It keeps you
engaged.”  Studying the Game  In the early years of the Tisches’ ownership of the Giants,
being a female football fan wasn’t always so easy. Laurie and
Emily studied a copy of “Football for Dummies.” Carolyn,
wanting to be taken seriously, memorized the names of the
players in alphabetical order.  Since then the brood has expanded. Last night in the box
for the Super Bowl were Steve’s daughters Elizabeth, 13, Holden,
11, and Hilary, 28. The girls had made signs reading “We Miss
You Nana Joan.” (Joan, too unwell to travel, watched from home
in New York.)  “Football is multigenerational,” Steve said. “It used to
be about fathers taking their sons. Now we’re taking our
daughters, too.”  Soon a former football player will be entering the family.
Carolyn started dating William Blodgett when he was a wide
receiver at Yale. Now he’s finishing MIT Sloan Business School,
where he’s in charge of a Sports Analytics Conference in March.  The couple will be married in June, after Carolyn graduates
from  Harvard Business School .  Marketing Role  For obvious reasons, she’s counting the days until she
leaves Patriots territory. She’ll return to New York for a job
in marketing at  PepsiCo Inc. , an NFL sponsor. Last summer, she
interned in the company’s sports-marketing department.  Working for the Giants is a possibility.  “It’s something I’ve always dreamed of pursuing,” Carolyn
said.  Watching the Tisch women yelp and holler, it was hard to
argue with their ardor.  “Football is such a part of my life, I hate when the
season ends, because I don’t have any small talk to make,”
Carolyn said.  “I grew up with six boys, and expectations might have been
different for the girls,” Laurie reflected. “We’re busting
right through that glass ceiling.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 