-- Super Bowl Champion Giants to Get Ticker-Tape Parade in New York on Feb. 7
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-02-06T19:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/super-bowl-champion-giants-to-get-ticker-tape-parade-in-new-york-on-feb-7.html
The  New York Giants  will be honored
with a ticker-tape parade in Manhattan for the second time in
four years tomorrow after winning the  Super Bowl  against the  New
England Patriots , Mayor Michael Bloomberg said.  The Giants beat the Patriots 21-17 at Lucas Oil Stadium in
Indianapolis yesterday in a rematch of the  National Football
League ’s 2008 championship game. Bloomberg will present the team
with keys to the city at the conclusion of the parade.  The team also will have a rally at their home MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , at 3 p.m., state
Governor  Chris Christie  announced on his Twitter page.  The New York parade will begin on Battery Place and
Washington Street at 11 a.m. local time and continue through the
financial district, an area known as the “Canyon of Heroes,”
Bloomberg said in a statement. A ceremony will follow at  City
Hall  Plaza.  The city held a public giveaway today for half of the 500
spots available for the ceremony.  Giants coach Tom Coughlin said he told his players that
they didn’t want to miss a parade that he described as more than
heartwarming.  Coughlin’s Call  “When you look down the side streets, there’s people
forever down those side streets,” he said today at a news
conference in Indianapolis.  Three large screens around City Hall will allow members of
the public to watch the ceremony. Streets will be closed between
Broadway and Church from Canal to Pearl as will Brooklyn Bridge
access to and from Park Row.  Other streets, including Spruce between Gold and Park Row,
will be closed. There may be limited subway access in Lower
 Manhattan  and the Fulton Street 4, 5, A and C will be closed, as
will Wall Street 4 and 5 and City Hall R.  Travelers should use Rector Street R Station, Fulton, 2 and
3, and the South Ferry 1 Station. Commuters may also use the
Chambers Street Brooklyn Bridge 4, 5, 6 and J station.  PATH trains will provide additional midday service tomorrow
to the World Trade Center, the  Port Authority  of New York and
New Jersey announced today in an e-mailed release. The expanded
service, on lines from New Jersey terminals in Newark and
Hoboken, will start at 9:30 a.m. and end at 3:30 p.m.  The Metro-North Railroad also will increase its service
into Grand Central Terminal, the Metropolitan Transit Authority
said in an e-mailed release. One train each on the Hudson,
Harlem and New Haven lines into Manhattan will be added in the
morning and departing the city in the afternoon, according to
the release.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  