-- Swiss Stocks Drop as Greek Debt Talks Continue; Baer, Banks Fall
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-06T13:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/swiss-stocks-drop-as-greek-debt-talks-continue-banks-decline.html
Swiss stocks  fell for the second time
in three days as Greece’s talks with private bondholders for a
debt-swap agreement continued.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager founded in
1890, slid 4.1 percent after saying full-year profit declined 27
percent.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  and Nobel Biocare AG lost at least
1.4 percent after Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded the stocks.
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission gear,
dropped 1.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, declined 0.3 percent to
6,135.23 at 2:51 p.m. in Zurich. The benchmark gauge advanced 2
percent last week as investors speculated that the euro area
will contain its sovereign-debt crisis and as the U.S. jobless
rate fell to the lowest in three years. The SMI has climbed  3.4
percent this year . The broader Swiss Performance Index also
retreated 0.3 percent today.  “The market is extremely nervous before the Greek
government gives an answer on the haircut that will be applied
to their debt for international private creditors,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets SA in Geneva. “It
can be expected that the Greek government won’t keep their
promise about the public spending cuts, so the level of the
haircut will be closely watched.”  European leaders maintained pressure on  Greece  to accept
terms demanded by international lenders during a weekend of
talks to avert a financial collapse.  Greek Austerity  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  struck a tentative
deal with political parties on austerity measures demanded by
international creditors. Politicians agreed in a five-hour
meeting yesterday to make additional reductions this year equal
to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product.  China’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half if
Europe’s debt crisis worsens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said. Based on the IMF’s “downside” forecast for the global
economy, China’s growth could drop by as much as 4 percentage
points from the fund’s current projection, which is for 8.2
percent this year, the organization said in a report released
today by its China office in Beijing.  Julius Baer  retreated 4.1 percent to 36.30 Swiss francs
after it said full-year net income declined 27 percent to 258
million francs ($280 million). Baer also said it will probably
have to pay a fine to resolve tax matters with U.S. authorities.  UBS, Credit Suisse  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest
lenders, fell 1 percent to 13.31 francs and 1.9 percent to 25.23
francs, respectively. A gauge of banking shares was among the
 worst performers  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Straumann, the world’s biggest maker of dental implants,
slipped 1.4 percent to 172.40 francs and Nobel Biocare lost 4
percent to 13 francs. Both stocks were downgraded to “hold”
from “buy” at Jefferies.  ABB, the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission gear,
lost 1.3 percent to 19.85 francs as UBS lowered its
recommendation for the stock to “neutral” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  