-- Swiss Must Kill Bank Secrecy, Revise Deals, EU Tax Chief Says
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-06T08:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/swiss-must-kill-bank-secrecy-revise-deals-eu-tax-chief-says.html
Switzerland  must eliminate banking
secrecy and renegotiate tax accords with the U.K. and  Germany 
that clash with regional initiatives, according to European
Union Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta.  While Switzerland agreed in March 2009 to meet
international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development , bilateral agreements signed in September with
Germany and the U.K. allow client identities to remain secret.  “Banking secrecy that allows companies or individuals to
hide taxes has no future,” Semeta said in an interview in
Brussels, adding that he wants to crack down on EU citizens
using Swiss bank accounts to hide money. “If we knew the exact
amount of tax evaded, we would present a bill to Switzerland.”  While the U.S. last week broadened a crackdown on offshore
 tax evasion  by bringing criminal charges against Wegelin & Co.,
the U.K. and Germany have adopted withholding tax accords
proposed by Swiss bankers. Those deals “entrench Swiss banking
secrecy,” the London-based Tax Justice said in an October
study, which put the Alpine country at the top of a financial
secrecy index.  Semeta, a former Lithuanian finance minister, has helped
stall the bilateral tax agreements struck by the U.K. and
Germany by ordering the two countries to redraft segments that
clash with existing EU rules.  Rubik Dead  Going forward, Swiss banks plan to levy a 26.375 percent
withholding tax on interest, dividends and capital gains earned
by Germans with offshore accounts. Revenue generated will go to
the German treasury.  That agreement, based on the so-called Rubik model, is
threatened by resistance from the German Social Democratic
opposition, according to the Tax Justice Network.  “Increasingly there are signs that the Rubik deals are
dead,” said Markus Meinzer, a Frankfurt-based member of the
network who helped gather over 84,000 signatures for a petition
to Germany’s upper house protesting against a “free ticket for
tax cheats.”  Under a similar U.K.-Swiss accord, Swiss banks will levy a
withholding tax of 48 percent on interest income and 27 percent
on  capital gains  earned by Britons with offshore accounts.  A series of loopholes in the agreement means the British
government will only recoup 10 percent of the 4 billion pounds
($6.3 billion) to 7 billion pounds of revenue envisaged by the
bilateral treaty, the Tax Justice Network said in October.  ‘Still Optimistic’  “We are continuing to explore the issues raised by the
Commission,” said Patrick O’Brien, a spokesman for the U.K.’s
tax authority known as HMRC, who declined to answer further
questions on the matter.  Swiss bankers said the withholding tax agreements may still
be ratified and replicated by other EU states.  “I’m personally still optimistic,” said Alfredo Gysi,
head of the Association of Foreign Banks in Switzerland. “It’s
still in the highest interests of all parties involved to find a
solution”  Semeta, 49, is “optimistic” he will get a mandate from EU
finance ministers this month to negotiate with the Swiss in a
bid to close loopholes in an earlier withholding tax agreement.
Switzerland is under pressure to expand the definition of
interest income covered by the accord and provide greater
transparency on those benefiting from money deposited in the
world’s biggest center for offshore wealth, he said.  “Any agreements that violate EU law cannot see daylight,”
said Semeta, adding that the EU’s 27 member states lose about
250 billion euros ($328 billion) a year from tax leakage
worldwide.  The existing withholding tax deal on savings interest
between the EU and Switzerland generated revenue of 330 million
euros in 2010.  Semeta said the “best approach” is an automatic exchange
of information, where tax data of a resident of another state is
routinely sent to that country’s authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  