-- Syrian President Assad Uses Tactics of Father to Crush Violent Uprising
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-07T14:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/syria-s-assad-deploys-tactics-of-father-to-crush-revolt-threatening-reign.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has
turned to his father’s playbook as he seeks to end an uprising
that threatens his family’s 40-year reign.  The government’s increasing brutality is reminiscent of
1982 when Hafez al-Assad crushed a rebellion in the city of
Hama, killing thousands. Assad is using tanks and artillery in
cities where protesters are calling for the end of his rule. At
least 174 people were killed on Feb. 4, said the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, making it one of the
deadliest days in the 11-month revolt.  “Assad turned the barrels of his guns on his people in
Syria, just like his father,” Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , a former ally of the Syrian leader, said in
televised comments today. “We told you to show the public that
you’re different than your father. Bashar, you reap what you
sow.” President  Barack Obama  also drew attention to the
parallel last week.  Diplomatic efforts to stem the bloodshed broke down Feb. 4,
when Russia and  China  vetoed a United Nations Security Council
resolution by western and Arab countries to facilitate a
political transition. The prospect of civil war is growing, as
 Al Arabiya  reported defecting Syrian army units are taking tanks
with them.  ‘Dead-End Street’  Obama has dismissed the idea of using a foreign military
force to end the conflict that the UN estimates has already
killed more than 5,400 people. Syrian forces yesterday killed 98
people in the central city of Homs, continuing an assault that
started last weekend,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing activists. The
nationwide toll yesterday was 128, Al Jazeera said.  “It’s very important for us to resolve this without
recourse to outside military intervention, and I think that’s
possible,” Obama said yesterday on NBC’s Today program.  Turkey  is using “all diplomatic channels” to work with
the international community and initiate new measures to stand
by the Syrian opposition and stop Assad’s deadly crackdown,
Erdogan said. “I’m calling on Assad to remind him one more time
that he is traveling down a dead-end street.”  Images aired by Al Arabiya yesterday showed civilians in
Homs fleeing as gunfire echoed through empty streets and
smoldering buildings damaged by shelling. The army also shelled
Idlib in the north and Zabadani near the Lebanese border.  The Syrian Free Army, a group of soldiers who defected to
the opposition, will stage a retaliatory counter attack in the
province of Homs, Aref al-Hmoud, a leader of the force, told
 BBC ’s Arabic television service by telephone from Hatay, Turkey.  ‘Father’s Playbook’  Assad “is returning to his father’s playbook because he
still has Russian cover at the UN,” Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow
at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in
response to e-mailed questions. “The struggle will now head
toward civil war and outside powers will bet on various sides.”  The current president’s father encircled Hama, a city known
for its wooden waterwheels, with tanks and artillery and then
bombed residential neighborhoods known to support the Sunni
Muslim rebellion. As many as 10,000 people died, according to
estimates cited by groups including  Human Rights Watch .  The daily death toll in  Syria  has exceeded 60 at least
three times this year, about twice the average of 34 in 2011,
according to the Syrian Observatory. The total figure includes
women and children, and many of those who died were killed and
tortured by Shabeeha, the Syrian term for thugs associated with
the regime, activists say.  Foreign Provocateurs  The veto by Russia was its second attempt to block efforts
at the UN to hold Assad accountable. Syria’s government has
blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs for fomenting the
protests.  Syria was an ally of the  Soviet Union , receiving weapons
and financial support for the Arab standoff with  Israel , for two
decades after Hafez al-Assad took over the presidency following
a 1970 coup.  Russia  still sells Syria weapons and has its only
military base outside the former Soviet Union in the Syrian port
of Tartus.  Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the head of its
Foreign Intelligence Service, Mikhail Fradkov, travelled to
Damascus today to meet Assad. After the meeting, Lavrov said
Assad was committed to ending all violence and asked Russia to
broker talks with opposition groups.  “It’s clear that the efforts to end the violence must be
accompanied with the initiation of a dialogue among all
political forces,” Lavrov said. “Today we received
confirmation of the Syrian president’s readiness to cooperate on
this.”  Russian Initiative  Gulf Arab countries decided to expel Syrian ambassadors
from their capitals and withdraw their own envoys from Syria.
The six-member Gulf Cooperation Council -- comprising Bahrain,
 Kuwait , Oman, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates  -
- said today it will meet next week “to take decisive action.”  Syria may have reached a “point of no return,” Saudi
billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, said in an interview
airing today on public television’s “ Charlie Rose ” program.  “This is an old regime, using the same old tactics, and it
just isn’t going to work, said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis. “They think they can get away with it, and I
don’t think they are going to be able to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  