-- Syrian Forces Shell Cities to End Revolt
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-06T15:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/syrian-forces-shell-cities-to-crush-revolt-after-russian-un-veto.html
Forces loyal to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad pressed artillery attacks against the central
city of Homs after  Russia  vetoed a United Nations Security
Council resolution aimed at ending the fighting.  Video footage broadcast on Al Arabiya television showed
civilians fleeing and smoldering buildings damaged by shelling
as heavy gunfire echoed through the city’s streets. Security
forces killed 39 people in Homs today and 51 nationwide, the
channel said. The U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
put the deaths at 29 nationwide, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Assad stepped up his crackdown against protesters after
Russia and  China  on Feb. 4 vetoed a proposal by Western and Arab
countries that backed an Arab League plan to facilitate a
political transition. It was the second time Russia blocked
attempts at the UN to hold Assad accountable for a conflict that
the UN says has killed more than 5,400 people.  “This is an old regime, using the same old tactics, and it
just isn’t going to work,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of
research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis. “They think they can get away with it, and I
don’t think they are going to be able to.”  The army also shelled Idlib in the north and Zabadani near
the Lebanese border today. A pipeline that transports natural-
gas to  power plants  in northern Syria was blown up by
“terrorists,” the official state television reported.  Matter of Time  The fall of the regime is only a matter of time, President
 Barack Obama  said in an interview on NBC’s “Today” show. “It
is very important for us to try to resolve this without recourse
to outside military intervention and I think that’s possible,”
he said.  The U.S. has suspended operations at its embassy in  Syria ,
the State Department said today in an e-mailed statement.  Ambassador  Robert Ford  and all American personnel have left
the country, the department said. The surge in violence in Syria
“has raised serious concerns that our embassy is not
sufficiently protected against armed attack,” it said.  Assad has used tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising, which began in mid-March
after revolutions ousted the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt. His
government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs
for fomenting the protests.  Retaliatory Attack  The Syrian Free Army, a group of defecting anti-government
officers, will carry out a retaliatory counter attack in the
province of Homs, Aref al-Hmoud, a leader of the force, told
 BBC ’s Arabic television service by telephone from Hatay,  Turkey .  Assad, who inherited power in 2000, is following tactics
used by his father in 1982. That year, Hafez al-Assad crushed a
rebellion led by Sunni militants in the city of Hama, killing as
many as 10,000 people, according to estimates cited by  Human
Rights Watch .  “The father crushed a rebellion by murdering thousands in
Hama,”  Paul Sullivan , a specialist in Middle East security at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “Bashar
seems to think that he is immune from world pressures. This is
the age of the Arab Spring and the whole world is watching.”  Syria was an ally of the  Soviet Union , receiving weapons
and financial support for the Arab standoff with Israel, for two
decades after Hafez al-Assad took over the presidency following
a 1970 coup. Russia still sells Syria weapons and has its only
military base outside the former Soviet Union in the Syrian port
of Tartus.  Russian Meetings  Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and the head of its
Foreign Intelligence Service, Mikhail Fradkov, will meet with
Assad tomorrow in Damascus. Russia is counting on planned talks
to encourage the Syrian government and its opponents to hold
negotiations, the Foreign Ministry said.  Lavrov said that his country asked western and Arab nations
to wait until after the Russian diplomatic mission to Damascus
before putting to a vote their resolution on Syria. “It was
absolutely realistic” to reach a deal on the UN resolution,
Lavrov said today in comments broadcast on state television.  The Russian visit “indicates that Moscow knows the regime
is in trouble,” Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in response to e-mailed
questions. “They want to try and see if they can prop it up by
convincing it to reform -- the one thing this regime has proven
incapable of doing for over four decades.”  UN Veto  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  views the Russian veto as a
“bitter blow” to efforts to bring peace to Syria, government
spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters in Berlin today.  The U.S. will tighten sanctions on Syria and work with its
allies to put “immense pressure” on Assad to step down,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday.  The  Arab League  in November imposed sanctions on Syria and
sent monitors to the country in an effort to stop the violence.
The league later drafted a plan that called for the formation of
a national unity government within two months to pave way for
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  