-- U.K. Stocks Decline as Greek Debt Talks Continue; Glencore Falls
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-06T17:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-k-stocks-decline-as-greece-struggles-to-reach-debt-swap-deal.html
U.K.  stocks fell, with the FTSE 100
Index snapping a four-day rally, as  Greece  continued talks for a
debt agreement, raising concern that a delay will lead to a
worsening of the euro-area fiscal crisis.  Glencore International Plc, the world’s biggest listed
commodities trader, dropped 4.5 percent after the Financial
Times reported the company may pay a premium to acquire  Xstrata
Plc. (XTA)   Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  fell 3.8 percent, the most since Dec. 14.  The  FTSE 100  declined 8.87, or 0.2 percent, to 5892.2 at
the close in London. Stocks have still rallied 19 percent from
last year’s lowest level. The FTSE All-Share Index retreated 0.1
percent today. Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.1 percent.  Greece’s efforts to win a second bailout from the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund  have hung in the balance as negotiations over
private sector involvement in a debt restructuring failed to
clinch an agreement.  “The Greek government faces a high hurdle to meet the
demands of the IMF and that’s going to be weighing in on
sentiment,” said Gerard Lane, an equity strategist at Shore
Capital in Liverpool,  England . “We’ve seen a final deal from
the PSI come to the table repeatedly and not been delivered.”  European leaders maintained pressure on Greece to accept
terms demanded by international lenders.  Lucas Papademos , the
nation’s prime minister, secured a tentative deal with political
parties yesterday to cut spending and boost economic
competitiveness. Another gathering of leaders was delayed by a
day until tomorrow as they struggled for a unified response.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who met French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in Paris today, said “time is running out” for
Greece to wrap up the debt-swap deal with private creditors.  Snowball Effect  As a debt-crisis remedy eludes European leaders, Britain is
readying its economic defenses amid warnings that a breakup of
the euro could spell havoc for the U.K. economy.  Though Britain has long refused to join the single
currency, deep financial, trade and investment ties mean an
escalation of the crisis might “snowball” and hurt the U.K.,
according to economist Philip Rush at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 London . Almost half of British exports go to the 17 euro nations
and U.K. banks are exposed to more than $1 trillion of
borrowings in the region.  Glencore declined 4.5 percent to 460.75 pence after the FT
reported it may offer a premium of 8 percent over the Xstrata’s
closing price on Feb. 1, citing people familiar with
discussions. Xstrata dropped 1.7 percent to 1,261.5 pence.  Admiral Group Plc , the car insurer that owns the website
confused.com, fell 3.8 percent to 998.5 pence.  Mining Stocks  A  gauge  of mining shares fell 1 percent as copper retreated
on the London Metal Exchange.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  dropped 3.1
percent at 1,317 pence. Rio Tinto Group retreated 1.1 percent to
3,946 pence.  “A combination of index heavyweights from the mining and
financial sectors are pulling the markets a little lower,” said
 David Jones , the chief market strategist at IG Index Ltd, “So
far this is just being seen as a slight pull-back from the sharp
gains on Friday afternoon.”  French Connection Group Plc (FCCN)  dropped 12 percent to 51 pence
after it said Christmas sales were disappointing and that its
full-year pretax profit will be lower than analysts’ estimates.  RM Plc, a U.K. provider of educational products, fell 7.1
percent to 75 pence, the most since Oct. 19, after it cut
dividends and said the past year has been “challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Namitha Jagadeesh in
London at   njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Andrew Rummer
at   arummer@bloomberg.net  