-- U.K. Seeks to Supply Half Offshore Wind From Local Sources
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-06T16:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-k-seeks-to-supply-half-offshore-wind-farms-from-local-sources.html
The U.K. will seek to supply more than
half the equipment used to build offshore wind farms from local
business, according to a group involving domestic developers and
the government.  Members of the Offshore Wind Developers’ Forum used a
meeting today with co-chairman Minister of Energy  Charles Hendry 
to “confirm their vision that U.K. firms should provide more
than 50 percent of the content of future wind farms,” according
to a statement published on the ministry’s  website .  The forum was set up to spur manufacturing for the industry
in the U.K., the world’s biggest market for offshore wind, as
the country seeks to curb the cost of technology it’s touting to
meet climate targets. The U.K. plans to install 18 gigawatts of
turbines at sea by 2020, from about 2 gigawatts now, to meet a
goal of obtaining 15 percent of its energy from clean sources.  Ed Davey, the new energy and climate change secretary who
replaced  Chris Huhne  in the post last week, said today that
focusing on low carbon industries would help rebalance the U.K.
economy while reducing dependence on the City of  London  and
fossil fuel imports from “unstable parts of the world.”  “My priorities are very simple: green jobs, green growth
and getting the best deal for energy bill payers,” he said
during a visit to test site for green homes near Watford north
of London.  Robin Rigg, an offshore wind farm developed by  EON AG  in
the Solway Firth waters straddling the English-Scottish border,
got 32 percent of its development, manufacture and construction
services from U.K.-based businesses, the company says.  The government has made available as much as 60 million
pounds ($94 million) to develop turbine manufacturing facilities
at ports.  Siemens AG  and Associated British Ports Holdings Plc
are planning to build a 210 million-pound offshore wind-turbine
plant in the Port of Hull in northern  England .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  