-- U.S. Drops Dumping Duty Calculations Opposed by EU, Japan
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-06T16:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-s-drops-dumping-duty-calculations-opposed-by-eu-japan-1-.html
The U.S. resolved a longstanding
 World Trade Organization  dispute, agreeing to end an anti-
dumping practice that exporters from the European Union and
 Japan  said unfairly penalized their products.  The U.S. will stop “zeroing” prices on imports that
domestic producers contend are illegally dumped, and in exchange
the EU, which sought consultations in 2003, and Japan dropped
requests to impose retaliatory tariffs, the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office said. The EU and Japan had said the U.S.
failed to comply with WTO decisions against the practice.  “We have finally put these burdensome and potentially
damaging trade disputes behind us,” U.S. Trade Representative
 Ron Kirk  said today in a statement.  In a series of WTO complaints,  Canada , Japan,  Thailand  and
other U.S. trading partners said the U.S. method of calculating
duties on their products was unfairly inflated. When the price
on a product is lower in the exporting country, the U.S. set the
cost at zero rather than the actual amount. This “zeroing out”
makes the average margin in a dumping case higher.  Dumping occurs when companies export goods to the U.S. at a
loss, or at prices below what the products fetch in their
domestic market. In most investigations, the Commerce Department
averages prices for each product under review and the comparable
goods in the U.S. It then compares the prices, and sets duties
based on the difference.  As a result of the accord, “no EU exporter should be
subject to an anti-dumping duty affected by zeroing in the
future,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed statement
from Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  