-- U.S. Strips Formation Falls for a Sixth Month Amid Fed’s Operation Twist
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-06T21:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-s-strips-formation-falls-for-a-sixth-month-amid-fed-s-operation-twist.html
The outstanding amount of zero-coupon
U.S. Treasury notes and bonds fell for a sixth straight month in
January, the longest stretch of declines since 2009, as the
 Federal Reserve ’s Operation Twist program soaked up securities.  Zero-coupon debt, or strips, short for separate trading of
registered interest and principal securities, is created by Wall
Street firms that split bonds into their face amount and
individual coupon payments. The amount of strips fell by $290.6
million, or 0.15 percent, to $195.2 billion last month, Treasury
Department data show. Strips reached a more-than 10-year high of
$207.5 billion in July.  The central bank said in September it would sell $400
billion of short-term debt in its holdings and buy an equal
amount of longer-maturity Treasuries. Traders call the program
Operation Twist after a similar effort in 1961 to contain
borrowing costs for companies and consumers. Policy makers also
have held they key  interest rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since
2008 and pledged last month to keep it low into 2014.  “The Fed buying a lot of longer-dated bonds and keeping
rates so low is causing the trend of declining STRIPS
issuance,” said Charles Parkhurst, a strips trader and managing
director on the government bond trading desk in  New York  at
Barclays Plc, one of the central bank’s 21 primary dealers.  The Fed seeks out the cheapest securities for purchase,
which also happen to be the securities that most often get
stripped, Parkhurst said.  ‘Less Demand’  “The  bond market  has rallied so much, and we are in such a
low-interest-rate environment, that there is just less demand
for the formation of the products,” he said. “And if rates stay
low, the trend will continue.”  Thirty-year strips have lost 7.2 percent this year after
beating the rest of the $7.9 trillion market for Treasuries last
year, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows. They returned
67 percent in 2011, almost double the 36 percent gain for 30-
year bonds and more than six times the 9.8 percent gain in the
broader Treasury, the indexes show.  “Because of the Fed’s purchases on the long end, which are
significant, especially relevant to supply, there is more demand
for whole bonds than there are for STRIPS,” said Thomas Simons,
a government-debt economist in New York at the primary dealer
Jefferies Group Inc. “Combine that with a low interest-rate
environment, and zero coupon bonds don’t offer as much value
anymore.”  Zero-coupon bonds are the most efficient way for money
managers to increase duration, a measure of portfolio risk. The
duration of a zero-coupon bond is the same as its maturity,
while coupon-bearing bonds have shorter durations.  An estimated $8.5 trillion of  Treasury securities  were
eligible for stripping last month, while $8.3 trillion were held
in unstripped form. In addition, $21.1 billion of formerly
stripped Treasury securities were reconstituted, the Treasury
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  