-- U.S. Jan. Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-02-06T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-s-jan-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of
U.S. employment trends index from the Conference Board.
The Conference Board Employment Trends Index (ETI) increased 0.73% in
January to 105.81, from the revised figure of 105.04 in December.  The January figure is also up 5.9 percent from the same month a
year ago. “The Employment Trends Index has been improving rapidly for
four straight months, suggesting somewhat more robust job growth is
likely to continue in this quarter,” says  Gad Levanon , Director of
Macroeconomic Research at The Conference Board.
“Beyond that we still remain cautious. We expect sluggish growth in
economic activity in the first half of 2012 and therefore we do not
foresee the strengthening of the labor market to be sustained in the
second quarter of 2012.”  This month’s strength in the ETI was driven by positive contributions
from four of the eight components. The improving indicators include
Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now,
Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry, Industrial
Production, and Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales. Improvement of
last two components is based on statistical imputation.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators,
each of which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual
indicators into a composite index filters out “noise” to show underlying
trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends
Index include:
Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get”
The Conference Board Consumer Confidence Survey)
Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of Labor)
Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)
Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry
(U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)
Job Openings (BLS)
 Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)
Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly,
at 10 a.m. ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics employment situation report.  The technical notes to this series are available on The Conference
Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard.org/data/eti.cfm .  Employment Trends Index (ETI) 2012 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET) Data for the Month  Monday, March 12     February
Monday, April 9      March
Monday, May 7         April
Monday, June 4        May
Monday, July 9        June
Monday, August 6      July
Monday, September 10  August
Tuesday, October 9    September
Monday, November 5    October
Monday, December 10   November  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at   agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  