-- U.S. Has Market-Share ‘Window’ on Europe Weakness, Hochberg Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-06T16:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/u-s-has-market-share-window-on-europe-weakness-hochberg-says.html
U.S. companies have a “unique window
of opportunity” to grab market share from competitors because
of economic weakness in Europe, said  Fred Hochberg , chairman of
the Export-Import Bank of the United States.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned today that “time is
running out” for Greece to meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro
($170 billion) bailout. The  International Monetary Fund   said
last month  the euro-area economy faces a recession this year,
citing deteriorating bank balance sheets in Europe and saying
that bank funding “all but dried up” in the region.  “As there’s some difficulty in Europe, United States
manufacturers can pick up market share,” Hochberg said in an
interview today in  Ho Chi Minh City  during the second day of a
four-day visit to Vietnam. Companies in the 17-nation euro
region may face difficulty in getting financing and “that’s an
opportunity for American companies.”  The Export-Import Bank provides loans, credit insurance and
loan guarantees to help American exports compete with financing
by foreign governments on behalf of their own companies,
according to a document provided by the bank describing its
mission.  The American economy is “turning,” with  job creation 
accelerating, Hochberg said. U.S. employers added 243,000 jobs
in January, the biggest gain in nine months, and the
 unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent from 8.5 percent in
December, the Labor Department reported last week in Washington.  The figures point to “more sustainable” economic growth,
according to Hochberg, who said the U.S. is “very well on
track” to meet a pledge made by President Barack Obama in 2010
to double  American exports  by 2015.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 pohirschberg@bloomberg.net  