-- UBS’s Zeltner Says Clients Should Stay Cautious on 2012 Markets
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-06T13:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/ubs-s-zeltner-says-clients-should-stay-cautious-on-2012-markets.html
UBS AG ’s head of  wealth management 
excluding the Americas is advising clients to remain
“cautious” in their investment decisions this year.  “A cautious approach is probably the right thing to do,”
 Juerg Zeltner  said in an interview posted on UBS’s  website 
today. “There is some unpredictability out there. Political
decisions will heavily impact what happens to the markets.”  The Zurich-based bank, which managed 1.37 trillion Swiss
francs ($1.48 trillion) in assets for wealthy clients around the
globe at the end of September, is seeking new ways to keep
customers informed of market opportunities.  UBS last year hired Alexander Friedman, a former chief
financial officer for the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , as
chief investment officer to help transform  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank from an asset gatherer into a more active adviser. It is
“extremely important” to reach out to clients and help them
invest in “uncertain” markets, Zeltner said in November at
UBS’s Investor Day in New York.  While customers are looking for opportunities to increase
returns, “capital preservation is the No. 1 topic” on their
minds, Zeltner said in today’s interview.  Zeltner recommends stocks in the U.S., “some opportunities
in Switzerland,” and the U.K. market, which has “very
attractive valuations” over euro-zone counterparts.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has gained 6.7 percent this
year, while the  S&P 500  increased 6.9 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE
100 index is up 5.7 percent in the same period.  Greek Default  “We already have seen quite a healthy performance of
equity markets,” Zeltner said. “However, never forget, we
still don’t have a holistic resolution of our issues or problems
in the European debt crisis. Potential default of  Greece  is
still out there.”  He also advises investors to be “very selective” with
sovereign bonds as further downgrades of country ratings are
“likely.” Possible alternative investments in fixed-income
markets include bonds of supra-national organizations, covered
bonds or “high-quality” debt of multinational corporations, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  