-- Huggies Price Cut Shows Why Bond Market Backs Bernanke QE3
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-06T17:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/huggies-price-cut-shows-why-bond-market-backing-bernanke-considering-qe3.html
Procter & Gamble Co. ’s failure to
raise the price of Cascade dishwashing soap shows why investors
are buying Treasuries at the lowest yields in history, giving
the  Federal Reserve  more scope to boost the economy.  The world’s largest consumer-products company rolled back
prices after an 8 percent increase lost the firm 7 percentage
points of market share.  Kimberly-Clark Corp.  started offering
coupons on Huggies after resistance to the diapers’ cost.  Darden
Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  raised prices at less than the inflation rate
as patrons order more of  Olive Garden ’s discounted stuffed
rigatoni than it anticipated.  Low inflation has continued to boost demand for Treasuries,
keeping rates low as President  Barack Obama  finances a $1.1
trillion  budget deficit  to boost an economy still growing at
rates below the 20-year average. The Fed set an annual inflation
target of 2 percent two weeks ago, and policy makers suggested
they may conduct a third round of bond purchases under a policy
known as quantitative easing.  “Any way you look at it, the Treasury market is still
expecting rather benign inflation, and we will be in a low-rate
environment for some time,”  David Ader , head of U.S. government
bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said Feb. 1 in a telephone interview.  Jobs, Earnings  Companies can’t raise prices because wage growth remains
stunted, even though unemployment has started to recede. Average
hourly earnings rose 1.9 percent in January from a year earlier,
the smallest increase since April, and down from 3.2 percent in
2008 and 3.7 percent in January 2009, the Labor Department said
Feb. 3. The  jobless rate  fell to 8.3 percent in January, the
lowest level in three years, compared with a high of 10 percent
in October 2009.  “This recovery has not been a great recovery with regard
to income gains, and income gains are a function of both growth
in wages and jobs,”  Jeffrey Rosenberg , the chief investment
strategist for fixed-income at BlackRock Inc., the world’s
biggest money manager, said in a Feb. 1 interview in New York.
“Why can’t you pass price increases through to consumers? It’s
because consumers aren’t seeing income gains.”  BlackRock, which manages more than $1 trillion in assets,
favors corporate, municipal and mortgage bonds, the firm said
last month in a report.  The consumer price index will rise 2.1 percent this year
and next, according to a Bloomberg survey of 66 economists. A
bond market  measure  used by the Fed to forecast inflation
starting five years from now fell to 2.50 percent from last
year’s high of 3.23 percent in August and less than the average
of 2.76 percent in the past decade.  Below Average  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose three basis
points last week, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.92 percent in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price
of the 2 percent security due November 2021 fell 9/32, or $2.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32.  The yield fell two basis points today to 1.9 percent at
12:22 p.m. in New York. The U.S. will auction $72 billion of
three-, 10-, and 30-year securities this week.  Yields remain below their average of about 5.28 percent
since 1990 even as Treasury sells record amounts of bonds to
finance the Obama administration’s deficit. The U.S. will spend
about 3.1 percent of gross domestic product servicing its $15.2
trillion of  public debt , less than the 4.8 percent when
President  George H.W. Bush  was in office, according to Office of
Management and Budget and International Monetary Fund data.  Rising Returns  Subdued inflation and demand for safe assets as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis intensified helped propel returns on
Treasuries to 10 percent, including reinvested interest, in the
12 months ended Jan. 31. Last year’s gain of 9.8 percent as
measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes beat the 2.1
percent rise in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 , including dividends.  While yields rose last week, they are down from Jan. 24,
the day before the Fed said it would keep its benchmark  interest
rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent until at least 2014, a
year later than planned, lowered its growth forecast and for the
first time set 2 percent as its inflation target.  “There are lots of global and domestic headwinds, and the
Fed is less concerned about inflation than they are making sure
the economy is taking hold,”  Scott Graham , head of government
bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in
 Chicago , said Feb. 1 in a telephone interview. The firm is one
of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  Loss Lookout  Low bond yields make investors more susceptible to losses
should inflation and interest rates climb. Ten-year note yields
will rise to 2.19 percent by mid-2012 and 2.57 percent by the
end of the year, according to the weighted average in a
Bloomberg News survey of more than 60 economists and analysts.  Investors, except for those owning 30-year bonds, are
accepting negative yields after taking into account the  consumer
price index , a sign they may expect inflation to slow. Ten-year
notes yield 1.08 percentage points less than the CPI.  “Inflationary or wage pressures will probably start to
build at a higher unemployment level than they would have in the
last decade,” said Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer
of  Santa Monica , California-based Guggenheim Partners LLC, which
oversees more than $125 billion, said Feb. 1.  The central bank printed money and bought $2.3 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related bonds between 2008 and June 2011
to support the economy in two rounds of quantitative easing.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Jan. 25 that he’s
considering another set of purchases. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey the same day estimated the central bank will buy
mortgage bonds should the economy warrant more stimulus, with
purchases of all types totaling $500 billion.  ‘Room to Ease’  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, excluding food and fuel, the measure used by
the Fed for its forecasts, rose 1.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier. That’s down from more than 2.5
percent as recently as 2008.  The Fed at its Jan. 25 meeting cut its forecast for growth
this year to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, from a projection of
2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in November. It predicted the economy
will expand between 2.8 percent and 3.2 percent next year, down
from the previous 3.0 percent to 3.5 percent.  P&G, the maker of CoverGirl cosmetics to Duracell
batteries, took advantage of low inflation and interest rates on
Feb. 1 when it sold $1 billion of 10-year, 2.3 percent bonds at
the lowest coupon on record for corporate securities of that
maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market-Share Loss  The offering came less than a week after the company said
on Jan. 27 that market-share loss in dishwashing soap “is not
something that we are willing to accept, and we have taken
corrective action.” P&G “will be reversing our pricing
increase on the Cascade business,” Teri List, vice-president of
corporate accounting at Cincinnati-based P&G, said in the
conference call.  Kimberly-Clark said fourth-quarter profit fell 18 percent
on slowing demand in developed markets where the company is
struggling to make some price increases stick. The Dallas-based
maker of Kleenex tissues and Scott paper towels said Jan. 24 in
a conference call that it issued more coupons in  North America 
on goods, including Huggies Little Movers Slip-On diapers and
potty-training pants, soon after raising prices on those items.  Darden is limiting price increases to about 2 percent to 3
percent even as commodity prices soar by emphasizing
“affordability” in promotions such as a “Never Ending Pasta
Bowl” for $8.95, Chief Operating Officer Andrew Madsen said in
a Dec. 16 conference call.  “There was more trading to the
lower-priced promoted entrees than we have seen historically,”
he said.  Most U.S. central bankers see inflation at 1.4 percent to
1.8 percent in 2012, down from the 1.4 percent to 2 percent
range they forecast in November, the Fed said Jan. 25.  “The market is still skeptical that the Fed will be able
spark inflation expectations significantly,” said CRT’s Ader.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  