-- Hula Girls Revive Quake-Hit Fukushima Town at Hawaii Theme Park
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-06T15:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/hula-girls-revive-quake-hit-fukushima-town.html
A Hawaiian theme park that propped
up the economy of a rural Japanese town in Fukushima prefecture
for 45 years was forced to close after the March 11 earthquake.
Almost a year later, the  hula girls  have returned.  The  Spa Resort Hawaiians  in Iwaki will open its indoor
pools and host wedding parties and Hawaiian luaus in a new
hotel from Feb. 8. Structural damage from the magnitude-9
temblor and concerns about radiation leaking from the Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant 60 kilometers (37 miles) to the north
closed the resort, a semi-roofed complex six times the size of
 Tokyo  Dome and surrounded by rice fields and hot springs.  The spa, featured in the award-winning 2006 film “Hula
Girls,” offers a rare example of a community bouncing back
from a catastrophe that  left  almost 20,000 dead or missing in
the Tohoku region of northeast Japan, and forced about 160,000
to evacuate areas within 30 kilometers of the plant. The
disaster accelerated a trend toward shrinking and aging
populations in the countryside even as big cities grow.  “The spa’s return to business is a symbol of recovery in
a sense that it can cheer up the local community and provide
huge economic support,” said Hiroyasu Ishikawa, chief
researcher at Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. “If folks from
around  Japan  visit the Hawaiians, it might spur a Tohoku region
recovery.”  The resort  contributed  1.7 trillion yen ($22 billion) to
the region’s economy in the first 40 years after it opened,
according to Ishikawa. While not economically significant to
the nation as a whole, Spa Hawaiians is a symbol of resilience
in a pocket of the country that has been in decline for decades.  Town Transformation  Iwaki was a coal-mining town until a shift to oil-fueled
power generation led to mining closures in the 1960s,
threatening its existence. With few other options, the town
council voted to transform Iwaki into a tourism destination by
using natural hot springs to supply a spa, which was initially
called the Joban Hawaiian Center in 1966. The vacation spot,
managed by  Joban Kosan Co. , now employees about 700 people.  The town could be a model for other rural communities
facing possible extinction. While Tokyo’s annual gross domestic
product grew 2.2 percent to 89.7 trillion yen over the 11-year
period ended in December 2008, Fukushima’s shrank by 7.2
percent in the same period to 7.7 trillion yen, according to
Cabinet Office  data .  Fukushima, Japan’s fourth-largest rice-growing region in
2010, accounts for less than 2 percent of the national economy.  ‘Shrinking Population’  “A shrinking population means we need to attract lots of
people from outside or sell local goods outside for growth,”
said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Insurance Research Institute in Tokyo. “All of rural Japan
faces this problem. With a lower birth rate and aging
population, we have to rely on tourism or agriculture.
Fukushima would be a good model and will be watched closely.”  Almost 2,800 villages may be in danger of disappearing,
according to a  report  released last March by the Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications about migration and the
aging population. In the same report, 16 percent of the
villages said more than half their populations were aged 65 or
older.  The number of people in Fukushima prefecture fell to 1.9
million as of Jan. 1 from 2.1 million in 1990.  A  report  released in July by the same ministry showed that
the number of towns and villages threatened with depopulation
was 44.9 percent in 2010, up from 32.3 percent in 1972. In 1960,
Tokyo, Nagoya and  Osaka  accounted for 15 percent of Japan’s
population. As of 2010, more than half of the nation lived in
those three cities, and the number of people in Tokyo rose to a
record 13.2 million as of Jan. 1, according to census data.  Troupe of Dancers  The troupe of dancers, many of them from Iwaki, went on a
five-month nationwide tour after the March 11 quake to reassure
the public that the city and resort are safe from radiation. In
the four months since the leisure complex opened partially in
October, visitor numbers are down 60 percent from levels a year
ago. Visitor numbers will return the pre-disaster level of
1.45 million a year by 2014, said Eisuke Suzuki, a spokesman 
for the resort.   “It’s vital to bring people back into Iwaki city and
Fukushima prefecture as soon as possible,”  Kazuhiko Saito ,
president of  Joban Kosan , said in an e-mail on Feb. 2. “I have
absolute faith that the grand opening of Spa Hawaiians will
revitalize tourism in the surrounding areas and help the
industry regain its role as a driver of the broader economy.”  In anticipation of a rebound in business, the resort is
recruiting wedding planners, cleaning staff and beauty stylists,
who can earn as much as 4,000 yen per hour, according to an  ad 
posted on Livedoor’s website.  Feb. 25 Wedding  The first wedding since the closure is scheduled for Feb.
25, according to the spa’s web site.  “I feel like we’re finally able to take our first step
toward reconstruction,” said Rie Omori, a hula dancer, who
declined to give her age in line with company policy. “Though
the full recovery may be still far away, I’d like to walk hand
in hand with others toward our future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  