-- Vazquez Mota Selected to Be PAN Candidate for Mexican President
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-06T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/vazquez-mota-selected-to-be-pan-candidate-for-mexican-president.html
Mexico ’s ruling party selected
Josefina Vazquez Mota as its candidate for the Mexican
presidency, setting up a challenge against frontrunner Enrique Pena Nieto.  President Felipe Calderon congratulated Vazquez Mota, the
only woman contending for the July 1 presidential election,
after winning his party’s nomination in a primary vote, the
president’s office said in an e-mailed statement. Vazquez Mota,
51, led the preliminary results with 55 percent of the vote and
86.7 percent of the precincts counted, Jose Espina, the party’s
chief election coordinator, told reporters last night.  Ernesto Cordero , a former finance minister, had 38.1
percent of the vote, while Santiago Creel, who was interior
minister during the administration of Vicente Fox, was third
with 6.1 percent, according to Espina.  “I’ll be the first woman president in the country’s
history,” Vazquez Mota told supporters in Mexico City in a
victory speech. “I’ll be the president for everyone.”  While Vazquez Mota won her party’s candidacy, she trails
Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  on the
national level. Pena Nieto’s party, which controlled Mexico for
seven decades until 2000, has the largest number of seats in
Mexico’s lower house.  To make up ground, the former education minister plans to
boost economic growth to at least 6 percent from 2 percent over
the past decade. To achieve that goal, she plans to make it
easier to hire and fire workers and to attract private
investment into Mexico’s state-controlled oil industry.  Nationally, Vazquez Mota has the backing of 23 percent of
voters, compared with 41 percent for Pena Nieto, according to a
survey taken Jan. 14 through 18 by Mitofsky.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who narrowly lost the presidential election in 2006
with the Party of the Democratic Revolution, has 18 percent
support. The survey included 1,000 people and had a margin of
error of 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  