-- Vestas Plunges as Short-Squeeze Rally Ends: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T10:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/vestas-plunges-as-short-squeeze-rally-ends-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s
biggest wind turbine maker, fell the most in a month as
investors who bought shares to honor so-called short contracts
left the market and after ING Groep NV cut its price estimate.  Vestas fell as much as 8.1 percent, making it today’s
 biggest loser  in the Copenhagen 20 Index, and declined 3.1
kroner to 71.35 kroner at 11:05 a.m. in the Danish capital. The
Aarhus, Denmark-based company has lost 61 percent of its market
value over 12 months after slashing sales and profit forecasts.  Vestas jumped 14 percent on Feb. 3 after investors bought
shares to cover their short positions ahead of the Feb. 8
earnings, said Mads Zink, head of equity sales trading at Danske
Bank A/S. In a short transaction, investors borrow and then sell
a security in anticipation of a decline in its value before
repurchasing the asset. Vestas shares remain overrated as the
company’s customers face higher costs and Vestas battles
increased competition from  China , Maurice Rosenthal, an analyst
at ING, said today.  “It rose too much on Friday,” Zink said by phone today
from Copenhagen. Today’s drop is “a natural correction to the
extreme climb in the  last hour of trade  last week, which was
triggered by rumors of short covering.”  ING’s Rosenthal, who’s based in Brussels, cut his price
estimate on Vestas shares to 55 kroner from 65 kroner. He
repeated his “sell”  recommendation  in a note to clients today.  Short interest in Vestas reached 19.5 percent of shares
outstanding as of Feb. 2, according to the most recent figures
available from Data Explorers. That’s down from a record high of
22 percent on Jan. 19. Most companies have about 3 percent short
interest in their stock, according to  Data Explorers .  Won’t Step Down  Vestas Chairman Bent Carlsen has no plans to step down or
change the management, newspaper Berlingske quoted him as saying
in an interview yesterday. The industry is facing challenges and
investors shouldn’t confuse a bad market with bad leadership,
Carlsen said, according to the Copenhagen-based newspaper.  Members of Vestas’ executive management team last month
held meetings to discuss the performance of Chief Executive
Officer  Ditlev Engel , Borsen reported Jan. 30, citing sources
close to the talks that the newspaper didn’t identify.  A third of U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative
Party lawmakers have signed a letter urging him to cut subsidies
for onshore wind farms in favor of other renewable energy
sources, according to a report yesterday.  Vestas will publish fourth-quarter earnings and provide a
forecast for 2012 on Feb. 8 at 8:30 a.m. Danish time. The
company published some preliminary figures on Jan. 3 saying
earnings before interest and tax for 2011 will be about zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 