-- Victor Cruz Hires IMG to Negotiate Endorsements
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-06T17:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/victor-cruz-hires-img-to-negotiate-endorsements.html
New York  Giants wide receiver  Victor Cruz  hired  IMG Worldwide  to negotiate marketing and endorsement
agreements, the company said today in a press release a day
after he helped his team win the  Super Bowl .  Cruz caught a 2-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Eli Manning last night to give New York a 9-0 lead over the New
England Patriots in the first quarter of the National Football
League championship game, then jumped to his feet and performed
his signature salsa dance.  The 25-year-old native of Paterson,  New Jersey , became a
fan favorite after catching 82 passes for 1,536 yards this
season to break Amani Toomer’s franchise record. He finished
third in the NFL in receiving yards.  Teammate  Ahmad Bradshaw  scored on a 6-yard touchdown run
with 57 seconds remaining to give the Giants a 21-17 victory
over the Patriots for their fourth Super Bowl title and second
in five seasons.  “They have a great reputation around the world,” Cruz
said of IMG, which will also try to negotiate speaking
appearances and literary opportunities for Cruz. “They have
represented some of the most iconic athletes across a myriad of
sports, and I am honored to be among them.”  An undrafted player out of the University of Massachusetts,
 Cruz  made $405,000 in salary this season. He has one year at
$490,000 remaining on his rookie contract that had no signing
bonus and three years of minimum salary.  Jersey Sales  Cruz’s No. 80 jersey was the team’s second-best seller for
the season behind Manning and the 13th-best seller in the league
in December, according to NFLShop.com.  IMG Worldwide, a global sports, fashion and media business,
operates in 30 countries. It runs training facilities, secures
marketing and sponsorship agreements, and is the world’s largest
independent producer and distributor of sports programming.  The company’s marketing clients include Manning and Giants
coach  Tom Coughlin ; Indianapolis Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning , Eli’s brother; and entertainers Tyra Banks and Justin Timberlake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at  matuszewski@bloomberg.net  or
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  