-- Virgin Atlantic to Add Cheese Trays, JFK Spa to Steal BA’s Business Flyers
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-06T14:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/virgin-atlantic-to-add-cheese-trays-jfk-spa-to-steal-ba-s-business-flyers.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. is
spending 100 million pounds ($158 million) revamping its premium
cabin to fend off British Airways and  American Airlines .  The carrier, controlled by billionaire  Richard Branson ,
will unveil a new menu in its Upper Class service starting next
month featuring a cheese trolley, Lanson Black Label Champagne
and afternoon tea, the Crawley, England-based company said in a
statement today. Virgin Atlantic is also opening a bigger lounge
at  New York City ’s John F. Kennedy airport in March.  Virgin Atlantic is facing increasing competition on its
core London-to-New York route after International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA’s British Airways and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines won antitrust immunity 18 months ago to start a joint
venture, allowing them to coordinate schedules and prices.  “Fifty percent of our business is across the North
Atlantic and the London-New York route is highly competitive
because BA and AA have joined together,”  Greg Dawson , a Virgin
Atlantic spokesman, said by telephone. “Whilst we’ve maintained
our market share quite well, we want to keep innovating because
our clear point of difference is product.”  Virgin Atlantic has 20 percent of the London-New York
market, even with a smaller share of the takeoff and landing
slots, Dawson said. The carrier also flies to Newark Liberty
International Airport, across the  Hudson River  from  Manhattan ,
from its main London Heathrow base.  New York Spa  IAG and  American Airlines  won antitrust immunity to run a
joint business on their North Atlantic services in July 2010.
Branson said at the time that the carriers would use the venture
to stifle completion.  The new lounge at JFK, designed by New York architects
James and Hayes Slade, will be twice the size of Virgin’s
existing suite at the airport and feature a spa. The airline’s
upgrade of its Upper Class product will also include
“enhanced” seats and an improved bar area, Dawson said.  Virgin Atlantic trails British Airways in the  Skytrax  World
Airline Star Rating program, scoring three stars compared with
British Airways’ four. The ratings, established in 2000, are
based on an audit program that assesses elements of an airline’s
product and service such as seat standards and in-flight
entertainment.  British Airways also won the organization’s award for the
World’s Best Business Class Airline Lounge for 2011 for its
lounge at Heathrow airport’s terminal five.  Stock Declines  IAG was trading 2.1 percent lower at 185.80 pence at 2:28
p.m. in London.  Shares  in the company, which also owns the
Madrid-based Iberia brand, have advanced 26 percent this year,
boosting IAG’s market value to 3.45 billion pounds. Virgin
Atlantic is closely held.  Virgin Atlantic will roll out the changes on Airbus SAS
A330 wide-body planes linking Heathrow with JFK and on future
aircraft assigned to the route. Retaining its share of the
business-traveler market is crucial for the carrier, said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting in London.  “It isn’t an airline that’s going to make high margins
filling economy class,” Strickland said by telephone. “Their
business model absolutely relies on the high-yielding business
segment. It’s key to their survival.”  Trans-Atlantic business-class bookings have begun strongly
in 2012, Virgin Atlantic said, with growth of more than 10
percent on London-New York flights.  “The irony is that the hard-pressed economy passenger
doesn’t get very much these days,” Strickland said. “But
airlines feel that they can’t justify the business fares if they
don’t make these sort of things part of their offering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  