-- Vodafone Abandons Greek Merger on European Union Opposition
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-06T08:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/vodafone-said-to-abandon-greek-merger-after-opposition-1-.html
Vodafone Group Plc  decided to abandon
an attempt to merge its Greek unit with rival Wind Hellas after
facing European Union regulatory opposition.  Vodafone and shareholders of Wind Hellas,  Greece ’s second-
and third-largest mobile-phone service providers, “agreed to
terminate discussions relating to a potential business
combination,” the British phone company said in a statement
today. The talks ended as European regulators were concerned
about creating a market with only two operators, a person with
knowledge of the matter said, declining to be identified because
the discussions are private.  “Mobile consolidation down to two players has never
happened,” said Nektarios Papagiannakopoulos, an analyst at
Eurobank EFG Securities in  Athens . “Though the market thought
that it would have been good for the players in the market,
including OTE.”  A successful merger would have allowed Vodafone to reduce
costs and better compete in the country with  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA , or OTE, which is controlled
by  Deutsche Telekom AG . Vodafone in November booked an
impairment loss of 450 million pounds ($710 million) for its
business in Greece, citing lower  cash flow  and an increase in
discount rates. In the year-earlier period, Vodafone had already
lowered the value of its Greek operations by 800 million pounds.  Seeking Cost Cuts  Under “normal” economic conditions, a combined Vodafone,
Wind Hellas entity would have been worth close to 3 billon
euros, said analyst Vassilios Vlastarakis at Beta Securities
Ltd.  Vodafone Greece has about 4 million customers. Wind Hellas
has about 4 million wireless and fixed customers combined, a
company spokesman said last August.  Vodafone rose 0.1 percent to 175.30 pence in London trading
as of 8:03 a.m. while Deutsche Telekom gained 0.4 percent to
8.86 euros in  Frankfurt .  European telecommunications companies are seeking
consolidation to cut costs as subscriber growth stagnates and
network development costs surge with the popularity of data-
hungry devices such as  Apple Inc .’s iPhone.  Last week  France Telecom SA  announced the sale of its
Austrian unit to  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd , reducing the number of
operators in that country from four to three. The deal may have
to be amended to win European and Austrian approval, the
country’s Federal Competition Authority said on Feb. 3.  Sharing Infrastructure  The number of U.K. operators fell to four from five after
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom in 2009 merged their British
units to form Everything Everywhere, an operator bigger than
Telefonica SA’s O2 unit and Vodafone in the country.  In Greece, Newbury, England-based Vodafone and Wind will
now seek other ways to co-operate and cut costs, for example
through sharing cellular network infrastructure, the person
said.  The aborted Vodafone deal is the second major effort to
combine mobile operators in  Europe  to be scrapped in as many
years.  France Telecom  in 2010 abandoned plans to merge its Swiss
unit with competitor Sunrise, then owned by  Denmark ’s  TDC A/S ,
after regulators rejected its initial proposal.  Wind Hellas is controlled by a group of bondholders who led
a reorganization in 2010 by injecting 420 million euros and
writing off debt in exchange for control of the company. The
group includes Mount Kellett Capital Partners (Ireland) Ltd.,
Taconic Capital Advisers UK LLP, Providence Equity Capital
Markets LLC, Anchorage Capital Group LLC, Angelo Gordon & Co.
and Eton Park International LLP.  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao in 2009
merged Vodafone’s Australian unit with Hutchison
Telecommunications Ltd.’s operations as it sought to reduce
expenses in a country with slim growth prospects. Under Colao,
Vodafone has sold minority stakes in China Mobile Ltd. and
French wireless operator SFR and also reduced its interests in
Japan’s Softbank Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  