-- Vulcan-Martin Marietta $4.7 Billion Bid Dispute Is Set for Trial Feb. 28
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-06T19:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/vulcan-martin-marietta-4-7-billion-bid-dispute-is-set-for-trial-feb-28.html
A dispute between  Vulcan Materials
Co. (VMC)  and  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  over a $4.7 billion
hostile takeover bid by Martin Marietta will be heard at a Feb.
28 trial before the chief Chancery Court judge in Delaware.  Judge Leo Strine Jr. in Wilmington approved a scheduling
order today to hear the case through March 2 on a fast-track
basis, according to court records.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , used
“an unlawful scheme to pursue a hostile takeover of Vulcan
through the wrongful use and disclosure of Vulcan’s confidential
information,” Vulcan lawyer Collins J. Seitz Jr. wrote in a
pretrial brief.  Vulcan, based in Birmingham, Alabama, was sued by Martin
Marietta Dec. 12, with  Martin Marietta  seeking “a declaration
that the Non-Disclosure Agreement does not prohibit Martin
Marietta’s public offer to purchase all issued and outstanding
shares of Vulcan’s common stock in exchange for Martin
Marietta’s stock,” a lawyer for Martin Marietta, Robert S. Saunders wrote in the complaint.  Vulcan rose 18 cents to $44.97 at 2:28 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Martin Marietta rose $1.18, or
1.4 percent, to $85.47 on the NYSE.  Martin Marietta offered on Dec. 12 to exchange 0.5 share
for each Vulcan share. On Jan. 20, Southeastern Asset Management
Inc., one of the largest shareholders of both companies,
endorsed a combination of the two sand and gravel providers.
Vulcan rejected the offer, calling it “low-ball.”  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  