-- Wheat Gains as Freezing Weather in Europe May Curb Production
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-06T21:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/wheat-gains-as-freezing-weather-in-europe-may-curb-production.html
Wheat futures gained for the first
time in three sessions on speculation that cold weather in
 France ,  Germany  and Ukraine will damage dormant crops.  Temperatures reached minus 15 degrees Celsius (5 degrees
Fahrenheit) in France’s Alsace and Lorraine regions yesterday,
according to forecaster Meteo France. In northern Germany, where
some fields lack a protective layer of snow, soil temperatures
have dropped below minus 8 degrees Celsius, Deutscher
Wetterdienst said. Cold weather in the  Black Sea region  also has
hurt crops.  “There’s been a lot of talk about the cold in Europe and
in Russia and Ukraine,”  Larry Glenn , an analyst at Frontier Ag
in Quinter, Kansas, said in a telephone interview. “Traders
still remember two years ago when everything was OK, then they
had a terrible harvest. They remember how much any loss to
production can mean to prices if it comes out of  Europe  and the
Black Sea area.”  Wheat futures for March delivery gained 1.2 percent to
close at $6.685 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. The price, down 2 percent in the previous two sessions,
has dropped 22 percent in the past 12 months.  Ukraine, the biggest grain grower in the Black Sea region
after Russia, will need to replant at least half of its winter
crops after freezing weather this week, Tetiana Adamenko, the
head of agro-meteorology at the country’s national weather
center, said on Feb. 3.  Damage known as winter kill caused by freezing weather will
probably be average as snow cover protected some plants in parts
of  Bulgaria , where temperatures fell below minus 30 degrees
Celsius, FCStone said in a report today.  The outlook for European soft wheat remains positive, and
“there is little reason to believe that from a European
perspective it will be greater than seasonal averages,” said
Jaime Nolan-Miralles, an FCStone risk analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  