-- Wheat Gains on Concern Low Temperatures Damaged European Crops
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-06T12:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-06/wheat-gains-on-concern-low-temperatures-damaged-european-crops.html
Wheat rose in  Chicago  on concern
freezing temperatures damaged crops in  Europe  and the  Black Sea
region , which supply more than a third of the world harvest. The
grain touched the highest price since June in Paris trading.  Temperatures reached minus 15 degrees Celsius (5 degrees
Fahrenheit) in France’s Alsace and Lorraine regions yesterday
morning, according to forecaster Meteo France. In northern
 Germany , where some areas lack snow cover,  soil temperatures 
have dropped below minus 8 degrees Celsius, Deutscher
Wetterdienst said.  “Extreme cold” in Russia and Ukraine will probably add to
above-average winter kill of wheat this year, DTN Telvent wrote
Feb. 3. Frost in Europe threatened wheat and rapeseed over the
weekend, with the highest risk in  Poland , Germany and Romania
and some risk for France, the forecaster reported.  “The current weather conditions obviously continue to put
the market under tension, with worries of damage to crops in
regions where the snow cover is little or not present,” Paris-
based farm adviser Agritel wrote in a market comment today.
France and Germany are the two largest wheat producers in the
27-nation European Union.  Wheat for delivery in March advanced 0.4 percent to $6.635
a bushel by 12:04 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of
Trade, paring an increase of as much as 0.7 percent. Prices
gained 9.7 percent in the three weeks before this week.  Open Interest  Milling wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
the French capital, the most active contract, climbed 1.6
percent to 220.75 euros ($287.92) a metric ton after reaching
222.50 euros. The November contract, which has the greatest open
interest, rose 0.3 percent to 200 euros.  Soybeans for March delivery gained 0.6 percent to $12.395 a
bushel in Chicago, while corn for delivery in the same month
advanced 0.4 percent to $6.47 a bushel. Both crops increased for
a third week last week.  Dry and hot weather continued to stress plants in the
Brazilian states of Parana and  Rio Grande  do Sul, while late-
sown crops in  Argentina  need rain, DTN Telvent reported.  “Uncommonly and severely hot temperatures prevail in the
soybean- and corn-growing regions of Argentina and  Brazil ,
putting upward pressure upon corn and bean prices generally but
upon bean prices particularly,” economist Dennis Gartman wrote
in his daily Gartman Letter.  Argentina is the world’s second-biggest corn exporter and
Brazil ranks second for soybeans, following the U.S. in both
cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  