-- ‘Cloud Atlas’ Is Weird Mess; Surfers; ‘Other Son’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/-atlas-sells-hokum-grand-mavericks-other-son-film.html
Three giddy hours after a battle-
scarred, cosmetically aged  Tom Hanks  starts talking, the $100
million folly called  “Cloud Atlas”  gets to its point.  “You want de true-true?” asks a futuristic emissary
played by  Halle Berry  in the weird, pseudo-Cajun patois of a
radiated 24th-century Hawaii.  Rough translation: “You can’t handle the truth.”  Amusing and silly, ambitious and trite -- “Cloud Atlas,”
written and directed by siblings Lana and Andy Wachowski (“The
Matrix” trilogy) and Tom Tykwer (“Run Lola Run”), sells more
New Age hokum than a college-town crystal store.  Sample true-trues: Death is a door, love is immortal and
each soul fine-tunes itself through one overblown reincarnation
after another.  Based on the bestselling 2004 novel by David Mitchell,
“Cloud Atlas” juggles six tales spanning as many centuries,
landscapes and literary genres.  A small army of brand-name actors populates every era,
often smearing ethnic, age and gender lines with gobs of
unconvincing make-up.  So we get Susan Sarandon with tribal tattoos here and a
cupcake-sized nose there,  Hugh Grant  covered in war paint or
covered in a geezer’s slack skin.  Corporate Conspiracy  Chronologically (and stripped to the bones):  In 1849, a seafaring attorney (Jim Sturgess) forms an
unlikely bond with a runaway slave (David Gyasi); in 1936
 Scotland , an ambitious young musician (Ben Whishaw) gloms onto
an aging, malevolent composer (Jim Broadbent); and in 1973, a
 San Francisco  journalist (Berry) investigates a far-reaching
corporate conspiracy.  Jumping forward: In 2012, a British publisher (Broadbent)
escapes creditors by hiding out in a snake-pit nursing home; in
the totalitarian “Neo Seoul” of 2144, a meek, genetically
engineered servant (Doona Bae) becomes a freedom fighter; and in
the post-apocalypse 24th century, a village goatherd (Hanks)
aids an emissary (Berry) from an advanced society.  “Cloud Atlas” unfolds with unexpected clarity, its
connective threads conveniently explicit -- a 1936 diary turns
up in 1973, say, or a comet-shaped birthmark tracks one soul
through its earthly lifetimes.  Certainly, some lifetimes are better than others.  The three Tykwer-directed pastiches have surer footing,
riffing on “Three Days of the Condor” paranoia in the 1973
plot and lampooning British music-hall comedy in the nursing-
home farce (with Hugo Weaving done up in Nurse Ratched drag).  Hanks Villainy  The Wachowski segments, while more daring, are spottier.
The sci-fi action of 2144 has thrills and a “Blade Runner”
beauty, but overstays itself, while the salt-aired shipboard
adventure is undone by Hanks’s outsized, bucktoothed villainy.  The film’s sole unequivocal failure arrives with the 24th
century.  Traipsing through a CGI wilderness, Hanks and Berry take on
horseback savages, a green-skinned ghoul in a Mardi Gras top
hat, ludicrous syntax and bookshelf spirituality.  And dat, as dey say, is de true-true.  “Cloud Atlas,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Chasing Mavericks’  The mountainous waves dwarf the actors, literally and
figuratively, in  “Chasing Mavericks.”   They’re the real star of the movie, directed by Curtis Hanson and Michael Apted and photographed, heroically, by Bill
Pope. It tells the story of the 15-year-old surfing phenomenon
Jay Moriarity (Jonny Weston), who trained in the 1990s with the
champion Frosty Hesson ( Gerard Butler ) to ride a legendary wave.  One of the many things movies have in common with opera is
their ability to touch you even when the script is indifferent.
The beauty and athleticism of the surfers, their graceful pivots
across the sparkling water, do more to give these characters
soul than the script does.  It manufactures all kinds of life problems for the
fatherless boy to face down and hammers at his teacher’s father-
figure role. But the majesty of the surfing sequences makes the
rather puny drama surprisingly affecting.  It helps that the actors, especially the women -- Frosty’s
wife (Abigail Spencer), Jay’s mother (Elisabeth Shue) and his
girlfriend (Leven Rambin) -- underplay their maudlin scenes.  But the scenes that matter are the ones in the water. The
movie is a pleasure to look at from the beginning. By the end,
it’s close to euphoric.  “Chasing Mavericks,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘The Other Son’  “The Other Son”  sets up the predicament at once: The sons
of an Israeli and a Palestinian couple have been switched at
birth. Now, on the eve of their turning 18, the boys and their
families learn the truth.  What the movie’s director, Lorraine Levy, does next is
remarkable: very little. Instead of burying the intensity of the
situation under plot complications, she simply watches the
reactions. And that’s enough.  This French-made film is one of those rare pictures that
manages to get at what’s going on inside rather than outside its
characters. Levy uses the Israel-Palestine conflict as a way of
underlining the boys’ self-questioning: What does it really mean
to be a Jew? An Arab?  She handles the politics of the conflict delicately,
without playing them down. The Israeli father is an army
colonel, the Palestinian an engineer reduced to fixing cars
because he isn’t allowed to work outside his village.  Mothers’ Fear  Their first reaction is anger, compounded by frustration at
the lack of a good target for it. The mothers’ faces betray
something more complex: a mixture of fear (though of what it’s
hard to say) and a dawning love for the sons they never knew
they had.  The movie is an actor’s feast. The questions it raises
about family and identity are too big to have answers, and it
doesn’t try to provide any.  The splendid music is by Dhafer Youssef.  “The Other Son,” from Cohen Media Group, is playing in
 New York ,  Los Angeles , San Francisco,  Boston , Philadelphia,
 Chicago , Miami,  St. Louis ,  Seattle ,  Detroit  and  Washington .
Rating: **** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  and Daniel Akst on
 books .  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com ;
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 