-- Hacker Attack Warnings Don’t Budge Opposing Sides on Cyber Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/hacker-attack-warnings-don-t-budge-opposing-sides-on-cyber-bill.html
The White House and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce dug in to opposing positions on cybersecurity
legislation yesterday as federal officials escalate warnings
about hacker threats to the nation.  An executive of the Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S.
business lobby, backed a voluntary system to let the government
and industry share cyber threat information during a panel
discussion at the National Press Club in Washington.  White House Cybersecurity Coordinator Michael Daniel stood
behind the goal of President  Barack Obama ’s administration to
create cybersecurity standards for companies that operate power
grids, chemical plants and other assets considered critical to
U.S. national and economic security.  “We want to ensure that those companies and owners of
those assets are actually bringing their cybersecurity up to a
sufficient level,”  Daniel said.  There are pieces of infrastructure that, if crippled by a
cyber attack, could damage the country and the economy, Daniel
said.  Senate Republicans in August blocked a cybersecurity bill
backed by Obama that would have set voluntary cybersecurity
standards for privately-owned critical systems. The bill also
would have encouraged companies and government to share
information on cyber threats.  Republicans and the Chamber of Commerce opposed the
measure, saying standards would be a back door to government
regulation of companies and wouldn’t keep pace with evolving
threats in cyberspace.  Regulatory Approach  “Whether you want to call it light touch, voluntary, in
its implementation we still believe it would be more of a
regulatory approach,” Ann Beauchesne, the chamber’s vice
president of national security and emergency preparedness, said
at the panel discussion. “We just don’t see that as the right
tack to take.”  The chamber supports a measure focused solely on
information sharing that passed the Republican-controlled House
of Representatives in April, Beauchesne said. Minimum standards
for cybersecurity should be developed by industry, not
government, and should vary for different sectors, she said.  Obama’s administration may issue an executive order to
accomplish some of the goals of the bill it supports, while
saying it can take only limited action on its own and urging
lawmakers to act. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, has pledged to bring the Obama-backed measure to the
Senate floor again during a post-election lame-duck session of
Congress.  Cyber Threat  The Obama-backed bill’s lead sponsors are Senators Joe Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, and Susan Collins, a Maine
Republican. Lieberman, who isn’t seeking re-election, is
chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee. Collins is the panel’s top Republican.  U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta in a speech this month
faulted Congress for failing to act on comprehensive
cybersecurity legislation, saying computer assaults by other
countries or extremist groups could be as destructive as the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Panetta pointed to recent cyber attacks, including a series
of distributed denial-of-service assaults on the websites of
major U.S. banks and an attack on the computer network of Saudi
Arabian Oil Co., known as Saudi Aramco, as “significant
escalation” of the threat.  Referring to news reports that the Saudi Aramco attack was
carried out by a company employee, Joseph Rigby, chief executive
officer of  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , said internal threats are “very
high on our list of awareness and concern.”  Background Checks  “People that have their hands on or have access to the
infrastructure, we’re doing background checks, we’re doing
security checks, things like that, but people’s personalities
change, what’s happening in their lives,” Rigby said. “You
have to be very, very diligent around what your people are
doing.”  Daniel, the White House cybersecurity coordinator, and
other administration officials have been meeting with lawmakers
and industry representatives about a possible executive order.
Republican senators including John McCain of  Arizona  and Kay Bailey Hutchison of  Texas  oppose the White House taking
unilateral action, saying the issue should be handled in
Congress.  An executive order probably won’t be issued before the
November presidential election, Daniel said earlier this week.
He declined to comment on timing beyond that.  “Traditionally in security, societies assign that
responsibility to their government,” Jane Holl Lute, deputy
secretary of homeland security, said at the panel discussion.
“In cyberspace there have been no assignments yet made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  