-- Agribank Profit Increase Beats Estimates on Lending, Fees
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/agribank-profit-rises-beating-estimates-on-lending-fee-income.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s third-largest lender by assets, posted a larger-than-
estimated 16 percent jump in quarterly profit on higher lending
and fee income and improved asset quality.  Net income rose to 39.6 billion  yuan  ($6.3 billion) in the
third quarter from 34.1 billion yuan a year earlier, the
Beijing-based lender said in a statement yesterday. That
compares with the 37.8 billion-yuan  average estimate  of 10
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Agricultural Bank joins  Bank of China Ltd. , the fourth-
largest lender, in beating analyst estimates as lending
profitability and quality both improved. China’s largest banks
have resisted pressure from the government to offer discounts on
loans, seeking to protect their margins after the central bank
widened the band for lending rates.  “It’s great that banks could manage to lower their bad
loan ratios  in an economic slowdown without massively expanding
their loan books,” said Rainy Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  “With the economy improving and
banks boosting lending in the fourth quarter, the ratio could
drop further by year-end, easing investors’ concerns about asset
quality.”  Shares of Agricultural Bank fell 1.5 percent to HK$3.24 in
Hong Kong yesterday before the earnings were published. That
brings their loss for the year to 3 percent, compared with a 17
percent gain in the Hang Seng Index.  Net interest income  grew 8.8 percent to 85.5 billion yuan
in the third quarter, while fee income from businesses such as
credit cards and custodial services rose 8.4 percent to 19.2
billion yuan.  Profits Decelerate  In the three months ended in June, Chinese lenders’ profits
expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 amid an economic
slowdown that’s now in its seventh quarter. The People’s Bank of
 China  cut interest rates in June and July and gave banks more
flexibility in pricing loans and deposits.  Banks are offering savers a premium of as much as 10
percent over the central bank’s benchmark deposit rate as they
seek to revive slowing  deposit growth .  The new interest rate rules may cut banks’ 2012 profits by
28.5 billion yuan, or 3 percent of last year’s figure, Moody’s
Investors Service predicted. Banks’ net interest margins may
contract by four to six basis points this year, followed by a
further 10 to 13 basis points, and a profit reduction of 79.6
billion yuan, in 2013, the ratings company said Oct. 16.  Set up by Mao Zedong in 1951 to finance rural cooperatives,
Agricultural Bank was the first commercial lender established in
China under Communist rule.  Rural Base  The bank had 350 million customers and 23,465 domestic
outlets at the end of June, more than any competitor. More than
half of its locations are in less developed areas, contributing
about 39 percent of first-half operating income.  Agricultural Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of
lending profitability, widened to 2.82 percent in the first nine
months, up two basis points from a year earlier.  Bank of China  on Oct. 25 posted a better-than-expected 17
percent increase in third-quarter profit as its lending margin
improved.  “Loan pricing power remains relatively strong,” Stanley
Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK)
Ltd., said in an e-mail. “The margin trend will likely
deteriorate in the fourth quarter and early next year as the
effect of loan re-pricing kicks in. The favorable non-performing
loans and provisioning trends may not look sustainable amid an
economic downturn.”  Outstanding loans at Agricultural Bank stood at 6.2
trillion yuan at the end of September, an increase of 616
billion yuan from the beginning of the year. The bank set aside
10.8 billion yuan against potential soured assets in the third
quarter, a decrease of 21 percent from a year earlier.  Soured Loans  Agricultural Bank’s non-performing loans fell to 83.95
billion yuan from 84.5 billion yuan in June, representing 1.34
percent of total loans. The average ratio for the country’s
commercial banks was below 0.97 percent at the end of September,
the Financial News reported on Oct. 20, citing data from the
China Banking Regulatory Commission.  The lender’s core capital adequacy ratio stood at 9.76
percent as of the end of the third quarter, exceeding the 9.5
percent minimum imposed by the China Banking Regulatory
Commission for systemically important banks under a rule to be
phased in next year.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, this month bought more shares in Agricultural Bank
and Bank of China, along with the two largest lenders,
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  Huijin owns 40.16 percent of
Agricultural Bank after the latest purchase.  The lender is trading at about 6 times its earnings,
compared with a record low of 4.73 last year and a lifetime high
of 12 times in November 2010.  Growth Targets  China’s economy has started to stabilize and will continue
to show positive changes, and the government is confident of
achieving annual growth targets, Premier Wen Jiabao said this
month, after the third quarter ended.  China’s industrial-output growth will be faster in the
fourth quarter than in the previous three months, helping the
nation achieve its 7.5 percent target for economic expansion in
2012,  Zhu Hongren , chief engineer at the Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology, said on Oct. 25. The economy
expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nathaniel Espino at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  