-- Airlines See Passage of U.S. Measure Opposing EU Emissions Rule
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/airlines-see-passage-of-u-s-measure-opposing-eu-emissions-rule.html
The airline industry expects
Congress to enact, and President  Barack Obama  to sign,
legislation authorizing the U.S. to prohibit airlines from
complying with European Union emissions regulations, an industry
lobbyist said.  The House will enact legislation already approved by the
Senate during a so-called lame-duck session of Congress after
the election, or the proposal may be attached to budget
legislation, Sharon Pinkerton, senior vice president for policy
at Airlines for America, said at an American Bar Association
Aviation Law Forum in New Orleans.  The industry group, whose members include  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  United Parcel Service (UPS) ,
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , supports the bill, which the Senate
passed Sept. 22. The 27-member EU’s Emission Trading System
would impose financial penalties on airlines for breaching
certain air-pollution limits unless they obtain credits. U.S.
carriers consider the measure a tax and say it violates
international law.  “U.S. policy makers are solidly and unanimously opposed to
the application” of EU emissions requirements to U.S. carriers,
Pinkerton said. “Having the EU unilaterally apply what is
essentially a tax to U.S. carriers and passengers is absolutely
a violation of U.S. sovereignty.”  Negotiation Pressure  If enacted, the law may increase pressure on EU leaders to
make accommodations on the requirements that U.S. airlines meet
emissions requirements or risk a trade war. U.S. airlines must
file reports early next year to the EU that will indicate
whether carriers meet limits in the 27-nation bloc. Airlines
that don’t meet the limits must purchase credits to come into
compliance or face the possibility of fines.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood testified on June
6 to a Senate hearing that the administration opposes the EU
plan to force compliance by U.S. airlines.  “The path is not smooth to implementation” of the EU
requirements, said Julie Oettinger, the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s assistant administrator for policy,
international affairs and environment. The EU requirement has
been a “major distraction” that has prevented the United
Nations aviation policy body from making greater strides on
global aviation emission reductions, she said.  There probably will be “some kind of decision by the EU
not to enforce” the requirements by April 30, said Duane
Woerth, U.S. ambassador to the UN body, called the  International
Civil Aviation Organization . “There’s not a pleasant path to
April 30 that’s going to go smoothly without something
changing.”  EU Leaders  EU leaders cannot easily back down from the emissions
requirement because it is law, said Felix Leinemann, the
Washington-based first secretary of the transport, energy and
environment section for the EU. The EU emissions regulation
isn’t a tax; it’s not discriminatory and it doesn’t impinge on
sovereignty, he said.  “The European Union takes climate change very seriously,”
Leinemann said. “Why should aviation be excluded?”  If the EU does scale back the requirement to a lower
threshold, environmentalists “want certainty of what the EU
scales back to isn’t challenged again,” said  Timothy Johnson ,
director of the London-based Aviation Environment Federation.  A global agreement on aviation emissions is eventually
needed to replace the EU standard, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  