-- Taiwan Dollar Snaps 2 Weeks of Gains on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-10-26T09:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/taiwan-dollar-forwards-headed-for-a-weekly-gain-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan ’s dollar completed its first
weekly decline in three on speculation the central bank sold the
currency as it approched a five-month high.  Gains may be tempered as policy makers attempt to slow
appreciation that could hurt exports, according to Sacha
Tihanyi, a Scotiabank strategist. Industrial output rose less
than economists estimated in September, data showed this week.
Emerging-market bond funds have attracted more than $42 billion
this year, compared with the $17.3 billion for all of 2011,
according to data research firm EPFR Global.  “The Taiwan dollar has strengthened significantly since
the beginning of September and portfolio inflows have definitely
played a significant part,” said Hong Kong-based Tihanyi.
“Given that Taiwan remains under significant pressure on the
external accounts, one has to assume that the authority is going
to resist further significant appreciation.”  The Taiwan dollar fell 0.1 percent today and this week to
NT$29.30 versus the greenback in Taipei, data from Taipei Forex
Inc. showed. The currency touched NT$29.20 this week and
NT$29.142 on Oct. 17, the strongest level since May 2. One-month
non-deliverable forwards also fell 0.1 percent today and this
week to NT$29.213, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.54 percent today.  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened to stem advances in
the currency in the final minutes of trading on most days in the
past five months, according to traders who asked not to be
identified. Monetary authorities intervene in currency markets
by arranging purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  Industrial Output  Industrial output climbed 3 percent last month from a year
earlier, after increasing 1.4 percent in August, the Ministry of
Economic Affairs said in Taipei on Oct. 23. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast growth of 6.5 percent.  The yield on the government’s 2 percent bonds due July 2017
was little changed today and this week at 0.884 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The  overnight interbank
lending  rate was steady at 0.384 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  