-- Allstate Among Insurers Pressured by ‘Frankenstorm’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-26T20:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/allstate-among-insurers-pressured-by-frankenstorm-.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , Travelers Cos. and
 Chubb Corp. (CB)  fell as a weather system that’s expected to form
from Hurricane Sandy threatens to lash the U.S. East Coast,
knock out power and cause travel delays.  Allstate, the second-largest U.S. home and auto insurer,
fell 0.9 percent to $40.15 at 4 p.m. in New York. Travelers
slipped 0.8 percent and Chubb, an insurer of high-end homes,
sank 1.8 percent.  The system, dubbed “Frankenstorm” by the  National Weather
Service , may increase claims costs for property insurers, which
have benefited this year from lower catastrophe costs than in
2011. Insured losses may be $5 billion in the U.S., with the
biggest portion in Pennsylvania, according to estimates from
Kinetic Analysis Corp. and compiled by Bloomberg.  “Most of the affected areas are pretty population-dense,”
 Mark Dwelle , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a phone
interview today. “There aren’t a lot of safe landing spots.”  The  National Hurricane Center track  for the system has it
going ashore just south of the Delaware Bay on Oct. 30 and
moving northwest between Baltimore and Wilmington, Delaware. The
path may change before landfall, the center said. As much as 10
inches of rain may fall on parts of the Northeast, with the
heaviest rain to the north of the storm’s track.  Sandy is likely to cause damage similar to  Hurricane Irene ,
which lashed the East Coast last year, FBR Capital Markets’
 Randy Binner  wrote in a research note today. The losses are
unlikely to reach reinsurance limits, so firms including
Allstate,  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Travelers
will bear the costs, he said.  Capital Capacity  “This level of event is notable for earnings impacts to
exposed insurers, but it is not a large event in terms of
industry capital capacity,” Binner wrote.  Irene cost insurers $4.3 billion, according to data
compiled by the  Insurance Information Institute . Standard
homeowners’ policies protect against wind damage, while losses
from flooding aren’t covered, the trade group said.  Mark Schussel, a spokesman for Warren, New Jersey-based
Chubb, Travelers’ Jennifer Wislocki and Hartford’s Thomas Hambrick declined to comment on storm losses. April Eaton, a
spokeswoman for Allstate, said it’s too early to estimate claims
costs.  As of 2 p.m. New York time, Sandy’s top winds fell to 75
miles (121 kilometers) per hour, down from 100 mph earlier,
according to the hurricane center in Miami. It was 30 miles
north-northeast of Great Abaco Island in the Bahamas and 430
miles south-southeast of Charleston,  South Carolina , moving
northwest at 7 mph.  State Farm  Policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co., the largest U.S. auto and home insurer, sold the most
coverage exposed to storm damage in the states that may be
affected by the weather system, according to a report today from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate was the
second-largest, followed by Travelers. Chubb was ninth,
according to the report.  Property-casualty companies have record levels of capital
and will probably be able to continue to generate more “even if
the industry experiences substantial catastrophic losses” in
the fourth quarter, JPMorgan said in the report.  “It’s not a crippling storm,” Ed Noonan, chief executive
officer of Bermuda-based reinsurer  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) , said
in an interview today. “It’s just it’s unusual to have a storm
of this size this late in the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  