-- Ally May Divest Mortgage Servicing, Business Lending Units
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-26T16:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ally-may-divest-mortgage-servicing-business-lending-units-1-.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
that’s selling assets to repay a U.S. bailout, said its bank
subsidiary may divest its portfolio of agency mortgage servicing
rights and business-lending operations.  The firm wants to focus on customer deposits and supporting
auto finance, the Detroit-based company said today in a
statement. Ally said it will “explore strategic alternatives”
for the two assets, language that typically means the units are
for sale.  “They are no longer strategic activities for the bank,”
Barbara Yastine, chief executive officer of Ally Bank, said in
the statement.  Ally received more than $17 billion in U.S. aid after the
2008 financial crisis to save the lender and the auto industry
from collapse. Plans to repay the government through an initial
public offering were put on hold while the company determined
the fate of its Residential Capital unit, whose  subprime  home
mortgages led to billions of dollars in losses and ResCap’s
bankruptcy in May.  The portfolio includes servicing for about $122 billion in
outstanding loan balances, and the business-lending unit buys
loans from smaller originators or wholesale brokers, the company
said. The loans are owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie
Mac,  Gina Proia , a company spokeswoman said in an e-mail.
Mortgage servicing involves billing, collections and overseeing
foreclosures when borrowers fail to pay.  Jumbo Loans  Ally will continue to originate a “modest” amount of
jumbo mortgages, or those that are too large to qualify for
government-supported programs, to keep on its balance sheet,
according to the statement.  A plan announced in July to exit warehouse lending will be
completed by year-end, according to the statement.  Earlier this week, billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  won an auction for a portfolio of ResCap loans
with a $1.5 billion bid. Also this week,  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) 
made a $3 billion winning bid for ResCap’s loan-servicing unit,
beating  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  Ally said Oct. 18 it
agreed to sell its Mexican insurance business to  Ace Ltd. (ACE)  for
$865 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  