-- Americans Misdirect Their Blame for Decline of Industry
-- B y   H a r d y   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-26T16:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/americans-misdirect-their-blame-for-decline-of-industry.html
Coal miners lining up behind the
Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney ; auto workers
praising President Barack Obama for saving the U.S. car
industry. You don’t have to look far to see signs of Americans’
deep anxiety over deindustrialization, and of a profound
nostalgia for a more toilsome past.  Yet a closer look at bygone days shows that the decline of
U.S. industry isn’t only the result of unfair Chinese trade
practices or the low wages of Asian workers.  Consider the case of a classic U.S. manufacturer, the
washing-machine maker Maytag Co., and the current condition of
its former company town: Newton,  Iowa .  Mostly a memory today, Maytag evolved from small-town
origins to become a major international corporation.  Frederick
L. Maytag , a farm boy born near Elgin,  Illinois , moved with his
parents in the late 1800s to Newton, a village of 2,500 people,
35 miles east of  Des Moines . In 1892, Frederick joined with the
inventor and entrepreneur George Parsons to market a “band
cutter and self-feeder,” a threshing-machine accessory. This
proved only a modest success, and by 1907, the duo turned to
another field: the manufacture of washing machines.  The Pastime  Newton was already home to several makers of similar
devices, including the One Minute Washer and the Automatic
Electric Washer. Maytag and Parsons dubbed their machine --
essentially a wooden tub with a crank mechanism that dragged
clothes against a corrugated surface -- the Pastime. Within a
few years, the company, now known as Maytag Corp. after F.L.
Maytag bought out Parsons, was producing a model that ran on a
gasoline engine and another that was electric-powered. State
fairs across the Midwest were a prime venue for exhibiting and
market-testing the machines.  By the mid-1910s, Maytag had abandoned the field of farm
implements. Its  Maytag Multi-Motor , a washer that ran on
gasoline, became a hot seller, and the company’s production more
than doubled. The Multi-Motor’s popularity was partly due to the
capacity of the engine -- while in operation -- to also serve as
a  power source  for other appliances, such as butter churns and
ice-cream freezers. Ads in the Saturday Evening Post showed a
housewife reading a book while the Multi-Motor labored away, its
flywheel propelling three household appliances simultaneously.  Although about 120 manufacturers were making washing
machines at this time, four companies in Newton made more than
one-third of them. By 1920, Maytag had the largest factory in
Iowa, thousands of dealers and a backlog of orders. Early in
that decade, it introduced an innovation that would become
standard in modern machines: a bottom-of-the-tank agitator that
used water alone, rather than any sort of corrugation, to do the
cleaning.  Maytag’s workforce in  Newton  rose to more than 2,000, and
it erected a new 600,000-square-foot factory. Newton was well on
the way to becoming a one-company community. Chief Executive
Officer Elmer Maytag joined with a Newton contractor to build
hundreds of homes that they sold to employees. Mortgages, paid
via payroll deduction, were offered by a savings bank where
Elmer was an officer. A company gasoline station accepted scrip-
like coupons that were also charged against workers’ pay. The
Maytags funded a local YMCA and company workers were required to
join and pay dues.  With several path-breaking machines to its credit,
innovation had become a Maytag hallmark. Its growing reputation
for quality would be even more significant to the company’s
success.  War Effort  During World War II, Maytag shifted all production away
from washers, instead making parts for aircraft and armored
vehicles. It returned to washer making after the conflict, and
it faced a raft of new competitors, including  General Electric
Co. (GE) , Westinghouse, General Motors Co.’s Frigidaire, and -- soon
to emerge as Maytag’s primary competitor --  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)   Another challenge was the growing market power of big
chains such as Sears, Roebuck & Co. and Montgomery Ward & Co. in
a marketplace once dominated by small appliance stores. But
Maytag held its own, opening a new plant in 1949. And in 1967,
it began a series of popular television ads featuring the lonely
Maytag repairman -- underemployed because of the company’s
supposedly unbreakable products.  By the 1980s, Maytag had become No. 3 among U.S. appliance
makers, behind Whirlpool and GE. But accomplishment goeth before
a fall: A much heralded, mid-1990s innovation -- the pricey,
energy- and water-saving Neptune washer -- developed a seemingly
endless number of defects, from faulty seals and latches to
failing circuit boards. A class action featuring more than
120,000 claims forced the company to pay out millions in claims
and attorney fees. Moreover, competition from makers that
employed foreign labor prompted Maytag to outsource production
abroad, skimp on materials, trim new-product investment, and
introduce a low-cost line of products that tended to degrade the
brand.  The abandonment of quality echoed developments in auto
making, where U.S. consumers turned to  Japan  and other countries
to find more durable, superior products. “If you can find a
better car, buy it,” said Lee Iacocca, the chief of Chrysler
Corp. in the 1980s and previously the primary advocate of the
unsafe-at-any-speed Ford Pinto. Millions of consumers took his
advice -- and bought Toyotas.  By 2005, Maytag’s share price and market share had
collapsed, and customer surveys put the company’s products in
the appliance-field cellar. After a takeover battle, Whirlpool
acquired Maytag in 2006. The new owner quickly announced it
would be closing Maytag’s headquarters and two large factories
in Newton, along with plants in Arkansas and Illinois.  The purchase left almost a fifth of Newton’s 16,000
residents without jobs. In 2009 and again this  May , President
 Barack Obama  visited the town, promoting two local wind-turbine
manufacturers as the kind of outfits that can help spear an
industrial comeback.  But a specter will continue to haunt Newton: that of the
onetime quality leader whose name is emblazoned on such local
landmarks as Maytag Park, the Fred Maytag Bowl band shell, and
Hotel Maytag.  (Hardy Green is the author of “The Company Town: The
Industrial Edens and Satanic Mills That Shaped the American
Economy.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this blog post:
Hardy Green at  hardygreen1@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  