-- Ancestry.com Deal Marred by Conflicts, Investors Claim
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-13T20:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ancestry-com-sued-over-1-6-billion-permira-buyout-deal.html
(Corrects that company was aware of filing in sixth
paragraph of story published Dec. 12.)  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  executives backed
a $1.6 billion buyout by Permira Advisers LLP and dismissed
higher bids for the world’s largest family-history website to
protect their jobs and get shares in the deal, Ancestry
investors said in a court filing.  Timothy Sullivan, Ancestry’s chief executive officer, and
another executive supported Permira’s bid after receiving
promises they could keep their posts and roll $67 million in
Ancestry shares into the newly private company, the Ancestry
shareholders said in a sealed Delaware Chancery Court filing
reviewed by  Bloomberg News .  Sullivan and  Howard Hockhauser , Ancestry’s chief financial
officer, served as the lead negotiators with bidders seeking to
acquire the genealogical research firm, according to the Dec. 7
filing. Sullivan also sits on Ancestry’s board.  Because of their financial stake in Permira’s bid, the
executives’ focus was on “obtaining the greatest return on
their equity rollover, putting their interests at odds with
public shareholders,” the investors said in the filing.  Permira, a London-based private-equity firm, agreed to pay
$32 a share for Ancestry, the companies said Oct. 22. That was
41 percent higher than Provo, Utah-based Ancestry’s closing
price on June 5, the last day of trading before the company
hired a financial adviser for a possible sale.  Recommended Vote  Permira beat out  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG Capital and
Rhode Island-based Providence Equity Partners Inc. for Ancestry,
according to the filing. Ancestry said yesterday that
Institutional Shareholder Services, a U.S. proxy advisory firm,
recommended that shareholders vote for the acquisition by
Permira.  Heather Erickson, an Ancestry spokeswoman, said company
officials were aware of the investors’ filing alleging Permira’s
buyout was tainted by conflicts of interest.  Company officials “do not believe the allegations have any
merit,” Erickson said in an e-mailed statement. Noemie de Andia, a spokeswoman for Permira, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the filing.  Pension funds and individual investors who own Ancestry
shares are asking Chancery Judge Leo Strine to bar shareholders
from voting on Permira’s offer and to invalidate some of the
deal’s terms in hopes of generating a higher offer, according to
the Dec. 7 filing. A hearing on the case is set for Dec. 17 in
Wilmington.  Some Ancestry shareholders said today they were watching to
see if another bidder moved to top Premira’s offer of $32-a-
share.  Disappointing Price  “We’re supporting the deal, but we were disappointed with
the purchase price,” Patrick Goff, an analyst at First Capital
Alliance LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. Goff
said the firm holds more than 100,000 Ancestry shares. “Lots of
analysts thought the shares were worth $35.”  Ancestry has more than 2 million subscribers, with 39
million family trees and about 4 billion profiles of individuals
to help people to track family histories, according to court
filings. It has posted a  profit  every year since at least 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It began seeking a buyer in 2011 and attracted private
equity bids from firms such as New York-based  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG,
Providence Equity and Permira. Ancestry officials hired  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners LLC as its financial adviser,
according to the filing.  Cash Offers  The initial bidding drew cash offers from KKR of $31 a
share and as much as $35 from Permira, according to the filing.
TPG’s bid came in at as much as $37 while Providence Equity
topped all bids with its offer of as much as $38 a share,
according to the filing.  When it became clear Permira wouldn’t make the final round
of bidding, officials at Qatalyst Partners privately tipped off
executives at the buyout firm that they needed to boost their
bid, the investors said in the filing. Permira officials raised
the offer to as much as $37.50, according to the court papers.  Sally Palmer, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Qatalyst, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
claims that the firm’s officials tipped off Permira executives
about other bids.  Largest Shareholders  Sullivan’s backing for Permira’s bid was mirrored by
Spectrum Equity Investors, one of Ancestry’s largest
shareholders, according to the filing. Spectrum, which has
offices in  Boston  and  Menlo Park ,  California , manages $4.7
billion in private-equity funds and seeks acquisitions in Web-
based businesses, according to its website.  Spectrum holds stakes in sites such as Seamless Web, a
food-ordering service, and  WeddingWire.com , a wedding-planning
site. Spectrum, which has ties to five members of Ancestry’s
nine-member board, came to favor Permira as the bidding
progressed, according to the filing.  The offer allowed Spectrum to close out the fund it used to
invest in Ancestry while rolling over part of its stake into the
resulting private company, the investors said in the filing.  When Permira had difficulty coming up with funding to cover
the high end of its bid range, Ancestry officials allowed them
to team with colleagues at TPG to make a final offer of $32 a
share, according to the filing. None of the other bidders were
allowed to band together, the investors said.  Bond Sale  Permira executives lined up financing commitments from five
banks, including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , for their bid, Ancestry officials said in October.  Ancestry officials are planning to issue $300 million of
bonds this week to help fund the buyout, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified
because the terms aren’t yet set, Bloomberg News reported Dec.
10. Ancestry hasn’t previously issued bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sullivan supported Permira’s and TPG’s joint bid because
both firms “offered the option to roll over his equity and keep
his job,” the investors said in the filing.  The CEO also didn’t inform his fellow directors that he had
a financial interest in Permia’s offer until the final bids were
presented to Ancestry’s board in October, according to the
filing.  When Qatalyst Partners officials balked at finding
Permira’s $32-a-share offer for Ancestry fair, Sullivan and
other company executives revised revenue projections for the
genealogical research firm to enable the financial adviser to
issue a so-called fairness opinion on the bid, the shareholders
said in the filing.  ‘Conflicted Management’  “When the favored bidder offered an amount below a
supportable fairness range, conflicted management manipulated
financial projections to justify the deal,” according to the
filing.  Along with blocking a shareholder vote on the deal, pension
funds in  Florida  and  Michigan , along with individual Ancestry
investors, asked Strine to order the company to drop non-
disclosure provisions that prevent earlier bidders, such as
Providence Equity, from attempting to top Permira’s offer.  Until such provisions are enjoined, “no one can truly know
whether the Permira deal is the only one available to
shareholders,” the investors said in the filing.  The case is In re Ancestry.com Shareholder Litigation, CA
7988-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  