-- AngloGold Tanzania Unit May Pay $200 Million in Taxes This Year
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-10-26T08:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/anglogold-tanzania-unit-may-pay-200-million-in-taxes-this-year.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.’s (ANG)  Tanzanian
unit expects payments to the government to double to about $200
million this year, after it pays its first full-year corporate
tax and a royalty increase that it’s negotiating to decrease.  Geita Gold Mine Ltd. paid about $100 million to Tanzania
last year, “slightly less” than $45 million of which was
royalties, Geita Managing Director Gary Davies said. The royalty
component will grow because the government raised the rate and
gold’s price increased, he said.  “We are paying the 4 percent royalty rate but in protest,
because we are still discussing it, and have not yet reached an
agreement,” he said yesterday in an interview in the northern
town of Arusha at a mining conference. “The latest round of
discussion was fairly positive. I can’t give details of it.”  The Tanzanian government increased royalties for mining
companies by 1 percentage point to 4 percent when it enacted
legislation in 2010.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) , the biggest
producer of the metal in the East African country, is the only
miner that has agreed to pay the higher royalty so far.  Tanzania, which vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s biggest
producer of gold after  South Africa  and  Ghana , is seeking to
gain more from the resource. Energy and Minerals Minister
Sospeter Muhongo has urged companies to aim at breaking even in
at most five years, so that they start paying corporate tax.  “Tanzania’s mining industry is currently based on six
major mines, and we think government should aim at gaining more
from the sector by expanding it, awarding more licenses,”
Davies said. “Trying to gain more from the existing operations
may instead shrink the sector.”  Extending Geita  Geita is producing about 500,000 ounces a year and has a
mine-life of about seven years, he said.  “We are doing exploration to try and extend it, probably
for another seven, eight years,” Davies said.  The company has started studies for underground mining at
Nyakanga, which is part of the Geita license, that may be
completed by 2015, he said.  AngloGold is also exploring alternative sources of energy
to decrease dependence on expensive fuel-generated power
currently, accounting for 15 percent of the plant’s costs,
according to Davies. The Tanzania Electric Supply Co. may
connect the mine to the national grid by 2015.  “Electricity from the national grid will have an impact on
cost,” Davies said. “We will maintain it as one of the
alternatives among other sources, while we see if that supply is
reliable and sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  