-- South African Miners Return to AngloGold as Strikes Fade
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-10-26T14:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/anglogold-south-african-strike-ends-dismissal-process-reversed.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  South
Africa ’s biggest gold producer, said workers returned to its
operations as wildcat strikes at the country’s gold mines fade
in the face of threats of mass dismissals.  “There is a full and normal turnout at all operations,”
 Alan Fine , a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based company, said
by phone. It hadn’t yet distributed dismissal notices to
workers.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  will next week notify 7,300 employees
who appealed their firings on Oct. 23 whether they have jobs,
said Sven Lunsche, a spokesman.  Strikes that began at platinum mines and spread to gold,
chrome, coal and  iron ore  have hurt operators already grappling
with rising costs. The walkouts have cut South Africa’s mining
production by 10.1 billion rand ($1.16 billion) this year,
curbing  tax revenue , exports and jobs, the National Treasury
said in its mid-term budget released in  Cape Town  yesterday  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer
of the metal, yesterday lowered its full-year output forecast,
citing the impact of the stoppages. South African mine output
fell 3.3 percent in the year through August, with production of
platinum group metals slumping 15 percent from a year earlier,
the treasury said.  Gold Fields on Oct. 19 issued an ultimatum for workers to
report for duty at its KDC East operations. AngloGold set a
deadline for 12,000 of its employees this week and  Harmony Gold
Mining Co. (HAR)  followed with its own threat to fire 5,400 employees
if they didn’t return. About 98 percent reported at the
Kusasalethu mine and avoided dismissal, Harmony said yesterday.  Beatrix Mine  AngloGold faced a possible cut in its debt ratings to junk
by  Standard & Poor’s  after most of its South African output was
halted by strikes for more than a month.  “We’re very pleased,” Fine said about the end of the
strike. “We will start slowly and carefully examine rock
faces” before returning to full production, he said.  Gold Fields’ Beatrix mine is in full production and KDC
West is returning to normal after walkouts at the sites ended
last week, Lunsche said.  AngloGold dropped 1.3 percent to 280.49 rand at 4:02 p.m.
in Johannesburg. Gold Fields fell 1.8 percent to 103.21 rand and
Harmony was 1.1 percent lower at 70.93 rand.  “The strike has taken a toll economically and
emotionally,” Frans Baleni, secretary-general for the  National
Union of Mineworkers , or NUM, said by phone. “It’s pleasing to
see the workers back.”  Restructuring Concerns  Not all points of difference between workers and gold
producers have been resolved, Baleni said. “There have been
innuendos on restructuring and we need to find answers to
that.” The NUM is also meeting with coal producers on Oct. 31,
he said.  Gold producers represented by the Chamber of Mines signed
an agreement with labor unions over changes to pay and job
categories yesterday. The companies agreed last year to raise
salaries by 7.5 percent to 10 percent for 2012. South Africa’s
annual  inflation  rate was 5.5 percent in September.  The chamber agreement will see workers getting increases of
3 percent to 11 percent on top of those contained in an existing
two-year wage accord, according to the NUM. The deal also moves
entry-level workers to a higher pay category and includes
allowances for rock drillers and other underground operators.  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO)  has given employees who were dismissed
until the end of the month to appeal, Gert Schoeman, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail response to questions. Fewer than
200 workers took part in an unauthorized strike, refusing to
leave the Sishen operation and seizing 3.3 billion rand ($376
million) of mining equipment. This forced the company to shut
production that’s since been restarted, Schoeman said.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions said General
Secretary  Zwelinzima Vavi  will address a rally in Rustenburg in
north western South Africa tomorrow seeking the reinstatement of
dismissed workers at all mining companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  