-- Marchionne Bond Gains Show Chrysler Plan Converts Critics
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-26T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/marchionne-bond-gains-show-chrysler-plan-converts-critics.html
Less than three and a half years
after Chrysler Group LLC’s bankrupt predecessor paid out 29
cents on the dollar to creditors, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  can point to the  bond market  for an endorsement.  Chrysler on Oct. 30 will update its 2014 business plan, a
road map that elicited  “patronizing looks”  when its executive
team presented it in November 2009, Marchionne said this month.
As the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker meets or exceeds
its targets on measures including U.S. market share, revenue and
profit, the bonds that it issued when it repaid government loans
early in May 2011 have climbed.  “It tells you something about what happens when the
 capital markets  start believing in what you do,” Marchionne,
60, said last month in an interview at the Paris Motor Show.
Chrysler is earning credibility that is “visible in the way in
which our bonds are trading in the market,” he said.  While many companies have long-range plans, Marchionne’s
have been unusual in their detail and in his choice to make them
public. Chrysler’s five-year plan built confidence among the
company’s 64,200 employees because it reflected that Marchionne,
who also manages Italian automaker  Fiat SpA (F) , saw what was
possible at Chrysler, according to interviews with six of the
CEO’s direct reports. The plan also has been a focusing
mechanism: Employees still bring along their copy of the plan to
meetings, executives said.  Great ‘Focuser’  “Generally, the more specific the goal, the more likely
somebody is to go out and achieve it,”  Reid Bigland , Chrysler’s
U.S. sales chief, said last month in a telephone interview.
“It’s a hell of a focuser. Everybody pulling in the same
direction is critical in a big organization like Chrysler.”  The other side to the good-news story, however, is Fiat.
The Italian company, which rescued Chrysler through a
government-brokered alliance in June 2009, now relies on its
U.S. partner as  Europe ’s debt crisis derails its own business
plan. Fiat has suspended investments in  Italy  and delayed new
models as the carmaker heads toward a 700 million-euro ($905
million) loss in the region this year.  On the same day Marchionne releases Chrysler’s updated
plan, he has said he will revise a target he set two years ago
for the combined company to sell 6 million cars annually by
2014. Researcher IHS Automotive is predicting sales of 4.4
million in 2014 for the group.  Even so, investors and analysts should be loath to doubt
Marchionne’s latest turnaround strategy for Turin, Italy-based
Fiat, said Steve Rattner, who headed the Obama administration’s
automotive task force in 2009.  ‘Enormous Credibility’  “Sergio has enormous credibility now,” Rattner said in a
telephone interview. “A very significant part of why we felt
comfortable that Chrysler could be saved was because of Sergio
Marchionne’s involvement. He gave us enormous confidence.”  Chrysler has said it will raise its full-year profit
forecast of $1.5 billion after reporting  $909 million  net income
in 2012’s first half. Revenue in the first six months of the
year climbed 24 percent to $33.15 billion, positioning the
automaker to exceed the guidance for as much as $60 billion for
the full year it gave in the business plan.  Chrysler’s $1.68 billion of 8.25 percent notes maturing in
June 2021 have gained 11.4 cents to 107.625 cents on the dollar
to yield 7.1 percent since the end of January, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The notes have rebounded traded as high as
109 cents.  Led by demand for Jeep Grand Cherokee sport-utility
vehicles and Chrysler 200 and 300 sedans, Chrysler’s U.S. market
share increased to 11.5 percent this year through September,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. That puts Chrysler on
track for the 13 percent market share forecast for 2014, from
8.9 percent in 2009.  Ford Substitute  Marchionne has benefited from a strong high-yield market as
well as the broader U.S. auto market’s recovery, said  Eric Selle , a fixed-income analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who has
covered Chrysler debt since 2003. High-yield bond investors
replaced their  Ford Motor Co. (F)  holdings with Chrysler debt after
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings upgraded Ford to
investment-grade  credit ratings  this year, he said.  The automotive sector can “gin cash” at depressed U.S.
sales levels because of the restructuring the companies went
through in 2009, said Selle, who is based in  New York .  “Pristine balance sheets and a ton of liquidity can
withstand a recession very well,” he said in a telephone
interview. “You want exposure to that when Ford gets upgraded
to high grade. Chrysler is the next-best higher-yielding name.”  ‘Great CEO’  Chrysler forecast in its five-year plan that it would earn
at least $3 billion in operating profit for 2012. The company
reported $1.5 billion in the year’s first six months.  “The big part of being an effective CEO is to have a
vision, to lay the vision out and to get everybody who’s a part
of it focused on achieving the goals,” said Rattner, 60. “That
is a shared strength between  Alan Mulally  and Sergio Marchionne.
They both have that key aspect of being a great CEO.”  Mulally joined Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford in 2006 and
instituted a plan he called One Ford that aimed to take
advantage of global scale to build and sell the same cars all
around the world. He gave  executives  laminated wallet cards that
drove home his tenets of working together, accepting reality and
developing new models that buyers wanted.  Spiral-Bound Plans  In Auburn Hills, Chrysler employees are more partial to
their spiral-bound copies of the company’s business plan than
laminated cards.  “I was on the elevator this morning and one of the guys
turned up with it because he wanted to reference something,”
 Mike Manley , president of the Jeep Brand and Chrysler Group’s
head of international operations, said in an Oct. 16 interview.  The five-year plan included “stretches in a number of
areas” that required “very solid execution” by employees,
Manley said.  Marchionne’s approach to managing Chrysler differs from how
CEO Dan Akerson has led  General Motors Co. (GM)  following a
government bailout of its own in mid-2009. Akerson, 64, has
issued fewer targets and GM doesn’t provide forecasts for its
earnings or sales.  Of the few goals for GM that Akerson has made public, he
targeted 60,000 global sales of the Chevrolet Volt plug-in
hybrid this year. In June, he said that 2012 Volt sales probably
would finish as many as 25,000 deliveries short of that goal. He
hasn’t publicly set a timetable for his plan to improve GM’s
operating margins to match those of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Hitting Targets  In executing the turnaround plan that he laid out shortly
after taking over Chrysler, Marchionne is repeating a tactic he
used after becoming Fiat’s CEO in 2004. Fiat  made good  on many
of the targets in the five-year plan that the Italian automaker
announced that year until a global credit crunch derailed the
company’s performance in 2008.  Marchionne in some respect “had the wind at his back” in
both of those comebacks, said  Maryann Keller , the principal a
self-named consulting firm in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The
European auto market was “quite strong” in Marchionne’s first
few years running Fiat, and he was able to use a $2 billion
payment from General Motors Corp. that resolved a failed venture
in 2005 to plug into the freshening of Fiat’s product line.  With Chrysler, Marchionne inherited a company that shed
capacity, debt and an uncompetitive cost structure through the
government-backed bankruptcy in 2009, when the U.S.  auto market 
was bottoming, Keller said in a telephone interview.  “When you look at how any executive performs, you have to
put it in the context of the environment in which they find
themselves,” Keller said. Now, with Fiat, Marchionne “faces a
challenge unlike any other.”  New Models  The glaring issue that Marchionne faced when Fiat took
control of Chrysler was its lackluster product, Keller said. The
automaker introduced 16 new or refreshed models in the 19 months
after emerging from its U.S.-backed bankruptcy. Models that have
undergone the most significant redesigns, such as the 300 and
Grand Cherokee, have won praise by critics.  “I give him an A+ for what he’s been able to do,” Keller
said. “Nobody thought -- I certainly didn’t -- that he could
have so quickly redesigned so much of the old Chrysler product
that was frankly pretty awful. He managed to turn it around.”  Chrysler’s daylong presentation of its business plan in
November 2009 included  27 slides  devoted to quality.  Building Credibility  “In the past, we were reluctant to even understand that we
weren’t very good, and certainly even beyond that, reluctant to
state it to the public that we’re really lousy and we’re going
to get this much better,” Doug Betts, global quality chief for
Chrysler and Fiat, said in an interview. “I don’t know how you
can have any credibility to say you’re going to improve if you
don’t own up to the fact that you’re lousy.”  Betts said models that Chrysler has redone “from scratch”
have made “huge” improvements in testing by  Consumer Reports ,
whose reviews are considered objective because it doesn’t accept
advertising and buys every vehicle it tests.  The vehicles that Chrysler has “intervened” with, while
not completely making over, still aren’t “completely
competitive” in Consumer Reports testing, Betts said.  “That’s fair,” he said. “It gives me heart because I
know we’re going to redo all of them eventually. It’s just going
to take more time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  