-- Argentine Bonds Sinking as Country Loses Court Appeal
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-10-26T21:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/argentine-bonds-sinking-as-country-loses-court-appeal.html
Argentine bonds sank the most in
four months after the country lost a bid to reverse U.S. court
rulings that may help creditors including hedge fund Elliott
Management Corp. collect $1.4 billion on defaulted debt.  The government’s dollar-denominated notes due 2015 dropped
4.99 cents, the biggest slide since June 11, to 84.55 cents on
the dollar, at 5 p.m.  New York  time. Yields jumped 2.29
percentage points to 13.82 percent, the highest level since July
27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Appeals Court in New York ruled today that
 Argentina  can’t discriminate against holders of the defaulted
bonds in favor of holders of the securities it restructured
following a record sovereign default in 2001.  “It’s huge,” Diego Ferro, who helps oversee more than
$500 million at Greylock Capital Management LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “Argentina’s getting less and
less room to maneuver. Finally the U.S. courts are saying, ‘stop
and just pay.’”  Argentina will appeal the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court,
state news agency Telam reported, citing Finance Secretary
Adrian Cosentino. A press official at the  Economy Ministry 
didn’t return telephone calls made by  Bloomberg News  seeking
comment.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps soared 3.30 percentage
points to 12.89 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
increase was the biggest among all government debt credit-
default swap contracts tracked by Bloomberg.  Payment Formula   Warrants tied to gross domestic product sank 1.2 cents, the
biggest loss since Dec. 13, to 11.23 cents on the dollar.  “It’s not good news for performing debt,” said Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital
Markets in Miami. “If the holdouts get their case, the capacity
to pay that debt could be reduced since Argentina would need to
pay holdouts some of what the country owes them.”  A three-judge panel upheld orders issued by U.S. District
Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan . The appeals court sent the
case back to Griesa’s court to clarify how a payment formula set
by the judge is intended to work and to determine how the orders
apply to intermediary banks and other third parties.  `Failing Miserably'  Argentina, which is rated B by  Standard & Poor’s , or five
levels below investment grade, claims that upholding Griesa’s
rulings would undermine the debt agreements, spark a financial
crisis in the country and make it impossible for other nations
to restructure their debt.  “The government is failing miserably in this process,”
Ferro said. Argentina is “running out of alternatives to push
it forward.”  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management, declined
to comment.  The government hasn’t sold bonds oversees since the 2001
default as it fights the lawsuits from the holdout creditors,
who rejected restructuring offers in 2005 and 2010 that paid
about 30 cents on the dollar. The restructurings were accepted
by holders of about 92 percent of all defaulted debt.  Seized Ship  The ruling comes three weeks after Elliott Management’s NML
Capital Fund won a court order to detain an Argentine navy
vessel in  Ghana  as part of its effort to gain repayment on the
defaulted securities. Lawyers for NML wrote in an Oct. 5 letter
that the fund would authorize the navy ship to leave the port of
Tema if the country posted a $20 million bond, according to
legal correspondence obtained by Bloomberg.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, whose predecessor
and late husband  Nestor Kirchner  oversaw the 2005 restructuring,
ordered on Oct. 20 the evacuation of sailors on board the three-
mast frigate.  “As long as I’m president, you can take our frigate, but
nobody is going to take the liberty, the sovereignty and dignity
of this nation,” Fernandez said in an Oct. 22 speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  