-- Army Corps Can’t Show Delivery of $1 Billion in Iraq Fuel
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-27T02:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/army-corps-can-t-show-1-billion-in-iraq-fuel-delivered.html
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
didn’t properly document more than $1 billion in Iraqi money
used to buy fuel and other supplies for  Iraq  reconstruction,
according to an  audit .  In a review of 12 major payments through the Development
Fund for Iraq, one of three documents needed to properly verify
delivery -- a “receiving report” -- was missing from more than
95 percent of the files, according to the audit issued yesterday
by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction.  The development fund was Iraqi money managed by the U.S. as
part of reconstruction after the war that ousted Saddam Hussein.
It consisted of revenue from Iraqi oil and gas sales and
leftover revenue from the United Nations oil-for-food program,
which allowed Iraq to sell a certain amount of crude and spend
the proceeds on humanitarian goods.  Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction Stuart Bowen said in the audit that his office “has not concluded that
fraud or theft occurred, but the absence of receiving reports
raises questions.”  The missing receiving reports would have documented “the
government’s inspection and acceptance of products delivered or
services performed,” Bowen wrote. “Missing receiving reports
involved commodities vulnerable to fraud and theft.”  The Army Corps said the likelihood that fuel was stolen was
limited because it “was delivered by military-escorted
convoys,” according to the audit. The audit covered payment
records from July 2003 through November 2006, according to the
inspector general.  Conducting a final accounting -- including whether the U.S.
must reimburse some money to Iraq’s government -- “has been
delayed pending completion of financial audits and contract
closeouts,” according to the audit.  “Such uncertainty puts the U.S. in a politically sensitive
position and calls for the concerted efforts of all involved to
resolve,” Bowen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  