-- Harvest Technologies, Volcano: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-26T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/harvest-technologies-volcano-intellectual-property.html
Harvest Technologies Corp., a maker
of  laboratory equipment  used in cell therapy, sued ThermoGenesis
Corp., claiming its competitor violated patents for separating
blood into its components.  ThermoGenesis used technology protected by two patents,
titled Blood Components Separator Disk, Harvest claimed in court
papers filed Oct. 24 in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  “ThermoGenesis’s actions have, at a minimum, shown willful
blindness or indifference” to the patents, Harvest said in its
complaint.  Both companies provide technologies used to help separate
blood and bone marrow into components, a key part of the process
for therapies related to stem cells.  Harvest, based in Plymouth,  Massachusetts , is a unit of
Tokyo-based  Terumo Corp. (4543) , a medical-device maker.  In October 2008 a distributor, who was not sued as part of
the patent case, gave ThermoGenesis confidential information
about Harvest’s technology, Harvest claimed in the complaint.  Officials at ThermoGenesis didn’t immediately return a call
left at the company’s headquarters in Rancho Cordova,
 California .  The case is Harvest Technologies Corp. v.  ThermoGenesis
Corp. (KOOL) , 12-cv-01354, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Volcano Loses Patent Countersuit Against St. Jude Medical  Volcano Corp., a maker of cardiac catheter devices, lost a
patent case when a jury decided that  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) 
didn’t misappropriate its inventions.  The jury of five men and three women ruled today after a
four-day trial in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, that
the three Volcano patents in the case weren’t infringed by St.
Jude.  “We have always preferred to compete in the marketplace
with our innovative products, rather than in a courtroom,”
Scott Huennekens, Volcano’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “However, St. Jude Medical continues to take
aggressive legal action.”  Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
St. Jude, said the company isn’t commenting on the case.  St. Jude initially sued San Diego-based Volcano in July
2010, alleging violation of patents for wires threaded through
blood vessels for diagnosis of  heart disease . Volcano
countersued, pursuing claims over three patents against St.
Jude.  After a trial that began Oct. 15, another jury decided
Volcano didn’t infringe two St. Jude patents and that two others
were invalid, according to a Volcano filing. Trial on Volcano’s
claims began Oct. 22 with a new jury.  Volcano also said today that St. Jude agreed that previous
versions of a pressure-sensing guide wire infringed a Volcano
patent. A trial on damages hasn’t been scheduled.  The original case is St. Jude Medical v.  Volcano Corp. (VOLC) , 10-
cv-631, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Winchester Mystery House Trademarks Not Infringed by Film  The  Winchester Mystery House , a California State Historical
Landmark designed and built by Winchester rifle heiress Sarah
Winchester, lost a trademark case against a filmmaker.  Winchester built the house by holding a séance each night
and receiving guidance from spirits,  according to  the Winchester
House website. She believed her life was in danger from the
spirits of those killed with Winchester rifles, and that if she
built a house for them, as long as the construction was going
on, she would live.  The house was in a constant state of construction for 36
years, until she died in 1922.  According to court papers, she
is one of the characters in the film.  In its Oct. 24 ruling, a California appeals court said that
Los Angeles-based  Global Asylum Inc. , the makers of “ The
Haunting of Winchester House ,” didn’t infringe the trademarks
belonging to the San Jose, California, tourist attraction.  Affirming a lower court, the appeals court found that the
filmmakers were within their First Amendment rights to base
their film on a historical character. The operators of the house
had argued that the use of “Winchester House” in the film
title was an attempt to hitchhike on the fame of the tourist
attraction.  The case is Winchester Mystery House LLC v. Global Asylum
Inc., H036253, California Court of Appeal, 6th Appellate
District.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Delhi University Responds to Cambridge University Press Suit  In response to a copyright infringement suit by Cambridge
University Press and several other international textbook
publishers, Delhi University has said it will take action to
prevent future infringement, the Hindustan Times  reported .  The suit, filed in Delhi  High Court , accused the university
and an on-campus photocopy shop of reproducing their
publications without authorization, according to the newspaper.  The school told the court it would form a committee that
would consider ways to provide students with wider access to
educational materials while protecting the rights of the
publishers, Hindustan Times reported.  Students who are unhappy with the school’s response and the
high cost of textbooks plan a campus protest march on Nov. 7,
according to the newspaper.  Netherlands Court Finds Web Host Contributed to Infringement  A court in the Netherlands found a web host for a file-
sharing site contributed to copyright infringement by refusing
to shut down the site when it knew it was providing access to
illegal content, the  BBC   reported.   XS Networks had rented servers to SumoTorrent, a website
through which unauthorized content was shared, according to the
BBC.  SumoTorrent, which continues to operate, has since moved
its data to the Ukraine, the BBC reported.  XS Networks, which ceased operation in February and argued
it’s conduct was legitimate, is liable for damages, the BBC
reported.  Smiling Buddha Protected by Copyright, Chinese Court Rules  The image of a smiling Buddha designed by the sculptor
Huang Quanfu is entitled to copyright protection,  China ’s Haidan
District Court ruled and  China Daily   reported .  The owner of a Beijing shop where copies of Huang’s Buddha
were sold argued that the fat, smiling Buddha known as a
Maitreya is a “typical figure in Buddhist culture” and
therefore not entitled to copyright protection, according to
China Daily.  The court disagreed, saying the shop’s Maitreya figures
were too close copies of Huang’s work, and that the shop had
even used the artist’s name in promotional material and
packaging, China Daily reported.  Hudge Geo Zhenhua said Huang’s imagines were entitled to
copyright protection because the artist “integrated his own
ideas” into the representation of the Buddha, according to the
newspaper.  Odnoklassniki Pays 1 Million Rubles to Settle Infringement Suit  Odnoklassniki, a Russian social network company with more
than 30 million users, settled a copyright infringement suit
brought by a record company, the Russian Legal Information
Agency  reported .  The suit alleged Odnoklaassniki had reproduced songs of
Russian singer  MakSim  without authorization, according to the
 news agency .  Gala Records, Russia’s first private recording company,
brought the suit, the news agency reported.  Odnoklassniki agreed to pay 1 million rubles ($32,000) to
settle the dispute, and the case was dismissed, according to the
news agency.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Vacuum-Maker Dyson Accuses Bosch of Paying Mole to Steal Designs  Dyson Ltd., the bagless vacuum-cleaner maker, accused
 Robert Bosch GmbH  of paying one of its engineers to steal motor
designs in a U.K. lawsuit.  Bosch paid the “mole” to pass on technology, which was
also given to Bosch’s Chinese motor manufacturer, Malmesbury,
England-based Dyson said in a statement Oct 24.  “Bosch’s vice president for engineering employed a Dyson
engineer and benefited from our confidential know-how and
expertise,”  Mark Taylor , Dyson’s research director, said in the
statement. “We are demanding the immediate return of our
 intellectual property .”  Dyson has previously accused French and Chinese companies
of copying its products. Intellectual property rights for its
air multiplier fan have been infringed about 500 times in 30
countries during the past two years, Dyson said in its
statement.  Bosch had a consulting arrangement with the engineer, who
worked on garden products, the Gerlingen, Germany-based company
said in a statement. Bosch is looking into Dyson’s claim and
declined to comment further on the allegations.  The case is: Dyson Technology Limited v. Robert Bosch
Limited & Ors, High Court of Justice,  Chancery Division ,
HC12E04131.
Motley Crue’s Drum Track a Stolen Trade Secret, Inventor Claims  Motley Crue , a Los Angeles-based heavy metal band, was sued
for trade secret misappropriation by the inventor of a device
that makes it possible for a drummer to perform while he’s up-
side down.  According to the complaint filed in California state court
in  Los Angeles , Howard Scott King accused the band and its
drummer -- Tommy Lee -- of misappropriating the idea of the
“Tommy Lee Loop Coaster,” an elliptical track on which the
drummer rides on a wheeled platform.  King claimed his discussions about his invention were
covered by a confidentiality agreement. He said the agreement,
which dates back to 1991, has been “misplaced or lost.”  He claims he never heard any response and hasn’t received
any compensation from the band for a technology it began using
in June 2011. The invention is also used in the band’s
 commercials  for Kia Motors Corp. and to promote the band and its
performances, according to court papers.  King asked the court for money damages, an order barring
further use of his invention and for an award of profit related
to the alleged misappropriation of his invention.  According to  the TMZ entertainment news website, counsel
for the band has responded, saying they never received the pitch
from Lee.  The case is Howard Scott King v. Tommy Lee, SC118527,
Superior Court of the State of California (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 