-- Asian Currencies Strengthen in Week on Signs of China Recovery
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-10-26T08:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/asian-currencies-strengthen-in-week-on-signs-of-china-recovery.html
South Korea’s won led gains in Asian
currencies this week as data signaled  China’s economy  is
improving, brightening the outlook for the region’s exports.  A manufacturing slump is easing in the world’s second-
largest economy, a private survey indicated on Oct. 24, and
reports earlier in the month showed growth in  exports  and
investment gathered pace in September. The  Federal Reserve  said
this week it will maintain its bond-purchase program, a policy
that boosts the supply of dollars that can be invested in
emerging-market assets. All but one of 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News expect the  Bank of Japan  to add to stimulus for
the second time in two months next week.  “We are seeing signs of recovery in China and that is
leading to optimism the global economy will also improve,” said
 Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist at Daiwa Securities Co.
in  Tokyo . “Easy monetary stances by central banks will continue
for a while and more funds may flow into Asia.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most active currencies excluding the yen, climbed
0.2 percent this week, the most since the five-day period ended
Oct. 12, to 117.75 as of 4:08 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The won rose
0.6 percent to 1,097.03 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. China’s  yuan  gained 0.08 percent to 6.2489 and
touched a 19-year high of 6.2380 today. Taiwan’s dollar traded
at NT$29.30 versus NT$29.286 a week ago.  Financial markets in  Singapore , Malaysia, the Philippines
and Indonesia are closed for a holiday today. In India, bond and
currency markets are shut while equities were traded.  ‘Cross Trades’  The won advanced to a 13-month high as speculation Japan’s
central bank will loosen monetary policy spurred demand for
riskier assets. At the BOJ’s last meeting on Oct. 5, the bank
refrained from more easing after expanding its asset-purchase
program by 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) in September. The yen
declined 0.8 percent this week versus the dollar.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  expanded 1.6 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
2009, central bank data showed today. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in a  Bloomberg News  interview on Oct. 9 that economic
growth reached a “bottom” in the third quarter.  “With the dollar-yen  exchange rate  rising, some investors
are entering cross trades of selling the yen and buying the
won,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst at
Woori Futures Inc. “With European issues relatively calm,
investors are focusing on Korea’s economic fundamentals, which
look relatively good although growth is still slow.”  Yuan Rally  The yuan reached the upper limit of the central’s bank
trading range for a second day on speculation policy makers will
allow more appreciation as China’s exports recover.  The currency’s advance exceeded the People’s Bank of
China’s reference rate by the maximum allowed 1 percent. The
daily fixing was raised 0.06 percent today to 6.3010. Overseas
sales climbed 9.9 percent in September, the fastest pace in
three months, the customs bureau said on Oct. 13.  “China’s exports have been stabilizing and rebounding,
which helps boost bets on yuan appreciation,” said  Liu
Dongliang , a senior analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
nation’s sixth biggest lender. “The pace of appreciation so far
this month is a bit surprising.”  Elsewhere, the  Thai baht  fell 0.1 percent to 30.75 per
dollar. The Philippine peso rose 0.4 percent this week to 41.208
through yesterday while India’s rupee advanced 0.5 percent to
53.575 and Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 9,605 in
the same period. Malaysia’s ringgit added 0.35 percent to 3.0430
in the first four days of the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  