-- Treasuries Halt Two-Day Drop; Stocks Decline, Yen Rises
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-10-26T20:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/asian-stocks-fall-after-apple-earnings-as-metals-yen-advance.html
Treasuries rose, halting a two-day
retreat, as record Spanish unemployment fueled concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will worsen. Most U.S. stocks fell amid better-than-
forecast economic growth and disappointing earnings.  Ten-year Treasury yields decreased eight basis points to
1.75 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. The yen strengthened against
15 of 16 major peers, while the euro trimmed earlier losses to
trade little changed at $1.2935. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 0.1 percent to 1,411.94 after earlier tumbling as much as
0.7 percent. About eight stocks declined for every five
advancing on U.S. exchanges.  Treasury 10-year yields retreated from near the  highest
level  in five weeks as Spain’s unemployment, the second-highest
in the European Union after  Greece , rose to 25.02 percent from
24.6 percent in the previous quarter, the National Statistics
Institute said. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annual
rate, Commerce Department data showed, topping the median
economist forecast for a 1.8 percent gain.  “You’re getting a mix of data that don’t have a clear
direction,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market
strategist for  North America  for Russell Investments, which
oversees $152 billion. “It’s important for investors’
psychology to see GDP data beating estimates.”  Two-year Treasury yields decreased one basis point to 0.30
percent, while 30-year rates lost seven basis points to 2.91
percent. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.77 billion of longer-
term securities as part of its Operation Twist program to boost
economic growth, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s
website.  Economic Data  Today’s Commerce Department report also showed slower  core
inflation , producing positive real 10- year note yields for the
first time since 2011. gains by 46 basis points. Inflation
measured by the personal consumption expenditures index, a gauge
preferred by Fed, rose 1.3 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, less than the central bank’s goal of 2 percent,
according to data from the Commerce Department today in
 Washington .  The  S&P 500  declined 1.5 percent for the week and trading
near its lowest level since early September as earnings and
economic reports fueled concern that global growth was slowing.
Per-share profits declined 0.4 percent and sales fell 1.9
percent for the 273 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
results so far as the index headed for the first simultaneous
decline in revenue and income since 2009.  Stocks  extended losses  earlier as German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  reportedly said there are doubts about
whether Greece will be able to meet requirements for its
European bailout.  “Doubts persist as to whether Greece has been able to meet
its obligations,” Schaeuble said in an e-mail release of an
interview be broadcast Oct. 30 on ZDF television. These doubts
have to be dispelled from now on.’’  ‘Frankenstorm’  The S&P 500 Property & Casualty Insurance Index slipped 0.7
percent. The eight-member gauge has declined for six straight
days, its longest losing streak since May. Travelers Cos., the
lone insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , lost 0.8
percent, and Allstate Corp. fell 0.9 percent.  Hurricane Sandy, nicknamed “Frankenstorm” by
meteorologists because it is forecast to reach the U.S. East
Coast near Halloween next week, will cause insured losses of as
much as $4.9 billion, Bloomberg Industries analyst Jonathan Adams estimated, citing Kenetic Analysis Corp.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company by market value,
fell 0.9 percent as its earnings report showed the company
traded industry-leading margins for a revamped product line in
time for the  holiday shopping season , a sign of the rising costs
of rivalry with Samsung Electronics Co., Microsoft Corp. and
Amazon.com Inc. The trade-off was outlined yesterday when Apple
said profit in the current quarter will be about $11.75 a share
on sales of $52 billion. That compares with $15.49 a share on
sales of $55.1 billion predicted by analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Earnings Season  Goodyear Tire slumped 10 percent, the most in more than a
year on a closing basis, as lower sales in Europe weighed on
earnings.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  climbed 15 percent after the second-biggest
online travel agency by market value reported third-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates. Amazon.com, the
biggest online retailer, increased 6.9 percent after posting a
smaller operating loss than analysts had predicted, suggesting
the company is doing a better job managing rising costs.  In Europe,  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  fell 3.9 percent after the world’s
largest maker of mobile-phone networks posted a 43 percent
decline in third-quarter profit. Belgacom SA jumped 7.8 percent,
the biggest gain since the company went public in 2004, as
Belgium’s largest phone company raised its forecasts. Anglo
American Plc rose 4.1 percent as Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia
Carroll  stepped down.  European Yields  Spain’s 10-year  bond yield  fell two basis points to 5.59
percent after increasing seven points earlier. The rate has
climbed 22 basis points this week, the most since August. The
rate on similar maturity Italian notes increased four basis
points to 4.90 percent as the government sold 3 billion euros
($3.9 billion) of zero-coupon debt due in 2014, meeting its
maximum target.  The yield on Germany’s 10-year bonds fell five basis points
to 1.54 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.9 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi lost 1.7 percent as a report showed the economy
grew at the slowest pace in three years in the third quarter.
Commodity producers led Russia’s Micex Index 0.8 percent lower,
Brazil’s Bovespa lost 1 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index
sank 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  