-- Mass. Regulator Subpoenaed Citi, Goldman Over Facebook
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/mass-regulator-subpoenaed-citi-goldman-over-facebook.html
Massachusetts Secretary of the
Commonwealth  William Galvin  subpoenaed  Citigroup Inc. (C)  along with
Facebook Inc.’s lead underwriters Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in connection with the
decline of Facebook’s share price following its initial public
offering in May, his office said.  Citigroup was fined $2 million after a junior analyst
improperly disclosed confidential information before  Facebook
Inc.’s (FB)  IPO, Galvin’s office said yesterday.  As a part of Facebook’s underwriting syndicate, Citigroup
Global Markets was barred from disseminating research until 40
days after the stock offering, Galvin said yesterday in a
statement. About two weeks before the IPO, a junior analyst at
the unit e-mailed two employees at TechCrunch.com seeking
feedback on a Facebook document that contained a senior
analyst’s view of investment risks and revenue estimates, Galvin
said.  The Citigroup e-mails are part of a larger trove of
documents that Galvin obtained by subpoenaing the bank along
with the lead underwriters, Galvin’s office said. The probe
began in May as Facebook’s stock slid amid lawsuits alleging
that retail investors weren’t told negative news about
Facebook’s prospects.  Galvin’s Securities Division is focusing on the roles of
investment banks and securities analysts, and issues of
disclosure, his office said.  Warning to Industry  The Citigroup penalty “should serve as a warning to the
industry as a whole,” Galvin said in the statement about
Citigroup. “It is essential in these times of rapid and diffuse
means of communications that financial institutions be vigilant
to ensure that the rules on IPOs are observed by all their
personnel.”  The junior analyst, whose name wasn’t released, was fired
by Citigroup on Sept. 27, Galvin said. Yesterday, Citigroup
fired  Mark Mahaney , a senior technology analyst, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the matter, as it settled
Galvin’s claim that a junior analyst disclosed confidential
information before Facebook’s IPO.  The exit of Mahaney, 46, resulted from earlier actions
uncovered in the course of the Facebook probe, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Mahaney, who was based in  San
Francisco , declined to comment when reached yesterday by mobile
phone.  Not at Bank  As of yesterday, Mahaney was no longer at Citigroup, said
the bank’s spokeswoman, Sophia Stewart. “We take our internal
policies and procedures very seriously and have taken the
appropriate actions,” she said in an e-mail.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  declined to comment
on Galvin’s probe, as did Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman, and Leslie Shribman, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman.  Galvin has said separately that he has subpoenaed Morgan
Stanley, Facebook’s primary underwriter, to learn more about
talks between  Scott Devitt , one of the firm’s research analysts,
and its institutional investors about Facebook’s revenue.  A drop in Facebook stock after the May 17 offering fueled
shareholder complaints, regulatory probes and more than 40
lawsuits, with some investors claiming the social-network
company’s managers failed to disclose revised forecasts before
the IPO, and others blaming underwriters or analysts.  Facebook has said the lawsuits lack merit.  SEC Probe  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also is looking
at the IPO, said a person familiar with the probe who asked not
to be identified because the probe is confidential. The top
securities regulator wants to know whether retail investors were
harmed by misleading information from brokers or selective
disclosures to analysts by the Facebook’s bankers regarding
Facebook’s prospects for mobile customers, the person said.  The SEC’s focus is on whether Facebook information was
leaked selectively to privileged investors, not on whether
analysts were improperly disclosing their own research, as in
the Citigroup censure, the person said. If sales people attached
to the underwriting group led by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were telling
wealthy investors to stay away, while encouraging retail
investors to buy all the shares they could, that might
constitute illegal misrepresentation, the person said.  Before Offering  Just days before the offering, Facebook officials privately
told securities-firm analysts to lower earnings and profit
estimates -- largely on the dearth of revenue from mobile users.
A company disclosure on May 9 warned investors that users were
growing faster than advertising delivered to users. The warning
was widely reported by the media, so information was publicly
available on Facebook’s reduced expectations, even if retail
investors didn’t read it.  The Senate Banking Committee is also looking into the
social network’s offering, and has held meetings “with a range
of involved parties including Facebook,  Nasdaq , Morgan Stanley
and the SEC,” said Sam Gilford, press secretary for the Senate
committee, in an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup’s e-mail exchanges were provided to Galvin’s
office on Sept. 14 in response to a subpoena, the watchdog said.  Galvin faulted the Citigroup subsidiary for failing to
supervise its analysts. The firm settled, admitted to a
statement of facts and pledged to abide by state securities
laws, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  