-- Mathieu Among Four Former LSU Players Arrested for Marijuana
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/mathieu-among-four-former-lsu-players-arrested-for-marijuana.html
Tyrann Mathieu, an All-American
cornerback and 2011 Heisman Trophy finalist, was arrested along
with three other former  Louisiana State University  football
players for marijuana possession.  Mathieu was detained at his apartment in  Baton Rouge ,
 Louisiana , yesterday afternoon along with former Tigers
quarterback  Jordan Jefferson ;  Derrick Bryant , who played safety
for the school, and  Karnell Hatcher , a former linebacker.  The four were taken into custody after a search of
Mathieu’s apartment, Baton Rouge Police said in an e-mailed news
release. Officers were investigating a complaint about a man,
identified as 22-year-old Jefferson, forcing his way into the
complex before going into 20-year-old Mathieu’s apartment.  Officers found 10 bags of high-grade marijuana in Mathieu’s
home, seven of them inside the backpack of Bryant, 22, the
police said.  Mathieu and Jefferson were charged with simple possession
of marijuana. Bryant faces a charge of possession with intent to
supply, while Hatcher, 22, will be prosecuted for a second
simple possession offense, police said.  All four men were booked into the East Baton Rouge Parish
Prison, the police said in their statement.  Mathieu, the  Southeastern Conference ’s Defensive Player of
the Year in 2011, was dismissed from the LSU football team in
August, three weeks before the start of his junior season, for
an unspecified violation of squad rules.  A week later, Louisiana television station Fox 8 cited
Mathieu’s father in a report that said the football player was
in a drug rehabilitation center and would stay there until he
“conquers his demons.”  Honey Badger  Known as the “Honey Badger,” Mathieu in 2011 won the
Chuck Bednarik Award, given annually to the best defensive
player in college football, and placed fifth in Heisman Trophy
voting.  Former starting quarterback Jefferson had returned to Baton
Rouge-based LSU to complete his degree after signing for the
Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League in August.  LSU lost last season’s  Bowl Championship Series  title game
21-0 to conference rival  Alabama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  