-- Aussie Set for Drop as Stock Losses Sap Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-10-26T05:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/aussie-set-for-drop-as-stock-losses-sap-demand.html
Australia ’s dollar fell, heading for
its first weekly drop in three, as losses in Asian stocks sapped
demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie weakened versus the yen as investors
weighed whether  Japan ’s currency slid too much amid speculation
the  Bank of Japan  will expand monetary easing. Demand for the
 New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, was limited after the
central bank governor said today he wants a weaker currency.  “Losses in stocks are leading to a lower Australian
dollar,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and
fixed-income strategist in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “The market priced in BOJ’s additional
easing too aggressively, so now we’re seeing some buying back in
the yen against the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0316 as of
4:25 p.m. in Sydney, set for a 0.1 percent weekly decline. It
lost 0.5 percent to 82.63 yen. The New Zealand dollar was little
changed at 81.78 U.S. cents, gaining 0.3 percent from Oct. 19.
The currency weakened 0.3 percent to 65.50 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1 percent today.
Australian  bonds gained , pushing the yield on 10-year debt down
by two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.24 percent.  The BOJ will release a forecast for the nation’s inflation
and growth on Oct. 30, when holding its second policy meeting
this month. All but one of 27 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  expect the central bank to add to stimulus for the second
time in two months next week.  Rate Projections  Losses in the Aussie were limited as traders pared bets the
nation’s  Reserve Bank  will reduce  interest rates .  Overnight index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg indicate
about a 70 percent chance of a 0.25 percentage point reduction
in the Reserve Bank of Australia’s key rate at its Nov. 6
meeting, down from more than 90 percent a week ago. The odds
have fallen since data this week showed a faster-than-expected
gain in the nation’s consumer prices.  “We’re in the camp that’s sticking with RBA rate cut in
November, but the market’s very divided on that now after the
CPI,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in Sydney
at Westpac Banking Corp. “Until the market really makes up its
mind on the RBA, then the Aussie’s probably broadly range-
bound.”  While Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s Graeme Wheeler said the
central bank is prepared to sell its currency, he reiterated
there are conditions around intervention. Those include a
currency that’s historically and unjustifiably high, and the
central bank needs to be sure that the timing of its sales will
have an effect.  Wheeler is under pressure to cut interest rates as
inflation slows and the currency rises, curbing exports and
prompting some manufacturers to close plants. A report today
showed the country’s annual trade deficit swelled to the widest
since 2009 as exports fell to a 20-month low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  