-- Australia’s Treasurer Says AAA Rating Shows Economy’s Resilience
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-26T23:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/australia-s-treasurer-says-aaa-rating-shows-economy-s-resilience.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
 Fitch Ratings  affirming the nation’s AAA credit rating after a
budget review earlier this week is evidence of the economy’s
resilience amid difficult global conditions.  Australia  sits with six other countries given the top
ratings and a stable outlook by Fitch, Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service, Swan said today in a statement.  “This coveted trifecta is another ringing endorsement of
our nation’s economy, which continues to kick goals against the
backdrop of ongoing global headwinds,” Swan said.  The government will tighten health-care spending and scale
back family support payments to help deliver an election-year
budget surplus. Spending is forecast to be A$363.2 billion
compared with a May projection of A$364.2 billion, while the
revenue estimate was cut to A$367 billion from $A368.8 billion,
the government said in an Oct. 22 midyear review.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is bidding to end four years
of deficits heading into an election year with polls showing she
will lose to the opposition Liberal-National coalition. As the
government reins in spending, she’s putting the onus on the
central bank to further reduce the highest benchmark rate among
major developed nations to bolster a slowing economy.  While Fitch yesterday cited Australia’s “high-income
developed economy, credible macroeconomic policy framework with
scope for policy flexibility, and standards of governance that
rang among the world’s strongest,” it said slower growth in
 China  has affected prices of coal and  iron ore  exports.  Fitch decided in November of last year to upgrade Australia
to an AAA credit rating.  “While we are not immune from what happens overseas, we
have every reason to be confident about our economy’s prospects
well into the future,” Swan said in the statement today.  Iron Ore, Coal  Lower prices for iron ore and coal have eroded the nation’s
terms of trade, a measure of windfall gains from exports that
reached a record high last year, making it more difficult for
the government to achieve its  budget surplus  goal.  Australia has managed to avoid recession for the past 21
years as China’s economic expansion fueled sales of commodities.
Slower growth in demand this year has weighed on prices, denting
projected tax revenues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  