-- Batista Risking $2 Billion to Shore Up OGX: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-10-26T17:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/batista-spurs-ogx-rally-with-2-billion-pledge-corporate-brazil.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista  is pledging
as much as $2 billion to shore up the finances of his oil and
shipbuilding companies after drilling and output delays.  The controlling investor is granting OGX a put option that
could require him to buy as much as $1 billion of new stock at a
36 percent premium. He will also buy up to $1 billion of stock
in shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  for 39.38 reais each, more than
triple yesterday’s closing price.  Batista, 55, is attempting to ease concern the companies
will run out of cash as OGX transforms itself from a startup
with low costs and no output to an off-shore oil producer,
according to Henrique de la Rocque, a portfolio manager at
Brasif Gestao de Recursos. Batista’s net worth plunged by almost
50 percent since March to $19.6 billion yesterday after drilling
and output delays caused stocks of his companies to tumble,
threatening his title as  Brazil ’s richest man.  “There is a crisis of confidence -- people used to buy
everything he sold, they believed a lot in the potential of the
things he did,” de la Rocque said in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “After all the disappointments people had, I
think this injection is good. There was a need for something
positive to happen for investors to start gaining trust again.”  OGX dropped 1.7 percent to 4.67 reais at 3:07 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . The shares rose as much as 8.2 percent yesterday, the
most since July 27, as trading volumes surged to 68.6 million
transactions, more than double the average for the past three
months. Yesterday’s rise pared its year-to-date  loss  to 65
percent before today. OSX, which is building production vessels
for OGX, slid 3.8 percent today.  Cirque du Soleil  Batista, the son of a former  Vale SA (VALE5)  chief executive
officer, amassed his fortune by selling shares of linked
commodity startup companies to the public. Before this week’s
announcements, he had poured at least 4 billion reais ($1.97
billion) back into his companies over the past six years, while
receiving in return just one dividend payment -- 36.8 million
reais from MPX Energia SA in 2009. That’s drained his cash as he
pursues ventures ranging from gold to coal to promoting Cirque
du Soleil shows.  As part of the accord with OGX announced this week, the  oil
company  will have the right to exercise its put option anytime
through April 2014 should it need additional capital and can’t
find more favorable financing, according to a regulatory filing.
Batista would buy the shares for 6.30 reais each.  The move gives OGX additional firepower to compete for new
exploration blocks that Brazil plans to auction as early as May
in the so-called Round 11, Chief Financial Officer Roberto
Monteiro said in an interview yesterday. OGX is also interested
in buying exploration properties from other companies, he said.  ‘Free Insurance’  “This  put option  will kick in in case we need to enhance
our portfolio,” Monteiro said by telephone from Rio de Janeiro.
“It’s free insurance that the main shareholder has granted to
us at zero price, and this is mainly because of the confidence
he has in the assets and the technical team and the
opportunities he’s foreseeing that will arise in the near
future.”  Statoil ASA, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc are also
planning to compete in the auction, where the government is
offering 174 exploration tracts on land and off the coast of
northeastern Brazil. OGX is already developing natural gas
fields in the Parnaiba Basin near the auction areas.  Sinochem
Group ’s purchase of stakes in five deep water blocks from
Perenco SA, first announced in January, underscores the
expansion opportunities in Brazil, Monteiro said.  Adding Value  “This market is very, very active,” he said. “If we get
undeveloped assets and then put them into production we can add
a lot of value.”  Shipbuilder OSX had the option to sell Batista shares
valued at $1 billion under terms of its initial public offering
in March 2010. The Rio de Janeiro-based company said in a
regulatory filing the billionaire plans to buy $500 million of
voting stock by March and another $500 million within a year.  While Batista’s cash guarantee is a positive step, it may
not be enough to stem recent share losses, said Rogerio Freitas,
a partner at Rio-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  The oil exploration company began reducing its drilling
fleet in Brazil to decrease exploration activities and focus on
discoveries already made. Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca
left in June shortly after OGX slashed some output targets by as
much as 75 percent.  Production Concerns  “The company needs to show good production numbers,
period,” Freitas said by telephone from Rio. “It needs
positive  cash flow . That’s more important than the put.”  Yesterday’s stock rally shows investors responded
positively to Batista’s move.  “The plan is brilliant for Eike and OGX shareholders,”
Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million including OGX shares
at Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,  Washington , said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “For him, it’s a free  call
option  on the future growth. For shareholders, he is putting his
money where his mouth is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  