-- Belgacom Rises on Higher Guidance, Extra Payout: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-10-26T16:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/belgacom-rises-on-higher-guidance-extra-payout-brussels-mover.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest phone
company in  Belgium , rose the most in Brussels since going public
in 2004 after raising its forecasts and shareholders got an
 extra payout  amid a wave of dividend cuts in the industry.  Belgacom  rallied  7.8 percent to 23.14 euros at the 5:35
p.m. close of trading in Brussels, the biggest gain since it
first sold shares at 24.50 euros in March 2004. The shares
returned 2.7 percent including reinvested dividends so far this
year, compared with a  negative  return of 1.4 percent for the
Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index in the period.  The state-controlled company said today investors will
receive a special dividend of 31 cents a share on top of the
regular payout this year. Belgacom also raised its 2012
 forecasts , saying revenue will increase slightly rather than
decline and projecting a smaller decrease in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda.  “Belgacom’s dividend is much more committed, as the
Belgian government needs the dividend for the budget, compared
to peers,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Brussels, wrote in a note to investors. “In terms of subscriber
numbers, Belgacom did well on the fixed side, but lost momentum
on the mobile front.”  Phone companies from France Telecom SA to Royal KPN NV,
struggling to contain debt and facing declining sales and
margins amid tougher regulation and intensified competition,
have cut their projected dividends this year. Belgacom, whose
net debt of 1.47 billion euros ($1.9 billion) equals  about 0.8
times Ebitda , said its Internet Everywhere offer boosted
broadband and TV revenue in the quarter as the acquisition of
Phone House stores and a shift toward internet sales helped to
soften the impact from a loss of mobile clients and price caps
on data roaming.  ‘Customer Loss’  Belgacom began offering free access to its mobile network
for clients on broadband Internet subscriptions in April. That
change also allowed Belgacom to increase prices for its bundled
offerings of telephony, broadband Internet and digital
television.  “We remain cautious as trends could deteriorate,” said
Javier Borrachero, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
 Madrid . “Belgacom has started to show an acceleration in total
customer loss. The solid track record in TV is now more
threatened.”  The phone company unexpectedly lost 39,000 mobile customers
in the quarter, while the loss of 30,000 fixed-phone lines was
smaller than analyst projections. It added 32,000 TV subscribers
and 12,000 broadband lines.  Cash Flow  Third-quarter  net income  fell 5.6 percent to 184 million
euros, Belgacom said in the statement. That beat analyst
projections of 166.7 million euros, according to the average of
seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 1.5 percent
to 1.62 billion euros.  The extra dividend will “exceptionally” increase the
full-year  distribution  to 2.49 euros a share from a projected
2.18 euros, Belgacom said. The phone company is distributing a
remaining 100 million euros from a 200 million-euro share-
buyback program that was announced in February 2011.  The Belgian incumbent may not be able to repeat that payout
as  free cash flow  declined 29 percent to 537 million euros in
the nine months through September and Belgacom’s dividend
policy calls for a full distribution of the cash generation
that’s not required for reinvestment.  Belgacom’s third-quarter free-cash-flow generation dropped
34 percent to 248 million euros. That surpassed analyst
projections of 212.2 million euros, the average of five
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  