-- Berlusconi Sentenced to Four Years in Prison for Fraud
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-10-26T15:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/berlusconi-sentenced-to-four-years-in-prison-for-fraud.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who describes himself as the most persecuted man in
history, was found guilty of  tax fraud  and sentenced to four
years in prison in a film-rights case involving his  Mediaset SpA (MS) 
television company.  It is unlikely that Berlusconi will serve any jail time
given his age, 76, and the Italian appeals process, which can
run out the statute of limitations. The court pardoned three
years of the sentence. He was also barred from public office for
five years, according to a sentence read today by a judge
in Milan.  “He won’t go to jail because criminal sentences in the
first instance aren’t executed if an appeal is presented within
15 days,” said Fabio Belloni, a criminal lawyer who previously
defended  Parmalat (PLT)  Chairman Calisto Tanzi in  Italy ’s biggest
bankruptcy case.  “‘The sentence remains suspended until the end of the
appeals process. The same thing with the ban from public
office,” he said.  The ruling came in the same week that the three-time prime
minister announced that he would not run for the premiership in
elections due by May. Berlusconi has accused prosecutors of
trying to destroy him politically and has said that he has spent
more than 400 million euros ($517 million) on his legal defense
in more than a dozen corruption trials since he entered politics
in 1994.  Mediaset Declines  Shares in Mediaset SpA, Berlusconi’s media company at the
center of the case, fell 2.8 percent to 1.34 euros. That
compared with an advance of 0.2 percent in Italy’s benchmark
FTSE MIB index.  “The sentence confirms years of judicial persecution,”
Paolo Bonaiuti, Berlusconi’s, spokesman said in an e-mailed
statement.  Berlusconi’s lawyers,  Niccolo Ghedini  and Piero Longo,
called the verdict “absolutely incredible” and “lacking legal
logic,” in an e-mailed statement. They plan to file an appeal
of the decision, and said “they trust” that a higher court
will overturn the verdict. Berlusconi can appeal the verdict two
more times under Italian law.  The ruling comes as Berlusconi faces another trial on
charges of paying for sex with a minor. The revelations about
his relationship with a 17-year-old Milan nightclub dancer and
the so-called Bunga Bunga parties he threw at his Milan
residence led to a slump in his popularity last year that
contributed to his resignation as prime minister in November.  The charges in the Mediaset case stem from before
Berlusconi entered politics, when he was still actively managing
the media company that he founded. Fedele Confalonieri, chairman
of Mediaset and a co-defendant in the trial, was absolved by the
court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  