-- Blackstone to Boost Property Investment in Asia, Schwarzman Says
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-26T08:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/blackstone-to-boost-property-investment-in-asia-schwarzman-says.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  plans to step up
real estate investments in Asia after raising more than $13
billion for a property fund, Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman  said.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, has
been among the biggest buyers or property in Australia and
 India , Schwarzman told reporters in Hong Kong today. Yields on
Blackstone’s commercial real estate investments in India are
“in the double digits on an unleveraged basis” in the past
year, he said.  As the economies of  China  and India cool, Blackstone is
seeking to capitalize on property prices that have fallen from
their peaks, Schwarzman said. China’s move to curb real estate
speculation has cooled the market even as the world’s second-
largest economy shows signs of improving.  “With slower growth and prices going down, we tend to be
large buyers because we believe in the basic prospects of this
area,” said Schwarzman. “The long-term direction in Asia, for
the economies here, is strongly up.”  Blackstone this month closed its seventh vehicle dedicated
to real estate investments with $13.3 billion, a record for
opportunistic property funds, or those designed to acquire
assets at a significant discount.  Leon Black ’s  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , the private-equity firm that is seeking to
rebuild its real estate arm, is raising $750 million for a pair
of funds that will focus on commercial properties in Asia.  Blackstone recently agreed to buy an  office tower  in
 Shanghai , according to Schwarzman.  China Optimism  Blackstone had 191 employees in the Asia-Pacific region at
the end of September, a 20 percent increase since the start
2012, according to the company. The firm’s number of investment
professionals jumped 25 percent in the period to 82.  In China, Blackstone hasn’t made any investments outside
the property sector since the start of 2011, according to Asian
Venture Capital Journal. The firm last year agreed to sell its
95 percent stake in Shanghai’s Channel 1 shopping mall to New
World Development Co. in Hong Kong for 1.46 billion  yuan  ($234
million), people familiar with the matter said at the time.  “We may not be seen to be as aggressive in China as a lot
of our competitors, but in the long run, that may be better for
our investors,” said Antony Leung, Blackstone’s chairman of
Greater China and a former financial secretary of Hong Kong.
“Being conservative sometimes may not be a bad thing.”  Schwarzman said China’s economic slowdown has “hit
bottom” temporarily and growth may rebound over the next two to
three years. “This may be a very good timing opportunity for us
to make investments,” he said.  Property valuations in China have become more attractive as
rising incomes and urbanization drive demand, Leung said.  “The market is more reasonable,” Leung said. “We’re
going to be a bit more aggressive, particularly on the real
estate side.”  Blackstone reported a third-quarter profit of $621.8
million, as the value of its holdings gained at a quicker pace
and its assets exceeded $200 billion for the first time, the
company said on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  