-- NYSE Euronext to Shut Carbon Market After Failed Auction Bid
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-10-26T15:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/bluenext-carbon-exchange-to-shut-after-losing-eu-auction-bid-1-.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and France’s Caisse
des Depots et Consignations will close Bluenext SA, their joint
carbon exchange in Paris, on Dec. 5 after the bourse failed to
win a bid to run European Union permit auctions from next year.  Bluenext was one of several exchanges competing to sell
emission permits on behalf of 25 member states in the third
phase of the 27-nation bloc’s carbon market starting in 2013.
The EU in September contracted Leipzig, Germany-based European
Energy Exchange AG to sell the offsets.  “The market environment for carbon has been difficult for
us,” Philippe Chauvancy, a company spokesman for Bluenext, said
today by phone from Paris. “The fact that we didn’t get the
Phase 3 auction was a big blow.”  The loss of the market’s biggest  spot  platform means that
there will be no benchmark price for immediate delivery until a
replacement is identified, said  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in  London . European Energy Exchange AG and Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. also offer spot EU permit contracts that trade in
smaller volumes.  Bluenext handled more than 1.1 billion metric tons of
European Union permits in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company has hosted spot trades totaling 29.4
million tons this year. There is no outstanding open interest in
any derivatives contract, Chauvancy said.  Permit Theft  The Paris-based bourse settled a tax liability with French
authorities for 31.8 million euros ($41.1 million) after an
audit covering 2006 to 2009 relating to alleged tax frauds by
participants in the market, NYSE said in a July 2011 filing.
BlueNext halted trading for 15 days in 2011 after an estimated 2
million permits were stolen in hacking attacks on accounts in
 Austria ,  Greece ,  Italy  and the Czech Republic.  “The market never really got over the episodes of permit
theft and value-added-tax fraud, and these hit Bluenext
particularly hard as they were mostly perpetrated on spot
transactions,” Sikorski said.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for New York-based NYSE
Euronext, declined to comment. Calls to Maria Scolan, a
spokewoman for Caisse des Depots’ CDC Climat unit, were not
answered.  “We will contact our members next week to make plans for
an orderly closing,” Chauvancy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  