-- Bombardier in Fleet-Sale Talks After Buffett’s NetJets Order
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-26T20:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/bombardier-in-fleet-sale-talks-after-buffett-s-netjets-order-1-.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  is in talks to sell
more of its largest business aircraft models to fleet operators
after a record order from  Warren Buffett ’s NetJets four months
ago.  “NetJets has led the way, but we expect more of that to
come,” Steve Ridolfi, president of Bombardier’s business-
aircraft unit, said in a telephone interview before the National
Business Aviation Association’s annual conference, which starts
Oct. 30 in  Orlando ,  Florida . “We can see it coming. We have
ongoing campaigns.”  Business aircraft are the biggest product segment within
Montreal-based Bombardier’s aerospace unit, generating almost
four times as much in sales as commercial aircraft. Fleet orders
for those planes stabilize revenue streams by providing a
pipeline of deliveries rather than intermittent orders from
individual or corporate customers.  “Fleet owners and managers never used to be as prevalent,
but they are becoming more so now,”  Chris Murray , a
transportation  analyst  at PI Financial Corp., said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “You’re going to see these
guys be there in size.”  Private-jet operators such as NetJets are one of three
pillars of the business-aircraft industry, along with
corporations and wealthy individuals. Each type of purchaser
represents about one-third of the global market, Ridolfi said.  NetJets Order  NetJets, a unit of Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said
in June it agreed to buy as many as 275 Bombardier Challenger
aircraft, including 100 firm orders. If all the options are
exercised, the agreement will be valued at about $7.3 billion --
eclipsing NetJets’ $6.7 billion purchase of as many as 120
Bombardier Global aircraft in March 2011 as the company’s
largest private-plane order.  Industrywide private-jet shipments will probably rise
6 percent this year and 8 percent in 2013, market researcher
Teal Group said in an April report. Deliveries plunged
29 percent in value from a 2008 peak through 2011, Teal said.  “Demand is solid, especially on the big airplanes,”
Ridolfi said. “We are seeing really good activity, led by
international markets, by guys wanting to re-fleet after being
on the sidelines for four or five years.”  Business aircraft accounted for $1.9 billion, or about half
of Bombardier’s aerospace  revenue , in the six months through
June 30. That’s almost four times the $483 million generated by
sales of commercial planes such as the CRJ regional jets.  Qatar Airways  One potential fleet customer is  Qatar Airways  Ltd., which
already operates Bombardier’s Global and Challenger models.
Qatar Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said in April he
planned to place a “large” business-jet order with Bombardier,
and was aiming to announce it the following month.  Bombardier is still talking to Qatar about a purchase
of Global 7000 and 8000 aircraft, Ridolfi said, declining to
comment further. The planes have a list price of about
$65 million.  Demand for large aircraft is such that Bombardier is
considering boosting output of its Global jets, Ridolfi said. He
declined to say when the move might take effect, or discuss the
scope of the potential increase.  “You have to take it up slowly, given all the magnitude of
the work and the intensity of the completion process,” Ridolfi
said. “The Global has been a tank for us right through this
recession. It’s continued to grow and grow.”  Bombardier had an order backlog equivalent to  35 months  of
production for the Global as June 30, exceeding its 24-to-30-
month target range for the family of aircraft. Orders for the
smaller Challenger jet amounted to 19 months of production, the
company said in its second-quarter  filing .  “The Global business is the crown jewel of Bombardier’s
entire aerospace program right now,” said PI Financial’s
Murray, who has a buy rating on Bombardier stock. “Larger
business jets are a fabulous business to be in.”  Bombardier’s Class B  shares  rose 0.3 percent to C$3.74 at
the close in Toronto. They have fallen 7.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  