-- Bovespa Falls as Santander Leads Banks Down on Earnings Outlook
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-26T20:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/bovespa-falls-as-santander-leads-banks-down-on-earnings-outlook.html
The Bovespa index posted a second
consecutive weekly drop as Banco Santander Brasil SA led
declines among banks amid concern  Brazil ’s economic recovery may
falter after companies reported earnings that trailed estimates.  Santander Brasil, which reported lower-than-forecast third-
quarter profit yesterday, fell to an 11-month low.  MRV
Engenharia e Participacoes SA  led declines among homebuilders.
The benchmark’s drop was limited as state-run oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA rose the most in two weeks.  The Bovespa slid 1 percent to 57,276.81 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , pushing the weekly decline to 2.8 percent.
The real was little changed at 2.0268 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:35
p.m. local time. Of 11 companies listed on the gauge that
reported third-quarter earnings, six  missed  analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t matter that the economy is improving in the
U.S., because it’s still stumbling in Brazil,” Ari Santos, a
manager at Sao Paulo-based brokerage H.Commcor, said by phone.
“The earnings are coming in weak.”  In the U.S., gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent
annual rate in the third quarter, Commerce Department figures
showed today. The median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 1.8 percent gain.  Santander Brasil  Santander Brasil, the local unit of  Spain ’s biggest bank,
fell 2.8 percent to 13.85 reais, pushing the weekly decline to
5.3 percent. The bank’s net income attributable to shareholders
was 1.46 billion reais ($720 million) in the third quarter,
compared with a 1.52 billion-real average estimate of five
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The results were much better than in the second quarter
but below peers in the third quarter with notable
disappointments in asset quality and margins,” UBS AG
strategist Philip Finch wrote in a research note dated today.  The MSCI Brazil/Financials index fell for the first time in
three days, dropping 1.2 percent. MRV slid 3.8 percent to 10.60
reais as the BM&F  Bovespa (IBOV)  Real Estate Index fell to six-week
low.  “Companies around the world are not meeting expectations,
and if they do it’s not necessarily a good sign because analysts
had set the bar so low,” Nastassia Romano, an economist at
brokerage Omar Camargo CCV Ltda, said by phone from Curitiba,
Brazil. “There’s still a lot of uncertainty, and that affects
investment projections going forward.”  Gerdau, OGX  Dental-benefits company Odontoprev SA fell 3.2 percent to
10.15 reais. The company’s third-quarter adjusted net income was
35.4 million reais, compared with a 42.5 million-real estimate
of 10 analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Steelmaker Gerdau SA dropped 2.5 percent to 17.60 reais,
the lowest level since July 26. Santander Brasil cut its
recommendation on the stock to the equivalent of sell.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  tumbled 5.5 percent to
4.49 reais, the lowest since January 2009. The oil company’s
credit quality may be affected by the  put option  announced by
controller  Eike Batista  this week,  Fitch Ratings  said in a
statement.  Petrobras surged 1.6 percent to 22.10 reais, the steepest
one-day gain since Oct. 11. The company told partners at Logum
Logistica it won’t invest in an ethanol duct project in 2013 in
which it has a 20 percent stake, O Estado de S. Paulo reported,
citing Logum CEO Alberto Guimaraes. Petrobras is scheduled to
report third-quarter earnings after the market close today.  Relative Value  The Bovespa has climbed 9.1 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
economic concern and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted demand for equities. The index trades at 15.1 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which
compares with the ratio of 11.5 times for MSCI Inc.’s measure of
21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading volume was 5.95 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.3 billion reais this year through Oct. 25,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  