-- BP Oil-Spill Judge Postpones Trial on Fault to February
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-10-26T17:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/bp-oil-spill-judge-postpones-trial-on-fault-to-february.html
The trial over liability for  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill was postponed to Feb. 25 so
the lawyers won’t lose their accommodations to  Super Bowl  and
 Mardi Gras  crowds, a New Orleans judge said.  The Super Bowl, the  National Football League ’s title game,
is set for Feb. 3, and the last day of Mardi Gras, the pre-
Lenten festival, is Feb. 12. The trial, originally set for Jan.
14, will be delayed six weeks because lawyers involved have been
told they’ll be “kicked out” of their hotel rooms, U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  said at a hearing today.  “It makes no sense to try and start the trial Jan. 14 then
suspend it,” Barbier said. “We don’t want to ruin everybody’s
holidays.”  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
change in trial date.  “The day of judgment is coming,”  Steve Herman , an
attorney for the plaintiffs, said today. “A few weeks of delay
isn’t going to matter.”  The April 2010 sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig set off
the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history and led to
hundreds of lawsuits brought against London-based BP, owner of
the well, and its partners in the project.  Economic Loss  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and injuries. The settlement, reached days
before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, didn’t
cover federal government claims and those of the Gulf Coast
states.  It also didn’t cover lawsuits against  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing
services. BP’s settlement excluded claims by financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida
and Texas, and residents and businesses claiming harm from a
drilling moratorium.  Barbier will conduct a fairness hearing on the $7.8 billion
settlement Nov. 8. Objections to the settlement have to be filed
by Nov. 1.  Barbier will consider fault for the explosion and
subsequent spill at the nonjury trial now set in February. He
will also determine whether BP or other defendants were grossly
negligent in their actions setting off the spill.  Potential Fines  A finding of gross negligence could raise the potential
fines for violations of the Clean Water Act from $1,100 a barrel
to $4,300 a barrel. The U.S. has claimed that more than 4
million barrels of oil were spilled before the well was capped.  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners in the well,
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands, Texas-based
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of federal
pollution laws. MOEX has settled the federal claims.  BP has been in negotiations with the U.S. Justice
Department to settle the pollution suit, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Dean declined to comment.  These negotiations may not avert a trial, Louisiana
Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell  said today.  “The way everybody’s talking, they’re revving up for a
trial,” he said in an interview outside the courtroom.
“Louisiana is not negotiating with BP at this time.”  Criminal Trial  The trial on liability for the 2010 spill is now set to
begin the same day as a criminal trial against a former BP
engineer charged with destroying evidence sought for a U.S.
probe.  The jury trial of  Kurt Mix , who was charged with two counts
of obstruction of justice for allegedly deleting text-message
strings from his mobile phone, is scheduled to start Feb. 25 in
New Orleans federal court before a different judge.  Mix, who has pleaded not guilty, worked on internal BP
efforts to estimate the amount of oil leaking from the Macondo
well.  The lawsuits are in In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ). The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix , 12-cr-00171, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans at 
1343 or  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 