-- Branson Seeks Speedy U.K. Government Rail-Policy Review
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-10-26T09:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/branson-seeks-speedy-u-k-government-rail-policy-review.html
The U.K. government must “hurry
up” with reviewing its railway-franchising program to ensure
Britain’s West Coast main line secures adequate investment in
trains and stations, billionaire  Richard Branson  said.  “They ought to get people to work day and night to get a
new system in place which is infallible, transparent and open,”
Branson said in an interview today on a flight to Mumbai from
New Delhi. “It shouldn’t have to take three years. It could be
done in 18 months.”  Branson’s Virgin Trains venture is allowed to retain the
West Coast route network for nine to 13 months as bids are
sought for an interim franchise deal to manage the rail line
until a new full-term contract can start, the  Department for
Transport said Oct. 15 . Assignment of the West Coast line was
halted on Oct. 3 following the discovery of what the government
said were “serious flaws” regarding the choice of  FirstGroup
Plc’s (FGP)  5.5 billion-pound ($8.9 billion) bid.  The rail network is Britain’s busiest, carrying 31 million
people a year on routes linking London with cities including
Birmingham,  England , and Glasgow. The temporary arrangements
will delay spending on improvements to West Coast assets until a
long-term operator is chosen, Branson said.  “The interim arrangement won’t enable us to get out there
and invest,” he said. Terms under which Virgin Trains will
continue to run the route were still being negotiated, he said.
The train operator is a joint venture between Branson’s Virgin
Group and Perth, Scotland-based  Stagecoach Group Plc. (SGC)   The DfT is awaiting results of an inquiry into franchising
by Eurostar Group Ltd. Chairman  Richard Brown , scheduled to be
completed in December, before deciding on a bid timetable. A
second study overseen by Sam Laidlaw, chief executive officer of
energy supplier  Centrica Plc (CNA) , and  Ed Smith , formerly of
accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, will examine the
West Coast award and is due to be published by the end of this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in Mumbai via 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  