-- Brazil Suffers Fifth Power Outage Since Crackdown on Utilities
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-26T16:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/brazil-suffers-fifth-power-outage-since-crackdown-on-utilities.html
Power was knocked out in 11
Brazilian states last night, leaving residents in the dark for
several hours as the country’s latest blackout raises questions
about the reliability of the electricity grid.  The outage beginning  after midnight  local time, which grid
operator ONS said resulted from a short circuit on a
transmission line, was the fifth since President  Dilma Rousseff 
said in September that she would force utilities to cut rates
that manufacturers say are the fourth-highest in the world.  “We have had a decrease in the system’s reliability and we
don’t yet know the reasons it is occurring,” Deputy Energy
Minister Marcio Zimmerman told reporters in Brasilia today.
“Events like this aren’t normal.”  Adriano Pires, head of the Brazilian Infrastructure Center,
said the wave of outages is a product of a lack of upkeep as the
government fails to provide a proper regulatory environment to
foster investments.  “The government has to create regulation that encourages
investment, maintenance, and modernization of the transmission
and distribution systems in  Brazil ,” Pires said by telephone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “You’re having a lot of investment in
generation, but the investment in transmission isn’t happening
in the same proportion.”  The power outages are also a political challenge for
Rousseff. A former Energy Minister, Rousseff rose to national
prominence when as energy secretary of  Rio Grande  do Sul her
state was the only one in Brazil that didn’t have to ration
electricity during an energy crisis in 2001.  The grid’s organization, which relies mainly on far-flung
hydroelectric plants, also makes the impact of errors in
transmission equipment felt more widely, said Ricardo Correa, a
utilities analyst at Ativa SA CTCV.  “When you do have a small problem in one point of the
system, you have a potentially much bigger  chain reaction ,”
Correa said by telephone from Rio de Janeiro last week.  Regulators and representatives of power companies will meet
today in Brasilia to discuss last night’s blackout and the
safety of the system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Boston  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 