-- Brazil's Coffee Exports Seen Rising This Month From Last
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-26T11:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/brazil-s-coffee-exports-seen-rising-this-month-from-last.html
Coffee exports from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer of the commodity, may rise 23 percent
in October from a month earlier, according to Rio de Janeiro-
based broker Flavour Coffee.  Shipments may climb to 2.7 million bags of 60 kilograms
(132 pounds) this month, the broker said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. That compares with 2.2 million bags exported in
September, according to data from the country’s coffee
exporters’ council, known as Cecafe. Brazil exported 3.175
million bags in October last year, Cecafe data showed.  “The pace of issuing certificates this month is much
faster than in September,” Flavour Coffee said. “So far,
shipments and certificates are about 20 percent faster.”  Brazilian coffee exports will drop to 29 million to 30
million bags in 2012 from about 33 million bags a year earlier
after above-average rainfall earlier this year delayed
harvesting and reduced bean quality, Guilherme Braga, head of
Cecafe, said in an interview in  London  on Sept. 25.  Growers have been holding back beans after arabica coffee
futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. exchange fell 29 percent this
year.  “The volume of business is very low with no interest from
buyers or sellers to sell at current levels,” Thiago Cazarini,
a broker at Varginha, Brazil-based Cazarini Trading Co., said in
a separate report. “Talking about Brazils, it’s a question mark
to see who will throw in the towel first, producers or the
buyers.”  Fine Cup  Fine-cup arabica coffee beans from Brazil were trading at a
discount of 5 cents a pound to the price on ICE, according to
Flavour Coffee data. That compares with 9 cents a pound last
week. Good-cup quality coffee was at a discount of 12 cents a
pound, from 17 cents a pound last week. Fine-cup beans are
usually more expensive because of their taste profile.  Rains over Brazil’s coffee belt have been “ideal” for the
flowers that blossomed before the 2013-14 crop that starts next
year, Flavour Coffee said. A new cold front set to reach the
southeast region will bring widespread showers to coffee areas
in the first days of November, according to Sao Paulo-based
forecaster Somar Meteorologia. Flowerings in the coffee belt
suggest “good potential” for next year, Cazarini said.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were at a
premium of 15 cents a pound ($331 a metric ton) to the price on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in London, down from 20 cents a pound a
week earlier, according to Flavour Coffee data.  “With the continuous huge premium over Liffe” only a few
transactions “have been reported to the  Middle East  and
sporadic short covering,” the broker said.  Robusta coffee for January delivery was down 0.9 percent to
$2,039 a ton by 12:12 p.m. in London. Arabica coffee for
December delivery slid 0.6 percent to $1.60 a pound in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 