-- Brazilian Swap Rates Fall Fifth Day to Record Low; Real Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-10-26T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/brazilian-swap-rates-decline-for-fifth-day-real-little-changed.html
Brazilian swap rates fell to a
record as the South American country’s personal loan default
rate matched a 30-month high and Spanish unemployment climbed,
bolstering bets the central bank will keep borrowing costs low
for a prolonged period to support growth.  Swap rates on contracts due January 2014 fell for a fifth
day, declining one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
7.33 percent. They dropped nine basis points since Oct. 19. The
real depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0270 per dollar today and was
was little changed this week.  “Brazilians’ indebtedness can have an impact on growth of
consumption in the future,” said Flavio Combat, an economist at
Concordia Corretora, in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“And  Spain  with 25 percent unemployment is very worrisome, not
just economically, but socially it’s a complex environment.”  Brazil ’s personal loan default rate remained at 7.9 percent
in September, matching a 30-month high reached in May. Spanish
unemployment climbed to a fresh record in the third quarter as a
deepening recession left one in four workers jobless, adding
pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to seek a second
European bailout.  The central bank sold reverse currency swaps yesterday for
a second time this week to support exporters by preventing
appreciation.  “There’s a general lack of interest in the Brazilian
 currency market ” following the bank’s interventions, said Italo Abucater, head of  currency trading  at Icap Brasil CTVM, in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Currency Swaps  The central bank sold 28,300 of 30,000 reverse currency
swaps offered at an auction yesterday, including $1.1 billion
worth of contracts due in December and $300 million worth of
contracts due in January, according to a statement by the bank.  The bank sold $1.6 billion in reverse currency swaps on
Oct. 23, $1.3 billion on Oct. 5, $5.7 billion of contracts Sept.
12 through Sept. 17 and $350 million on Aug. 21 to weaken the
real. The August reverse swaps were the first since March.  Brazilian policy makers cut the target lending rate for a
10th straight meeting to a record low 7.25 percent Oct. 10 to
revive the slowest growth among major  emerging markets . The
central bank will boost borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage
point as soon as July, trading in swap rates indicates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  