-- HTC Sees Lowest Sales Since 2010 as Market Share Slides
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-26T10:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/htc-forecasts-lowest-sales-since-2010-as-market-share-slides.html
HTC Corp., Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, forecast its lowest sales in 11 quarters,
missing estimates, as new models fail to arrest a slide in
market share amid competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co.  Fourth-quarter revenue will be around NT$60 billion ($2.1
billion), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a statement
today. The average of 24  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
is for sales of NT$74.6 billion. The figure would be the lowest
since the first quarter of 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  HTC posted a 43 percent decline in third-quarter smartphone
shipments from a year earlier, the most among the top five
vendors, even as the market climbed 45 percent, according to  IDC
Corp.  New handsets using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows system may
not be enough to offset lost share in the market for those which
run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  “Worldwide competition is incredibly tough, which is
challenging HTC,” said Alvin Kwock, who  rates  the stock
underweight at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong . “In China,
the strongest-growing market, margins are substantially lower
than elsewhere because Samsung is cutting prices.”  Gross margin , which measures the percentage of sales left
after deducting the cost of goods sold, will be about 23 percent
this quarter, the company said today. That’s less than the 25
percent average of 21 analysts compiled by Bloomberg and the 25
percent it posted in the prior quarter.  Lower-Priced Products  Operating margin will be about 1 percent this quarter, from
7 percent last quarter, HTC said.  Revenue will be less than investors expected because new
products won’t be on shelves ready for sale until the middle of
November, Chief Financial Officer Chang Chialin said on a
conference call today.  “We believe products announced and ready on the shelf in
the fourth quarter will continue with their momentum into the
first quarter,” Chang said. “In  China (2498)  we have a very good plan
and strong partnerships with distributors” that will help boost
sales there.  Revenue in October will be lower than September, while
sales in November will exceed that of September, Chang said.
Gross margin will drop because of a higher proportion of lower-
priced  products  and a provision for clearing older inventory, he
said.  Refreshed Product Line  HTC  released  its first handsets using Microsoft’s new
Windows Phone 8 operating system in September and refreshed
versions of its Desire and One Android-based models in the past
three months amid competition from Apple’s iPhone 5 and new
Galaxy devices from Samsung.  HTC on Oct. 8 posted a record 79 percent drop in net income
to NT$3.9 billion for the third quarter while revenue of NT$70.2
billion also missed analysts’ estimates.  Stronger brand awareness in  China  and a greater retail
presence helped that market drive HTC growth in the third
quarter, Chang said. U.S. sales were in-line with expectations,
he said.  HTC has good customer awareness in  Europe  and needs to
boost the proportion of consumers who prefer its brand over
competitors, Chang said. The company’s performance in some
emerging Asia-Pacific markets isn’t meeting expectations, he
said.  Shares of HTC dropped 4.8 percent to close at NT$236 in
Taipei before the announcement, extending their decline this
year to 53 percent. The stock fell 42 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  