-- Canada Pension Buys $400 Million of Formula One’s Bonds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-26T19:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/canada-pension-buys-400-million-of-formula-one-s-bonds-1-.html
Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board
provided part of Formula One’s $1 billion private placement
high-yield debt financing due in 2019, its second motorsport-
related deal announced today.  Canada’s largest pension  fund manager  loaned $400 million
to the auto racing series partly owned by CVC Capital Partners
Ltd., the Toronto-based fund manager said today in a statement.
Canada Pension earlier said it bought a 39 percent stake in
 Dorna Sports S.L. , the Madrid-based sports management company
that holds the rights to the MotoGP motorbike racing series and
FIM World Superbikes Championship.  “We saw the attractiveness in those two investments,”
Andre Bourbonnais, Canada Pension’s senior vice president of
private investments, said. “On one side because of the growth
on the equities side, and on the other side for the more stable
business on the debt side.”  Other lenders in the Formula One financing include U.S.
mutual fund  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bourbonnais said in a telephone
interview from Toronto.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the rating on Formula One’s
bank loans by one level to B1 on Oct. 19 as the company’s
leverage will “materially increase” to more than six times
this year after issuance of the $1 billion subordinated debt,
which will be used to fund dividend payout to shareholders.  Dorna Sports  Canada Pension didn’t disclose the price for its investment
in Dorna Sports, whose shareholders include Bridgepoint and
Dorna management.  Bridgepoint and Canada Pension hired Societe Generale SA to
lead banks arranging about 485 million euros ($625 million) of
loans to refinance debt of Dorna, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Bank of Ireland, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and ING Groep NV, existing lenders to Dorna, are also
arranging the loan, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deal is private.  James Murray, a spokesman in  London  for Bridgepoint,
declined to comment on the debt financing.  The financing includes senior and junior-ranking debt and
will represent about six times the company’s forecast 2012
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of
80 million euros, said the people. Part of the deal includes 85
million euros of debt from Goldman Sachs to fund repayment of
shareholder loans, said the people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  