-- Canadian Dollar Declines for Fourth Day as Risk Aversion Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-26T21:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/canadian-dollar-declines-for-third-week-as-risk-aversion-rises.html
The Canadian dollar weakened for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak versus its U.S.
counterpart since May, on concern demand for natural resources
will decline as investors question global-growth prospects.  The currency dropped to the lowest level since August as
crude oil, the nation’s largest export, headed for a second
weekly loss. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said on Oct. 24
that the need for higher  interest rates  has become “less
imminent,” a day after strengthening the case for tightening
monetary policy.  “The market got whipped around this week on Carney’s
comments and it’s finding it hard to find a positive
direction,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , said in a phone interview from Toronto.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the aquatic bird
on the C$1 coin, fell 0.2 percent to 99.69 cents per  U.S. dollar 
at 5:00 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0031. The
currency touched 99.42, the least since Aug. 7, and is down for
a third week, also the longest stretch of losses since June.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2 percent annual rate after
climbing 1.3 percent in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.8 percent gain.  “We saw a little bit of Canadian dollar strength after
U.S. GDP data,”  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a
phone interview from Toronto. “When people look at Europe in
the harsh reality of daylight, they realize that global
prospects are not that great and the Canadian dollar will
suffer.”  European Speculation  Spanish unemployment climbed to a fresh record in the third
quarter as a deepening recession left one in four workers
jobless, adding pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to seek
a second European bailout. Spain is still playing for time
nearly three months after the  European Central Bank  offered bond
buys to lower its borrowing costs.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark 10-
year note yield down 0.06 percentage point, or six basis points,
to 1.83 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent notes maturing in
June 2022 rose 51 cents to C$108.02.  The Bank of Canada policy makers this week kept the
benchmark rate at 1 percent, where it’s been more than two
years. Carney had suggested in an Oct. 15 speech that the
economic forecast this week would reflect a slow global
recovery.  “The bank isn’t going to be moving rates anytime soon,”
Curran said. “I don’t know why people are getting so excited
about that. It should be clear to most people, but global macro
concerns should be forefront on peoples’ minds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  