-- Canon Falls After Cutting Forecast on Camera Demand: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-26T01:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/canon-falls-after-cutting-forecast-on-camera-demand-tokyo-mover.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker, fell the most in two weeks in  Tokyo  trading after
cutting its annual profit forecast on slowing demand as
consumers switch to taking pictures with smartphones.  The stock  dropped  as much as 2.5 percent to 2,580 yen,
heading for its biggest decline since Oct. 10, and changed hands
at 2,600 yen as of 10:25 a.m.  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 0.2 percent.  The Powershot maker yesterday cut its projection for  net
income  this year by 6.4 percent to 234 billion yen ($2.9
billion) while also lowering its sales estimate for compact
cameras by 9.5 percent and for professional-grade models by 4.3
percent. That’s the second time Chief Executive Officer Fujio Mitarai reduced compact-camera estimates since taking over the
top job in March as Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.
unveiled smartphones that can take high-definition photos.  “The digital camera sales targets and profit level were
weaker than our projections,”  Hisashi Moriyama , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a report today. “Canon
needs to build additional earnings driver” as its profits from
cameras, printers and copiers may continue shrinking, said the
analyst, who has an underweight rating on the stock.  Global camera sales are expected to fall 4.3 percent this
year to 115.2 million units, according to market researcher IHS.
Industrywide camera shipments fell 25 percent in August from a
year earlier, according to the Camera & Imaging Products
Association in Tokyo.  Surging Smartphones  By comparison, global sales of smartphones -- devices that
can be used to shoot high-definition videos, read books, play
movies and surf the Internet -- rose 32 percent to 146.1 million
units in the second quarter, according to market researcher
 Strategy Analytics .  “We lowered our camera sales projection because of slower
economic growth and an increasing use of smartphones that’s
eroding demand,” Chief Financial Officer Toshizo Tanaka told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  Canon’s estimate  for full-year profit lagged behind the 239
billion-yen average of 22  analyst estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The company yesterday also reported third-quarter
profit of 50.1 billion yen, compared with the 55.5 billion-yen
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
of 799.9 billion yen in the quarter also trailed analyst
estimates for 899.5 billion yen.  Sales this year may be 3.53 trillion yen, lower than the
previous estimate for 3.69 trillion yen, Tokyo-based Canon said
yesterday.  Operating profit  may be 356 billion yen, down from an
earlier estimate for 390 billion yen.  iPhone 5  Apple’s new iPhone 5 -- with an 8-megapixel camera sensor
and backside illumination -- has software that lets consumers
take panoramic pictures. Last month,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  unveiled a phone
with a spring-mounted camera for steadier pictures. In February,
the Espoo, Finland-based company introduced a phone that has a
41-megapixel camera.  “We see the third-quarter results and the new guidance
fueling concerns many investors have” about compact digital
camera market contractions and slowing printer market growth,
Toshiya Hari, a Tokyo-based  analyst  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in a report today, cutting his 12-month target price for
the stock by 7 percent to 2,620 yen.  Worldwide printer and copier shipments declined 8.4 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the
International Data Corporation.  The  European debt crisis  and anti-Japan protests in China
also are affecting demand, Canon said yesterday. A stronger yen
is hurting repatriated earnings of a company that gets 80
percent of its revenue from overseas.  “The global economy remains weak in the fourth quarter and
concerns are increasing about a slowdown,” Tanaka said
yesterday. “Especially for Europe and  China , we cannot foresee
what will happen.”  About a quarter of the cut in Canon’s annual sales of
cameras are due to risks in China, Tanaka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  