-- Carroll’s Anglo Successor to Face Platinum Turnaround Task
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-27T11:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/carroll-s-anglo-successor-to-face-platinum-unit-turnaround-task.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s replacement for
 Cynthia Carroll , the mining company’s departing chief executive
officer, will have to confront its unprofitable platinum unit as
the most pressing challenge.  “Platinum is the single-biggest issue,” Des Kilalea, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said by phone from  London 
yesterday. “It’s got too many risks that global investors don’t
like, including deep-level mining, very high labor component of
costs, and there’s strong and quite well organized unions,
political and empowerment issues.”  Losses at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , known as Amplats
and the source of 40 percent of global supplies of the metal
from its mines in South Africa and  Zimbabwe , have heaped
pressure on Carroll. She ordered a review of Amplats, which
posted a record first-half  loss  of 464 million rand ($54
million) and on Oct. 25 cut its 2012 output forecast following
wildcat strikes in South Africa.  Chairman  John Parker  has begun a global search for a
replacement for Princeton, New Jersey-born Carroll, 55, who said
yesterday she will stay on until the London-based company finds
her successor. Anglo’s market value has slumped by about $14
billion in Carroll’s more than five years as the company’s first
woman, external hire and non-South African CEO.  Carroll’s replacement may have to consider giving Anglo’s
77 percent stake in Amplats to shareholders, said Matt Brenzel,
an analyst at Cadiz Financial Services Group in  Cape Town .  ’Elegant Solution’  “One way they could get rid of the platinum problem is to
unbundle Amplats” by handing shareholders Anglo’s Amplats
shares and leaving the decision to sell or hold the stock to
them, Brenzel said. “It’s a fairly elegant solution to quite a
complex problem. Platinum will be the most pressing issue.”  Amplats has had to absorb South African electricity and
labor costs that have risen faster than inflation in the past
three years, while platinum prices have stayed flat.  The business has come under threat as governments pursue a
larger share of earnings for local people.  South Africa ’s ruling
party is studying raising taxes, while Zimbabwe’s government
wants companies to transfer control to locals.  The platinum unit’s poor performance has weighed on Anglo’s
stock,  down 19 percent  this year in London. BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the largest mining company, has gained 5.5 percent, while
Xstrata Plc has advanced 2 percent and Vale SA has lost 15
percent.  Platinum Mentality  “Anglo has had this mentality that platinum is core to the
business, that, because it is the biggest producer in the
sector, it made sense to keep it,” Brenzel said. “But the
market hasn’t played ball.”  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  shut most of its mines this year
while Lonmin Plc, the third-largest producer, has curbed
spending plans and may hold a rights offer, according to Societe
Generale SA and SBG Securities Ltd.  Anglo “should look at unbundling platinum,” Johan de Kock, a  money manager  at Momentum Asset Managers Ltd., which has
the equivalent of about $8.1 billion of fixed-income assets,
said by phone from Cape Town. “It’s quite a cyclical industry
and it’s a difficult industry with large numbers of workers.”  Amplats had 52,000 employees as of Dec. 31, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It fired 12,000 miners this month for failing
to report for work, before rehiring them yesterday. The company
offered workers a one-time payment of 2,000 rand ($231) if they
return to work during the Oct.30 morning shift.  The company lost an average 4,500 ounces of daily
production during the disruption, it said Oct. 25.  CEO Candidates  Parker may need six months to find Carroll’s replacement,
RBC said yesterday, and whoever he homes in on will have more to
contend with than just platinum. Anglo said this week it is a
preparing a new cost estimate for its biggest project, the
Minas-Rio iron ore venture in  Brazil . The $5.8 billion project’s
projected costs have already been increased at least four times.  Alex Vanselow, a former BHP chief financial officer,
“seems the most obvious candidate,” Deutsche Bank AG said in a
note to clients. While Chris Griffith, made CEO of Amplats in
July, is the strongest potential internal successor, his
critical new role may remove him from contention, the bank said.  Xstrata Plc’s CEO  Mick Davis , set to leave after Glencore
International Plc’c proposed $33 billion takeover, may be a
candidate,  John Meyer , a Fairfax IS Plc analyst in London, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Mark Cutifani , chief executive officer of AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd., and Doug Ritchie, strategy chief at Rio Tinto Plc, are
also candidates for Carroll’s job, the Financial Times said
today without citing anyone.  Seven Products  “On the search process, which will start from today, our
aim will be to secure the best candidate,” Parker said on a
conference call yesterday. “I wouldn’t really want to comment
on any individual, except I think it wouldn’t be unreasonable
for me to say that we couldn’t afford Mick Davis.”  During her tenure, Carroll reorganized Anglo around the
mining of seven core metals and minerals:  iron ore ,
metallurgical coal, thermal coal, copper, nickel, platinum and
diamonds, with a plan of putting Anglo in a position to double
output across these areas by 2020.  South Africa’s Public Investment Corp., Anglo’s biggest
investor, yesterday criticized Carroll for investing in poorly
performing companies. It has demanded “a serious refocus of the
company” and will push Parker and Anglo executives before the
end of this year to identify lasting turnaround strategies, a
statement from PIC showed.  The question of what to do with the platinum business may
arise in those discussions.  “How you would handle an unbundling financially and
politically, I’m not sure,” Kilalea said. “You’d need
shareholder approval for that -- how would the South African
shareholders feel about that, I don’t know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  