-- Carstens Says Mexico Bank Sent Stronger Message on Inflation
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/carstens-says-mexico-bank-sent-stronger-message-on-inflation.html
Mexican central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said policy makers sent a “stronger message”
about their commitment to fighting inflation after alerting
investors that they are closer to raising  interest rates .  The central bank kept its benchmark rate at a record low
4.5 percent yesterday amid sluggish global economic growth,
while warning that if pressures stemming from an increase in
food prices persist policy makers could raise borrowing costs
“soon.”  “We expressed our deep concern about how inflation is
moving and that we’re willing to act to preserve our mandate,
which is to keep inflation under control,” Carstens told
reporters yesterday in  Minneapolis  after a speech to the
Economic Club of  Minnesota .  Short-term inflation risks have increased, even as the
outlook for economic growth has deteriorated amid a worsening
global scenario, the bank said in a statement accompanying its
decision. While inflation slowed in the first half of October,
bolstering the central bank’s argument that the impact of a
drought and a bird flu outbreak are temporary, it has remained
above the 2 percent to 4 percent target range for more than four
months.  ‘Hawkish Tone’  The statement was the most “hawkish” since Carstens took
office in January 2010 and a “masterful” move that should help
reduce inflation expectations, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
report after the decision.  “The press release definitely has a verbally hawkish tone,
but being verbally hawkish doesn’t mean you’re going to hike
rates immediately,” said Fernando Losada, an economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York .  “The risks are now
that the rate hike will happen earlier rather than later, but
still our call is that there won’t be any rate changes next
year.”  While inflation in Mexico slowed in the first half of
October to 4.64 percent, bolstering the central bank’s argument
that the impact of a drought and an outbreak of bird flu are
temporary, it has remained above the 2 percent to 4 percent
target range for more than four months.  “Inflation is expected to keep decreasing in coming months
to reach very close to 4 percent toward the end of the year,”
the bank said. “If inflation shocks persist, even though they
are presumed to be temporary, and the trend in general and  core
inflation  aren’t confirmed, the board thinks that it would be
appropriate to carry out an upward adjustment soon in the
reference interest rate.”  Inflation Target  Mexico’s peso strengthened yesterday, posting the only
advance among major Latin American currencies. The currency
gained 0.2 percent to 12.9897 per dollar in Mexico City,
trimming the weekly drop to 0.8 percent. The peso has
appreciated 7.3 percent this year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Carstens said that there’s a greater risk that his forecast
for prices to fall to within the bank’s target range by year-end
won’t be met.  “There are risk factors that are present and have
increased and that might make it more difficult to bring down
inflation without monetary policy instruments,” Carstens said.  The only Group of 20 nation to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the past three
years,  Mexico  will wait until March 2014 to raise rates by a
quarter percentage point, according to a Citigroup Inc. survey
of economists published Oct. 22.  ‘Our Resilience’  Carstens also said that the nation deserves a credit-rating
upgrade. Mexico’s economy is set to grow 3.8 percent this year,
compared with 2.1 percent expansion in the U.S. and a 0.5
percent contraction in the euro area, according to the median
estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We certainly believe Mexico should get an upgrade,”
Carstens said. “We have done the job, we have preserved and
strengthened our policy stance. I think our performance through
these trying times in the world economy shows our resilience.”  As finance minister in 2009, Carstens guided Mexico through
a 6.2 percent economic contraction sparked by the swine-flu
scare and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse. Mexico has
boosted foreign reserves by 78 percent since then to a record
$161.9 billion in the week ended Sept. 28.  Still, Mexico remains rated BBB at Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings. Both agencies downgraded the nation to that level
in 2009, citing declining crude output from state-owned
 Petroleos Mexicanos , the source of about a third of  federal
budget  funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 