-- Cat Bond Returns Accelerate as ‘Frankenstorm’ Bears Down
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-10-26T18:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/cat-bonds-headed-for-best-return-since-2009-with-storm-looming.html
Bonds designed to protect insurers
from payouts on natural disasters are headed for the best
returns since 2009 as a superstorm expected to develop from
Hurricane Sandy threatens to strike the U.S. Northeast.  Catastrophe bonds, which lose money if they’re triggered,
have  returned  10.3 percent this year through last week, more
than triple the 2.79 percent gains in the corresponding period
of 2011, according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Total Return Index.
The measure, which tracks dollar-denominated debt sold by
insurers and reinsurers, includes bonds linked to potential
storm damage in the U.S.  Investor demand for the securities has grown with yields on
speculative-grade corporate bonds hovering at  record lows  as the
 Federal Reserve  holds down  interest rates  to boost the economy.
About $1 billion of catastrophe bonds may be exposed to the
storm, according to a “loose” estimate by Patti Guatteri of
Swiss Re Capital Markets.  “Some investors are looking for bids on specific bonds
that are the most exposed to the Northeast,” Guatteri, director
of insurance-linked security trading in New York, said today in
a telephone interview. “A few things have traded, but nothing
at hugely distressed levels, so clearly there is not panic in
the market at this point.”  Earthquake, Tsunami  Prices of the securities have gained 2.5 percent this year
through last week, boosting the Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return
Index to 95.15, the highest since March 2011.  About $5.3 billion of dollar-denominated cat bonds issued
in 2012 have an average maturity of three-years with yields of
9.2 percentage points more than short-term lending rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
6.18 percent yield on junk bonds of similar maturities, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Returns on cat bonds fell to 3.3 percent last year, with an
earthquake and tsunami striking  Japan  in March 2011, after
gaining 11.3 percent in 2010 and 13.9 percent in 2009. On an
annualized basis, this year’s gains are headed toward 12.9
percent.  Sandy may combine with a second storm coming out of the
Midwest to create a system that would rival the New England
hurricane of 1938 in intensity, according to Paul Kocin, a
meteorologist in  College Park ,  Maryland , with the  National
Weather Service , which dubbed the system “Frankenstorm.” The
1938 hurricane killed more than 500 people after crossing  Long
Island  and battering  Connecticut  and  Rhode Island .  ‘Mostly Benign’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Arun Kumar and Brett Gibson
last month characterized the 2012  hurricane season  as “mostly
benign” for insurers, with Hurricane Isaac the only storm to
make U.S. landfall and cause notable losses of about $1.2
billion, according to a Sept. 10 report.  “It’s very early to tell what’s going to happen with this
storm,” Nelson Seo, co-founder of Westport, Connecticut-based
Fermat Capital Management, which oversees more than $3 billion,
including cat bonds, said in a telephone interview. “Even if
something does happen, it’s probably not enough to wipe out the
returns you’ve seen this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  