-- CEOs Back Deficit Deal as Obama Fails, Says Wilbur Ross
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ceos-back-deficit-deal-as-obama-fails-says-wilbur-ross.html
More than 80 heads of U.S. companies
joined a campaign to reduce federal deficits through spending
cuts and tax increases because President Barack Obama hasn’t
reached an accord with lawmakers that would avoid a fiscal
cliff, said billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross .  “It was really an announcement out of desperation,” Ross
said of a statement yesterday signed by the chief executive
officers of companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “They were
trying collectively as business leaders to fill the vacuum left
by the political leadership of the president.”  The Campaign to Fix the Debt said in its letter that a
long-term deficit-reduction deal would encourage economic growth
and ease the uncertainty holding back the U.S. economy. Among
the group’s leaders are Erskine Bowles and  Alan Simpson , the co-
chairmen of Obama’s 2010 fiscal commission.  Disagreements between Democrats and Republicans over how to
approach deficit reduction have left Congress deadlocked. Obama
has said he wants a plan combining some changes to spending
programs with a tax increase on high-income earners.
Republicans, including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , want
cuts to entitlement programs and oppose tax increases.  Potential Recession  “I think it’s tragic that President Obama appointed
Simpson and Bowles, they came with relatively sensible
suggestions, and he totally walked away and provided no
leadership for them,” Ross, chairman of WL Ross & Co., said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” “If he
had exerted leadership, we wouldn’t have the fiscal cliff that
we have now.”  The fiscal cliff refers to $607 billion in spending cuts
and tax increases that are set to start in January unless
Congress acts to avoid them. If Congress doesn’t come to an
agreement, the drop in spending and burden of higher taxes would
probably lead to a recession, according to the Congressional
Budget Office.  “Policy makers should acknowledge that our growing debt is
a serious threat to the economic well-being and security of the
United States,” the executives said in the letter.  Other companies with CEOs participating in the campaign
include  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Loews Corp. (L)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  