-- Delta, American Drop Change Fees Ahead of Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   B e r n a r d   K o h n
-- 2012-10-26T20:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/change-fees-waived-as-transportation-providers-prepare-for-sandy.html
Delta Air Lines Inc., (DAL)   US Airways 
Group Inc. and  American Airlines  waived fees for changing
reservations for travel in the East and Northeast U.S. in
anticipation of Hurricane Sandy bringing high winds and heavy
rain to the region next week.  Delta, the second-biggest U.S. carrier, today waived
charges to change flights to and from seven states and the
District of Columbia for travel on Oct. 29 through Oct. 31,
according to the airline’s website.  US Airways  waived change
fees on flights at 44 U.S. airports on the same dates, while the
policy at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American covers 22 airports for Oct. 28
through Oct. 31.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  dropped fees to change flights to and
from New York-area and Washington-area airports and Richmond,
Virginia, on Oct. 29 and Oct. 30.  Megabus, the discount bus line owned by  Stagecoach Group
Plc (SGC) , said it’s allowing customers scheduled to travel in nine
states and Washington, D.C., between Oct. 28 and Oct. 30 to
reschedule their trips by phone, with no fees, said Mike Alvich,
a company spokesman.  Operations personnel at Amtrak, the Washington-based
interstate passenger railroad, will meet later today to make
decisions on canceling trains and positioning employees to
remove trees and clear tracks, said  Steve Kulm , a spokesman.  “We’ve been monitoring this in a serious way for the last
three or four days,” he said.  FAA Steps  Based on experience with previous storms, Amtrak may be
able to keep running longer than airports can stay open, he
said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , which operates
the air traffic system, is monitoring Sandy and taking steps to
protect its radars, radio antennas and navigation beacons from
the storm, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  “The FAA’s top operational priority is to quickly re-
establish air traffic service to support disaster relief
efforts,” the agency said.  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates
New York City’s subway and bus system as well as trains to
outlying areas, warned of possible service suspensions. The
agency last shut down its network in August 2011 when Tropical
Storm Irene threatened the area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bernard Kohn in  Washington  at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  