-- Colombia Keeps Rate at 4.75% Citing Better World Markets
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-10-26T23:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/colombia-holds-policy-rate-at-4-75-as-global-risk-seen-abating.html
Colombia kept interest rates
unchanged for a second straight month as policy makers judge
that bond-buying plans by the U.S. Federal Reserve and  European
Central Bank  will ease the risk of a global slump.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, left its  benchmark interest rate  at 4.75 percent today,
in line with the forecasts of 28 of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Five analysts forecast a quarter-point reduction.
Uribe said the decision wasn’t unanimous.  “Global financial conditions have improved, partly because
of policy action by the world’s main central banks,” Uribe
said, reading the central bank’s policy statement in Bogota.
“Volatility has fallen, and some asset prices have gone up.”
Uncertainty over banks and public finances remains high, he
said.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs at its July and
August meetings, citing weakening global growth that curbed
demand for the country’s exports. Policy makers will probably
keep the 4.75 percent rate until the end of 2013, as their
concern about a global downturn ease, said  Francisco Rodriguez ,
a New York-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “Those fears have receded with the decisions taken by
those countries’ monetary authorities,” Rodriguez said, in
reply to an e-mailed question. The central bank could return to
cutting rates if the world economy takes another turn for the
worse, Rodriguez added.  ‘Ammunition’  The Colombian Treasury bought $641 million with oil
royalties in the year through Oct. 18, and the figure will rise
to about $1 billion by the end of the year, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  said today after the decision.  The Treasury has the wherewithal to buy more dollars above
this amount using non-oil money, Cardenas told reporters in
Bogota.  “We have the ammunition. We have the reserve ready. We
haven’t used it, but we’ll use it at the moment we consider
necessary,” he said.  At its September meeting, the central bank extended a $20
million daily dollar purchase program until March, from a
previous end-date of November.  Cardenas said that industry and agriculture are the
government’s main worries. Industrial  output  fell 1.9 percent in
August from a year earlier, its fourth year-on-year decline
since March. Economists had forecast a 1.1 percent increase,
according to the median estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Inflation, Target  At the same time, exports have declined for three straight
months on a year-on-year basis, while the  trade deficit  widened
for a second month in August.  Colombian manufacturers have been battered by weak global
growth and by the peso’s 6.1 percent rally against the dollar
this year, the sixth-best performance among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Consumer prices rose 0.29 percent in September, more than
the 0.16 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32
analysts.  Annual inflation  slowed to 3.08 percent, close to the
mid-point of the central bank’s target range.  Colombia  has the lowest inflation rate in Latin America
after  Chile  among the region’s seven biggest economies. The
central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Balance  Colombia peso bond yields fell today before the decision on
speculation the bank would lower rates.  The yield on the 9.25 percent peso-denominated debt due May
2014 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.87
percent in Bogota, according to the central bank  Economists raised their 2012 inflation forecast to 3.06
percent in a central bank survey published on Oct. 11, up from 3
percent in the September survey.  Gross domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the third-fastest expansion among
 Latin America ’s seven biggest economies after Peru and Chile.  ‘Central bank research shows that the Colombian economy can
grow at a long-term pace of 4.3 percent to 5.3 percent without
stoking inflation, Uribe said this month.  Uribe was last month appointed for a third four-year term
at the bank’s helm, starting January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 