-- Colombia Likely to Keep 4.75% Rate as Global Risk Seen Abating
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/colombia-likely-to-keep-4-75-rate-as-global-risk-seen-abating.html
Colombia will probably keep  interest
rates  unchanged for a second straight month as policy makers
anticipate that bond-buying plans by the U.S. Federal Reserve
and  European Central Bank  will ease the risk of a global slump.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, will hold its  benchmark interest rate  at 4.75 percent
today, according to 28 of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Five analysts expect a quarter-point reduction. Policy makers
will announce their decision after 11 a.m. local time.  The central bank lowered borrowing costs at its July and
August meetings, citing weakening global growth that curbed
demand for Colombia’s exports. While the country’s industrial
output and foreign sales shrank since the board last met, policy
makers will probably wait to see more evidence of a slowdown 
before cutting rates again, said Katia Diaz, a Latin America 
analyst at 4Cast Inc. in  New York .  “There’s a hawkish majority on the board that insists on
waiting for more data before committing to further easing, and
probably by month-end we should get that data, and everyone will
be on board,” Diaz said in a phone interview yesterday. “They
are waiting for things to unfold.” Diaz forecasts a quarter-
point cut to 4.5 percent at the central bank’s November meeting.  Last month, a minority of the board voted for an interest
rate cut. Four days later in Cali, bank chief Uribe said the
ECB’s plan to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis and a new round of
stimulus by the Fed, both announced last month, have reduced the
chances of a “collapse” in the world economy.  Global Demand, Peso  Colombia ’s industrial  output  fell 1.9 percent in August
from a year earlier, its fourth year-on-year decline since
March. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 1.1 percent increase.  At the same time, exports have declined for three straight
months on a year-on-year basis, with the  trade deficit  widening
for a second month in August.  Colombian manufacturers have been battered by weak global
growth, and by the peso’s 6.7 percent rally against the dollar
this year, the fifth-best performance among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide. At its September
meeting, the central bank extended a $20 million daily dollar
purchase program until March, from a previous end-date of
November.  Consumer prices rose 0.29 percent in September, higher than
the 0.16 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32
analysts. Still,  annual inflation  slowed to 3.08 percent, close
to the mid-point of the central bank’s target range.  Expectations, Balance  Colombia has the lowest inflation rate in  Latin America 
after Chile among the region’s seven biggest economies. The
central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Economists expect consumer prices to rise 3.06 percent,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey
published on Oct. 11, compared with 3 percent in the bank’s
September survey.  Uribe told lawmakers in August that the bank began cutting
interest rates due to “the behavior of internal demand, and
especially due to the behavior of the global economy and its
effects on exports and sectors such as industry.”  Gross domestic product grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the third-fastest expansion among
Latin America’s seven biggest economies after  Peru  and  Chile .
Central bank research shows that the Colombian economy can grow
at a long-term pace of 4.3 percent to 5.3 percent without
stoking inflation, Uribe said this month.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in July 2024 was little changed yesterday at 6.07
percent, according to the central bank.  The benchmark Colcap Index has gained 9 percent in October,
heading for the largest monthly gain in three years. The Colcap
has climbed 24 percent this year in dollar terms, outpacing
stocks in Peru, Chile, and  Brazil .  Uribe was last week appointed for a third four-year term at
the bank’s helm, starting January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 