-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Pare Rise; Samarco Sells Debt
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-26T21:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-to-highest-in-four-weeks.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk pared an earlier rise as the economy grew at a faster-than-
expected pace in the third quarter.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, held at a
mid-price of 98 basis points at 4:34 p.m. in New York, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure reached as high as
99.8 basis points earlier today, the most in four weeks.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. grew at a 2 percent
annualized rate in the most recent quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today. That exceeded the 1.8 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The GDP report eased concerns that economic recovery would
slow, reducing the ability of borrowers to meet debt-service
requirements, as government spending helped prop up a growth
rate that would otherwise have been closer to 1.1 percent, Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-
based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, wrote in an e-mail.
“Looks like folks want to feel good about the GDP number.”  The credit-swaps index, which reached 100.2 basis points
Sept. 28, typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates
and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Samarco Mineracao  The U.S. two-year interest rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, fell 0.18 basis point to 10.32 basis
points. The measure, which falls when investors favor assets
such as corporate bonds and rises when they seek the perceived
safety of government securities, last week touched the narrowest
on an intraday basis since at least 1988, as far back as
Bloomberg tracks the data.  Samarco Mineracao SA, the Brazil-based joint venture
between  Vale SA (VALE3)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , sold $1 billion of bonds
in its first ever dollar-denominated offering. The iron ore
processor issued 10-year, 4.125 percent debt to yield 245 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data
show.  Credit swaps protecting the debt of  American Axle &
Manufacturing Holdings Inc. (AXL)  rose 56.9 basis points to 593.4
basis points, poised for the highest closing level since Sept.
4, as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The maker of axles and crankshafts today  reported  adjusted
profit per share of 7 cents for the third-quarter, short of the
average estimate of 33 cents a share in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  