-- Soho China Eyes Bond as Dollar Sales Fall to Near Four-Month Low
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-10-26T04:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/corporate-bond-risk-rises-in-japan-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Soho China Ltd. (410) , a Beijing-based
property developer, is considering its first sale of dollar-
denominated debt as weekly sales by Asia-Pacific issuers slump
to the least in almost four months.  Soho China hired Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley and Standard Chartered Plc to
arrange investor meetings before a possible offering of bonds in
the U.S. currency, according to a  statement  on the Hong Kong
stock exchange website. The city’s Wing Lung Bank and South
Korea’s SK Telecom Co. raised $900 million from dollar notes
this week, the lowest issuance from the Asia-Pacific region
since the beginning of July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Borrowers reduced offerings by 83 percent from the previous
period as markets in  Hong Kong ,  Singapore ,  Malaysia ,  Indonesia 
and  India  closed for national holidays. Bond risk in Australia
and Asia outside of  Japan  is on track to rise for the first week
this month, according to credit-default swap traders.  “The holidays around the region have stalled sales in the
short term,” said Bryan Collins, a Hong Kong-based fixed income
portfolio manager at FIL Ltd., known as Fidelity Worldwide
Investment. “The rush of new issues last week and fact that
some didn’t perform so well in the secondary market may have
persuaded others to take a break.”  Relative yields on Asian dollar bonds rose to 261 basis
points more than Treasuries yesterday, from 250 at the end of
last week, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  The yield premium on  PTT Pcl (PTT) ’s bonds due 2022 widened to
176 basis points as of 10.28 a.m. in Hong Kong, from an issue
spread of 160 on Oct. 18, prices from BNP Paribas SA and data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Thai company sold $500 million
of the 3.375 percent bonds last week as well as $600 million of
30-year, 4.5 percent notes.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan is poised to climb 1.5 basis points this
week, CMA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The
gauge was trading at 118.5 as of 8:12 a.m. in Hong Kong,
according to RBS.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index was little changed at 141
as of 11:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp.
The index closed at 137.5 last week, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1 basis point to 204
as of 9:07 a.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
index, which has ranged from 168.5 to 229.5 since June, is on
track to decline 4 basis points this week, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  