-- Credit Suisse Stocks Chief Jain Said to Join Hedge Unit
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-10-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/credit-suisse-stocks-chief-jain-said-to-move-to-hedge-fund-unit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Bob Jain
will step down after almost four years as head of the stocks
business to oversee in-house hedge funds in the money-management
division, two people with knowledge of the decision said.  Jain will run the alternatives unit and be based in New
York, reporting to asset-management chief Robert Shafir, 54,
said one of the people, who requested anonymity because the
changes aren’t public. Timothy O’Hara, a former head of the
Americas fixed-income department, will assume Jain’s role. An
announcement may come this week, the people said.  Revenue from Credit Suisse’s equities business, which
includes stock trading, may decline for a third straight year as
the European sovereign-debt crisis and stagnating economic
growth help depress transaction volumes. The Zurich-based bank,
Switzerland’s second-largest, is seeking growth from the
alternatives unit after announcing a plan in July to bolster
hedge funds and other vehicles that invest client money in
liquid assets such as stocks, bonds and commodities.  O’Hara will keep the title of co-head of global securities
as he takes over responsibility for the equities business, one
of the people said. He was named co-head of global securities in
July 2011 alongside Jain and Gael de Boissard, who’s based in
 London  and oversees the fixed-income business.  Volcker Rule  Credit Suisse’s equities business ranked third by revenue
among the world’s biggest investment banks in the first half of
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the nine months
through September, the business generated 3.59 billion francs
($3.8 billion) in revenue, down 4.5 percent from a year earlier
as volumes dropped industrywide, the bank said last week.  Jain, who is 42 this month, had run the equities business
since 2008, one of the people said. He previously was head of
proprietary trading, where banks bet on markets with their own
money. U.S. firms will be barred from proprietary trading under
the so-called Volcker rule, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  The alternatives unit at Credit Suisse generated 872
million francs of revenue in the first nine months, down 6.5
percent from the same period of 2011. The unit oversees about
205.1 billion francs as of Sept. 30. That amount includes 28.5
billion francs in private-equity funds.  The bank said in July it that it planned to sell its
private-equity funds as part of the shift toward liquid
investments.  Credit Suisse told investors then that it was exiting
private equity in part because of uncertainty around the Volcker
rule, which limits banks’ own investments in hedge funds and
private-equity funds to prevent them from taking too much risk.  Last week, the bank announced it also would try to sell its
exchange-traded funds, which are part of the alternatives unit.
The company had 16.1 billion francs of assets under management
in ETFs at the end of the third quarter. The alternatives unit
also invests client money in real estate, commodities, credit
and index-linked strategies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  