-- Armstrong Tour de France Titles Won’t Go to Ullrich, Basso
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-26T16:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/cycling-world-body-won-t-give-armstrong-titles-to-ullrich-basso.html
Cycling’s ruling body won’t award
the titles stripped from  Lance Armstrong  for doping to any
runners-up. They include Jan Ullrich, who was also found to be
using blood transfusions to cheat.  The  Union Cycliste Internationale , which on Oct. 22
endorsed a decision to strip Armstrong of his record seven Tour
de France wins, said today in an e-mailed statement that a
“cloud of suspicion would remain hanging over this dark
period.”  Armstrong, who has denied doping for more than a decade,
declined to contest allegations presented by the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency.  Germany ’s Ullrich, a three-time runner-up to Armstrong
between 1999 and 2005, was found guilty of blood doping in
February this year.  Switzerland ’s Alex Zuelle, Joseba Beloki of
 Spain , Germany’s Andreas Kloeden and Ivan Basso also finished
second to Armstrong in those years. Basso, an Italian, has
served a two-year doping ban.  Blood doping is the re-infusion of an athlete’s blood to
boost the number of oxygen-carrying red blood cells, a method
which can improve stamina.  Acknowledging that some riders who contested leading
positions may have rode the Tour without doping in those years,
the UCI said there was “little honor” remaining in
reallocating places.  The UCI said it was calling for Armstrong and riders found
to have used drugs to cheat by the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  to
return prize money they received. The French cycling federation
estimates Armstrong, 41, won 3 million euros ($3.9 million) in
prizes during his career.  The UCI said it would ask another sports body to set up an
external commission to look into how the cycling authority
handled issues relating to Armstrong, which include accepting
financial donations. Three-time  Tour de France  winner Greg LeMond yesterday called on UCI president Pat McQuaid to quit
over his governance of the sport.  McQuaid replaced Hein Verbruggen in 2005.  The commission, which will report its findings by June
2013, will be asked to find ways to ban people caught doping
from participating in professional cycling, the UCI said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  