-- Dell’s China Sales Should Rebound This Quarter, Asia Chief Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-26T07:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/dell-s-china-sales-should-rebound-this-quarter-asia-chief-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  forecast a “significant
uptick” in  China  this quarter after experiencing its first
sales decline in the world’s largest PC market.  Slower economic growth and Chinese consumers holding back
purchases before today’s release of Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8
software caused last quarter’s drop, Amit Midha, president of
Dell’s Asia division, said in a phone interview. Sales of
servers and storage weren’t affected, indicating it was a PC-
demand issue, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  said in July the
company faces “challenges” in China, and the following month
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell reported its first decline in total
 sales  for the country. The PC maker cited “particular softness
and pricing pressure” in China as contributing to an 18 percent
drop in second-quarter net income to $732 million.  “It’s really a PC-driven piece and we believe this is
short term and it’s going to rebound back,” Midha said. “There
is a significant uptick as we have gone through this quarter
versus the previous quarter.”  The company reports fiscal third-quarter results Nov. 15.  Dell’s share of the global PC market fell to 10.5 percent
in the third quarter from 11.2 percent a year earlier, market-
researcher Gartner Inc. said Oct. 10.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s six-
year reign as the world’s top personal-computer maker was ended
by China’s  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , Gartner data showed. Lenovo
accounted for 15.7 percent of shipments last quarter, compared
with 15.5 percent for Hewlett-Packard, Gartner said.  Dell will continue to be a significant player in PCs while
focusing on high- and medium-priced products, Midha said.  “We want to make sure we continue to deliver high-value
added products to the customer, and not necessarily go down to
the lowest price points,” Midha said. “It’s not a unit game.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  