-- Dollarama Outperforms Wal-Mart as Retail Stock
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-26T21:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/dollarama-outperforms-wal-mart-as-retail-stock-corporate-canada.html
Dollarama Inc. (DOL)  is beating  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  as the top North American mass
retail stock this year on forecasts its dominance of the
Canadian market will be unchallenged for as much as five years.  The Montreal-based company with more than 700 stores has
gained 42 percent this year, 16 percentage points more than
second-place Wal-Mart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Target is third with a 23 percent gain. U.S. dollar store  Dollar
General Corp. (DG)  has risen 15 percent.  “It’s really, really easy to see your stock price grow and
your performance soar when you have no competitors,” said Dutch Fox, a retail analyst with Friedman Billings Ramsey & Co. by
phone from Arlington, Virginia.  While retailers such as Canadian Tire Corp. face increased
competition from Target’s entry into  Canada  in 2013, the only
firm with the potential to take on Dollarama is U.S. chain
Dollar Tree Inc. which is at least five years from having the
scale to compete, Perry Caicco, an analyst with CIBC World
Markets, wrote in a Sept. 12 note.  “People realize Dollar Tree is coming, but they have to
prove they can actually work in the Canadian space, and there’s
not a lot of retailers that have,” Vanessa Morgan, president of
Morgan, Meighen & Associates, which owns 365,000 Dollarama
shares, or about 0.5 percent. Competition won’t affect the share
price any time soon, Morgan said by phone from Toronto.  Dollarama fell 7 Canadian cents to C$63.14 at the close in
Toronto today, for a market value of C$4.66 billion ($4.73
billion). Wal-Mart fell 21 cents to $75.11 in New York and
Target rose 80 cents to $63.92. The Standard & Poor’s TSX
Consumer Discretionary Index has risen 13 percent this year.  Dollar Giant  Chesapeake, Virginia-based  Dollar Tree (DLTR)  bought Dollar Giant
Stores Ltd. in 2010 for C$52 million cash, giving it 85 Canadian
locations. The company is in the preliminary stages of adding
stores and building the infrastructure to sustain a national
network, said Fox.  “Dollar Tree right now is focusing on getting the
acquisition integrated and realizing the immediately available
synergies before they really start ramping up and rolling out,”
Fox said. Even if the company opens 75 stores a year it would be
a few years before being able to “disrupt” Dollarama, Fox
said.  Dollar Tree will have about 1,000 stores in Canada, Chief
Executive Officer Bob Sasser said in a conference call Oct. 11,
without giving a time frame. Calls and e-mails yesterday to Tim Reid, a Dollar Tree spokesman, were not returned.  Growth Potential  Lyla Radmanovich, a spokeswoman for Dollarama, declined to
comment.  Dollarama has more stores than its competitors combined,
said Neil Linsdell, an analyst at Industrial Alliance Securities
Inc. With plans to open 50-60 stores a year for an eventual
total of 1,000, it has plenty of room to grow in a Canadian
market that could sustain as many as 2,400 dollar stores, he
said. On average, the top six dollar store chains in Canada
serve 28,500 people per store, compared with 14,000 people per
store among the top five U.S. chains, he said.  “When the market was really open to that type of offering,
Dollarama was really the first one to jump in with scale, with
speed, and basically just completely dominates the market,”
Linsdell said by phone from  Montreal .  Dollarama’s specialization in items that can be bought for
pocket change also blunts competition with mass retailers like
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, which has experimented
with dollar offerings, but for the most part sells higher priced
goods, Linsdell said.  “We have many items across our stores that sell for $1,”
said Andrew Pelletier, a spokesman for Wal-Mart. “It’s not
limited to a program or a particular zone of the store. We work
with our suppliers to offer great items throughout our stores
for $1.”  More Traffic  Slower economic growth in Canada, which is forecast in a
Bloomberg survey to be 2 percent next year after 2.6 percent in
2011, make Dollarama’s prices appealing. Its focus on small-
ticket, convenience items such as napkins and pens has immunized
the chain from shifts to online and cross-border shopping,
Caicco at CIBC said in his note.  For the same reason, Dollarama needn’t be concerned about
the arrival of Minneapolis-based Target next year, Jim Durran,
an analyst with Barclays Plc, wrote in a note Oct. 1. Dollarama
will benefit from increased traffic when a Target opens nearby,
he said.  The company’s introduction of debit payment and items
priced above a dollar helped boost sales in recent quarters,
said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. by
phone from St. Louis,  Missouri . Those improvements mean large
year-over-year sales increases are unlikely in the future, even
with the five-year window before competition ramps up, he said.  Sales Moderate  Yarbrough, who rates the stock hold, said when Dollarama’s
sales figures start to moderate, disappointed investors might
send the stock down. Ten analysts say buy the stock, four say
hold it and no one says sell it, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “When you look at analysts’ numbers and all these guys
with buys, to justify upside in the stock they all have
operating margin targets and same store sales growing much
higher than the company said they’re comfortable with,” he
said. “One of two things is going to happen: The company is
going to attain those targets, or at some point it settles in
that they can’t hit 18 and 19 percent operating margins and the
company gets a little weaker.”  Earnings Beat  Dollarama is estimated to report earnings of 70 Canadian
cents a share, adjusted for certain items in the third quarter,
after beating the average of analysts’ estimates in Bloomberg
surveys for at least the past  five  quarters. Dollarama’s  revenue 
grew 14 percent to C$441 million in the second quarter from a
year earlier. Profit climbed to C$49.8 million or 66 cents a
share, adjusted.  Dollarama has also posted higher sales per store and sales
per square foot compared with three of its four U.S. peers, and
similar outperformance on same-store sales, a key retail metric
that discounts newly opened and recently closed stores, CIBC
World Market’s Caicco said in his note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  