-- Germans, Dutch Signal Greece’s Euro Future Still to Be Resolved
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-26T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/dutch-not-willing-to-give-greece-more-time-de-jager-says.html
Germany  and the Netherlands signaled
that  Greece ’s future in the euro is not yet assured, as the
northern neighbors sought to maintain pressure on Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras to hold to agreed reforms.  “It’s not yet decided,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an interview with ZDF television, according to
extracts e-mailed yesterday. “We want Greece to be able to stay
in the euro zone. But Greece has a lot to do.”  Schaeuble’s Dutch colleague, acting Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager , told reporters in The Hague the Netherlands is
“against any delay in the measures the country should take.”
While any lag forced by a worsening Greek economy “is something
different,” it cannot lead to a third aid program, De Jager
said. “We should wait for the report of the troika” of
creditors, he said. “Greece must bear the costs of any delay.”  The dual message is a rebuke to Greek Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras, who triggered investor confusion on Oct. 24
when he told lawmakers in Athens that Greece had won approval
for its bid to secure a two-year extension to 2016 for its
bailout program. The European Commission and  European Central
Bank , two-thirds of the so-called troika examining Greece’s
progress in meeting the terms of its bailout, denied that a deal
had been struck, saying their review is not yet complete.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , whose country is the
biggest contributor to Greece’s 130 billion-euro ($168 billion)
bailout, said in August when Samaras visited Berlin that she was
“deeply convinced” his government would “do what it takes to
solve the problem in Greece.”  ‘Doubts Persist’  Yet Schaeuble said that “doubts persist as to whether
Greece has been able to meet its obligations,” according to the
ZDF interview to be broadcast on Oct. 30. “These doubts have to
be dispelled from now on.”  European policy makers are awaiting the report on Greece’s
progress in meeting internationally agreed targets compiled by
the troika of the EU Commission, the ECB and the  International
Monetary Fund . The German Finance Ministry said yesterday that
it didn’t know when the report will be complete.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  is due to meet with
French President  Francois Hollande  in Paris on Oct. 29 before
traveling to Berlin for talks with Merkel the following day.
Euro-area finance ministers will then hold a conference call on
Oct. 31, a spokesman for Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of finance chiefs, said by e-mail.  Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter said there
needs to be a write-off of Greece’s debt so that officials can
focus on reviving economic growth, even after Citigroup
“tempered” its forecast for Greece leaving the euro.  “I myself continue to be unconvinced that the funding, the
non-market funding, necessary to keep Greece on board will be
available,” Buiter said in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen in New York
yesterday. “It can only come from the official creditors or
from the ECB and neither of them seem to be willing to play.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  