-- East Europe Slowdown Spreads to Russia and Poland, Capital Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-26T14:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/east-europe-slowdown-spreads-to-russia-and-poland-capital-says.html
Eastern  Europe ’s economic growth
probably slowed last quarter and will slump further through
year-end as the euro region’s debt crisis remains unresolved and
governments cut spending,  Capital Economics  said.  Growth in Europe’s east probably averaged between 1.5
percent and 2 percent in the third quarter after 2.5 percent in
the April-June and 4.8 percent in 2011, economists at Capital
led by  Neil Shearing  in  London  wrote in e-mailed note today.  The euro region is the biggest export destination and main
source of investment and bank financing for emerging Europe.
Growth has slowed even in Russia and Poland, which earlier had
expanded more quickly than the rest of the region, as the euro
area’s economic slump deepened and foreign lenders cut support
to their units to repair balance sheets.  “Worryingly, the slowdown appears to have spread to what
were the region’s strongest economies, with growth in Russia and
Poland slowing sharply,” the economists wrote. “The broader
picture is pretty gloomy. Looking ahead, there doesn’t appear to
be any prospect of a quick rebound.”  The  Russian economy  is going through “a fairly sharp
slowdown,” with both industry and consumers being hit by the
central bank’s decision to raise  interest rates  last month after
inflation quickened, the economists wrote. The economy probably
grew 2 percent in the third quarter, its slowest pace in more
than two years, Capital estimated.  The Polish economy probably expanded 1.8 percent last
quarter, the slowest pace since 2009, according to Capital. The
trend in  industrial output  has continued downward and the euro
crisis will continue to damp exports. Falling inflation-adjusted
wages, record low household savings and a “sharp slowdown” in
credit growth point to further weakening in  consumer spending ,
the economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  