-- Eastman Chemical Rises After Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-26T20:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/eastman-chemical-rises-after-earnings-exceed-analysts-estimates.html
Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , the biggest
U.S. producer of chemicals from coal, rose the most in more than
three years after surpassing analysts’ third-quarter profit
estimates and lifting its 2012 forecast.  Eastman Chemical rose 12 percent to $60.19 at the close in
 New York , the biggest gain since April 24, 2009.  Excluding restructuring costs and expenses related to the
July  acquisition  of Solutia Inc., profit from continuing
operations rose to $1.57 a share from $1.26 a year earlier,
Kingsport, Tennessee-based Eastman said yesterday in a
statement. That topped the $1.42 average estimate of 13 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  increased
sales by 25 percent in the quarter to $2.26 billion with the
addition of Solutia and 3 percent higher sales volumes. Earnings
benefited from lower raw-material costs, helping offset lower
prices, said  Edlain Rodriguez , a New York-based analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets.  “Eastman continues to distinguish itself,” Rodriguez, who
rates the shares buy, said in a note yesterday. “Despite the
challenging global economic environment, Eastman expects its
portfolio to continue demonstrating strength.”  Full-year earnings will be $5.30 to $5.40 a share, compared
with a prior forecast of $5.30, Eastman said. Maintenance at an
ethylene plant in Longview,  Texas , will reduce fourth-quarter
earnings by about 10 cents a share, Rogers said on a conference
call today.  Profit in 2013 will be at least $6 a share, and a more
specific forecast will be discussed at a Nov. 5 investor event,
Rogers said.  Eastman plans to use cash to repay $1 billion of debt,
Chief Financial Officer Curtis Espeland said on the call. The
company won’t rule out acquisition opportunities, Rogers said.  “If there was something that was just exceptional we don’t
have to let it go by without getting our dog in the hunt,”
Rogers said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  