-- EBF’s Clausen Says EU Likely to Delay Basel Bank Rule Overhaul
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-26T12:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ebf-s-clausen-says-eu-likely-to-delay-basel-bank-rule-overhaul.html
Banks in the European Union expect
the bloc to delay applying the latest round of Basel bank
capital rules as political negotiations on the measures drag on,
the head of a lobbying group said.  Christian Clausen , president of the European Banking
Federation, said the EU will push back the planned Jan. 1, 2013,
start date for phasing in the standards because uncertainty over
the final rules risks leaving lenders with additional costs.  “It’s of course a major concern,” Clausen, who is also
chief executive officer of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an interview
in Brussels today. “I’m sure the date will be postponed.”  The EU has struggled to agree on how to apply the Basel
capital rules for banks as legislators and officials spar over
curbs on bonuses and how to ensure lenders can weather funding
squeezes. The measures would more than triple the core capital
that banks must hold as a buffer against insolvency.  The Jan. 1, 2013, deadline was agreed on by the Group of 20
nations in 2010. The rules were drawn up by global regulators in
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The lack of legal certainty, coupled with the international
deadline, means that banks might be forced to rely on draft
versions of the rules for guidance on how to overhaul their
internal compliance and reporting systems, Clausen said.  Lenders would then incur extra costs when they have to
adapt again to the final standards, he said.  “It’s a cost issue, a very simple cost issue” he said,
adding that the situation may also create confusion for
investors.  The EBF brings together national associations of banks in
the 27-nation EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  