-- Asmussen Says Aid Request Won’t Automatically Trigger OMT
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-26T09:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ecb-s-asmussen-says-aid-request-won-t-automatically-unlock-omt.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said tapping  Europe ’s bailout fund
won’t automatically trigger the ECB’s bond-buying program.  A government’s application to the rescue fund for aid is
“a necessary, but not a sufficient condition for us to become
active,” Asmussen said today in a speech in Kronberg,  Germany ,
according to a text published by the ECB. “The ECB council
independently decides in each case to what extent and for how
long an intervention on monetary policy grounds is necessary.”  The ECB’s unlimited bond-buying plan, announced on Sept. 6,
has yet to be deployed as  Spain  mulls applying for assistance
from the rescue fund that would come with economic reform
conditions attached. Asmussen defended the plan against German-
led concerns that it amounts to printing money to finance
governments.  “The printing press isn’t being fired up,” he said.
“It’s not about monetizing debt, as some commentators have
claimed. The money that’s injected into the market with the
purchases will be removed again from a different place.”  Bridge to Nowhere  Asmussen said the ECB’s measures can both buy time and
build a bridge for governments to enact reforms to make their
economies more competitive and reduce deficits.  “But it can’t be a bridge to nowhere,” he said. “We need
a long-term strategy for a more stable common economic and
monetary union. It is time to correct the design faults of
monetary union.”  The ECB board member addressed a proposal made on Oct. 16
by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  that would boost
the powers of the European Union’s monetary affairs
commissioner, enabling the rejection of a state’s annual
budgets.  “I think in any case that a budget should only be able to
be rejected as a whole,” he said. “How that budget should be
corrected should remain within the competence of the respective
member state.”  Asmussen also warned that high growth rates in emerging
economies in  Asia  may not be sustainable due to increasing
inequalities and the susceptibility of export-oriented states to
swings in the global economy.  “China has managed to come through the crisis relatively
unscathed, mostly due to extensive public investment,” Asmussen
said. “The loans that the state made for that do however have
to be paid back. And that’s increasingly becoming a problem.
Some Chinese cities are now facing bankruptcy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  