-- Electronic Arts Asks Judge to Dismiss Zynga Hiring Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-26T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/electronic-arts-asks-judge-to-dismiss-zynga-hiring-claims.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
biggest U.S. video-game publisher, asked a federal judge to
dismiss a claim by  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  that its copyright infringement
lawsuit violates a year-old agreement between the companies.  Electronic Arts filed suit in San Francisco in August,
claiming Zynga’s “The Ville” infringes copyrights for “The
Sims Social,” an Electronic Arts game that runs on  Facebook (FB) 
Inc.’s social network. Electronic Arts said in its complaint
that senior executives who left for Zynga had details about
“The Sims Social” strategy and development.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on Facebook,
countersued last month, seeking to bar Electronic Arts from
threatening litigation or interfering with its hiring. It called
the copyright claims meritless and said Electronic Arts’ suit
breached the terms of last year’s settlement.  According to today’s filing by  Redwood City , California-
based Electronic Arts, the companies arrived at a “confidential
settlement” on Sept. 21, 2011, in which Electronic Arts
released claims related to Zynga’s recruitment of current or
former Electronic Arts employees in exchange for San Francisco-
based Zynga’s agreement to not solicit other employees.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on today’s filing.  September 2011  The settlement only covered claims through September 2011
and the more recent complaint brings copyright claims that fall
“far outside” the 2011 agreement, Electronic Arts said today.  Zynga also claimed in its countersuit that Electronic Arts
Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello instructed company
lawyers to get an agreement from Zynga prohibiting future hiring
of Electronic Arts employees as part of an “anticompetitive and
unlawful scheme” that violates  California  law.  The “litigation privilege” prohibits statements made in
connection with legal actions from being used as grounds for a
lawsuit, Electronic Arts argued.  “Alleged threats to sue Zynga in connection with its
solicitation, recruitment and hiring of Electronic Arts
employees were absolutely privileged,” according to the filing.  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, 12-4099, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  