-- Telenor Sells Stake in Indian Wireless Unit Ahead of Auctions
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-26T09:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/telenor-sells-stake-in-indian-wireless-unit-ahead-of-auctions.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
biggest phone operator, agreed to sell a 26 percent stake in its
Indian mobile phone operations ahead of an auction of spectrum
in the country next month.  Telenor signed the deal with Lakshdeep Investments &
Finance Pvt. Ltd, controlled by Sudhir Valia, executive director
at  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s biggest drugmaker
by market value, the carrier said in a statement today. Details
of the deal were not disclosed. Valia acted on his personal
capacity, Telenor said.  The partnership will enable Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor
to bid for wireless frequencies in next month’s Indian auction
and protect its 140-billion-rupee ($2.61 billion) investment in
the country. After the auction, Lakshdeep agreed to contribute
equity into the new Indian carrier called Telewings
Communications Pvt. Ltd. India limits foreign holdings in a
telecommunications company to 74 percent.  Telenor’s venture with former partner  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , a New
Delhi-based real estate developer, was terminated after its
spectrum licenses, revoked by India’s highest court over a
corruption scandal, became invalid on Sept. 7. Unitech this
month agreed to sell its stake in the Uninor venture for a
“nominal amount,” according to Telenor.  Citigroup Inc. is advising Telenor on the transaction, the
people said.  Telenor shares fell 1 percent to 110.3 kroner at 11:19 a.m.
Oslo time, paring this year’s gain to 12 percent.  Spectrum Auction  India will auction about $7 billion in airwaves starting
Nov. 12 and Telenor must bid to remain active in the world’s
second-largest mobile market. The venture’s services to its more
than 45 million customers have been in doubt since the  Supreme
Court  canceled 122 licenses, including Uninor’s, in February
because their 2008 sale was manipulated by some bidders.  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIEL)  in February agreed to buy an
additional stake in  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Indian unit from Essar
Group, about six months after making an initial $640 million
investment in the division. In August 2011, Piramal Chairman
 Ajay Piramal  said the company expects a return of as much as 20
percent from the investment. Piramal now owns 11 percent of the
unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  