-- Telenor Said Close to Selling Indian Wireless Stake
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-26T07:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/telenor-said-close-to-sale-of-stake-in-indian-wireless-venture.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
biggest phone operator, is close to an agreement to sell a 26
percent stake in its Indian mobile phone operations, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Telenor plans to sign a deal with an investor linked to  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , India’s biggest drugmaker by
market value, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are confidential. An
announcement may come as early as today, the people said.  The partnership will enable Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor
to bid for wireless frequencies in next month’s Indian auction
and protect its 140-billion-rupee ($2.61 billion) investment in
the country. India limits foreign holdings in a
telecommunications company to 74 percent.  Telenor’s venture with former partner  Unitech Ltd. (UT) , a New
Delhi-based real estate developer, was terminated after its
spectrum licenses, revoked by India’s highest court over a
corruption scandal, become invalid on Sept. 7. Unitech this
month agreed to sell its stake in the Uninor venture for a
“nominal amount,” according to Telenor.  Spokesmen for Sun Pharma and Telenor declined to comment.
Citigroup Inc. is advising Telenor on the transaction, the
people said.  Telenor shares fell 0.6 percent to 110.4 kroner at 9:52
a.m. Oslo time, paring this year’s gain to 13 percent.  Spectrum Auction  India will auction about $7 billion in airwaves starting
Nov. 12 and Telenor must bid to remain active in the world’s
second-largest mobile market. The venture’s services to its more
than 45 million customers have been in doubt since the  Supreme
Court  canceled 122 licenses, including Uninor’s, in February
because their 2008 sale was manipulated by some bidders.  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIEL)  in February agreed to buy an
additional stake in  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Indian unit from Essar
Group, about six months after making an initial $640 million
investment in the division. In August 2011, Piramal Chairman
 Ajay Piramal  said the company expects a return of as much as 20
percent from the investment. Piramal now owns 11 percent of the
unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  