-- Emerging Stocks Drop to Month Low as Korean Economy Growth Slows
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-26T22:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/emerging-stocks-drop-to-two-week-low-on-earnings-unicom-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks slid to a
one-month low after South Korea’s economic growth slowed to the
least since 2009 and earnings from  China  Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.
to  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  trailed analysts’ estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 0.8 percent to
990.70 in New York, the weakest close since Sept. 26. The gauge
lost 1.5 percent this week, the most since the end of August.
Information technology and financial stocks  led  today’s slide,
and Samsung Engineering Co. was the biggest decliner after
reporting that third-quarter operating profit fell. China Unicom
sank after reporting net income for the same quarter that missed
analysts’ forecasts. Banco Santander Brasil SA fell to an 11-
month low.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  expanded 1.6 percent
in the three months through September from a year earlier, the
slowest pace in three years and below the median economist
estimate of 1.7 percent. More than 58 percent of companies in
the MSCI Index that reported quarterly earnings this month have
trailed analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as the  European debt crisis  saps global demand.  “Markets are vulnerable to any negative news flow at the
moment and some corporate earnings haven’t been great,”
Michelle Pingo-de Abreu, an analyst at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Capital, said by phone.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund slipped 0.7 percent to $41.21 in New York.  Fund Inflows  The MSCI  emerging markets  index has declined 26 percent
from its all-time high on Oct. 29, 2007. The gauge was valued at
18 times reported earnings at the peak, a 10 percent premium
versus the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced-nation shares. The
emerging measure now trades for 12.3 times profit, a 23 percent
discount versus the developed-country index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging-market equity funds took in $2.6 billion in the
week to Oct. 24, a seventh straight week of gains, Citigroup
Inc.’s  Markus Rosgen  wrote in client note today, citing data
from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  China’s yuan rose to the strongest level in 19 years in
 Shanghai  on speculation policy makers will allow more
appreciation. The Russian ruble dropped to the weakest price
since Oct. 23 versus the dollar.  Russia’s Micex Index fell 0.9 percent for a fourth day of
losses. A 4.8 percent slump in investment company AFK Sistema
led the decline.  Bovespa Slumps  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  gauge dropped 1 percent, extending its
second straight weekly loss to 2.8 percent. Polish, Hungarian
and Czech stocks also slid.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 1.7 percent, the
biggest drop in five weeks. South Korea’s  Kospi index  slumped
1.7 percent, the most in seven weeks. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  lost
1.8 percent to a three-month low, while the  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.7 percent. Stock markets in  Indonesia ,  Malaysia ,
the  Philippines  and  Turkey  are closed for public holidays.  Kia Motors lost 5.6 percent in  Seoul , the largest decline
since May 18.  Net income  in the third quarter rose 28 percent to
829.5 billion won ($756 million). That trailed the 974.6 billion
won average of 28 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China Unicom  Santander Brasil, the local unit of Spain’s biggest bank,
retreated 2.8 percent after reporting lower-than-forecast third-
quarter profit. The Sao Paulo-based bank’s net income
attributable to shareholders was 1.46 billion reais ($720
million) in the third quarter, compared with a 1.52 billion-real
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest mobile-phone
company, posted the biggest slump since April 2009 in Hong Kong
and its American depositary receipts fell 3.3 percent in U.S.
trading. Third-quarter  net income  for the Hong Kong-based
company rose 27 percent to 2.02 billion  yuan  ($324 million). The
result, derived from nine-month earnings reported by China
Unicom, compares with the 2.21 billion-yuan median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  “Investors have big concerns about the global economic
slowdown,” Kasem Prunratanamala, head of research at CIMB
Securities ( Thailand ) Co. in Bangkok, said by phone today.
“Earnings of most large companies are a bit disappointing. The
weak economy and consumption will continue to give companies a
tough time.”  Lower Than Forecast  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of TVs
and mobile phones, dropped 2.7 percent after saying competition
will intensify and Apple Inc. announced a lower-than expected
earnings forecast. Samsung Engineering tumbled 7.6 percent after
its profit drop spurred Hyundai Securities and KTB Securities to
downgrade the stock.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries jumped 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 286 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  