-- Ericsson Profit Drops 43% as Carriers Cut Spending
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-26T07:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ericsson-profit-drops-43-as-carriers-cut-spending.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, reported a 43 percent decline in
third-quarter profit as wireless operators curbed spending in a
sputtering economy.  Net income fell to 2.18 billion kronor ($324 million) from
3.82 billion kronor, Stockholm-based Ericsson said today. Gross
margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after production
costs, slid to 30.4 percent from 35 percent, missing the 32.2
percent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Wireless carriers are cutting back on network investments
as a slowing economy and competition hurt subscriber growth. To
offset the slower demand and rivalry from Huawei Technologies
Co. and Nokia Siemens Networks, Ericsson is trying to sell more
services such as network management and maintenance.  “The gross margin was weak in the quarter so it seems the
pressure on profitability will remain for a bit longer,” Hannu Rauhala, an analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj in Helsinki who advises
buying the stock, said in a phone interview. “Still, the
company has a good foundation and once the business mix
improves, with the rising use of smartphones around the world,
margins and profits will rebound.”  Ericsson  fell  3.3 percent to 58.50 kronor at 9:05 a.m.
Stockholm time. The stock had lost 14 percent this year through
yesterday.  ‘Cautious’ Buying  Sales declined 1.7 percent to 54.6 billion kronor. Analysts
on average projected sales of 54.8 billion kronor and net income
of 1.95 billion kronor. The business mix, with a higher
proportion of projects to add coverage, will remain at the
current level in the short term, Ericsson said.  Global services and support solutions sales rose 20
percent, while revenue at the networks unit slumped 17 percent
to 26.9 billion kronor. Services and solutions sales now make up
more than half of Ericsson’s total  revenue .  Modernization deals in  Europe , which demand more labor
hours and are often less profitable, led to Ericsson’s gross
margin plunging to  30.2 percent  in the fourth quarter last year,
the lowest level since at least 1989. In March, Ericsson trimmed
its sales-growth outlook, saying it expects compound growth of
between 2 percent to 8 percent through 2014.  “We see a continued macroeconomic slowdown and political
unrest in parts of the world, which has led to more cautious
operator spending in some parts of the world,” Chief Executive
Officer  Hans Vestberg  said today in a statement.  Ericsson said Oct. 23 the third-quarter operating loss at
ST-Ericsson, the chipmaking joint venture with
STMicroelectronics SA, narrowed to $174 million from $224
million a year earlier. Revenue slipped 13 percent to $359
million and the company predicted it will remain at that level
in the last three months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  