-- Capacity Fees May Be Disguised Utility Subsidies, Poyry Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2012-10-26T11:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/eu-energy-market-spiraling-into-interventionism-poyry-says.html
Energy policy in Europe has lost
faith in markets to deliver sustainable, secure and affordable
power and may be sending the industry “spiralling” into
subsidy dependence, according to  Poyry Oyj. (POY1V)   So-called capacity mechanisms, which allow utilities to fix
electricity prices for guaranteeing backup supply in advance,
are being developed in  Germany ,  France , the U.K. and  Belgium .
While they may cut wholesale power prices, the payments may
increase costs to consumers if they are designed as another form
of subsidy, Stephen Woodhouse, a director at Poyry Management
Consulting in Oxford,  England , said yesterday in a phone
interview.  “Many of the calls for capacity payments across Europe are
thinly disguised requests for support for stranded combined
cycle natural gas turbine assets, with their finances destroyed
by subsidized renewable capacity,” Woodhouse said. “The sector
is falling into a spiral of needing more and more certainty for
individual projects, which adds to the cumulative policy risk
and reduces the influence of markets further.”  European Union carbon permits have fallen 66 percent in the
past four years, eroding the financial incentive to cut
emissions blamed for  climate change . The reduction has prompted
EU governments to put in place renewable energy subsidies and,
in the U.K., a carbon price floor in order to help meet emission
reduction targets, Woodhouse said.  Hasty Move  The European Commission will say next month in a strategy
paper on the internal energy market that a hasty move to a
system that rewards utilities for running back-up plants when
renewable power is insufficient risks being counterproductive,
according to a copy of the draft obtained last month by
Bloomberg. Systems that reward availability as well as
generation are known as capacity markets.  The payments might be “based on local political concerns,
and they undervalue and under-pay” for energy traded across
borders, Woodhouse said.  “The result will probably be an oversupplied system across
 Europe ,” he said. “Politics requires more security of supply
than economics.”  The fees may change the pattern of prices and demand
response at peak times, potentially causing distortion,
Woodhouse said. A utility importing into a country making the
payments may be disadvantaged, for instance, he said.  “France, for example, is designing a mechanism in which
only generation which is located in France is able to sell
capacity,” he said. “Imports to France are welcomed without
payment and the treatment of exports is unclear.”  Growing Gap  Poyry has been hired by 10 utilities and lobby groups to
study Europe’s energy future, the Helsinki consulting and
engineering firm said. It today published a preliminary report
subtitled “The shape of the beast.” The company advises
clients such as Dong Energy A/S,  RWE AG (RWE) , Statoil ASA, EON AG,
Bord Gais Eirann and Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.  There is a growing gap between national energy policies and
the longer term market-led vision held by the European
Commission and Eurelectric, the lobby group, Woodhouse said.
This gap could prevent the industry from attracting investment.
Across much of Europe, the majority of new generation
investments over the next few years will fall under regulated
regimes that come close to deciding the timing, the amount of
each technology and its price, Woodhouse said.  “Market-led investment is becoming increasingly rare,” he
said.  Safeguard Supply  In some markets, decisions to close plant will also be
subject to regulatory scrutiny, he said. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government backed a plan this month to prevent
utilities including EON AG and RWE AG from closing unprofitable
 power plants  as the nation seeks to safeguard supply. Power-
station operators will have to inform authorities 12 months
before a shutdown under the proposal.  The contrasting vision is for no capacity payments and free
trading of energy and market-balancing services across borders,
he said.  “While policy makers and the industry pretend growing
consensus for the market-based vision in the longer term,
national policies with industry compliance are taking us to a
more regulated and interventionist world to deal with more
immediate problems,” he said.  The multi-year international framework for carbon pricing
is not expected to be delivered soon and governments are pressed
into greater intervention, Woodhouse said.  The commission’s vision of investment driven by a carbon
price may be “idealistic” because emission allowances may need
to rise to unacceptable levels to work properly, Woodhouse said.
This vision needs to be “challenged,” he said.  Carbon prices may need to surge to around 250 euros ($323)
a ton to allow offshore  wind energy  to compete with a new
natural gas fired power station, under one scenario for 2020,
Poyry said. The scenario assumes costs for the gas plant of 50
pounds ($81) a megawatt hour compared with 130 pounds for
offshore wind.  EU carbon for December dropped 4 cents today to 7.65 euros
a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  at 11:22 a.m.
The December 2020 contract settled yesterday at 11.33 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  