-- European Stocks Close Little Changed; Belgacom Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-10-26T16:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/european-stock-index-futures-decline-before-u-s-gdp-data.html
European (SXXP)  stocks closed little
changed, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index completing a weekly
drop, as data showed the  U.S. economy  expanded more than
forecast in the third quarter, offsetting concern company
earnings are deteriorating.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  jumped 7.9 percent after Bank of
America Corp. recommended buying the shares.  Belgacom SA (BELG)  surged
by a record 7.8 percent after raising its 2012 forecasts.
 Ericsson AB (ERICB)  tumbled 3.9 percent after missing its third-quarter
gross-margin target.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.1 percent to 270.51 in  London . The
benchmark gauge has  rallied 16 percent  from this year’s low on
June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an
unlimited asset-purchase program and the  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of quantitative easing. The Stoxx 600
still lost 1.3 percent this week as euro-area manufacturing
shrank and corporate earnings weakened.  “The good news is that U.S. growth has picked up, buoyed
by stronger consumer and government spending,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, wrote
in an e-mail. “The bad news is that the third-quarter data
still falls woefully short of what’s needed over a number of
quarters to shore up the sickly U.S. labor market. The better-
than-expected U.S. GDP data should help underpin risk assets and
comes at a time when business confidence remains extremely
fragile.”  Economic Rebound  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that the
world’s biggest economy was helped by a pickup in  consumer
spending , a rebound in government outlays and gains in
residential construction.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate
after climbing 1.3 percent in the prior quarter. The median
forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.8
percent gain.  In Europe, reports showed that French  consumer sentiment 
dropped in October, while Spain’s unemployment rate climbed to a
record in the third quarter as a deepening recession left one in
four workers jobless.  National benchmark indexes advanced in ten of the 17
western-European markets that were open today. The Vienna market
was closed.  France ’s CAC 40 climbed 0.7 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 added less than 0.1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
gained 0.4 percent.  Straumann jumped 7.9 percent to 118.1 Swiss francs, the
biggest gain in more than five months, after Bank of America
raised the world’s biggest maker of dental implants to buy from
underperform.  Belgacom Dividend  Belgacom, the largest phone company in  Belgium , advanced
7.8 percent to 23.14 euros, the strongest rally since it sold
shares to the public in March 2004, as the company raised its
2012 forecasts and announced a special dividend.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  gained 4.1 percent to 1,933.50 pence
after saying Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  will quit.  Ericsson dropped 3.9 percent to 58.15 kronor, the sharpest
decrease since May 4. The world’s largest maker of mobile-phone
networks reported a third-quarter gross margin, or the
percentage of sales remaining after production costs, that slid
to 30.4 percent from 35 percent, missing the average estimate of
32.2 percent.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG)  plunged 5.2 percent to 4.65 kroner after
predicting that its catch would fall to 350,000 tonnes in 2013
after an estimated 390,000 tonnes this year. Pareto Bank ASA
said the outlook for the next year is seen to be below consensus
forecasts.  Novo Declines  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , the world’s biggest insulin maker, fell
3.3 percent to 930 kroner after U.S. regulators disclosed that a
scheduled advisory-panel meeting on the diabetes treatment
Tresiba will focus on cardiovascular risks.  The company drew investors’ attention to a document that
revealed topics for a previously scheduled Food and Drug
Administration meeting Nov. 8 to help determine whether Tresiba
should be approved for sale.  “Meta-analyses of several clinical trials suggest an
excess risk for cardiovascular events with this insulin over its
comparators,” the FDA wrote this month. Novo said in September
it had no concern about Tresiba’s safety.  Randstad Holding NV (RAND)  slid 4.7 percent to 25.32 euros after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the company’s shares to
neutral from buy.  Separately, Natixis said the company’s fourth-quarter
outlook remains difficult as it sees a gradual decline
continuing in Europe.  Mediaset Drops  Mediaset SpA (MS)  declined 3.1 percent to 1.34 euros. Former
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  was found guilty of  tax
fraud  and sentenced to four years in prison in a film-rights
case involving the television company.  Renault SA (RNO)  fell 1.8 percent to 34.74 euros, retreating for
the sixth straight day, after third-quarter revenue plunged 13
percent to 8.45 billion euros, the carmaker said yesterday after
the market close. The figure missed the 8.97 billion-euro
average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Elementis Plc (ELM) , the world’s largest maker of hectorite-clay
additives used in cosmetics, slumped 5.6 percent to 204.90
pence, the biggest drop in 2012, after saying a temporary
slowdown in shale drilling will weigh on annual profit. Full-
year earnings per share may still meet analysts’ expectations
because of a lower group tax charge, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  