-- Eurocopter Models' Offshore Flights Limited Amid Crashes
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-26T11:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/eurocopter-models-offshore-flights-limited-amid-crashes.html
Eurocopter SAS  EC225 and AS332
helicopters, models used widely in the oil and gas industry, are
subject to over-water flight restrictions in  Europe  following
two North Sea ditchings this year.  Aircraft that aren’t equipped with a vehicle health
monitoring system to check the condition of the vertical shaft
are forbidden from flying over water, while data from
helicopters with the system installed must be reviewed as
frequently as every three flight hours, the European Aviation
Safety Agency said in a  statement .  The directive was issued “in the interests of safe
operations following two accidents involving EC225 helicopters
that were required to make emergency landings,” the U.K.  Civil
Aviation Authority  said in a statement relaying the EASA order.
Search-and-rescue missions are exempted from the ban.  Regulators imposed the restrictions following an Oct. 22
incident  reported  by the U.K. Air Accidents Investigation Branch
in which an EC225 went down in the  North Sea  about 32 nautical
miles south of  Scotland ’s Shetland Islands. No one was injured
in that accident. An earlier emergency landing occurred in May,
triggered limits on the model to daytime flights. Both ditchings
were linked to a component failure associated with the main gear
box, the EASA said.  “While the investigation is still at an early stage, the
cause of this new ditching seems to result from the failure of
that vertical shaft,” the Cologne, Germany-based EASA said in
the Oct. 25 directive.  A spokesman at Marignane, France-based Eurocopter didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking
comment.  Sales of offshore helicopters have been the backbone of
commercial-division revenue in recent years at Eurocopter, a
unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , to make up for
a declining market for smaller models. The 11-metric ton EC225
can transport 19 people as far as 800 kilometers (430 nautical
miles) to oil rigs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  