-- Ex-Citic Pacific Executive Convicted of Insider Trading
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-10-26T13:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ex-citic-pacific-executive-convicted-of-insider-trading.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s former deputy
head of finance Chui Wing Nin was convicted of  insider trading 
ahead of the steelmaker and property developer’s 2008 profit
warning.  Chui’s sale of Citic Pacific shares to avoid losses
“speaks for itself,” Magistrate Li Kwok-wai said today in Hong
Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Court.  Chui, now chief financial officer of  Agile Property
Holdings Ltd. (3383) , had pleaded not guilty to two counts of selling
Citic Pacific shares after becoming aware of the company’s
losses not yet made public. Citic Pacific, controlled by  China ’s
biggest state-owned investment company, fell 55 percent on Oct.
22, 2008 after it disclosed potential losses of as much as
HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) from wrong-way currency bets.  He sold a total of 81,000 shares on Sept. 9 and Sept. 12
and avoided losses of as much as HK$1.36 million, according to
 Hong Kong ’s Securities and Futures Commission. “This was
blatant insider dealing,” the SFC’s executive director of
enforcement, Mark Steward said in a statement.  Chui’s lawyer Joseph Tse said his client would consider an
appeal after considering factors including the sentence. He
faces as long as three years in prison in total for the two
counts under the magistrates  ordinance .  Another hearing in the case was scheduled for Nov. 27.  Agile Property  Chui was employed by Citic Pacific until June 30, 2010,
according to the SFC. He joined Agile Property in July 2010 to
be responsible for accounting, corporate finance, and investor
relations. Chui has taken a “more limited role” due to a
pending legal proceeding, Agile said in a March statement.  Rachel Wang, an  investor relations  officer for Agile said
the company didn’t have an immediate comment on the verdict.  Citic Pacific’s bets on the Australian dollar prompted a
bailout from its parent Citic Group, which is backed by China’s
cabinet, and the resignation of its then chairman Larry Yung.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said last year, during a
trial over disputed documents, that there was “clear evidence”
Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20, 2008, when it
sought financing without disclosing the losses.  Citic Pacific directors acted properly, a lawyer for the
company has said. The company declined to comment today,
according to Tim Payne, a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Brunswick
Group, which handles media relations for Citic Pacific.  The company entered into the currency contracts to hedge
its exposure to the Australian dollar as it was developing an
iron ore mine in  Australia ’s Pilbara region.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Chui Wing
Nin, ESS27729/2011 in Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  