-- Ex-Galleon Executive Settles SEC Suit for $1.75 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-26T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ex-galleon-executive-settles-sec-suit-for-1-75-million.html
Kris Chellam, a former Galleon Group
LLC executive, agreed to pay $1.75 million to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that he passed inside
information to Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund’s co-founder.  Chellam, 61, of Saratoga,  California , shared information
with Rajaratnam in December 2006 indicating that chipmaker
 Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  wouldn’t meet its revenue forecasts, the SEC said
today in a statement. Rajaratnam shorted Xilinx stock and reaped
illicit profits of $978,684 after the news was made public.  When he passed the tip, Chellam had money invested with
Galleon and was in talks with Rajaratnam about taking a job at
the hedge fund, the SEC said. Galleon hired him in May 2007, the
SEC said. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts federal prison after being convicted last year of
 insider trading . Chellam hasn’t been charged with a crime.  “Chellam tipped Rajaratnam not only because the two were
good friends, but also because Chellam had a substantial
investment in Galleon, including in one of the funds that
profited from the tips Chellam provided about Xilinx,” the SEC
alleged in a civil complaint filed today in  Manhattan  federal
court.  Christopher Steskal, a lawyer for Chellam, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment about the complaint.
The settlement requires court approval.  Former CFO  Chellam served as chief financial officer at Xilinx from
1998 to 2005, the SEC said. In 2007, he was made co-managing
partner of the Galleon Special Opportunities Fund, a venture
capital fund that focused on technology companies.  After he joined Galleon, Chellam continued to obtain
material nonpublic information about  San Jose , California-based
Xilinx, the SEC said in the complaint. He passed what he learned
to his Galleon colleagues until he left the firm in April 2009,
according to the SEC.  Chellam now works as an independent consultant to closely
held technology companies, the SEC said.  At Rajaratnam’s criminal trial, jurors heard a government
wiretap of a May 2, 2008, phone conversation during which
Rajaratnam gave Chellam and another Galleon executive, Krish Panu, what he called “confidential” news about a transaction
involving chipmaker  Spansion Inc. (CODE)   On the recording, Rajaratnam can be heard saying they
should hide their knowledge of the deal by asking a Galleon
analyst to do research.  “We just have an e-mail trail,” he said, according to the
intercepted recording. The jury also saw tax returns showing
that Chellam invested in Galleon before joining the firm.  The case is SEC v. Chellam, 12-cv-7983, U.S. District
court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  