-- Adoboli Says He Booked Fake Trades to Conceal Gains, Loss
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ex-ubs-trader-takes-stand-for-first-time-at-fraud-trial.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader accused of causing the largest unauthorized trading loss
in British history, said he booked fake trades to hide profits
and losses on real transactions and others on his desk knew what
he was doing and helped him.  Adoboli, 32, said he first booked a so-called holding trade
in late 2008 in order to take another off his desk’s book to
hide the risk, he testified yesterday as he took the stand for
the first time in his fraud trial.  “I had seen traders in my peer group and traders more
senior than me either hold positions off-book by not booking
them as soon as they did the trade, or by booking a covering
trade to take them beyond the first day or two,” Adoboli said
during testimony that lasted about four hours. “I don’t believe
that what we were doing was illegitimate.”  Adoboli is accused of booking fake hedges to hide the risk
of trades, causing the Swiss bank a $2.3 billion loss. He was
charged in September of last year with two counts each of fraud
and false accounting and yesterday prosecutors added two more
false accounting charges tied to his so-called umbrella account.
He has pleaded not guilty.  Adoboli tearfully told jurors that he neglected family and
friends, working as many as 16 hours a day and twice sleeping at
the office for the benefit of UBS’s exchange-traded-funds desk.  Joining the bank fresh from university, Adoboli said his
colleagues at UBS replaced his own family. He said he struggled
to make the $40 million profit necessary to cover the desk’s
yearly costs and admitted to keeping a $6 million gain in 2009
off the bank’s books to do so. The umbrella account, in which he
kept the money, was an accounting mechanism his desk employed,
he said, and other desks had similar strategies.  Unwinding Positions  Adoboli said he learned how to keep trades off the books
from colleagues and all of his actions were intended to benefit
the bank, not himself.  “The procedure says unwind the position, don’t hold it
overnight -- the reality is I need to minimize that loss,” he
said of one trade. “I had to take it off-book, I had to conceal
the effect of the risk” and take it off the day’s profit and
loss.  Adoboli joined the ETF desk in 2006 and by the summer of
2007 it was only he and  John Hughes , Adoboli said. At the time,
he was 27 and Hughes was 24.  “There was a total of 30 months in trading between the two
of us, and we were in charge of a $50 billion book,” he said.  Can’t Leave  In 2007, with the financial crisis and the departure of
another trader from the ETF desk, Adoboli said the job began
consuming his life. He couldn’t leave work when his grandmother
died because it was only he and Hughes on the desk, he said.  As a result, he said he would wake up at 4 a.m. to start
checking messages and Bloomberg news before cycling to work for
6 a.m. He sometimes didn’t leave until 10 p.m. or even early
morning, he said, and after he left for the day would monitor
CNBC for news on the U.S. markets.  “There was no room for anything else, because we just
didn’t have the resources,” he said. “To make it worse, we
were just losing so much money, it was mental.”  Adoboli said he told the other traders on the ETF desk
about the umbrella. He told Simon Taylor first in 2010, then
Hughes later that year. Christophe Bertrand, the junior trader
on the desk, was told in February 2011, Adoboli said. His co-
workers helped him maintain the account and others on the
trading floor also knew about it, he said.  Profit, Loss  “Each member of the desk knew that other desks had off-
book profit and loss, they knew that desks like ours had large
inventory positions that cost money because they required
funding and hedging,” Adoboli said. “At no stage did anyone I
spoke to intimate to me that they thought it was dishonest.”  The former trader, who began crying soon after he started
testifying, said it was unfair for prosecutors to claim his
back-office experience led him to book fictitious trades.  “To find yourself in Wandsworth prison for nine months
when all you did was work so hard,” Adoboli said before
breaking down in tears.  Ruwan Weerasekera, chief operating officer of securities at
UBS’s investment bank, testified Oct. 9 that Adoboli booked tens
of thousands of real and fake trades during the summer of 2011
that exposed UBS to losses that could have reached $12 billion.  Adoboli was sent to boarding school in  England  when he was
12. After that, he attended Nottingham University, got a summer
internship at UBS in 2002 and joined the bank after graduating
in 2003. The only other job he ever had was as a waiter.  He started at the bank working for the trade-settlements
team and was offered a role in prime brokerage as a junior
trader in 2005. It was “incredibly hard work” and rewarding,
he said, and the bank continued to offer him new opportunities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  