-- Exchanges Plan Normal Open Next Week as ‘Frankenstorm’ Nears
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-26T21:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/exchanges-plan-normal-open-next-week-as-hurricane-sandy-nears.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  currently plan to operate their markets normally next
week as Hurricane Sandy approaches the U.S. East Coast.  Nasdaq said it will communicate regularly with other
exchanges and its members as the storm progresses. It told
customers to monitor its “systems status” web page for further
updates, according to an e-mail from the exchange. The NYSE is
also planning to remain open.  “The current plan is to operate with business as usual,”
 Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, said in a phone
interview.  The last time the NYSE cut trading hours for weather was
Jan. 8, 1996, when a blizzard dropped more than 20 inches on  New
York City  in the second-biggest snowstorm of its history,
according to the city’s  website  and the exchange. It last  closed 
for a full day on Sept. 27, 1985, for Hurricane Gloria.  A superstorm, dubbed “Frankenstorm” by the  National
Weather Service , is expected to develop from Hurricane Sandy and
two other storms rushing eastward across the U.S. in what may
become the worst storm to hit the U.S. East Coast in 100 years.
Discussions are under way to evacuate parts of  New York  City and
close subways if necessary, said Jerome Hauer, New York State’s
homeland security commissioner.  Sandy Lurks  As of 2 p.m. New York time, Sandy’s top winds fell to 75
miles (121 kilometers) per hour, down from 100 mph earlier,
according to the hurricane center in Miami. It was 30 miles
north-northeast of Great Abaco Island in the Bahamas and 430
miles south-southeast of Charleston, South Carolina, moving
northwest at 7 mph.  In anticipation of  Hurricane Irene  last year, NYSE Euronext
prepared to invoke emergency authority to declare its electronic
exchange, NYSE Arca, the stand-in for the New York Stock
Exchange, though no such action was necessary after the
hurricane weakened.  NYSE received powers in December 2009 allowing it to let
Arca operate on its behalf “in the event that an emergency
condition prevents the NYSE from operating normally,” according
to the rule, which the SEC approved. NYSE’s Rule 49, which has
never been invoked, says the declaration must be necessary for
the securities markets to continue to operate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  