-- Mexico Keeps Key Rate Steady as Inflation Halts 4-Month Rise
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-26T15:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/mexico-keeps-key-rate-steady-as-inflation-halts-4-month-rise-1-.html
Mexico ’s central bank held its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low after inflation began to
ease, while warning that if price pressures persist policy
makers could tighten monetary policy “soon.”  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, left
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent today for the 30th
consecutive meeting, as forecast by 21 of 22 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. One analyst expected a quarter-point increase.  Short-term inflation risks have increased, even as the
outlook for economic growth has deteriorated as the global
scenario worsens, the bank said in a statement accompanying the
decision. While  inflation  slowed in the first half of October,
bolstering the central bank’s argument that the impact of a
drought and an outbreak of bird flu are temporary, it has
remained above the 2 percent to 4 percent target range for more
than four months.  “The press release definitely has a verbally hawkish tone,
but being verbally hawkish doesn’t mean you’re going to hike
rates immediately,” said Fernando Losada, an economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York .  “The risks are now
that the rate hike will happen earlier rather than later, but
still our call is that there won’t be any rate changes next
year.”  Inflation probably peaked in September at 4.77 percent, the
central bank said, before slowing to 4.64 percent on Oct. 15.  Upward Adjustment  “Inflation is expected to keep decreasing in coming months
to reach very close to 4 percent toward the end of the year,”
the bank said. “If inflation shocks persist, even though they
are presumed to be temporary, and the trend in general and  core
inflation  aren’t confirmed, the board thinks that it would be
appropriate to carry out an upward adjustment soon in the
reference interest rate.”  The only Group of 20 nation to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the past three
years will wait until March 2014 to raise rates by a quarter
percentage point, according to a Citigroup survey of economists
published Oct. 22.  “There will be an indefinite pause in monetary policy,”
Delia Paredes, an economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB,
said by phone from Mexico City before the decision. “Banxico
has said that it wouldn’t act on temporary supply-side
pressures.”  Peso Strength  A stronger currency will cut import costs and help ease
inflation, Carstens said in an interview with news website 24
Horas this month. The peso has rallied 11 percent against the
dollar since June, when speculation grew that the U.S. would
take steps to stimulate the economy. The  Federal Reserve 
announced a third round of quantitative easing in September.  The peso was little changed at 13.0166 to the dollar as of
10:24 a.m. in Mexico City.  The risks to global growth also will weigh on any decision
to raise rates, said Sergio Luna, chief economist at Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit, who expects annual inflation to have peaked
last month.  World economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.2 percent
this year from 2.9 percent last year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  At its last monetary policy meeting on Sept. 7, the central
bank kept the key rate at the lowest level among major rate-
setting banks in  Latin America  after  Peru , saying the outlook
for growth had deteriorated as U.S. risks increased.  “Risks to global growth are worsening,” Luna said before
today’s decision, and forecast U.S. manufacturing expansion will
slow to 3.4 percent in 2013 from 4.6 percent this year. “Those
effects on Mexico shouldn’t be ignored,” he said.  Global Impact  Mexico’s  exports  grew 1.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, down from growth of 8.7 percent in August, the national
statistics agency reported yesterday.  Still, the threat of inflation hasn’t disappeared. Carstens
said Oct. 24 that the central bank is “seriously concerned”
about inflation and will “ponder with much care” whether
monetary policy tools should be used to prevent price
fluctuations if they become more widespread.  Traders differ from economists in betting that Carstens
will raise rates next year on speculation that the Fed’s
quantitative easing may spur growth that fans inflation.  Interbank rate futures show traders expect Carstens to lift
rates in December 2013. A month ago, they predicted he would
wait until August 2014 to raise them. Yields on the December
2013 contracts have jumped 0.24 percentage point in the past
three months to 4.99 percent, indicating there’s a greater than
50 percent chance of a quarter-point increase by then.  Inflation Threat  “Annual inflation won’t come down as quickly as the
central bank expects,” said Scotiabank Inverlat SA economist
Mario Correa in Mexico City before the report. “If the economy
keeps growing and we see a more solid inflation dynamic it may
be necessary for a less accommodating monetary policy.”  While Correa sees a rate increase in March next year,
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., doesn’t
expect a move in borrowing costs anytime soon.  Carstens is unlikely to raise rates in 2013 as the latest
round of asset purchases by the U.S., which buys around 80
percent of Mexico’s exports, fuels a rally in the peso, Ramos
said.  “It would be hard to imagine that their main trading
partner would continue to accommodate, and in Mexico they’d be
hiking rates because of supply shocks,” Ramos said by phone
from New York on Oct. 19. “We’ve seen the worst of inflationary
pressures in Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 