-- Mexico Keeps Key Rate Unchanged as Inflation Halts 4-Month Rise
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-26T14:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/mexico-keeps-key-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-halts-4-month-rise.html
Mexico’s central bank held its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low after inflation began to
ease amid its longest period above the target range since Governor
Agustin Carstens took office.  The bank’s board, led by Carstens since January 2010, left
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent for the 30th consecutive
meeting, as forecast by 21 of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
One analyst expected a quarter percentage point increase today.  Mexico’s  inflation  rate fell in the first half of October
after rising every month since May, bolstering the central bank’s
argument that pressures from a drought and an outbreak of bird flu
are temporary. While inflation slowed to 4.64 percent from 4.77
percent in September, it has remained above the 2 percent to 4
percent target range for more than four months, the longest
stretch since Oct. 2009.  “There will be an indefinite pause in monetary policy,”
Delia Paredes, an economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said
by phone from  Mexico  City before the decision. “Banxico has said
that it wouldn’t act on temporary supply-side pressures.”  The only Group of 20 nation to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the past three years
will wait until March 2014 to raise rates by a quarter percentage
point, according to a Citigroup survey of economists published
Oct. 22.  Peso Rally  A stronger currency will cut import costs and help ease
inflation, Carstens said in an interview with news website 24
Horas this month. The peso has rallied 11 percent against the
dollar since June, when speculation grew that the U.S. would take
steps to stimulate the economy. The  Federal Reserve  announced a
third round of quantitative easing in September.  The peso fell 0.1 percent against the dollar yesterday to
13.0092.  The risks to global growth also will weigh on any decision to
raise rates, said Sergio Luna, chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit, who expects annual inflation to have peaked last
month.  World economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.2 percent this
year from 2.9 percent last year, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  At its last monetary policy meeting on Sept. 7, the central
bank kept the key rate at the lowest level among major rate-
setting banks in  Latin America  after  Peru , saying the outlook for
growth had deteriorated as U.S. risks increased.  Risks to Growth  “Risks to global growth are worsening,” Luna said before
today’s decision, and forecast U.S. manufacturing expansion will
slow to 3.4 percent in 2013 from 4.6 percent this year. “Those
effects on Mexico shouldn’t be ignored,” he said.  Mexico’s  exports  grew 1.8 percent in September from a year
earlier, down from growth of 8.7 percent in August, the national
statistics agency reported yesterday.  Still, the threat of inflation hasn’t disappeared. Carstens
said Oct. 24 that the central bank is “seriously concerned”
about inflation and will “ponder with much care” whether
monetary policy tools should be used to prevent price fluctuations
if they become more widespread.  Traders differ from economists in betting that Carstens will
raise rates next year on speculation quantitative easing may spur
economic growth that fans inflation.  Interbank rate futures show traders expect Carstens to lift
rates in December 2013. A month ago, they predicted he would wait
until Aug. 2014 to raise them. Yields on the December 2013
contracts have jumped 0.24 percentage point in the past three
months to 4.99 percent, indicating there’s a greater than 50
percent chance of a quarter-point increase by then.  Outlook  “Annual inflation won’t come down as quickly as the central
bank expects,” said Scotiabank Inverlat SA economist Mario Correa
in Mexico City before the report. “If the economy keeps growing
and we see a more solid inflation dynamic it may be necessary for
a less accommodating monetary policy.”  While Correa sees a rate increase in March next year,  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., doesn’t expect a
move in borrowing costs any time soon.  Carstens is unlikely to raise rates in 2013 as the latest
round of asset purchases by the U.S., which buys around 80 percent
of Mexico’s exports, fuels a rally in the peso, Ramos said.  “It would be hard to imagine that their main trading partner
would continue to accommodate, and in Mexico they’d be hiking
rates because of supply shocks,” Ramos said by phone from  New
York  on Oct. 19. “We’ve seen the worst of inflationary pressures
in Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 