-- Exxon Seen Bidding for Anadarko to EOG to Boost Growth
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-10-26T20:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/exxon-seen-boosting-growth-with-anadarko-to-eog-deals.html
With  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  poised to
lose its lead as the largest publicly traded oil producer by
output, acquiring  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  or  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) 
would accelerate growth and help the company regain its lead.  OAO  Rosneft (ROSN) ’s plan this week to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian
venture TNK-BP for $55 billion would vault the Moscow-based
company past Exxon in terms of production. Irving, Texas-based
Exxon also is lagging behind on growth, with analysts estimating
only a 3 percent increase in sales through 2014, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 28 percent at
Rosneft and more than 26 percent at Anadarko and EOG, which have
market values exceeding $30 billion.  As Exxon falls behind in discovering untapped  oil fields ,
it may be forced to buy what it cannot find, Brown Advisory Inc.
said. For  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Anadarko is a candidate for
Exxon because utilities from Singapore to Seoul would pay a
premium to import gas it finds off Mozambique’s coast. EOG would
rejuvenate Exxon with its oil-rich reservoirs in the Eagle Ford
Shale in Texas, U.S. Capital Advisors LLC said.  “Exxon is grasping for investment opportunities that carry
scale,” Eric Gordon, a Baltimore-based analyst at Brown
Advisory, which oversees $32 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The places where oil is domiciled are becoming more
challenging to get access to,” he said. Exxon is “being forced
to gain access through acquisitions.”  BP, Billionaires  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, declined to comment on
whether the company is considering an acquisition in response to
Rosneft’s expansion.  John Christiansen , a spokesman at The
Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, and K Leonard, a spokeswoman at
EOG in Houston, said the companies don’t comment on speculation,
when asked whether Exxon has approached them.  Rosneft, a state-owned energy producer, said Oct. 22 that
it agreed to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50 venture between BP and a group
of billionaires. It will pay $26.8 billion in cash and shares
for BP’s stake and has an initial deal to acquire the
billionaires’ half for $28 billion.  The deal will give Rosneft control of more than 40 percent
of Russia’s crude output and boost its production to the
equivalent of 4.573 million barrels a day, surpassing Exxon’s
2011 average of 4.506 million. Rosneft’s output will also exceed
that of every Middle Eastern country except  Saudi Arabia .  Upon completion, Rosneft’s deal will rank as the third-
biggest oil acquisition on record, trailing only Exxon’s $87.7
billion merger with Mobil Corp. in 1999 and BP’s $61.9 billion
purchase of Amoco Corp. the same year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Exxon’s Acquisitions  In the past five weeks, Exxon agreed to spend about $5
billion on oil and gas fields in Canada and the U.S. Great
Plains, bringing the total allocated to acquisitions since June
2010 to more than $40 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  has been
struggling with production declines as fields discovered decades
ago peter out and national governments in the Middle East and
Latin America prohibit exploration by foreign businesses or make
it too expensive.  Global output probably dropped at Exxon for a fifth
straight quarter during the July-to-September period, according
to Argus Research Corp. That would be the longest streak of
declines in 13 years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Exxon is
scheduled to release third-quarter results on Nov. 1. Its
 reserve growth  slowed to 0.5 percent last year after jumping 7.9
percent and 8.9 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Less Discovery  Exxon is lagging behind rivals in finding new energy
sources. It discovered enough oil and natural gas last year to
replace 107 percent of what it pumped from wells, a so-called
reserve-replacement ratio that was less than one-third that of
Rosneft, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also lagged behind
the  148 percent  ratio at Anadarko and  167 percent  at EOG.  Exxon is focused on acquiring companies with vast tracts of
unexplored acreage, rather than firms that churn out large
volumes of crude or gas every day, said Duane Grubert, an
analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP. in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. That’s a shift from the 1990s and early 2000s, when
some of the largest oil-industry deals targeted producers such
as Texaco Inc. and Unocal Corp., he said.  Anadarko’s wealth of potential future output means Exxon
would need to offer at least $102 a share for the company, said
Joseph Magner, an analyst at Macquarie in Denver. That’s 53
percent more than yesterday’s closing level of $66.55 and values
its equity at $51 billion.  Today, Anadarko shares slipped 0.1 percent to $66.49.  Prosperidade, Golfinho  The company is still trying to determine how much gas is
locked in its trio of offshore Mozambique discoveries known as
Prosperidade, Golfinho and Atum.  “These are big fields that just keep getting bigger” as
drilling proceeds, Ernest Leyendecker, the company’s exploration
chief, told analysts at a Johnson Rice & Co. conference in New
Orleans on Oct. 2.  Anadarko’s other attractive qualities include a stake in
the Jubilee oilfield on the other side of the African continent,
in the waters off Ghana, and exploratory prospects off the
coasts of  Sierra Leone  and Ivory Coast. Exxon has been
interested in Jubilee since at least 2009, when it made an
unsuccessful $4 billion bid for some assets of  Kosmos Energy
Ltd. (KOS) , which discovered the field and is now developing the
project in partnership with Anadarko.  EOG might also satisfy Exxon’s needs, according to  Cameron Horwitz , head of exploration and production research at U.S.
Capital Advisors in Houston.  ‘Most Coveted’  It has “one of the most coveted asset bases” among U.S.
onshore exploration companies, Horwitz said. The company’s
“prime asset” is an almost 650,000-acre tract in Texas’s Eagle
Ford Shale formation, where wells are yielding crude and so-
called gas liquids such as propane, which command higher prices
than gas alone, he said.  In the past 18 months, EOG has discovered it can drill
twice as many wells on a given area without draining gas liquids
from neighboring wells, an indication the formation holds far
more reserves than previously thought, Horwitz said. He said EOG
is worth at least $149 a share, a 33 percent premium to
yesterday’s close of $112.42. That would value the company at
$40.2 billion, compared with Exxon’s market capitalization of
$417.4 billion.  EOG gained 1.5 percent to $114.09 today.  “EOG isn’t just going to give the company away,” Horwitz
said of the premium. “It’s a big pill to swallow. Obviously,
only a very select group of buyers could do that.”  Apache’s Allure  Apache Corp. (APA) , the Houston-based energy producer that
replaced 113 percent of the reserves it pumped out of the ground
last year, is another tempting target for Exxon, according to
Capital One Southcoast Inc.’s Eliot Javanmardi. The company’s
market capitalization was $32.4 billion yesterday.  Today, Apache shares fell 0.5 percent to $82.36.  Apache’s discoveries in places like Canada’s Liard Basin
constitute “an embarrassment of riches,” the New Orleans-based
analyst said. “It is a massive, massive find” that may hold as
much as 40 trillion cubic feet of gas, he said.  John Roper , a spokesman at Apache, said the company’s
policy is to not comment on market speculation.  Buying Anadarko, EOG or Apache would give Exxon a business
that’s growing at least six times as fast as its own. Analysts
project Anadarko will boost revenue 26.9 percent through 2014,
while EOG’s sales may climb 37 percent and Apache’s could rise
20.7 percent, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Exxon may
report sales of about $447 billion that year, just a 3 percent
increase from 2011, the data show.  None Needed  Exxon doesn’t need to respond to Rosneft’s acquisition with
its own large deal because it has enough opportunities to grow
and increase production on its own, according to Anthony Walker
of Exxon shareholder Ariel Investments LLC.  “I would be a little bit concerned if they felt that they
needed to respond to what their competitors are doing because it
probably signals that they would be going after lower-return
opportunities,” Walker, an energy analyst for Chicago-based
Ariel Investments, which oversees $4.7 billion, said in a phone
interview. “They do have some avenues to production growth
outside of acquisitions.”  Exxon’s biggest transaction in more than a decade, the 2010
purchase of XTO Energy Inc. for $34.9 billion, “turned out to
be kind of a dud,” Susquehanna’s Grubert said in a phone
interview.  Prices Plunge  XTO was targeted because of its North American gas fields
and its expertise in drilling shale formations, he said. The
deal proved poorly timed as a supply glut drove down prices.
Natural-gas futures lost more than half their value between June
2010, when Exxon completed its deal for Fort Worth, Texas-based
XTO, and April of this year, when prices sank to a 10-year low.  “They bought that company for a skill set and a different
kind of gas market,” Grubert said.  While Exxon is still working to integrate the XTO
acquisition, the company has a strong enough balance sheet to
undertake another large transaction, such as buying EOG or
Apache, said  Todd Lowenstein , a Los Angeles-based fund manager
at HighMark Capital Management Inc., which oversees about $17
billion. Exxon’s cash and near-cash items exceed total debt by
$2.22 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “XTO was a very sizable deal for them, and they haven’t
quite harvested the returns yet,” he said in a phone interview.
“So they may be gun-shy.”  Still, “there are a lot of assets in play right now, and I
wouldn’t be surprised if Exxon is looking,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  