-- Meyer Burger Drops to 2.5-Year Low on Solar Woes
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-10-26T10:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/meyer-burger-drops-to-2-5-year-low-on-solar-woes.html
Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) ,  Europe ’s
biggest provider of equipment to the solar industry, fell to a 2
1/2 year low amid concerns among analysts that demand won’t pick
up next year.  Meyer Burger fell as much as 6 percent, to 9.37 Swiss
francs, the lowest intraday value since March 2009. Shares of
the Baar, Switzerland-based company have dropped for six days.  “Investors are increasingly concerned about the balance
sheet and the financial situation of Meyer Burger amid a
negative news flow in the sector and the risk that demand for
the company’s products doesn’t improve in 2013,” Stefan Gaechter, an analyst at Helvea AG, said by phone from Zurich.  Solar-cell and panel manufacturers, Meyer Burger’s clients,
are suffering from low prices and overcapacity after Chinese
competitors expanded and demand slowed.  Siemens AG (SIE)  this week
said it would give up its unprofitable solar business. About 180
solar manufacturers will fail or get bought by 2015, Boston-
based GTM Research said in a report last week.  “We see no short or mid-term turnaround in the current
solar environment,” Lauren Licuanan, an analyst at Commerzbank
AG, said today by e-mail. “With product manufacturers
continuing to exhibit strong discipline in their capex
investment plans, opportunities for pure capacity-driven demand
in PV production equipment is very limited.”  Meyer Burger expects demand for its products to rise
“substantially” next year, the company said Aug. 16, when it
published its first-half results. New markets in  Asia ,  South
America , the Middle East and Africa are to ensure growth in the
coming years, outperforming Western European markets, it said.  While Meyer Burger, which bought German competitor  Roth &
Rau AG (R8R)  in 2011, is burning cash, “its balance sheet is still OK
and will be in the next quarters,” Gaechter said.  “However, if the situation doesn’t improve until 2014,
then there is the concern that the company may be forced to seek
other ways to raise capital,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  