-- Facebook Claimant Ceglia Charged With Faking Contract
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-26T21:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/facebook-claimant-ceglia-charged-with-faking-contract.html
Paul Ceglia , who sued  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and its chief executive officer,  Mark Zuckerberg , was arrested
and charged with fabricating evidence to support his
multibillion-dollar claim that he owns part of the world’s
biggest social network.  Ceglia faked e-mails from Zuckerberg, destroyed evidence
and forged the 2003 contract on which he bases his claim, U.S.
prosecutors said. Ceglia was arrested today by federal agents at
his home in Wellsville, New York, according to a statement from
the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  “Ceglia’s alleged conduct not only constitutes a massive
fraud attempt, but also an attempted corruption of our legal
system through the manufacture of false evidence,” Bharara said
in the statement. “Dressing up a fraud as a lawsuit does not
immunize you from prosecution.”  Ceglia sued in 2010, claiming Zuckerberg signed a contract
that gave him a share in Facebook while Zuckerberg was a student
at  Harvard University . Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,
 California , has claimed from the start that Ceglia’s claim is
fraudulent.  Ceglia is charged with one count each of mail fraud and
 wire fraud , each of which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years
in prison. He pleaded not guilty today in federal court in
Buffalo, according to Barbara Burns, a spokeswoman for William
Hochul Jr., the U.S. Attorney for western New York. Ceglia was
ordered freed on $21,000 cash bail, she said. His release is
delayed until Oct. 29 to permit the government to appeal the
bail order.  Postal Inspector  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland, of Lakewood,  Ohio , didn’t
return voice-mail messages seeking comment on the criminal
charges.  The criminal complaint against Ceglia, filed by U.S. Postal
Inspector Douglas Veatch, covers the entire timeframe of the
civil suit, from when he filed the claim in June 2010, until
this month.  The mail fraud count targets an amended complaint Ceglia
filed in April 2011, which attaches e-mails between Ceglia and
Zuckerberg. The government claims those e-mails are fraudulent.  On July 22, 2004, a week before Zuckerberg incorporated
Facebook, Ceglia claimed, Zuckerberg sent an e-mail wishing him
happy birthday and offering to return his $2,000 investment.  ‘Other Things’  “Another summer is here and I still don’t have any time to
build our site, I understand that I promised I would, but other
things have come up and I am out in California working during
break,” Zuckerberg wrote, according to Ceglia.  Ceglia’s e-mails also show Zuckerberg discussing Cameron
and  Tyler Winklevoss , two Harvard students who would later sue
Zuckerberg over Facebook’s origins.  Prosecutors claim Ceglia altered a contract Zuckerberg
signed in April 2003 relating to his work on StreetFax.com,
Ceglia’s failed Internet business that was intended to sell
photos of traffic intersections to insurance companies. The
genuine contract concerns only the StreetFax work and doesn’t
mention Facebook, according to the government.  Zuckerberg has said he didn’t conceive the idea for
Facebook until months later.  Veatch said he interviewed Zuckerberg and another
unidentified Facebook cofounder as part of his investigation.
Veatch also spoke with an unidentified person who worked with
Ceglia on the StreetFax site in 2003, he said in the complaint.  Ceglia’s contract case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-
cv-00569, U.S. District Court, Western District of  New York 
(Buffalo). The criminal case is U.S. v. Ceglia, 12-MAG-2842,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  