-- Female CEOs Dwindle to Two in FTSE 100 as Carroll Quits
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-26T12:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/female-ceos-dwindle-to-two-in-ftse-100-as-carroll-quits.html
The FTSE 100 Index’s most exclusive
club just got smaller.  The departures of  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  and  Pearson Plc (PSON)  CEO Marjorie Scardino
leave  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ’s Angela Ahrendts and Alison Cooper of
 Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  as the only women in charge at the
U.K.’s biggest companies. The benchmark index has a combined
market capitalization of 1.6 trillion pounds ($2.6 trillion) and
its members employ about 5.7 million people.  “It does reflect badly on U.K. corporate governance,”
said  Manish Singh , who helps oversee $2 billion of assets as
head of investment at Crossbridge Capital in London. “The U.K.
is a G-8 nation. If we don’t see women represented well here,
what hope do we have of achieving it in the rest of the world?”  Carroll’s exit today comes the same week the European Union
failed to agree on a 40 percent quota for women on company
supervisory boards by 2020. Deliberation of EU Justice
Commissioner  Viviane Reding ’s proposal is set to resume Nov. 14.  Helena Morrissey, chief executive officer of Newton
Investment Management Ltd. in London, disagrees with mandates.  “A quota doesn’t get you a CEO,” she said in a telephone
interview. “This shows the importance of building a pipeline of
strong women executives. We are talking about so small a number
of women CEOs that I don’t think we can extrapolate a trend
here.”  Encouraging Appointments  Morrissey started the 30 Percent Club in the U.K. to press
companies to employ that many female directors by 2015.  “The focus should be to develop more female talent,
assigning them on projects that give them the opportunity to be
noticed and identified in the organization very early on, so
they can eventually be represented more prominently at the
top,” Singh said.  Carroll, the first woman, external hire and non-South
African to run Anglo, will quit after the  mining company  lost
almost a quarter of its value during her five-year tenure.
Pearson said Oct. 3 that Scardino, 65, the first female CEO of a
major U.K. company, will step down after 16 years.  Ahrendts, a 51-year-old American, has led luxury-goods
maker Burberry since 2006, while Cooper, 46, became Imperial’s
CEO in 2010. Scardino will be replaced by John Fallon, the head
of Pearson’s international education business, while Carroll’s
successor has yet to be named.  South Africa Charter  South Africa ’s mining charter, which was created in 2004
and aims to make up for discrimination black people suffered
during apartheid, also encourages the inclusion of women at all
levels in the workforce. Carroll was one of only two women CEOs
among the FTSE/JSE Top 40 Index in Johannesburg, leaving just
Maria Ramos at Barclays Plc’s Absa Group Ltd.  The European Commission’s legal service warned that a
binding quota for women may be illegal ahead of the Oct. 23
meeting, according to a person familiar with the talks. Lawyers
said EU regulators don’t have the right to mandate binding
targets for companies, said the person who asked not to be
identified because the process is private. EU rules can require
companies to make efforts toward a target.  Reding said she has “strong support” from other
commissioners and drafted a compromise in line with lawyers’
guidelines to win consensus from her colleagues. She declined to
give details, beyond saying she would retain the 40 percent
target.  To contact the reporters on this story: Simon Clark in  London  at
   sclark4@bloomberg.net ; Corinne Gretler in
Zurich at   cgretler1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 