-- Finnish Government Set for Local Election Victory
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-26T13:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/finnish-government-set-for-local-election-victory.html
Finland’s ruling parties are on
track to cement control over local governments as voters back
their austerity policies and efforts for conditioned-based
bailouts for struggling fellow euro nations.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen , head of the National
Coalition Party, and Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, leader
of Social Democrats, are vying to become the biggest party in
the Oct. 28 municipal election, opinion polls show. The euro-
skeptic “The Finns” party, replicating last year’s national
election surge, are in a race for third with the Center Party.  As Europe’s debt crisis has worsened, prompting aid
requests from Spain and Cyprus, the northernmost euro member has
toughened its stance on supporting rescues amid slowing economic
growth. Katainen and Urpilainen have called for stricter rules,
resisted shared liability for debt and demanded collateral in
exchange for bailouts since coming to power in April 2011.  “The main government parties are in a tussle over who’s
the biggest,” said Sami Borg, director of the Finnish Social
Science Data Archive at the University of Tampere.  Recent polls in newspapers  Helsingin Sanomat , Ilta-Sanomat
and Iltalehti as well as broadcasters YLE and MTV3 signal the
prime minister’s party will win 20.5 percent to 22.6 percent
nationwide, ahead of the  Social Democrats  at 18.5 percent to 20
percent. The Center Party has 16.9 percent to 18.6 percent,
while the “The Finns” may garner 13.6 percent to 15.8 percent.
The margin of error ranges from 1.4 percentage points to 3
percentage points.  Biggest Party  “It would be a surprise if the biggest party wouldn’t be
-- as the polls show -- either the National Coalition or the
Social Democrats,” Borg said. Municipalities depend on the
state for funding, and that’s why “the Finnish economic
situation and the euro crisis have bearing on the outcome of the
local vote,” he said.  About 24.4 percent of voters have cast their ballots in
advance, according to the Justice Ministry. The results of those
votes will be published on Oct. 28 at 8 p.m. local time as polls
close. No exit polls are conducted.  The opposition “The Finns” party may double or triple its
popularity from the 5.4 percent it won the 2008 local election.
That would bring its local-level support closer to the backing
it received in the April 2011 general election, when it won 19.1
percent of ballots, suggesting steady opposition to bailouts.
The party has more than doubled the number of candidates to
4,394 from 1,840 four years ago.  Staying Firm  Markku Halme, a 35-year-old carpenter from Helsinki, is
casting his ballot for Timo Soini’s euro-skeptic group and said
the government needs to stay firm on bailouts.  “ Finland  needs to keep to the same stance,” Halme said on
Oct. 23. “The countries that are blundering should be booted
out. It’s their own fault.”  The National Coalition won 23.5 percent in  2008 , the Social
Democrats 21.2 percent, the Center Party 20.1 percent.  Finns will go to the ballot box to select about 10,000
council members in 320 municipalities in an election that has
focused mostly on local issues such as how to pay for social
services. Three quarters of public services are provided
locally, according to Borg. That includes health care and
schools.  While the National Coalition and the Social Democrats
dominate councils in the biggest cities, including Helsinki,
Turku and Tampere, many councils in the countryside are in the
hands of the Center Party. “The Finns” will probably add
support both in the towns and in rural areas.  Power Structures  “‘The Finns’ party will shake up the traditional power
structures in towns,” said Ville Pernaa, head of the Center for
Parliamentary Studies at Turku University. “The Center Party
will probably lose its absolute majority in many small councils
to them.”  The cost of supporting  Europe ’s fastest-aging population is
straining welfare funds, prompting the government to propose
that smaller municipalities merge to create bigger units with a
wider tax base.  “The municipal election is about reforming Finland,”
Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki on Oct. 24. “It’s
very important in terms of local services.”  Anneli Nuoritalo, 70, said she’s most worried about the
economy as she prepares to vote in the Finnish capital.  “There’s no well-being if we can’t get the economy
going,” the retired civil servant said. “It’s a worry for the
nation as a whole, also on the municipal level.”  Slowing Growth  Finland’s economic growth is slowing as a recession in the
euro-area saps demand for exports such as steel and machinery.
The government is raising taxes and cutting spending to trim
deficits in one of the four remaining AAA rated countries in the
17-nation euro area. It has been able to keep its deficits
within the European Union’s 3 percent rule even as its economy
shrank 8.5 percent in 2009.  “Voters have a mental image of money being poured into
Europe, and ‘The Finns’ party is using that to gain votes,”
Borg said. “Euro-skepticism will play a significant part in
politics as the party solidifies its foothold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  