-- Fisker Wants Court to Delay A123 Bankruptcy Auction
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-10-27T00:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/fisker-wants-court-to-delay-a123-bankruptcy-auction.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a closely
held startup carmaker led by auto designer Henrik Fisker, asked
a bankruptcy judge to delay the auction of U.S. electric-car
battery maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)   “A hurried sale process will be damaging to the estates
and deprive creditors of value that may be realized through
higher and better offers,” Gregg Galardi, a Fisker attorney,
said in court papers filed today in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , also said today it
would file an “emergency motion” challenging a so-called
debtor-in-possession loan, and didn’t provide details.  Fisker is seeking an extension of the bid deadline, auction
date and related dates and deadlines in the bidding procedures
request by at least 30 days, court papers show.  D.J. “Jan” Baker, a lawyer representing A123, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  A123, the recipient of a $249 million federal grant, said
it would sell its automotive-business assets to Milwaukee-based
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  in a deal valued at $125 million. The deal
is subject to other potential offers in a bankruptcy auction.
A123, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, listed assets of $459.8
million and debt of $376 million as of Aug. 31 in Chapter 11
documents.  Loan Approval  A123, which is scheduled to return to court next week to
seek approval of the remainder of a $72.5 million loan, intends
to file court papers seeking interim approval of a replacement
debtor-in-possession facility from Wanxiang America Corp.,
according to court documents filed today. The company on Oct. 18
won interim court approval to borrow as much as $15.5 million in
DIP financing from Johnson Controls.  Johnson Controls said in a statement today that it has
chosen not to be debtor-in-possession lender during A123’s
bankruptcy to “avoid potential delays by threatened legal
action from Wanxiang.”  “We are concerned that back-and-forth posturing by other
interested parties may lead to confusion and anxiety for A123’s
employees and customers and thus destroy underlying value in the
estate,” Alex Molinaroli, president of Johnson Controls Power
Solutions, said in the statement.  Johnson Controls maintains its $125 million offer for the
automotive assets and plans to expand its offer to include
A123’s government business during the bankruptcy process,
according to the company’s statement.  ‘Various Protections’  The auto company said it doesn’t oppose the need for an
asset sale, just “various protections” for Johnson “that are
unnecessary, excessive, and counterproductive to a successful
sales process,” including a possible $7.75 million breakup fee
and expense reimbursement.  The proposed procedures and protections were “crafted”
for the benefit of Johnson Controls, Galardi said. “The best
interests of the estates, however, are not well served through a
hasty and unfair sale process designed to ensure that JCI is the
ultimate purchaser,” he said.  In January 2010, A123 and Fisker signed a multiyear supply
agreement for Fisker’s Karma plug-in hybrid electric luxury car.
A123’s obligations under the supply accord, including warranty
obligations, “give rise to substantial unsecured claims” in
favor of Fisker that may exceed a total of $100 million,
according to court papers.  Trustee Objection  Also today, U.S. Trustee Mark Kenney filed an objection to
the breakup fee, saying it can’t be characterized as “actually
necessary to preserve the value of the estate.”  In another objection today, patent owners including the
University of Montreal asked a judge to consider the value of
their exclusively licensed patents for lithium battery
technology and the rights of A123 to keep or transfer them in
the sale.  Johnson Controls plans to acquire A123’s automotive
business assets, including its facilities in Livonia and
Romulus,  Michigan . The Milwaukee-based company also will obtain
A123’s cathode powder plant in China and its equity interest in
Shanghai Advanced Traction Battery Systems Co., A123’s joint
venture with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.  ‘Purchased Assets’  Massachusetts Clean Energy Technology Center filed an
objection today to the sale motion saying the proposed court
documents don’t “reasonably identify the purchased assets, nor
clearly state the treatment of the claims secured by the
purchased assets.”  “The term ‘Auto Business’ is not only vague but
misleading,” Massachusetts Clean Energy Center’s attorney
Michael Barrie said in court papers. The proposed bidding
procedures “do not limit the bidding to the purchased assets
but permit bidding on any other assets” of A123, Barrie said.  Massachusetts  Clean Energy Center, created by the Green
Jobs Act of 2008, wants the court to make A123 amend certain
documents “so that they reasonably identify which assets are
being sold and which leases are being assumed with sufficient
particularity to allow MA-CEC to ascertain whether its
collateral will be among the assets eligible for sale,” Barrie
said.  The Massachusetts Clean Energy Center provided A123 a $5
million secured loan in October 2010, court papers show. The
agency would forgive and A123 wouldn’t need to repay the loan if
certain employment and capital expenditures were met.  Half Forgiven  Half of the loan would be forgiven if A123 creates 263 jobs
in Massachusetts by the end of 2014 and maintains at least 513
jobs from January 2013 through Oct. 8, 2017, according to court
documents. If the company doesn’t achieve those milestones they
can get partial forgiveness analogous to the levels they do
reach.  The loan was amended in 2011 with the Center forgiving half
after the battery-maker spent at least $12.5 million in
infrastructure and leasehold improvements. The company still
owes about $2.8 million in principal and interest.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  