-- Foreign Investors Added Spain Debt in September
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-26T14:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/foreign-investors-added-spain-debt-in-september.html
Overseas investors increased their
holdings of Spanish debt last month for the first time in almost
a year, as the prospect of a European Central Bank bailout
boosted non-resident demand for the securities.  Government-bond trading volumes jumped to the most since
May and domestic banks were able to reduce their share of the
sovereign securities, according to a  report  posted on the
Spanish Treasury’s website today. Yields fell after ECB
President  Mario Draghi  outlined on Sept. 6 a bond-buying program
to cap rates in the euro area. Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on Oct. 19 he’s not facing pressure to seek a
sovereign bailout, a condition of the central-bank purchases.  “The pace of the rally in Spanish yields suggested this
trend,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at
ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The ECB has been successful so far,
but the market will move back to a negative mood if Spain will
not accelerate its bailout request. Speculative traders can
easily take profit on their exposure if spreads re-widen.”  Non-resident investors boosted their share of Spanish
government debt to 35.4 percent in September from 33.5 percent
the previous month, according to the report. That’s the first
increase since November 2011.  Spain ’s banks reduced their
holdings to 32.4 percent of the total from 34.1 percent, the
data showed.  Bond Yields  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell three basis points to 5.59
percent at 3:20 p.m.  London  time today. The rate has  dropped 
more than 2 percentage points from a euro-era high of 7.75
percent reached on July 25, the day before Draghi pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to defend the euro. Spanish bonds returned
4.6 percent in September, the most since December 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The average turnover of Spanish bonds climbed to 42.5
billion euros ($55 billion) a day in September, from 38.1
billion euros a day the month earlier, according to the report.
The traded amount was 68.1 billion euros a day in September
2011.  JPMorgan Asset Management’s International Fixed-Income
Group cut its holdings of Spanish securities this week to match
the benchmark used to monitor performance as El Confidencial
reported the nation would miss its budget-deficit target,
according to Iain Stealey, a portfolio manager in London.  Stealey said in an interview yesterday that he would buy
Spanish debt if the nation sought external aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  