-- Forint Drops to 2-Week Low as IMF Said to Suspend Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-26T13:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/forint-drops-to-2-week-low-as-report-says-imf-suspends-aid-talks.html
The forint dropped to the lowest
level in two weeks against the euro after a report said the
 International Monetary Fund  suspended aid talks with  Hungary .  The forint dropped as much as 1.1 percent to 282.84 per
euro, the weakest since Oct. 11, before paring losses to trade
at 281.62 by 2:55 p.m. in Budapest, down 0.7 percent.  The IMF doesn’t plan to restart aid talks with Hungary
unless there’s a “radical” change in economic policies, news
website Origo  reported  today, citing unidentified government
officials. The talks “haven’t been suspended at all,” said
 Mihaly Varga , the country’s chief negotiator, according to MTI
state news service. The lenders are evaluating Hungary’s budget
plans, MTI said, citing an interview with Varga.  “Whilst talks with the IMF have not formally, broken down,
the stalemate we are currently in is as good as the same
thing,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , wrote in a note to clients. “The
market is beginning to react to the fact that the IMF will not
be returning to Hungary anytime soon.”  Hungary requested aid in November after its  credit rating 
was cut to junk. Talks over an IMF-led loan were repeatedly
delayed because of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s resistance to
adhere to legal and economic conditions set by lenders. Fiscal
measures announced this month, which focused on tax increases
for banks, don’t satisfy the IMF as they stifle economic growth
and threaten long-term debt financing, according to Origo.  The yield on the nation’s five-year euro-denominated bond
dropped to 4.92 percent today from a high of 10.3 percent on
January 10. The forint is the best-performing currency this
year, having risen 11.5 percent on bets the country will seal an
IMF deal.  Respect, Trust  Hungary this month started an ad campaign in local
newspapers, saying it “won’t give in” to the IMF’s conditions
and demanding “respect and trust” from the Washington-based
lender. Orban has repeatedly said that a deal was in sight,
while explicitly rejecting policy changes needed for a loan.  “As we said earlier, there are no dates yet for the
negotiation mission to return to Budapest,” Iryna Ivaschenko,
the IMF’s representative in Budapest, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “As a general policy, we don’t comment
on rumors.”  High-ranking IMF officials, at an annual meeting in  Tokyo 
this month, demanded that the government stop the media campaign
and said they would “no longer assist to Orban’s games,” Origo
said.  ‘Waking Up’  Investors “seem to be finally waking up to the fact that
this government is not committed to getting a multi-lateral deal
soon,”  Luis Costa , a strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London,
said in an e-mail. “The markets have been too complacent about
Hungarian risk.”  Orban has effectively nationalized $13 billion of private
pension-fund assets, levied extraordinary industry taxes to
raise revenue for the budget, including  Europe ’s highest bank
tax, and forced lenders to swallow exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages.  The measures damaged investor confidence, cut investments,
helped push the economy into a recession and cost the country
its investment grade at Standard and Poor’s,  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  