-- FTC Chairman Will Decide Whether to Leave After Election
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/ftc-chairman-will-decide-whether-to-leave-after-election.html
U.S. Federal Trade Commission
Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz, who has served at the agency for
eight years, said he will decide whether to leave his post after
the Nov. 6 election.  Leibowitz, 54, said he would quit the FTC if Republican
candidate  Mitt Romney  wins because the president “deserves to
have three commissioners from his own party, a tradition at the
agency.” In an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol
Gains” set to air Oct. 28, and after the taping, Leibowitz
noted he has spent 20 of the past 25 years in government.  He has told people privately that for personal reasons he
intends to leave the agency sometime after the election,
according to a person familiar with his intentions.  Still, he said in yesterday’s interview, he has no
immediate plans for a departure.  Named FTC chairman in 2009 by President  Barack Obama ,
Leibowitz, a Democrat, was reconfirmed for a second seven-year
term at the bi-partisan agency in March. By law, the president
names one commissioner chairman and no more than three of the
five can belong to the same party.  Obama last month appointed Joshua Wright, a Republican law
professor at  George Mason University , to replace Republican Tom Rosch, who said he won’t seek another term. Maureen Olhausen,
another Republican, was confirmed in April.  Google Probe  As Leibowitz deliberates his future, the FTC is deciding
whether to sue  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for abusing its dominant position in
Internet search in violation of antitrust laws. The agency has
been investigating the operator of the world’s most popular
search engine since April 2011.  Earlier this month, FTC investigators circulated an
internal draft memo that recommends suing  Mountain View ,
California-based Google for stifling competition in the Internet
search market, people familiar with the matter said on Oct. 13.  Leibowitz yesterday declined to say whether he’d accept the
staff’s recommendation. He said he expects to resolve the
investigation by the end of the year or “possibly sooner.”  When asked whether the commission is open to settlement
discussions with Google, Leibowitz said, “We would always
prefer resolution to litigation, but we haven’t decided what we
are going to do.”  On the merger front, the FTC is reviewing  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s $2.6 billion bid to buy  Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc. (DTG) , which includes the sale of its Advantage
brand. The transaction is meeting resistance from some at the
commission over concerns the deal will crimp competition in the
market for rental cars and hurt consumers, people familiar with
the matter said yesterday.  Leibowitz declined to comment on the agency’s review.  Standard Patents  The FTC is also taking a stand on how companies use patents
for industry-standard technology, which help ensure that
different manufacturers’ products, such as mobile-phone antennas
and global-positioning system software, work together.  Companies with this technology pledge to license patents
for those inventions on reasonable terms.  “This is a very big issue for competition in the
marketplace,” Leibowitz said. “When a company spends billions
of dollars to buy expensive patent portfolios to use in
litigation, we all admit this is wasteful and isn’t going to
productive uses.”  Honoring Pledges  The FTC is investigating whether Google’s Motorola Mobility
unit is honoring pledges it made to license industry-standard
technology for mobile and other devices on fair terms, people
familiar with the matter said in June. The patents involve
wireless and video technology for mobile devices.  Google’s bid to block imports of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox
gaming system and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone based on patents owned
Motorola Mobility unit may hurt competition, the FTC said in a
June filing with the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , which is charged with protecting U.S. markets from
unfair trade practices.  The FTC recommended limits on the use of patents related to
industry standards to block imports. Motorola Mobility is using
standard-essential patents in cases against Microsoft and Apple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 Pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 