-- Heating Oil, Gasoline Rise on East Coast Hurricane Threat
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-26T19:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/gasoline-rises-on-hurricane-threat-expanding-economy.html
Heating oil and gasoline rose a
second day on concern that Hurricane Sandy may disrupt East
Coast production and imports, and as the U.S. economy expanded
more than forecast in the third quarter.  Futures gained as Hurricane Sandy will probably grow into a
“Frankenstorm” that may become the worst to hit the U.S.
Northeast in 100 years if current forecasts are correct. Gross
domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced
in the U.S., rose at a 2 percent annual rate after climbing 1.3
percent in the prior quarter, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington .  “We’re moving up because of Hurricane Sandy and its impact
on East Coast refineries,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “And the complex is moving on
the back of the GDP figures. The expectation is product demand
will remain steady or grow slightly in the future.”  Heating oil  for November delivery gained 3.57 cents, or 1.2
percent, to settle at $3.0978 a gallon on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Prices fell 1.2 percent this week, the
second consecutive weekly loss.  The hybrid storm may strike anywhere from the Delaware-
Maryland-Virginia peninsula to southern New England. The current
 National Hurricane Center track  has it going ashore just south
of the  Delaware  Bay on Oct. 30 and moving northwest between
Baltimore and Wilmington, Delaware.  “There may be concern about deliverability of products,”
said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in
 Chicago .  Area Refiners  Refiners in the region, which includes  New York  Harbor, the
delivery point for Nymex futures, can process 1.29 million
barrels a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. East
Coast, or Padd 1, gasoline supplies were 9.1 percent below year-
earlier levels last week, Energy Department data show. The East
Coast imported 471,000 barrels a day of gasoline last week,
according to department data.  “It’s going to impact supply logistics in terms of
movement up and down the East Coast,” said  Sander Cohan , a
global transportation fuels analyst and principal with Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Ship and
barge traffic in and out of New York Harbor could be impacted.
You might see a drop in demand if there is real damage.”  The storm may bring winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per
hour stretching from the mid-Atlantic to  Boston  and widespread
power outages, said  Tom Kines , a senior meteorologist at
AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Supply Disruption  The storm could disrupt the movement and production of
products just as U.S. stockpiles of heating oil are 30 percent
below year-earlier levels.  “It’s going to hit right at New York Harbor and just at
the point when heating oil is about to move into the residential
market,” Cohan said.  Gasoline for November delivery advanced 2.27 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $2.6991 a gallon. Prices rose 0.1 percent
this week, the first gain in three weeks.  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump declined 2.4 cents to $3.575 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since Aug. 2. Prices have fallen every
day since Oct. 8, declining 6.4 percent. The pump price reached
a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  By election day, the national average will slide to about
$3.40 to $3.50, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  