-- Gay Marriage Pits Laymen Against Religious Hierarchy
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-10-26T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/gay-marriage-pits-laymen-against-religious-hierarchy.html
At a Seattle synagogue, volunteers
are running a phone bank urging voters to uphold Washington’s
same-sex marriage law. In  Maryland , Catholics are poised to
preach from the pulpit opposing a similar initiative.  Voters in those states as well as Maine are less than two
weeks from deciding whether to hand ballot-box victory to same-
sex marriage proponents for the first time after more than a
decade of defeat. Campaigns on both sides are targeting
religious communities, where leaders holding on to centuries of
opposition to homosexuality are often pitted against their
congregants’ evolving attitudes toward gay nuptials.  “There has been some movement in recent years toward
greater acceptance of same-sex marriage,” said David Masci, a
researcher with the Pew Research Center’s Forum on Religion &
Public Life in Washington. “But the largest religious groups
and the biggest churches remain opposed.”  Opposition to same-sex marriage from religious groups has
helped block it at the polls. In 2008, Mormon and Catholic
forces mobilized voters in  California  to halt court-sanctioned
gay unions. Since then, six states have granted same-sex couples
the right to wed,  Barack Obama  became the first sitting
president to endorse the practice and some denominations have
warmed to the idea.  Stigma Fading  In May, a committee of the Rabbinical Assembly, which sets
rules for the Conservative Judaism, approved rituals for same-
sex marriages. The Episcopal Church in July approved a liturgy
for homosexual unions. In Presbyterian Christian churches,
factions have pressed to recognize the vows, though the push was
defeated by official assemblies this year.  And in a sign of a fading stigma, a group of Mormons
marched at a gay-pride parade this year in Salt Lake City.  “The biggest breakthrough that I now hear from people who
support the freedom to marry for same-sex couples is that it’s
because of their faith, not in spite of it,” said Marvin
Ellison, a professor of Christian ethics at the Bangor
Theological Seminary in  Maine  and president of the Religious
Coalition Against Discrimination.  Freedom to Marry, a national gay-rights group, is working
with followers to counter the notion that any faith is united in
its opposition, said Evan Wolfson, the group’s president.  Maryland Catholics  Still, homosexual marriage remains anathema among
evangelical Christians and within the Catholic Church, the
second-biggest denomination in the U.S. and a leader in efforts
this year to defeat gay vows at the polls.  In Maryland, where about one-fifth of the residents are
Catholic, the church has been a vocal opponent of the same-sex
marriage law signed by Democratic Governor Martin O’Malley, a
practicing Catholic.  The Maryland Catholic Conference, the church’s public-
policy arm, is distributing announcements to be read from the
pulpit at the end of Mass during the next two Sundays, reminding
parishioners of the church’s opposition to Question 6. Churches
can have their tax-exempt status revoked for endorsing
candidates but are free to speak out on public-policy issues.  “The definition of marriage as the union of one man and
one woman, open to the birth of children, is a matter of
established Catholic doctrine,” Bishop Richard J. Malone of the
 Roman Catholic Diocese of Portland , Maine, said in a statement.
“Any Catholic who supports a redefinition of marriage -- or so-
called ’same-sex marriage’ -- is unfaithful to Catholic
doctrine.”  Religious Protection  To temper opposition, all three states’ laws protect
religious groups from being forced to recognize marriages deemed
contrary to their beliefs or to lease their premises for gay
weddings.  Not all opponents are convinced. One television ad in
 Washington  features a  Vermont  innkeeper who says he was sued for
refusing to support a lesbian wedding because it clashed with
his Christian beliefs. In Maine, one spot warns that in places
where gay marriage has become legal, those who disagree “have
been fired, sued, fined and punished.”  Mainers United for Marriage, a coalition of organizations
in favor of same-sex marriage, is telling voters that won’t
happen. The law expands protections for religious institutions
that don’t want to partake in gay marriages, said David Farmer,
a spokesman. The group has been working to build support since
voters rejected a 2009 state law legalizing gay marriage.  Turnout Key  Pro-gay-marriage televisions ads in Maine and Washington
feature pastors, bishops and friars. Ads from Marylanders for
Marriage Equality seek to appeal to black and religious voters
by featuring black ministers. And in  Minnesota , where voters
will weigh whether to amend their constitution to define
marriage as between one man and one woman, a Catholic couple
stars.  Opponents have also sought to rally religious institutions
to their side, hosting forums at churches around the state.  Religious turnout could help offset the financial advantage
held by gay marriage supporters. In Washington, the main foes of
Democratic Governor Christine Gregoire’s law have raised $2.1
million, $250,000 of it from the Knights of Columbus, the
Catholic fraternal organization, according to state filings.  That’s about one-fifth of the $10.9 million raised by the
main group supporting it, which drew upon wealthy backers
including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder Bill Gates.  Growing Support  Marylanders for Marriage Equality raised $3.3 million
through early October, compared with $839,000 raised by the
Maryland Marriage Alliance, the principal opponents.  New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, pledged $750,000 to
support gay-marriage initiatives in the four states.  Support among churchgoers has also been growing, mirroring
the changing mores in the broader society, particularly among
the young. Most Americans unaffiliated with any religion have
long favored same-sex marriage, according to the Pew Research
Center’s polling.  In 2011, a majority of Catholics and white mainline
Protestants did so for the first time, a shift confirmed in
subsequent polling. Opponents still predominate among black
Protestants and white evangelicals, according to Pew.  Six States  A poll published this month by the Pew Research Center
found that nearly two-thirds of those who attend religious
service at least once a week oppose same-sex marriage. Less-
frequent churchgoers favor it 2-to-1.  To date, same-sex marriage has become legal only as a
result of legislation and court rulings, in  Iowa , New York,
 Massachusetts ,  Connecticut , Vermont, New Hampshire and the
District of Columbia. Voters have opposed same-sex marriage in
every state where it has appeared on the ballot.  In  Seattle , the Temple De Hirsch Sinai has been running a
phone bank five days a week, where some 40 volunteers seek to
persuade voters to back the law. The congregation, part of the
Reform branch of Judaism, which has long championed gay rights,
plans to do so through Election Day.  “We’ve taken a very vehement, vocal and visual role in
supporting the gay community,” said Rabbi Daniel Weiner. “It
is the civil-rights issue of our time.”  Thomas Reese, a Jesuit priest and senior fellow at the
Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University, said
religious opposition will eventually be overtaken by societal
and demographic shifts.  “We’re in the middle of a major cultural change,” he
said. “Young people are very strongly in favor of gay marriage,
and as the older people die off and young people replace them as
voters, there’s a tsunami of support building up among young
people that this is going to be a done deal within 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  