-- General Electric, Toyota Double Structured Notes Sales in 2012
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-10-26T14:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/general-electric-toyota-double-structured-notes-sales-in-2012.html
General Electric Capital Corp. and
Toyota Motor Credit Corp. have each increased market share in
the shrinking U.S. structured notes market, selling more than
twice as many of the securities as the same period last year.  General Electric Capital, the largest non-bank structured
note issuer in the U.S., sold $525 million of rate-linked
structured notes this year, 3.5 times more than last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Toyota has sold $215
million in rate-linked notes, more than twice as much as in
2011.  Investors are buying more structured notes from non-bank
issuers this year because their credit ratings are typically
higher than those of financial firms, said Bill Pang, manager of
derivatives and structured finance at Toyota Motor Credit Corp
in Torrance,  California . Since structured notes rely on the
issuer’s promise to pay its obligation, investors want to have
different kinds of issuers, he said.  “What we’re doing this year is capitalizing on investor
demand of increasing yield while diversifying bank-sponsored
deals whose ratings have suffered over the year,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Toyota Motor Credit is  rated Aa3  with a negative outlook by
Moody’s Investors Service. General Electric Capital is rated A1
with a stable outlook.  Bank of America Corp.,  the largest U.S.
issuer of structured notes, is rated Baa2 with a negative
outlook.  Cash Reserves  In 2007, Toyota sold more than $2.5 billion in structured
notes, the most in a calendar year for the company and 11 times
what has been sold this year, Pang said. That number includes
notes registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and private transactions, he said.  “One of the key reasons there hasn’t been a lot of
issuance is that there is a lot of cash on hand in these
entities,” said Ian Merrill, director of U.S. investor
solutions at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  New York . “Tactical acquisitions
have been contemplated for a long time, but they’re still not
doing them because of uncertainty” in the economy, he said.  Sales of structured notes in the U.S. are down 19 percent,
compared with the same week last year, Bloomberg data show.  “We look at all options all the time -- it’s business as
usual for us,” said  Russell Wilkerson , spokesmen for  GE
Capital , in an e-mail.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  