-- General Electric to Develop 1,000 Megawatts in Kenya
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-26T12:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/general-electric-to-develop-1-000-megawatts-in-kenya-correct-.html
(Corrects number of power plants and GE’s role starting in
headline in story originally published on Oct. 24.)  General Electric Co. is partnering
with Kenyan government and industry to develop 1,000 megawatts
of power in the East African nation and is in talks with  Kenya
Power Ltd. (KPLL)  about a power-purchase agreement.  The power projects will probably be developed over five to
10 years, Jay Ireland, president and chief executive officer for
Africa said in a phone interview. He didn’t give a price for the
partnership in which his company will provide technology and
equipment.  “We are in the process of working with  Kenya  Power to
develop a power purchase agreement shortly,” he said. GE, as
the company is known, in May signed an agreement with the
government to develop power, rail, health care, aviation and
training projects, he said.  Kenya plans to spend as much as $50 billion over the next
20 years to meet a 14 percent annual increase in electricity
demand, according to the country’s Energy Regulatory Commission.
Kenya, east  Africa ’s biggest economy, will need 16,905 megawatts
annually by 2031 from 1,520 megawatts this year, the regulator
said.  GE signed similar development agreements with the
governments of Nigeria and  Ghana . Under the accord with Kenya,
It will develop wind-energy projects and refurbish rail
locomotives in partnership with Rift Valley Railways, Ireland
said. The company would be interested in building locomotives
for Kenya’s proposed railway line to South Sudan and Ethiopia,
he said.  Angola Power  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company supplies jet
engines for the Boeing 787s and Embraer planes flown by  Kenya
Airways Ltd. (KNAL) , sub-Saharan Africa’s third-biggest carrier and one
of GE’s main customers in the East African region. In Tanzania,
it has power generation projects and is providing health care
equipment in  Ethiopia  and  Rwanda .  In Angola, where GE is already supplying oil and gas
companies, the company will seek “power generation
opportunities,” Ireland said.  “We are looking at mostly utilizing gas or diesel,” he
said, without giving more details.  Angola is Africa’s second-biggest oil producer after
Nigeria. The southern African nation said Oct. 19 it will start
six diesel power stations to supply the capital Luanda by the
end of this year. Angola is expected to have economic growth of
6.8 percent this year, according to the International Monetary
Fund, as it pumps about 1.7 million barrels of oil a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  