-- George Greenberg, Who Expanded Loehmann’s Chain, Dies at 89
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-26T17:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/george-greenberg-who-took-loehmann-s-chain-national-dies-at-89.html
George J. Greenberg, who led the
nationwide expansion of the Loehmann’s apparel chain, one of the
earliest discount retailers of high-end clothing, as the first
head of the company from outside the founding family, has died.
He was 89.  He died yesterday at Franklin Hospital in Valley Stream,
 New York , after a long illness, according to his son, Maury. He
had resided for the last several years in  Palm Beach ,  Florida ,
with his wife, Frances, who survives him.  The Loehmann’s chain traces back to a discount clothing
store opened in Brooklyn in 1921 by Frieda “Momma” Loehmann,
who sold overstocked designer wear she obtained from  Manhattan ’s
Garment District. Her son, Charles, opened a second outlet in
the Bronx in 1930 and incorporated the Loehmann’s name.  Greenberg joined the company in 1958, when it had four
stores, and became president and chief merchandising officer in
1965, when it had seven stores, all in New York,  New Jersey  and
 Connecticut , according to New York Times articles. As president
he succeeded Charles Loehmann, who became chairman. The company
had gone public on the  American Stock Exchange  in 1964.  By the time he retired as chairman and chief executive
officer in early 1987, Greenberg had led the company’s expansion
to 91 stories from coast to coast, “with plans to add more,”
the Times reported in November 1986.  Greenberg maintained Loehmann’s famous focus on prices.  No Returns  As Time magazine put it in 1983, the chain’s “rigorously
no-frills outlets carry no shoes or lingerie. Credit cards are
not accepted, nor are returns. Salespeople provide little
service. Dressing areas are communal, mirrored rooms with harsh
lighting, places of pandemonium on weekends. Women enter, check
modesty at the door, and frantically try on designer fashions
with no labels but with thinly disguised codes on price tags: RL
is  Ralph Lauren , GEB Geoffrey Beene, BLA Bill Blass.”  Loehmann’s had “a love-hate relationship” with the
fashion industry, said Greenberg, according to a story in New
York magazine in 1980. “We’re just tolerated by the industry
and yet they need us.”  Greenberg personally became something of a fashion
celebrity, helping outfit famous women including Betty Ford and
Lillian Carter when they were U.S. first lady, his son said.  Loehmann’s was bought by AEA Investors Inc. in 1980 for $68
million, then in 1983 by department-store operator Associated
Dry Goods Corp. for $96 million. In 1986, St. Louis-based May
Department Stores Co. took over Loehmann’s as part of its
acquisition of Associated Dry Goods.  Post-Retirement  Greenberg retired a few months later, proclaiming
Loehmann’s “alive and well, and we’ll continue to do better
under the aegis of the May Co.,” according to the 1986 Times
story.  Greenberg’s successor, Allan R. Bogner, closed 13
underperforming stores and changed policy to accept credit cards
and personal checks,  according to  the International Directory of
Company Histories. An affiliate of Entrecanales y Tavora SA of
 Spain  and a venture-capital arm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Securities Corp. bought the chain in 1988 and took it private,
closing more stores.  Loehmann’s filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in
November 2010 with a plan negotiated with owner Istithmar Retail
Investments, part of Dubai World, and a noteholder,  Whippoorwill
Associates Inc.   Store Visits  As Loehmann’s underwent ownership changes and financial
struggles, Greenberg watched from retirement with some dismay,
his son Maury said today in an interview.  “His feeling, I believe, was that he left too soon, and he
somewhat regretted that,” Maury Greenberg said. “But he left
at a time there were changes taking place that I don’t feel he
was comfortable with.”  As recently as the last few months, Greenberg would visit
Loehmann’s stores and then privately offer his commentary to his
family, his son said. Among other things, he was struck by the
variety of merchandise sold by what had long been a ladies’
clothing store. “Silverware and teapots,” he remarked after
one of his recent visits, his son said.  George Joseph Greenberg was born on Sept. 26, 1923, in
Norfolk,  Virginia , one of five boys of Jewish immigrants from
 Europe . His father, a barber, moved the family to  Brooklyn  when
the children were young.  Unable to support five children during the Great
Depression, Greenberg’s parents sent him and two of his four
brothers to live at the Brooklyn Hebrew Orphan Asylum for a few
years, his son said.  Greenberg worked as a buyer in the fur department of Macy’s
before joining Loehmann’s, his son said.  In addition to his wife and son Maury, Greenberg’s
survivors include a daughter, Marilyn, and another son, Robert,
plus nine grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  