-- German Consumer Confidence to Climb to Five-Year High, GfK Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-26T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/german-consumer-confidence-to-climb-to-five-year-high-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will
climb to a five-year high in November as rising wages and
unemployment at a two-decade low outweigh concerns about the
sovereign debt crisis and slowing economic growth,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The market research company today forecast that its
 consumer-sentiment index , based on a survey of about 2,000
people, will increase to 6.3 from a revised 6.1 in October. That
would be the highest since October 2007. Economists predicted an
unchanged reading from GfK’s initial 5.9 estimate for October,
according to the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey .  While business confidence in  Germany  is at its lowest in
more than 2 1/2 years and economic growth is slowing, the
country’s jobless rate has held at a two-decade low of 6.8
percent since December, boosting household purchasing power.
Financial markets have also rallied since the  European Central
Bank  pledged to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro,
easing concerns about the debt crisis.  “Although the reduction in unemployment has recently come
to a halt, experts anticipate a steady level of employment in
the coming year, despite the economic slowdown,” Nuremberg-
based GfK said in a statement. “Together with the positive
trend in wages and salaries, which also climbed in real terms,
the labor market currently provides key support for income
expectations.”  A measure of income expectations climbed to 29.9 in October
from 23.9 in September and a gauge of economic expectations rose
1.4 points to minus 15.8, GfK said. An index measuring
willingness to spend increased to 33.9 from 33.1.  While the German economy “continues to be in a robust
shape,” there are increasing signs “that a perceptible
expansion of economic growth in the third quarter of 2012 will
be followed by stagnation or even a slight decrease in gross
domestic product in the final quarter of the year,” the
Bundesbank said in its monthly report on Oct. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  