-- Giants Top Tigers for 2-Games-to-None Baseball World Series Lead
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-26T04:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/giants-top-tigers-2-0-take-2-game-lead-in-baseball-world-series.html
The  San Francisco Giants  took a two-
games-to-none World Series lead against the  Detroit Tigers  by a
matter of inches, one night after winning the opener with three
home runs that traveled nearly a quarter of a mile.  Madison Bumgarner and two relief pitchers combined on a
two-hitter as the Giants defeated the Tigers 2-0 last night in a
game that included a scary scene when  Detroit  starting pitcher
Doug Fister was hit in the head by a line drive.  Game 3 in the best-of-seven Major League Baseball
championship round is set for tomorrow night at Comerica Park in
Detroit, which will host Game 4 the following night.  “It’s a lot less stressful for sure,” Bumgarner said in a
news conference, referring to the fact that the Giants had to
overcome two-game deficits in each of their playoff series en
route to the  World Series . “But at the same time I don’t think
we can stop pushing, or we’re going to find ourselves in the
same spot we’ve been in the last two series.”  Of the 52 teams that previously have taken a 2-0 lead in
the World Series, 41 have gone on to win the title -- including
the last eight. The most recent team to come back to win the
championship after losing the opening two games was the 1996  New
York  Yankees, who dropped the first two at home and then won
four straight against the  Atlanta Braves .  “Hopefully we’ll get our offense going when we get back to
Motown,” Tigers manager  Jim Leyland  said in a news conference.
“Up to this point they’ve outplayed us.”  The odds of Las Vegas bookmakers before the start of the
World Series suggested a 62 percent chance Detroit will win the
title. Detroit was listed as the -170 money line favorite,
meaning a bettor would have to wager $170 to win $100, while the
Giants were +150.  Precision Plays  The Giants scored on a double-play grounder in the seventh
inning and  Hunter Pence ’s sacrifice fly in the eighth. The teams
had a total of seven hits a night after combining for 19.  While the Giants won the opener 8-3 on three home runs by
Pablo Sandoval that traveled an estimated 1,193 feet (364 meters)
in total, they took Game 2 with precision plays.  A bunt single by Gregor Blanco that dribbled along the
third-base line and stopped about a ball’s width inside fair
territory helped set up the Giants’ first run.  The Tigers came closest to scoring in the second inning
when Prince Fielder was thrown out at home while trying to score
from first base on Delmon Young’s double with no outs. Giants
catcher  Buster Posey  swept his glove across to tag out Fielder a
moment before he slid across home plate.  “It’s all about executing, and tonight we did a great job
of it,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said in a news conference.
“We play a lot of close games and these guys are used to it. We
wish we could do things a little bit easier, but that’s not our
way.”  Scary Moment  Bumgarner allowed only Young’s double and a single by Omar Infante in the fourth inning. He struck out eight. Santiago Casilla pitched the eighth inning and Sergio Romo got the save
with a perfect ninth.  Fister, who stayed in the game despite being hit in the
right side of the head by Blanco’s line drive in the second
inning, took the loss while allowing one run on four hits in six
innings.  “I was scared to death when it happened,” Leyland said.
“You always worry about something like that after it happens.
Maybe you’re alright and then you come sit in the dugout and all
of a sudden you’ve got a bad headache or something.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  