-- Gunvor May Cooperate with Novatek on LNG, Timchenko Tells Forbes
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-10-26T10:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/gunvor-may-cooperate-with-novatek-on-lng-timchenko-tells-forbes.html
Gunvor Group, the trading company
co-founded by billionaire  Gennady Timchenko , may work with OAO
Novatek, which he also co-owns, on liquefied natural gas in a
“very interesting project,” Forbes reported.  Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest gas producer, wants to be
present in the European market, while “Europeans want to see
not only Gazprom there,” Timchenko said in an  interview  with
Forbes published on the magazine’s website today.  Timchenko declined to elaborate on the cooperation the two
companies are considering, citing a confidentiality agreement,
only saying it has no relation to the Yamal LNG project in the
Arctic that Novatek is developing with  Total SA. (FP)   Novatek, Russia’s biggest independent gas producer, is
working toward getting rights to export the fuel, currently held
exclusively by state-run monopoly  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , Timchenko said in
May. Novatek, which sells all of its gas domestically, agreed in
2010 to pay a commission fee to Gazprom for shipping the super-
cooled gas from Yamal LNG when it becomes operational.  In a bid to carve out a position in Europe’s gas market,
the Novatek Gas & Power unit signed this year a 10-year contract
for commercial trading operations with Germany’s  EnBW Energie
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  for about 2 billion cubic meters of gas
annually. The contract isn’t for Russian gas, and the fuel will
be bought on the  spot market , Timchenko told Forbes.  Timchenko holds about 23 percent of Novatek. He said in the
Forbes interview he turned into a millionaire before  Vladimir Putin  first became Russia’s president in 2000. The two men,
while knowing each other “for many years” and “periodically
meeting,” mainly at sports events, never discuss business,
Timchenko told the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  