-- Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Rose to 82.6 in October
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-26T14:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-increased-to-82-6-in-october.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in October from the prior month to the highest level since
before the last recession began five years ago.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan  final consumer
 sentiment  index climbed to 82.6, the highest since September
2007, from 78.3 in September. Economists projected 83 for the
measure after a preliminary October reading of 83.1, according
to the median forecast of 60 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News .  Lower gasoline prices, improving property values and a drop
in unemployment may be helping to boost sentiment, brightening
the outlook for household purchases.  Consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, accelerated in the
third quarter, another report showed.  “I think part of it is declining energy prices, you know
we’ve seen some gradual improvement in the labor market, that
may be another factor,”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said before the report.
“Falling energy prices and a gradually improving labor market
are good for spending.”  The economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate from July
through September after a 1.3 percent advance in the second
quarter, the Commerce Department said. Household purchases also
rose at a 2 percent pace in the third quarter, up from 1.5
percent. Spending added 1.4 percentage points to growth.  “There were signs that the economy is continuing to gain
strength as rising  consumer confidence  translated to stronger
than expected consumer spending in the September quarter,” R.
Roger Berrier, president and chief operating officer of
Greensboro, North Carolina-based Unifi Inc., a producer of
synthetic yarns, said on an earnings teleconference on Oct. 25.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates for the confidence measure ranged from 76 to 85,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession and 89 in the five years leading up to
the 18-month economic slump that began in December 2007.  The Michigan index of  consumer expectations  six months from
now, which more closely projects the direction of  consumer
spending , rose to 79 from 73.5 in September. The gauge of
current conditions climbed to 88.1 from 85.7 a month ago.  Rising confidence may help lay the foundation for further
spending gains. Retail sales in September and August had the
best back-to-back showing since late 2010, signaling demand may
be rising ahead of the year-end holidays, the most important
time of the year for retailers.  Lower  gasoline prices  are working to shore up consumer
confidence. The average nationwide price for regular  gasoline  at
the pump declined to $3.575 a gallon on Oct. 25 from $3.60 a
gallon the day before, AAA, the largest U.S. motoring
organization, said yesterday on its website. That’s the lowest
level since Aug. 2. Prices have dropped every day since Oct. 8,
declining 6.3 percent. The pump price reached a 2012 high of
$3.936 on April 4.  Labor Market  A drop in joblessness may help strengthen confidence this
quarter. Last month the  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-
year low of 7.8 percent from 8.1, according to Labor Department
figures. Employment is a central theme in both President  Barack
Obama  and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  ahead of the Nov. 6
election.  Also lifting sentiment,  home prices  in July climbed more
than forecast, according to a Sept. 25 report. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities increased 1.2
percent from July 2011, the biggest 12-month advance since
August 2010.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next  12 months , compared
with 3.3 percent in the prior survey. Over the next five years,
Americans expected a 2.7 percent rate of inflation, compared
with 2.8 percent in September.  Michigan’s sentiment reading is in line with other
indicators. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached a six-
month high last week as Americans’ views of the economy were the
brightest since early May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  