-- Microsoft Internet Changes Examined by EU Regulators
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-26T18:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/microsoft-internet-changes-examined-by-eu-regulators.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  faces a preliminary
investigation by European data protection regulators who are
examining potential privacy issues raised by changes to policies
for Internet products including Hotmail and Bing.  Updates  to Microsoft’s services agreement, which took
effect Oct. 19, are being reviewed by Luxembourg’s data
protection commission in collaboration with other European Union
privacy regulators, said Gerard Lommel, president of the
Luxembourgish agency.  U.S. companies sometimes run afoul of privacy concerns in
 Europe , where rules protecting individuals’ data are stricter
than in America. Data protection authorities in the EU earlier
this month urged  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to address concerns about its
privacy policy.  “This investigation is not at the same level as the probe
concerning Google was a few months ago when it changed its
privacy policy, where clear privacy issues had been
identified,” Lommel said in an interview today. Potential
issues with Microsoft’s upgrade “can neither be excluded nor
confirmed.”  The goal is to check whether the amendment to Microsoft’s
policies could entail new risks for users’ privacy. The
examination is also checking whether Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft’s privacy policy meets European standards on notice
and choice of services, Lommel said.  Services Agreement  Robin Koch, a spokesman for Microsoft in Brussels, said the
changes don’t alter the company’s existing privacy policies.  “We recognize we could have been clearer about this when
we rolled out our updated services agreement,” Koch said in an
e-mailed statement. “We will update the agreement as soon as
possible to make that point absolutely clear.”  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the EU. As part of an  overhaul  of the union’s 17-year-old
rules on the issue, its executive body wants to simplify the
system so companies deal with only one regulator in the region.  The Luxembourg commission, in close cooperation with the
French and other European data protection authorities, is
examining the policy in this case because Microsoft’s service
agreement with users falls under Luxembourg law, said Lommel.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which has its European base in Ireland,
earlier this year was subject to an audit by the Irish data
protection authority into privacy issues with its facial-
recognition feature.  France ’s National Commission for Computing
and Civil Liberties, or CNIL, led the probe into Google’s new
privacy policy, announcing last week that the company must fix
flaws in the update or face possible fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg
at   sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  