-- Tiger’s Roberston Says ‘Disaster’ Funds Wrong: Tom Keene
-- B y   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-10-26T22:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/tiger-s-robertson-says-hedge-funds-seeing-disaster-are-wrong.html
Julian Robertson, founder of Tiger
Management LLC, said hedge funds that have positioned themselves
for a “disaster” are making a mistake.  “I think right now they are all scared,” Robertson, who
once ran one of the most successful hedge funds in world, said
today in a television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “They are really only going to be profitable in
the event of a big disaster.”  Hedge funds have trailed markets this year after cutting
risk to protect themselves against losses. The  Bloomberg Global
Aggregate Hedge Fund Index (BBHFUNDS)  gained 3.1 percent through September,
compared with a 16 percent increase in the Standard and Poor’s
500 Index and a 4.5 percent advance in the Barclays Capital Bond
Composite U.S. Index.  Stock hedge funds, for example, are positioned more
conservatively than normal. Their wagers on rising and falling
stocks are 22 percent net long, below the average of 35 percent
to 40 percent, according to an Oct. 22 report published by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch. A net position is the difference
between bets on rising stocks and falling stocks.  Managers have become so bearish that “they’re not going to
get out of it without a black-swan type event,” Robertson said.
“We have to assume that a black-swan event is very unlikely.”  Black-swan events, named after the belief that all swans
were white until the discovery of black ones in  Australia  in
1697, describe extreme outcomes such as the 2008 financial
crisis that were previously considered very unlikely to happen.  Tail Risk  Since 2008, several managers have created black-swan funds
to protect investors against market shocks. These funds soared
earlier this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis intensified. A $600
million tail-risk fund at Saba Capital Management LP returned
about 16 percent in the first three weeks of May after profiting
from Europe’s debt crisis and bets tied to trades in credit
derivatives by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Tail-risk funds, another term for black-swan funds, are
named for the outlying points, or tails, on bell curves used to
plot probabilities of losses and gains in the market.  Fund managers who are “disenchanted” with economies
worldwide do not make up the majority, Robertson said. Hedge
funds are “still the best place to run money.”  Robertson is bullish on  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , which he
said should be thought of as an aerospace company, rather than a
luxury car maker. Shares of the London-based company have jumped
17 percent this year with dividends reinvested.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saumya Vaishampayan in  New York  at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  