-- High-Yield Loses Allure for Denmark’s $137 Billion ATP Fund
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-26T11:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/high-yield-loses-allure-for-denmark-s-137-billion-atp-fund-1-.html
Denmark’s biggest pension fund, ATP
Group, is scaling back its investments in high-yielding debt
securities, as it predicts a rally in corporate and emerging
market bonds may be close to ending.  “If you look at bonds, they’ve performed incredibly well
and credit spreads have narrowed considerably,” Henrik Gade Jepsen, chief investment officer at the Hilleroed, Denmark-based
fund, said in an interview. “You’re approaching levels where
you could start to be careful.”  Demand for corporate debt has soared as investors sought
alternatives to government bond yields kept down by central bank
stimulus. According to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates Non-Financial Index, corporate bond yields dropped 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, this month to 123 basis
points more than benchmark German government debt. The spread
narrowed to 122 on Oct. 23, the smallest gap since July 2011.  At ATP, high-yielding debt securities, known as credit,
returned 3.4 billion kroner, or 7.6 percent, in the nine months
through September. That made it the best performing asset class
in the beta portion of the fund’s investment portfolio, it said
yesterday. Fifteen percent, or 49 billion kroner, of the
portfolio is in credit.  “Credit has a tendency to perform very well until suddenly
it has a tendency to perform not very well,” Jepsen said.
“Returns fall sharply.”  No Bubble  While there’s no bubble in high-yielding debt markets,
which include corporate bonds and debt from emerging nations
with low ratings, “at some point you get to a level with credit
spreads where the upside is limited compared with the
downside,” he said.  Tighter credit spreads followed declines in benchmark bonds
as investors turned to higher risk classes in search of yield.
Denmark pays about 23 basis points less than  Germany  to borrow
over 10 years, and the yield on the Nordic nation’s 3 percent
note due November 2021 was at 1.296 percent at 1:58 p.m. local
time.  ATP’s high-yielding bond investments returned 12.7 percent
in the first nine months, while loans and other credit products
returned 4.9 percent, it said. That compares with a return of
10.5 percent for the alpha portfolio and a 3.4 percent return
for the entire investment portfolio.  ATP, which has total assets of 790 billion kroner ($137
billion) and was named Europe’s best pension fund last year by
Investment and Pensions Europe, isn’t raising its total risk
exposure even amid early signs that central bank interventions
may be stabilizing the world economy.  “I don’t think monetary policy can do it by itself,”
Jepsen said. “We need to see  economic growth  improving and
that’s the risky part both in  Europe  and the U.S., with the
election and the fiscal cliff.”  The fund last year lowered its overall risk levels, and
“so far we haven’t taken on more risk,” Jepsen said. Prices
“are not at a level where we have started to take on more risk.
That applies more or less across the board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  