-- IMF Sees Spain Progress, Wants Failed Lenders Wound Down
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-26T15:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/imf-sees-spain-progress-wants-failed-lenders-wound-down.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
Spain had taken important steps in restructuring its banks as it
called for failing lenders to be wound down and for a push to
get the country’s bad bank working by December.  “The main finding of the preliminary report mission is
that important progress has been made in reforming the financial
sector,” the IMF said in a statement today during the first
visit this month by a team of its officials to monitor Spain’s
bank rescue. “It will be important to maintain the momentum as
important challenges lie ahead.”  Concerns about the impact on government finances from the
costs of propping up failing lenders such as the Bankia group
helped push Spain to seek a bailout of as much as 100 billion
euros ($129 billion) for its banking system in June. While
financial conditions have improved since the  European Central
Bank  made its pledge in September to buy Spanish bonds, the
economy and lenders still “face headwinds,” the IMF said.  Spain’s  stress tests  that were a condition of the bailout
were a sound guide for identifying banks that need capital, the
IMF said. Capital shortfalls must be made up quickly and “non-
viable banks promptly wound down,” the IMF said.  Spain will need to make “strong efforts” to have its so-
called bad bank, or vehicle to house the soured real estate of
banks that take state aid, fully up and running by a deadline at
the end of November, the IMF said. Mergers of banks that don’t
clearly generate value and undue constraints on credit supply
should be avoided, it said.  The IMF said it will pass a final report on the  Spain  visit
to the government and the European Commission in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  