-- Insider Trading, Finra’s Trace, IBM Request: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-10-26T11:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/insider-trading-finra-s-trace-ibm-request-compliance.html
A former director of store
operations at J.Crew Group Inc. agreed to pay more than $120,000
to settle allegations that he traded stock based on non-public
information.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday
it settled with Frank LoBue, whom it accused of trading on
store-sales results and cost information before the announcement
of company earnings for the first and second quarters of 2009.  LoBue made just over $60,000 in profit from his trades,
according to the complaint. LoBue didn’t admit to wrongdoing as
part of the settlement. He “had been trained not to do  insider
trading ” at J.Crew,  Scott Friestad , an associate director in
the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a telephone interview.  Robert Heim, a partner at Meyers & Heim LLP in New York who
represents LoBue, said his client “is looking forward to
putting this behind him and moving on.” Heim declined to
comment further.  Friestad said that while insider-trading cases often center
on “one-time events like a takeover, this case is a reminder
that there is a lot of market-moving information that employees
routinely come in possession of and they need to be careful not
to trade in those circumstances.”  J.Crew was bought by private equity firms  TPG Capital LP 
and Leonard Green & Partners LP last year.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. LoBue,
12-cv-07944, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Compliance Policy  SEC Approves Mortgage Trade Disclosure Rules for Finra’s Trace  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved rules
intended to increase transparency in a corner of the market for
mortgage- and asset-backed bonds.  The SEC agreed to a plan by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority to create public reporting for trades of
so-called specified government-backed mortgage bonds and
securities tied to Small Business Administration loans,
according to an Oct. 23 notice posted on its website.  The protocols for disclosures through Finra’s Trace system
will allow for the unique identifiers of bonds called CUSIPs to
be hidden, in favor of generic information about the securities.  Finra has been expanding Trace to securitized debt after
the opacity of trading in securities including  mortgage bonds 
without government backing contributed to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression in 2008, by fueling doubt
about the health of banks and funds. The non-governmental
regulator oversees more than 4,000 brokerage firms.  The Trace system started in 2002, providing the first real-
time data on most corporate bond trading to anyone with  Internet
access . Finra, which operates from Washington and New York,
began last year  disclosing  daily market-level information culled
from data on individual securitized-debt trades it had started
collecting earlier.  CFTC Said to Allow More Swaps Trading Via Phone in Final Rule  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will allow more
swaps to be traded over the phone than initially indicated under
proposed Dodd-Frank Act reforms, according to people familiar
with the matter.  Chairman  Gary Gensler  outlined the changes in a meeting
earlier this week in New York with executives of firms that want
to create regulated entities allowed to trade swaps, known as
swap execution facilities, or SEFs, according to two people who
attended.  The details of what will be allowed are still being worked
out for the final draft rule, according to one of the people,
who asked not to be named because the discussions are private.  The change in phone trading contrasts with the proposal
 written  in the Federal Register in January 2011, which said that
“entities offering the following services do not comply with
the statutory definition of a SEF: one-to-one voice services for
the execution or trading of swaps (other than for the execution
of block trades).”  Trades in  interest-rate , credit-default and other types of
swaps historically have been done over the phone in negotiations
between banks and their customers. Gensler, with the backing of
Congress through the Dodd-Frank reforms passed in 2010, has made
electronic trading of the instruments a central feature of
regulation in a market with $648 trillion of contracts
outstanding.  David Gary, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Expanded phone trading would be a victory for inter-dealer
brokers who facilitate transactions between banks. The firms,
which use a combination of phone and computer trading to match
buyers and sellers, lobbied the CFTC through the Wholesale
Market Brokers Association, Americas to allow flexible methods
of trading.  For more, click here.  Hertz Bid for Dollar Thrifty Said to Raise Concerns at FTC  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s bid for antitrust clearance to
buy  Dollar Thrifty (DTG)  Automotive Group Inc. is meeting resistance
at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, according to people
familiar with the situation.  An understanding that the deal could be approved with
conditions, reached with the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, faces
opposition at the agency’s Bureau of Economics, where some
staffers think the $2.6 billion merger should be blocked, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. The two bureaus submit their recommendations to
the five-member commission, which makes the final decision.  Hertz, based in Park Ridge,  New Jersey , announced the
acquisition on Aug. 26 and it said it expected FTC approval by
mid-October. On Oct. 18, Hertz extended the deadline for the FTC
to rule on the transaction to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because the
agency needed more time to complete its review.  Hertz, which has sought to take over Dollar Thrifty for
more than five years, agreed to sell its Advantage brand to
address concerns that the deal would crimp competition in the
rental-car market, the people said.  For more, click here.  EU May Toughen Commodity Swaps Curbs in Financial Market Law  Commodity derivative speculators may face tougher curbs
under compromise plans to overhaul the European Union’s
financial market rules.  Governments may seek to restrict the number of commodity-
derivative contracts that traders can enter into, according to a
draft version of the rules  prepared by Cyprus , which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU. Such a requirement would go
beyond a draft law published last year by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief.  The position-limit rule wouldn’t apply in cases where
businesses are trying to use the derivatives to shield
themselves from losses on investments, according to the
documents. Regulators would also have some, limited power to
grant other case-by-case exemptions.  Aid organizations and some governments, including France
and Germany, have demanded restrictions on commodity derivatives
speculation, which they blame for worldwide spikes in food
prices. The  Institute of International Finance , an association
representing global lenders, has said there is “little
convincing evidence linking financial investment with trends in
commodity prices and volatility.”  Barnier’s proposals, published last year, would have given
regulators the chance to find alternatives to position limits.  Speaking to lawmakers in the European Parliament yesterday,
Barnier said he backed moves to toughen the planned measures for
commodity derivatives.  Treasury, Fed Reject Call to Stop Using Libor Rates in TARP  The U.S. Treasury Department and the  Federal Reserve 
defended the use of Libor in rates tied to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, rejecting a request from the watchdog of the
U.S. financial crisis bailouts.  Neither the Treasury nor the Fed has “the authority to
change unilaterally the interest rate on the small number of
remaining loans that rely on Libor,” Timothy Massad, the
Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial stability, said in
a letter to  Christy Romero , special inspector general for TARP.  “If we sought to renegotiate the rate, it is likely that
borrowers either would not agree to a rate change or would agree
only to a change that would result in a lower payment to the
taxpayers,” according to the Oct. 9 letter obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  Romero had asked the Treasury and Fed to use other
reference rates instead of Libor for Treasury’s Public-Private
Investment Program, or PPIP, and the Fed’s Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, or TALF.  U.S. taxpayers “may have been at risk and may continue to
be at risk from the manipulation of Libor,” the London
interbank offered rate, Romero said in an August letter to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner .  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc are among the banks under investigation for Libor-
rate tampering.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by
assets, was fined $450 million in June when it became the first
bank to settle with regulators over the rigging of interest
rates. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman
Marcus Agius resigned in the aftermath.  “The time for Treasury and the Federal Reserve to act is
now, rather than wait for global Libor reform, because there are
$598.6 million in outstanding TALF loans and $5.685 billion in
outstanding PPIP debt with interest rates tied to Libor,” the
special inspector general for TARP said in a quarterly report to
Congress.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SocGen, RBC Among Banks Said to Get N.Y. Libor Probe Subpoenas  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Royal Bank of Canada  and  Bank of
America Corp.  are among nine additional banks that were
subpoenaed in New York and Connecticut’s probe of alleged
manipulation of Libor, a person familiar with the matter said.  The subpoenas, issued by New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman starting in August, bring to 16 the total number of
banks that have been subpoenaed in the states’ investigation,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because there
wasn’t authorization to speak publicly.  Schneiderman and Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen
are jointly investigating claims that banks rigged the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, a worldwide benchmark for
borrowing. The same person said in August that seven banks were
subpoenaed in their investigation, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Barclays Plc.  The states are coordinating with “a much larger group of
 attorneys general ,” Susan Kinsman, a spokeswoman for the
Connecticut attorney general, said in September. Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi has also issued subpoenas to more
than a dozen financial institutions, including  UBS AG (UBS) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DB)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Besides  Societe Generale ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of
America, the other six banks to receive subpoenas from New York
are:  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  Bank of Tokyo  Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
Norinchukin Bank, Rabobank, Lloyd’s Banking Group Plc and West
LB AG, a German lender that ceased operations.  Representatives of those banks couldn’t be reached for
comment or declined to comment on the subpoenas.  Lloyd’s has said it is assisting various regulators in
their investigations into the setting of Libor. Royal Bank of
Canada has said it is cooperating with regulators and found no
evidence of collusion with other banks.  Rabobank said in a report this year that it has received
subpoenas and requests for information from regulatory agencies
in the U.S., Europe and Asia and is cooperating.  Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, and Jaclyn
Falkowski, a spokeswoman for Jepsen, declined to comment on the
probe.  IBM Received Request From SEC Over Dealings With Iran, ZTE  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  received a request
from the Securities and Exchange Commission to describe its
interactions with Iran, following reports that  ZTE Corp. (000063)  resold
some IBM products in the country.  IBM supplied information to the SEC, which completed its
investigation in September, according to  documents released 
yesterday. As IBM’s business partner, ZTE is required to comply
fully with U.S. regulations, including economic sanctions and
export laws, IBM said in its response to the SEC.  “Iran is designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the
State Department and is subject to U.S. economic sanctions and
export controls,” the SEC said in an August letter to IBM.
“Please describe to us the nature, duration, and extent of your
past, current, and anticipated contacts with Iran, whether
through subsidiaries, distributors, resellers, or other direct
or indirect arrangements.”  The SEC also requested information about IBM’s contacts
with Syria, Sudan and Cuba. IBM responded on Sept. 10, saying it
“complies with all U.S. economic sanctions and export laws and
regulations, including those regarding countries identified as
state sponsors of terrorism.” In a follow-up letter to IBM on
Sept. 25, the SEC said it had completed its review.  Ed Barbini , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. Margrete
Ma, a spokeswoman at Shenzhen, China-based ZTE, didn’t reply to
an e-mail sent after business hours local time.  Ex-JPMorgan Trader Fired for Aluminum Mispricing Loses Lawsuit  A former JPMorgan Chase & Co. commodities trader, fired for
mispricing aluminum trades, lost a lawsuit against the bank when
a London judge ruled he couldn’t explain why the errors had all
been profitable.  Daragh Nott, who was fired in September after the bank
found as many as 90 erroneous trades, sued for unfair dismissal
at an employment tribunal saying he had made honest mistakes as
a result of the pressure of his job.  Nott “failed to answer adequately why the large number of
errors he had made on the aluminum book all favored his”
account, adding about $400,000 to his 2010 trading profits,
according to an Oct. 17 written decision from employment judge
A. Isaacson.  Investment banks have reduced bonuses, shed jobs and
increased scrutiny of staff in the wake of losses from the 2008
financial crisis, leading to a rising number of employment
disputes in London courts and tribunals.  Nott’s lawyer Richard Woolmer didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment. JPMorgan spokeswoman  Kate Haywood  declined to
comment on the ruling.  The New York-based bank in March won a case in which a
currency trader sought about 580,000 pounds ($935,000) over a
missing decimal point in his contract. Commerzbank AG was
ordered in May to pay 50 million euros ($65 million) to more
than 100 Dresdner Kleinwort bankers who sued after the lender
slashed bonuses.  JPMorgan found after an internal probe that the odds of all
Nott’s mistakes benefiting his trading book were as much as a-
trillion-to-one, Isaacson said in her judgment.  At a hearing in September, Nott admitted to making
“numerous errors across all books due to the nature of,” and
pressures that went with, his job. He said his health suffered
as a result of being fired and the internal company appeal
process he used to try to get it back.  Courts  Rajaratnam Appellate Judges Voice Concern Over U.S. Wiretap Bid  Judges hearing the appeal of Galleon Group LLC co-founder
 Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving 11 years in prison for insider
trading, voiced concern over whether prosecutors improperly won
authority to wiretap his phone calls.  A three-judge panel in Manhattan heard arguments yesterday
over whether to reverse Rajaratnam’s conviction for insider
trading. The central issue is whether prosecutors misled the
lower court judge who authorized the wiretaps in 2008 by
omitting key facts from their request, and if Rajaratnam’s
conviction should be overturned as a result.  “What happens if we agree with you? Does this mean it’s a
new trial?” U.S. Circuit Judge Robert Sack asked Rajaratnam’s
lawyer, Patricia Ann Millett, at the start of the argument.  A second judge, Jose Cabranes, suggested in his questions
that prosecutors acted properly. The third judge, Susan Carney,
asked Millett what the “remedy” would be if the judges agreed
that prosecutors had misled the district court.  Rajaratnam was convicted of directing the biggest hedge
fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history. At the trial, the
government introduced 45 wiretap recordings, along with
documents and testimony derived from the wiretaps. That evidence
must be thrown out and his conviction overturned, his lawyers
argued.  Kozlowski Sues New York Parole Board for Denying Release  L.  Dennis Kozlowski , the former  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) 
chief executive officer convicted in 2005 of looting the
company, sued New York’s parole board for refusing to release
him.  The board in April denied the 65-year-old Kozlowski’s
request for parole in April “due to concern for the public
safety and welfare.” Kozlowski was sentenced to 8 1/3 to 25
years in prison in 2005 after a Manhattan jury found him guilty.  In a petition filed Oct. 24 in New York State Supreme
Court, Kozlowski asked a judge to annul the decision and grant
his application for parole or give him a new hearing, saying
that the board relied on erroneous information in making its
ruling.  “The parole board denied petitioner parole using non-
statutory factors, impermissibly conclusory reasoning, and
incorrect information,” Kozlowski said. “The board’s arbitrary
and capricious decision violated petitioner’s due process.”  The New York State Department of Corrections and Community
Supervision, which operates the parole board, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Kozlowski v. New York State Board of Parole,
104097/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  University of California Must Disclose Fund Investments Details  The  University of California , which manages a $70 billion
investment portfolio for retirees, faces a tentative court order
to make “a good faith effort” to get and disclose the returns
it earns from Sequoia Capital and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers funds.  State court Judge Evelio Grillo in Oakland, California,
said in a tentative ruling that information about the
university’s commitment to the funds, cash invested, current net
asset values and returns for individual investment vehicles with
Kleiner and Sequoia, as well as communications with the private
equity firms, aren’t exempt from disclosure under state laws
passed in 2005.  Grillo rejected the university regents’ argument in a
public records lawsuit that the information should remain
secret. The 26-member board of regents governs the university.  The ruling came in a public records lawsuit against the
university filed by Reuters America LLC, a unit of  Thomson
Reuters Corp. (TRI)  The  news agency  is a competitor of Bloomberg News.  “We don’t believe it’s appropriate to comment until he
issues his final ruling after considering the arguments
presented by the parties” at an Oct. 19 hearing, said Dianne
Klein, a spokeswoman for the University of California’s office
of the president, in an e-mail yesterday.  Kleiner, based in Menlo Park, California, and Sequoia
aren’t named as defendants in the lawsuit. Andrew Kovacs, a
spokesman for Menlo Park-based Sequoia Capital Operations LLC,
declined to comment on the ruling. There was no immediate
response to an e-mail to Kleiner’s media office.  The case is Reuters v. Regents, RG12-613664, Alameda County
Superior Court (Oakland, California).  Speeches and Interviews  EU Banks Need ‘TARP-Like’ Program, Millstein and Studzinski Say  European banks , battered by the sovereign-debt crisis and
tougher regulation, need a “TARP-like” program to help boost
market confidence and lending,  Jim Millstein  and John Studzinski
said.  “Ultimately, they need a central authority providing
equity behind the banking system’s liabilities,” Millstein, the
former U.S. Treasury Department chief restructuring officer who
started the turnaround advisory firm Millstein & Co., said in a
panel discussion at Bloomberg’s  Dealmakers Summit  in New York
yesterday. “The large European banks are actually more
leveraged than our banks were at the beginning of the crisis.”  TARP is the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program, a $700 billion bank-bailout fund that provided capital
injections to firms including Citigroup Inc. and  Bank of America 
Corp. during the financial crisis. European banks are struggling
to fulfill a pledge made last year to cut more than $1.2
trillion of assets to help them weather the sovereign-debt
crisis, stoking investor concern about financial stability.  “The traditional model in Europe for the banking system is
bust,” said Studzinski, senior managing director and global
head of Blackstone Advisory Partners LP, citing the dependency
of companies on banks as well as the structure of large banks
and local state-owned lenders. He also called for a TARP-like
program for the region’s banks.  “You need some sort of pan-European deposit guarantee
system” to slow down the flight of capital, said billionaire
investor  Wilbur Ross , speaking at the same event. He called it a
“conceptual error” to try to impose new Basel III regulations
while simultaneously asking banks to lend more. “It’s not going
to work.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  