-- Iran Underground Nuclear Plant Almost Finished, N.Y. Times Says
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2012-10-26T02:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/iran-underground-nuclear-plant-almost-finished-n-y-times-says.html
Iran  has almost completed an
underground nuclear enrichment facility in what may be an
attempt to influence negotiations with the U.S. and  Europe , the
 New York  Times said, citing unidentified intelligence officials.  Almost 3,000 centrifuges are being installed at the Fordo
plant constructed in the side of a mountain, putting Iran closer
to being able to build a nuclear weapon should the country’s
leaders decide to do so, the report said. The work has proceeded
in the face of U.S., European and Israeli vows to stop it
through sanctions that have damaged the Iranian economy.  While Iran maintains the plant is for peaceful energy
development,  Israel  says it is part of an atomic weapons program
and has said it may attack the Islamic republic’s facilities.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is pushing President
 Barack Obama  and the international community to set “red
lines” for military action if Iran continues to enrich uranium.  The progress at Fordo was revealed by unidentified
officials familiar with recent inspections by the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the New York Times said. Some of the
officials come from European countries that oppose a military
strike in favor of economic sanctions on Iran, the report said.  National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor is cited
by the newspaper as saying “we remain concerned about Iran’s
defiance of its international obligations” while declining to
comment about any unreleased intelligence reports.  The Times reported on Oct. 21 that the U.S. and Iran had
reached a tacit agreement to hold talks after next month’s
American presidential election, which Obama denied the next day
during a debate with Republican candidate  Mitt Romney . The
prospect of negotiations may be behind the accelerated pace of
activity at Iran’s underground site, today’s report said.  The number of centrifuges installed at the Fordo facility
doubled to about 2,140 from 1,064 in June, the IAEA said in
August. While fewer than half of the machines are putting out
enriched uranium, Iran could have all of them doing so within
months, the newspaper quoted the unidentified officials as
saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  