-- Japan Removes 5-Percent Takeover Trigger for PTS Venues
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-10-26T06:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/japan-removes-5-percent-takeover-trigger-for-pts-venues.html
Japan ’s financial regulator said it
will relax from Oct. 31 a rule on stock trades that alternative
venues SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan Ltd. say stifles
competition with the country’s biggest bourses.  Trades on SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan, the only two
venues where the public can buy and sell shares away from a
traditional exchange, will be exempt from a rule forcing
investors to make a takeover bid if they acquire more than five
percent of a company through off-exchange transactions with more
than 10 counterparties, the Financial Services Agency  announced 
today. The exemption will allow investors to trade on
alternative platforms without fear of accidentally crossing the
five-percent threshold, Yasuo Hamakake, chief executive office
of Chi-X Japan said today.  The policy shift was made to encourage competition as the
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. and Osaka Securities Exchange
Co., the country’s two biggest bourses, plan to merge, the
regulator said in June. Traditional exchanges are already exempt
from the so-called 5-percent rule. Growth of proprietary trading
systems in Japan has lagged  Europe  and the U.S., and the five
percent rule is one reason why, Hamakake said.  Changing Strategies  “We have already had some large institutional investors
indicate they will be changing their order routing strategies to
take advantage of the price improvements available on the exempt
PTS venues,”  Jessica Morrison, Deutsche Bank AG’s Hong Kong-
based head of Asia Pacific said via e-mail today. “We will be
monitoring with great interest any moves in liquidity and expect
that this will result in greater market efficiency.”  SBI Japannext and Chi-X Japan are the country’s only
proprietary trading platforms after Kabu.com Securities Co. shut
its service last year.  The two lit alternative venues have handled 5.7 percent of
trades on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Index this year through Oct. 19
while dark platforms, or those that do not display prices,
accounted for 9.8 percent, according to  Fidessa Group Plc , which
helps asset managers track transactions. Lit trades are
fragmented into 13 different venues for S&P 500 stocks and dark
trades account for 31 percent of the market, according to
Fidessa.  Chi-X’s Hamakake said he does not expect to see greater
volumes come to the alternative venues overnight.  “‘‘We expect to see results into the first and second
quarter of next year,’’ he said. ‘‘The buyside community
understands the benefit of competition and that there is price
improvement on PTSs and they want to take advantage of these
trading opportunities.’’  The regulator’s plan to ease restrictions on so-called lit
venues follows a decision by the Japan Securities Dealers
Association in April to allow the venues to keep trading when
activity on the country’s main bourse is disrupted. A Feb. 2
computer malfunction that halted trading on 15 percent of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange’s biggest stocks was exacerbated when the
association asked alternative venues to stop processing
transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  