-- Kia Profit Misses Estimates After Union Strikes; Shares Fall
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-10-26T06:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/kia-motors-profit-misses-estimates-after-labor-union-strikes.html
Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s
second largest carmaker, reported profit that missed analysts’
estimates after labor protests led to the company’s second-worst
strike in the past decade.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 28 percent to 829.5 billion
won ($756 million), compared with 647.9 billion won a year
earlier, the Seoul-based company said in a statement today. That
missed the 974.6 billion won  average  of 28 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock fell the most in five months in Seoul trading as
the company cut next year’s production target after the nine-
week dispute with its union cost Kia an estimated 1.03 trillion
won in lost output. By volume, it was the worst strike as the
stoppages prevented the company from producing 62,890 vehicles.  “The biggest disappointment is Kia’s production plans for
next year,” Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at  NH Investment &
Securities Co. (016420)  said by telephone. The revision, coupled with the
strengthening won, makes next year’s prospects for export-
dependent Kia look bleak, he said.  The automaker lowered next year’s production target to 2.8
million units, versus an earlier goal of 3 million, Joo Woo
Jeong, head of the financial management group, said in a
conference call today. Output will reach 3 million after Kia’s
new plant in China starts production in 2014, he said.  Kia fell 5.6 percent to close at 62,300 won, its biggest
decline since May. The benchmark Kospi stock index dropped 1.7
percent.  Labor Disputes  Chief Financial Officer Park Han Woo expressed his concerns
about the strengthening won, the best performing major currency
in the past month.  “The strengthening won may hurt the company’s
profitability moving forward,” Park said during a conference
call today.  Operating profit in the quarter rose 4.1 percent to 861.2
billion won, versus the 984.1 billion won average estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kia’s deliveries increased 0.3 percent last quarter,
compared with a year earlier, according to the e-mailed
statement. It’s the first time since the fourth quarter of 2007
that the company’s sales grew at a slower pace than the
industry, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Costly Strikes  Kia on Sept. 14 agreed to raise compensation, on average,
by 22.7 million won per person and cease overnight shifts,
according to its union. That ended the strikes, Kia’s first
since 2009, which began mid-July and caused a record 62,890
vehicles in lost output, according to company estimates.  The stoppages led third-quarter exports from  South Korea ,
which accounts for 62 percent of the automaker’s production
capacity, to fall 9.2 percent, according to the company’s
website. Sales at home shrank 6.6 percent.  For the past decade, the company estimates labor disputes
deprived the carmaker of 5.54 trillion won in revenue and
365,504 vehicles in lost production.  Kia, which is 34 percent owned by  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,
expects to sell 730,000 vehicles this quarter, which would allow
the company to beat its full-year target of 2.71 million units,
said Joo, head of the financial management group.  Kia and Hyundai Motor, both headed by Chairman Chung Mong Koo, said earlier this month that combined sales in  China  will
probably exceed their target of 1.25 million units after
September deliveries climbed to a record. Kia’s own sales in the
country climbed 8.3 percent last quarter.  Anti-Japan  Consumers in China avoided buying Japanese-branded vehicles
after rioters torched dealerships and smashed cars after  Japan ’s
government last month bought a group of islands claimed by both
countries. Sales of Japanese brands tumbled 41 percent in
September in the world’s biggest car market, the state-backed
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said this month.  In the U.S., Kia’s biggest market, the automaker’s third-
quarter sales rose 20 percent, exceeding the industry’s 14
percent gain, as deliveries of its Optima mid-size sedan doubled
and sales of Soul wagons gained 26 percent.  Kia’s plants in U.S. that began production of the Optima in
September last year helped offset production disruptions from
its South Korean plant, accounting for 76 percent of Optimas
sold in the U.S. last quarter.  In the European market, which is headed for its fifth
consecutive year of declining vehicle sales, Kia gained market
share as it benefited from demand for Sportage SUVs and the
Europe specific new Cee’d hatchback.  Deliveries of the new Cee’d and Sportage, which are
produced in Kia’s plant in Slovakia for the European market,
helped boost deliveries in the region by 12 percent in the
quarter.  Hyundai, Kia’s biggest shareholder and the country’s
largest automaker, yesterday reported a 13 percent increase in
third-quarter profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  