-- KKR Has $487 Million Profit as Holdings Gain in Value
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-10-26T20:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/kkr-has-487-million-profit-as-holdings-gain-in-value.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , reported a third-quarter
profit after a loss a year earlier as the value of its holdings
rose.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, was $487.3 million, or 69 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $621.7 million, or 91 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based KKR said today. Fee-related earnings
fell and fundraising for a new flagship buyout fund is still
trailing the firm’s target, sending the shares lower.  “Overall, the economic backdrop is more of the same, just
kind of blah,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s global head of capital and
asset management, told investors and analysts on a conference
call today. “We’re encouraging our management teams to focus on
what they can control and invest for the future.”  KKR, like larger rival  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , has diversified
into areas such as underwriting stocks and bonds, managing funds
of hedge funds, and investing in infrastructure and real estate
as traditional buyouts remain subdued. The firm’s 11th North
American buyout fund has gathered just $700 million since
February, bringing the total gathered since 2011 to $6.2
billion, as the prior fund underperforms and investors scale
back private-equity commitments.  KKR seeks $8 billion for the fund, about half the size of
its 2006 pool. The amount raised so far includes commitments
from KKR’s balance sheet and employees.  Shares Decline  KKR  fell  0.7 percent to $14.74 at the close of trading in
New York. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, compared
with an 18 percent increase in the 20-member Standard & Poor’s
 index  of asset managers and custody banks.  Of the so-called limited partners in the new buyout pool,
27 percent are new to KKR, contributing 10 percent of capital
committed so far, Nuttall said on the conference call.  “They tend to start out smaller when it’s a new
relationship, so we’re seeing that dynamic a bit,” he said of
new investors in the fund.  As buyout funds decrease in size and deal-making sinks from
boom-time levels, private-equity managers have sought new ways
to make money. Since 2007, KKR has invested from Asia buyout
funds, a China growth fund, a direct lending fund, a mezzanine
pool, and infrastructure and natural resource funds. In July,
KKR announced plans to open two debt funds for individual
investors.  Assets Rise  The company’s total assets under management rose 7.8
percent since the second quarter to $66.3 billion, and fee-
paying assets rose 6.6 percent to $50.3 billion, KKR said.
Neither measure includes $4 billion of capital committed to its
second private-equity fund dedicated to Asia, which is targeting
$6 billion.  KKR’s fee-paying assets under management have risen 26
percent since 2007, according to the firm’s regulatory filings.  The value of KKR’s private-equity portfolio rose 6.1
percent during the quarter and 20 percent this year through
Sept. 30, it said, fueling paper gains on investments it makes
with its own money. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, a benchmark
for large U.S. stocks,  gained  5.8 percent in the third quarter
and 15 percent during the first three quarters.  The firm’s economic net income was driven by so-called
investment income, which includes the paper value of gains on
its portfolio holdings. Fee-related earnings, which include fees
investors pay KKR for managing their money and fees for
completing deals, fell 7.7 percent to $90.7 million.  Blackstone’s Earnings  Distributable earnings, which include investment income
that KKR has realized, were $332.9 million, compared with $185.4
million a year ago. The company said it will pay a dividend of
24 cents a share to holders of its common stock, payable on Nov.
20.  KKR’s measure of economic net income, which excludes some
expenses tied to a combination with the firm’s public fund that
allowed KKR to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange in
2010, doesn’t comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Under those rules, known as GAAP, the company
reported net income of $127.4 million, or 49 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $243.4 million a year earlier.  Blackstone last week reported third-quarter profit of $129
million, compared with a loss of $275 million a year earlier.
Like KKR, New York-based Blackstone says investors should focus
on a non-standard measure of profit that excludes some costs
tied to its initial public offering. By that measure, the firm
had a profit of $622 million, compared with a year-earlier loss
of $380 million.  Carlyle, Apollo  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of
investment profits.  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , two of
the largest publicly traded alternative-asset firms, are
scheduled to announce results next month. Carlyle is
headquartered in  Washington , and Apollo is based in New York.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the third quarter fell 29 percent to $95.1 billion from a year
earlier, with leveraged buyouts rising 62 percent to $39.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  