-- Korea Southern Said to Seek Stake in U.K. Carbon Project
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-26T16:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/korea-southern-said-to-seek-stake-in-u-k-carbon-project.html
Korea  Southern Power Co., a unit of
the nation’s monopoly power distributor, is in talks to buy a
stake in a British carbon-capture project that may cost 5
billion pounds ($8 billion) to develop, people familiar with the
discussions said.  The level of Korean equity ownership in the project owned
by 2Co Energy Ltd. would be determined after 2Co determines how
much funding it can obtain from European investors, said the
people who asked not to be named because the discussions are
confidential. One of the officials said funding results would be
available no later than early November.  2Co Energy Chief Executive Officer Lewis Gillies said on
Oct. 24 that the company is selling a stake in its Don Valley
CCS project in northern  England  to a South Korean utility,
adding a second investor from the East Asian country after
bringing in  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  in March.  The project will trap 90 percent of emissions from a new
coal-fired power plant in south Yorkshire and store them about 3
kilometers (1.9 miles) under the  North Sea . The CO2 streams also
will help push crude out of aging oilfields.  2Co Energy already won 180 million euros from the  European
Energy Program for Recovery  and is first in a ranking of likely
winners for funds in the European Commission’s NER300 program.
That funding award is due by the end of this year. The company
also entered a 1 billion-pound CCS financing competition in
Britain, with results yet to be announced.  Jane Paxman, a spokeswoman at London-based 2Co Energy,
declined to comment by phone. Spokesmen at Seoul-based Korea
Southern Power declined to comment.  Asian Funding  Developers of CCS projects are looking to investors in  Asia 
to fund the technology, which is yet to operate on a commercial
scale at power plants. The  Export-Import Bank of China  agreed in
September to finance about half of a Summit Power Group LLC
carbon-capture project in  Texas . Korea is interested in
developing its own expertise in CCS to reduce its fossil fuel
emissions.  2Co Energy, backed by Texan private equity firm TPG
Capital, agreed to sell a 15 percent stake in the Don Valley
venture to a Samsung subsidiary in March, and in June sold a
further 15 percent to  Linde AG (LIN) ’s U.K. unit.  The Don Valley project envisions a 3-billion pounds onshore
facility and another 1 billion invested offshore. Further costs
will cover infrastructure such as a 400-kilometer pipeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  