-- NFL Files Motion to Oppose Vilma Move to Recuse Tagliabue
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-27T00:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/nfl-files-motion-to-oppose-vilma-move-to-recuse-tagliabue.html
The  National Football League  said
there’s no basis for disqualifying its former commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, from arbitrating a dispute over  New Orleans  Saints
player Jonathan Vilma’s full-season suspension for alleged
bounty-hunting.  The NFL called the move to take Tagliabue off the case an
“untoward and baseless demand” that has “no merit,”
according to a filing today in federal court in New Orleans.  Vilma argued in court filings this week that Tagliabue has
a conflict of interest because he is a senior counsel with the
law firm representing the current NFL commissioner, Roger Goodell. Vilma also said the firm, Covington & Burling, has
represented the NFL since at least 2006 and collected millions
of dollars in legal fees from the league.  “Tagliabue now has been placed in a position of presiding
over a matter in which one of his firm’s most important clients,
the NFL, and one of his longtime colleagues have an undeniable
interest,” Vilma’s attorneys said in a court filing.  The NFL claimed that about two dozen Saints players paid
one another as much as $1,500 for trying to injure opposing
players including quarterback  Brett Favre . The players have
denied the League’s allegations.  Season Ban  Roger Goodell , the league’s current commissioner, on Oct. 9
re-imposed a full-season ban on Vilma while meting out lesser
punishments to three other players. A panel of arbitrators had
thrown out earlier suspensions, ruling that the commissioner had
overstepped his bounds. The players then asked U.S. District
Judge Helen G. Berrigan to reject the new sanctions, arguing
Goodell is biased against them.  The league announced Tagliabue’s appointment as appellate
arbitrator on Oct. 19. He will decide whether Goodell’s
disciplinary ruling was proper.  Tagliabue served as NFL commissioner from 1989 until 2006,
when Goodell replaced him.  The NFL said today that Tagliabue hasn’t represented the
league in any matter since returning to Covington & Burling in
2007.  “Commissioner Tagliabue has had no personal involvement in
the investigation, arbitration or litigation of the bounty
matter,” NFL lawyers said in the filing.  The league said it will be represented by the  law firm 
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP at an appellate hearing for Vilma and
the other three players set for Oct. 30.  The case is Vilma v. Goodell, 12-1283, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  