-- NFL, Reebok Accord Thwarts Apparel Competition, Suit Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/nfl-reebok-accord-thwarts-apparel-competition-suit-says.html
The  National Football League ,  Adidas
AG (ADS) ’s Reebok and professional football teams were sued over
claims they created a monopoly over team-themed apparel that
drives up prices for consumers.  Team owners agreed to license their intellectual property
only to an NFL affiliate that granted an exclusive license to
Reebok for manufacturing jerseys, T-shirts, caps and other
clothing,  California  resident Patrick Dang said in a complaint
filed Oct. 24 in federal court in  San Francisco .  Before 2000, the NFL granted licenses to as many as 27
entities to make clothing bearing team logos, according to the
the lawsuit. NFL teams and the league agreed in December of that
year to grant an exclusive license to  Reebok , creating a
monopoly in the licensing and manufacturing of NFL team apparel,
according to the complaint.  The U.S. Supreme Court in 2010 exposed professional sports
leagues to greater antitrust scrutiny when it revived a 2004
lawsuit over the NFL’s agreement with Reebok to sell clothing
bearing team insignias.  The court unanimously ruled that the league should be
treated for antitrust purposes as 32 separate teams, rather than
as a group, in the way it licenses its trademark rights. Group
treatment would have insulated the league from suits claiming
its licensing practices thwarted competition and raised prices.  Team Caps  That lawsuit, filed by American Needle Inc., which used to
sell team caps, is pending in federal court in  Chicago .  Dang, of San Jose, seeks to represent buyers in California
and nationwide who he says were overcharged because there is no
competition in the market for NFL logo clothing. Dang seeks
restitution for overcharges and a court order blocking
violations of antitrust and unfair competition laws.  Brian McCarthy , an NFL spokesman, declined to comment in an
e-mail. Jenny Shanley, a spokeswoman for Canton, Massachusetts-
based Reebok, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment yesterday after regular business hours about the
lawsuit.  The case is Dang v. San Francisco Forty Niners Ltd.,
12-5481, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  