-- NHL Cancels Games Through Nov. 30 as Player Lockout Continues
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/nhl-cancels-games-through-nov-30-as-labor-lockout-continues.html
The  National Hockey League  canceled
games through Nov. 30 in a labor dispute, bring the total of
dropped games to 326, or 27 percent of the 82-game season.  The league and the NHL Players’ Association had until Oct.
25 to reach a new collective bargaining agreement to be able to
start the season on Nov. 2, NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said.
The league last week canceled games through Nov. 1.  The league is “profoundly disappointed that a new
agreement has not been attained,” Bill Daly, the NHL’s deputy
commissioner, said in a statement. “We remain committed to
achieving an agreement that is fair for the players and the
clubs -- one that will be good for the game and our fans.”  Yesterday’s decision includes a Nov. 23 afternoon contest
between the  New York  Rangers and  Boston Bruins . That game was
set to be the first nationally televised game of the season on
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC network.  The league’s most recent offer contained an even revenue
split between owners and players. None of the union’s three
counteroffers was accepted by owners. The sides haven’t met
since Oct. 18 and no negotiations are scheduled.  The NHL yesterday withdrew its latest offer, a move that
“comes as no surprise,” Don Fehr, the union’s executive
director, said in a statement.  “The message from the owners seems to be: if you don’t
give us exactly what we want, there is no point in talking,”
Fehr said. “We need a willing partner to negotiate. We hope
they return to the table in order to get the players back on the
ice soon.”  Full Season  While he didn’t rule out the possibility of playing an
abbreviated season if a labor pact can be reached, Bettman said
he prefers a full schedule.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  is among those urging the two
sides to end the lockout.  “You all should be able to figure this out,” Obama said
on Oct. 24 during an appearance on “The Tonight Show with  Jay Leno ” on NBC. “Get this done. The fans deserve it.”  The players were locked out Sept. 16, the day after the old
collective bargaining agreement expired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  