-- NRC Monitors Nuclear Plants in Hurricane’s Projected Path
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-10-28T18:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/nrc-monitors-nuclear-plants-in-hurricane-s-projected-path.html
Nuclear reactors in the mid-Atlantic
and Northeast are being monitored for potential impacts by
Hurricane Sandy, a Category 1 storm that may strike anywhere
from  Delaware  to southern New England.  “Because of the size of it, we could see an impact to
coastal and inland plants,”  Neil Sheehan , a spokesman based in
 King of Prussia ,  Pennsylvania , for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, said by phone. “We will station inspectors at the
sites if we know they could be directly impacted.”  The NRC met earlier today to discuss the necessary
 precautions  to take for the storm, Sheehan said. Plants must
begin to shut if wind speeds exceed certain limits, he said.  As of  2 p.m. New York time , Sandy had winds of 75 miles
(121 kilometers) per hour, according to the  National Hurricane
Center  in Miami. It was about 430 miles south-southeast of
Charleston, South Carolina, moving north at 7 mph.  The current Hurricane Center track calls for the system to
come ashore just south of Delaware Bay on Oct. 30.  Contingency Plans  Nuclear plants in the projected path of the hurricane
include North Anna and Surry in Virginia, Calvert Cliffs in
 Maryland , Hope Creek and Salem in  New Jersey ,  Indian Point  in
 New York  and Millstone in Connecticut. The NRC is considering
enhancing inspector coverage of these reactors, Sheehan said in
an e-mail today.  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  must shut all units at
the Salem and Hope Creek plants two hours before the onset of
hurricane-force winds greater than 74 mph, according to Sheehan.
An “unusual event” would be declared if the winds are
sustained for greater than 15 minutes or if the water level
reaches 99.5 feet or higher, he said. Such an event is the
lowest of four level of emergency used by the commission.  Salem Unit 2 is currently shut for refueling, while Unit 1
was operating at 83 percent of capacity today during maintenance
on the circulating water system. Hope Creek ran at full power.
The three units have a combined capacity of 3,365 megawatts.  “We are in phase one of our severe-weather plan,” Joe Delmar, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail responding to
questions. “This includes inspecting, removing and securing
outside areas for potential missiles, objects that could go
airborne, and staging of emergency equipment and supplies.”  Millstone Reactor  Nuclear generation  in the Northeastern region dropped 1.1
percent to 18,016 megawatts, with seven plants shut, an NRC
report today showed.  Dominion Resources Inc.’s Millstone plant is monitoring
Sandy’s progress and preparing to adjust staff as it comes
closer, according to Ken Holt, a plant spokesman based in
Richmond,  Virginia . The plant must shut if winds reach 90 mph.  “We would shut down in advance of the storm if they were
expected to be 90 miles per hour at the site,” Holt said by
phone today. “Floods and high winds are a threat because they
can knock off off-site power and we’d then need to activate
emergency generators for power to put the plant to safe
conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  