-- Toepfer Sees No Indication of Sub-Average German Corn Yield
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-26T16:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/toepfer-sees-no-indication-of-sub-average-german-corn-yield-1-.html
There is “no indication” that
German corn yields will be below average after a heat wave in
August, Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH said.  Germany  may produce 5.24 million metric tons of corn this
year, little changed from last season and down from last month’s
forecast of 5.29 million tons, the Hamburg-based trader said
today in an e-mailed report. Production in the 27-nation
European Union may be 53.27 million tons, down from last month’s
estimate of 54.58 million tons and last year’s harvest of 65.35
million tons, it said.  Global benchmark corn prices reached a record $8.49 a bushel
in August on the Chicago Board of Trade as dry weather from the
U.S. to  Russia  and eastern  Europe  reduced yields. While the crop
fell 13 percent since then, it’s still the fifth-best performer
this year on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities.  “We expect the maize prices to stabilize in the next few
months,” Toepfer said in the report. Maize is a term used for
corn. “Furthermore, in various consumer regions the price for
maize is below that for wheat. This is the reason why we expect
an increase in demand,” as both grains can be used in feed, it
said.  EU wheat production may total 123.54 million tons, down
from the September forecast of 124.29 million and output last
year of 129.64 million tons, Toepfer said. In Germany, the
harvest may total 22.65 million tons, less than the September
projection of 22.74 million tons.  Rapeseed Output  EU rapeseed output may total 19.38 million tons, up from
last month’s forecast at 19.18 million tons, the trader said.
Production in Germany may be 5.03 million tons, unchanged from
last month’s projection and up from 3.9 million tons in the
previous season. Germany is the EU’s second-largest producer of
rapeseed and wheat, after  France , according to Toepfer.  The rapeseed area in Germany may be “expanded
significantly” in the next season as winter-crop planting is
progressing smoothly for the first time in three years, Toepfer
said. Planting was “reduced drastically” last year because of
rains in northern areas, it said.  “Though the seeding of winter grain was slowed by recent
rainfall, there is still enough time to finish up seeding,”
Toepfer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  