-- Oil Set for Second Weekly Drop on Demand Outlook, Supply
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-10-26T12:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/oil-set-for-second-weekly-drop-as-supply-rises-amid-weak-economy.html
Oil in New York rebounded after
better-than-forecast U.S. economic figures fueled speculation
that energy demand in the world’s largest crude user will
increase.  Futures rose as much as 0.3 percent after earlier dropping
as much as 1.2 percent. The  U.S. economy  expanded by 2 percent
in the third quarter, 0.2 percent more than forecast, paced by a
pickup in  consumer spending , a rebound in government outlays and
gains in residential construction, a government report today
showed. Crude is still set for its largest weekly drop in a
month amid increasing stockpiles.  “These are better figures than expected, and are
conveniently good for Obama, and should see oil and stock prices
pare losses,”  Michael Hewson , London-based market analyst at
CMC Markets, said by e-mail today. “The main worry is that
these figures will probably get revised down.”  Crude for December delivery gained as much as 29 cents to
$86.34 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.19 at 1:42 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday snapped the longest losing streak in five
months, gaining 32 cents to settle at $86.05 a barrel. Prices
are down 4.2 percent this week, the most since the five days
ending Sept. 21.  Brent for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $108.91 a barrel, up 42 cents.
The contract rose for the first time in eight days yesterday,
ending the biggest stretch of declines since July 2010. Brent
was at a  premium  of $22.72 to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade, up from $22.44 yesterday.  U.S. Economy  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2 percent annual rate after
climbing 1.3 percent in the prior quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed in  Washington . The median forecast of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.8 percent gain.  Oil may decline next week on surging U.S. inventories,
weakening demand and higher production, according to a Bloomberg
News survey.  Sixteen of 36 analysts, or 44 percent, forecast crude will
decrease through Nov. 2. Fifteen respondents, or 42 percent,
predicted a gain. Five forecast little change. Last week, 58
percent of analysts projected a drop.  U.S. crude stockpiles increased to 375.1 million barrels in
the week ended Oct. 19, the  Department of Energy  said on Oct.
24. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for the
WTI contract, rose by 40,000 barrels to 44.1 million, 40 percent
higher than a year ago.  ‘Frankenstorm’ Watch  Production in the U.S. climbed for a seventh week to 6.61
million barrels a day, a 17-year high. Gasoline consumption
declined 2.7 percent to 8.49 million barrels a day, the slowest
rate since March 16. The four-week average fell to 8.61 million,
a six-month low. Refinery utilization averaged 87.2 percent of
capacity, from 87.4 percent.  Hurricane Sandy will probably grow into a “Frankenstorm”
that may become the worst to hit the U.S. Northeast in 100 years
if current forecasts are correct, according to the National
Hurricane Center.  As of 8 a.m.  New York  time, Sandy had weakened to a
Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale with
top winds of 80 miles per hour, down from 100 mph earlier,
according to the hurricane center in Miami. It was located 15
miles (25 kilometers) east of Great Abaco Island in the northern
Bahamas and moving northwest at 10 mph.  A tropical storm watch is in effect for large sections of
the western Florida coastline as far as  North Carolina . The
center is advising businesses along the East Coast, where a
number of oil refineries are situated, to monitor the progress
of Sandy.  “The storm will likely lead to lower demand but any impact
on refining assets would be more long lasting than lower demand
over two days,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of Zug,
Switzerland-based Petromatrix GmbH, said today in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  