-- Crude Pares Second Weekly Loss as Hurricane Approaches
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-10-26T20:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/oil-fluctuates-as-u-s-economy-grows-more-than-forecast.html
Oil pared a second weekly loss,
rising with gasoline and heating oil on concern that Hurricane
Sandy will disrupt East Coast refinery production and as the
U.S. economy showed signs of growth.  Prices advanced as Sandy was forecast to intensify into a
“Frankenstorm” that may become the worst to hit the U.S.
Northeast in 100 years. The gross domestic product grew at a 2
percent annual rate in the third quarter, according to the
Commerce Department, exceeding analysts’ expectations.  “Oil would have closed lower if not for the
Frankenstorm,” said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “It’s obviously having a bigger
effect on heating oil and gasoline because supplies are tight.
If the storm shuts refineries and we’re then hit by a cold snap,
we could see heating oil prices surge.”  Crude oil for December delivery gained 23 cents, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $86.28 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices fell 4.8 percent this week and are down 13
percent this year.  Heating oil climbed 3.57 cents, or 1.2 percent, to end the
session at $3.0978 a gallon in New York. Gasoline increased 2.27
cents, or 0.9 percent, to settle at $2.6991 a gallon.  Sandy is forecast by the National Hurricane Center to go
between Philadelphia and Baltimore on Oct. 30. Five refineries
in  Delaware , New Jersey and  Pennsylvania  that produce 600,000
barrels a day of gasoline may be shut down, said  Andy Lipow ,
president of energy consultant Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Purchasing Power  GDP, the value of all goods and services produced,
increased its growth from 1.3 percent in the prior quarter. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was a 1.8
percent gain.  Consumers’ purchasing power eased, with disposable income
adjusted for inflation rising at a 0.8 percent annual rate from
July through September, the least since the end of 2011, today’s
report showed.  The GDP estimate is the first of three for the quarter,
with the other releases scheduled for November and December when
more information becomes available.  “The GDP number was better than expected but 2 percent
growth doesn’t signal a booming economy,” said Kyle Cooper,
director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in Houston.
“At $86 a barrel we’re close to fair value.”  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil consumer, accounting
for 21 percent of global consumption last year, according to  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Inventories ‘Bearish’  Brent crude for December settlement increased $1.06, or 1
percent, to end the session at $109.55 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent’s premium over the
Nymex futures widened for a fifth day.  Oil slumped to a three-month low on Oct. 24 after the
Energy Department said supplies jumped 5.9 million barrels last
week to 375.1 million, the highest level for this time of year
since the government started reporting inventories in 1982.  “I don’t think there is real conviction in a rebound,”
said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a  New York- 
based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The oil inventory was
very bearish.”  Production in the U.S. climbed for a seventh week to 6.61
million barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 19, a 17-year high.
 Gasoline consumption  declined 2.7 percent to 8.49 million
barrels a day, the slowest rate since March 16.  “Demand was very weak and production continues to
increase,” Cooper said.  Price Outlook  Oil may decline next week on surging U.S. inventories,
weakening demand and higher production, a Bloomberg survey
showed. Sixteen of 36 analysts, or 44 percent, forecast crude
will decrease through Nov. 2. Fifteen respondents, or 42
percent, predicted a gain. Five forecast little change.  “Fundamentally, supply has been big,” said Bill Baruch,
senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago. “There are
still fears that the global economy is slowing down.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 366,304
contracts as of 3:14 p.m. Volume totaled 387,095 contracts
yesterday, 26 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.59 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  