-- H.K. Imposes Property Tax on Non-Locals on Bubble Risks
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-27T02:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/hong-kong-imposes-property-tax-on-non-locals-to-prevent-bubble.html
Hong Kong’s government announced its
first property tax targeted at overseas buyers, stepping up
efforts to cool home prices as U.S. monetary easing and record-
low interest rates raise the risk of a bubble.  Non-local and corporate buyers will have to pay a 15
percent tax upon purchase, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  told
reporters at a press conference yesterday. The government also
raised a resale tax on property by about 5 percentage points and
extended the period during which it will apply to three years
from two.  Hong Kong is imposing its third set of property curbs in
two months after home prices almost doubled over three years to
become the world’s most expensive. The city’s de-facto central
bank was forced to defend the currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar 
for the first time since 2009 this month as the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of quantitative easing sparked an inflow
of cash into the city.  “These measures will be effective in reducing the number
of transactions, but ineffective in curbing the property
prices,” said  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The non-local buyers’ stamp duty is
more of a PR stunt as it responds to Hong Kong homebuyers’
demand to raise the barrier for foreign investors.”  Record low mortgage rates, an influx of buyers from other
parts of  China  and a lack of new supply have been underpinning
the Hong Kong property market, prompting Chief Executive Leung
Chun-ying, who was sworn in as the city’s leader in July, to
accelerate land sales and give preference to local buyers in
some projects.  Speculators Targeted  The nine-member  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  has jumped 30
percent this year, driving the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  to the
highest in more than 12 months this week.  Property owners who sell their homes within six months of
their purchase will need to pay a 20 percent special stamp duty,
up from 15 percent, Tsang said. For resale between seven months
and 12 months, the duty will increase to 15 percent, and
transactions between 13 months to 36 months, the duty will be 10
percent.  “The current housing supply lags behind the soaring
demand; we need to work on the demand-side measures,” Tsang
said. “These measures target specifically property investors
who resell the flats within three years, but not the genuine
end-users.”  Prices of small to medium-size apartments have advanced 21
percent this year, raising concerns about affordability, he
said.  The surge in property prices is out of sync with the
economy where exports and retail sales have been declining,
Tsang said.  “The low-interest rate environment will likely continue
and  Hong Kong  property prices are likely to climb,” he said.
“The property bubble is likely to increase the risks” to the
economy and people’s livelihoods, he said.  Mortgage Tightening  Non-local buyers account for 19.5 percent of total sales of
first-hand properties in Hong Kong in 2011 and 6.8 percent of
total sales of second-hand properties in 2011, Tsang said.  Hong Kong joins  Singapore  in efforts to cool soaring
property prices by targeting non-residents. Singapore in
December imposed an additional 10 percent stamp duty on
foreigners and corporate entities.  The new measures won’t apply to Hong Kong permanent
residents, who  according to  the Basic Law of Hong Kong have
right of abode in the special administrative region.  Hong Kong’s central bank tightened mortgage lending on
Sept. 14 after saying the Fed’s latest quantitative easing risks
pushing up  home prices  that have already surpassed their October
1997 peak. That marked the start of a 70 percent decline to
August 2003, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. They have soared more than 240 percent
since that trough nine years ago.  Most Expensive  Leung said on Sept. 6 he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices
including making more land available to developers and speeding
up the building of public housing.  Hong Kong home prices have  risen  18 percent this year,
according to the Centaline index. They fell 4 percent in the
last three months of 2011, the biggest quarterly drop since the
global credit crisis, after mortgage restrictions and as  China’s
economy  began to slow.  Buyers from other parts of China made up 36.8 percent of
all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to  Midland
Holdings Ltd. (1200)  The proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third
quarter last year, the realtor said.  The city’s home prices are 65 percent higher than Tokyo’s,
the world’s second-priciest place to buy a home, according to a
study by  Savills Plc (SVS)  published last September that compares
prices in 10 global cities including  New York  and  London .  The number of home transactions in Hong Kong rose 42
percent in August from a month earlier, the biggest increase
since March.  Homes at The Reach in Hong Kong’s Yuen Long district,
jointly developed by  Henderson Land Development Co. Ltd. (12)  and  New
World Development Co. Ltd. (17) , went on sale faster than planned
last night immediately after the measures were announced at
around 6 p.m., the  South China Morning Post  reported. Local and
mainland buyers bought around 100 flats, the paper said, citing
property agents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  