-- TD Bank Group Among Canadian Lenders Put on Credit Review
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-26T21:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/moody-s-places-six-canadian-banks-on-review-for-downgrade.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the last
publicly traded lender rated Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service,
was among six Canadian banks placed on review by the ratings
firm, which cited high consumer-debt levels and housing prices.  Bank of Montreal ,  Bank of Nova Scotia , Caisse Centrale
Desjardins,  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  and  National Bank
of Canada (NA)  are also being evaluated, Moody’s said today in a
statement.  The review was prompted by “concerns about high consumer-
debt levels and elevated housing prices, which leave Canadian
banks more vulnerable to increased risks to the Canadian
economy,” David Beattie, a Moody’s vice president in Toronto,
said in the statement. Canada’s banks have been ranked the
world’s soundest for the past five years by the  World Economic
Forum .  “We’re looking at the Canadian banking system in the
context of our concerns about the convergence of some negative
trends that we see out there, some domestic and some
macroeconomic trends,” Beattie said in a telephone interview.  The ratings for  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest
lender, were affirmed. The Toronto-based bank had its  credit
rating  cut two levels to Aa3 by Moody’s on June 21 because of
its “significant exposure” to volatile capital markets
activities.  ‘Well Capitalized’  “TD continues to be well capitalized and remains one of
the safest and strongest banks in the world,”  Stephen Knight , a
Toronto-Dominion spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “TD
continually evaluates its portfolio and conducts regular stress
tests to ensure its portfolio is consistent with its
conservative risk appetite.”  Spokesmen for the five other Canadian lenders didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  “All they’re saying is they’re just repositioning the
Canadian bank ratings within their global scale,” said  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank Financial in Toronto who
was previously a senior credit officer at Moody’s. “If you
owned a bond issued by a Canadian bank, you would not be more
afraid of losing your money as a result of this action.”  The Moody’s review, which will take about 90 days, follows
a similar outlook downgrade by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  