-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Gains; Gasoline Rises on Storm Threat
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2012-10-26T00:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/top-oil-market-news-crude-gains-gasoline-rises-on-storm-threat.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Advances for First Time in Six Days on U.S. Economic Data  Oil rose for the first time in six days in New York, ending
the longest losing streak since May, on signs that that U.S.
economic growth is accelerating and speculation the  Bank of
Japan  will increase stimulus.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Gasoline Futures Rise as Hurricane Sandy Threatens East Coast  Gasoline rose for the first time in 11 days, rebounding
from the longest decline since futures began trading in 1986, on
concern that Hurricane Sandy may threaten East Coast refineries
and delay imports from  Europe .  Worst Storm in 100 Years Seen for Northeast U.S. as Sandy Grows  Hurricane Sandy will probably grow into a “Frankenstorm”
that may become the worst to hit the U.S. Northeast in 100 years
if current forecasts are correct.  Heavy Canadian Oil Weakens to Lowest Since July as Lines Fill Up  Heavy Canadian oil weakened to the widest discount to West
Texas Intermediate since July after Enbridge Inc. said this week
demand to ship crude on four lines exceeded available space.  San Francisco Diesel Climbs to One-Week High on Tesoro Repairs  Spot diesel in San Francisco advanced to the highest level
against futures in seven days after Tesoro Corp. said it was
performing repairs at the Golden Eagle refinery following a fire
over the weekend.  MORE: Buckeye Suspends BORCO Operations on Sandy  Terminal will resume operations once Hurricane Sandy has
passed and facility is deemed safe for work.  Marathon Detroit Starting Units as Part of Heavy Oil Project  Detroit refinery expects to start new, modified units
through Nov. 5, Co. said in notice to state regulators.  Europe Distillate Prices Will Drop as Refineries Start, JBC Says  Prices for middle distillate oil products such as diesel
and heating oil will drop in the weeks to come after seasonal
refinery maintenance ends, according to JBC Energy GmbH.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Oct. 24 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Philippines Appoints Petilla as Energy Secretary, Valte Says  President  Benigno Aquino  appointed Leyte province Governor
Carlos Jericho Petilla as energy secretary, replacing Jose
Almendras who was named secretary of the cabinet, presidential
spokeswoman, Abigail Valte said in a mobile phone message today.  Cheniere Considers 50% Expansion of LNG Plant at Sabine Pass  Cheniere Energy Inc., the first company to win approval to
export gas from the continental U.S., is considering a 50
percent expansion of capacity at its Sabine Pass terminal in
 Louisiana  as LNG demand rises.  Glencore, Xstrata Holders to Vote Nov. 20 on Takeover Deal (1)  Investors in Glencore International Plc and Xstrata Plc,
the commodity companies seeking to complete a $33 billion
combination by the end of the year, are scheduled to vote on the
plan on Nov. 20.  Eni Fails to Buy Urals Crude; Forcados Exports to Fall by 36%  No bids or offers were made for North Sea Forties blend.
Eni SpA failed to buy Russian Urals in the Mediterranean at a
higher price that a deal yesterday.  Xstrata Says Bonuses Needed to Protect Value After Glencore Deal  Xstrata Plc told investors that the value of a planned
combination with Glencore International Plc may be eroded if
they vote down retention bonuses of 144 million pounds ($232
million) needed to dissuade managers from leaving.  Gasoil Stockpiles Fall in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage fell in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  Oil-Tanker Rates Little Changed on Demand Standstill Amid Glut  Rates for the largest  oil tankers  on their busiest trade
route were little changed today amid a global demand standstill
and a glut of vessels.  OPEC to Increase Shipments on Heating Demand, Oil Movements Says  OPEC will boost crude shipments next month as winter demand
for heating oil and diesel climbs in the Northern Hemisphere,
according to Oil Movements.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Chicago Gasoline Gains as Fuel Supplies Tighten a Third Week  Chicago gasoline strengthened after motor fuel supplies
tightened in the area for a third week and a unit at BP’s
Whiting refinery remained shut.  Consumers’ Regina Oil Refinery in Canada Completes Expansion  Consumers’ Co-Operative Refineries Ltd.’s Regina oil plant
in Saskatchewan, Canada, finished an expansion that increased
its capacity by about 45,000 barrels a day, making it the
nation’s fourth-largest refinery.  Vitol Sells European  Jet Fuel ; Gasoil Barges Slump: Oil Products  Vitol Group sold two cargoes of European jet fuel. Heating
oil premiums slumped relative to gasoil on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Shell to Start Units at Europe’s Largest Oil Refinery After Work  Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to start units at its Pernis
oil refinery in the Netherlands, Europe’s largest, in the coming
weeks, following planned maintenance.  Unipetrol Returns to Quarterly Profit on One-Time Provision (1)  Unipetrol AS, the largest Czech refiner, said it returned
to profit in the third quarter on a one-time provision and
improved sales.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  was unchanged at 10.29 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Falls 0.1% to 36.56 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to  Asia , the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, declined 0.1 percent to
36.56 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London .  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East,  Africa  and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in U.S. dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  Algeria Sets Nov. Saharan Crude at 25-Cent Premium to Brent  Sonatrach, the Algerian state-run oil producer, raised its
official selling price for benchmark Saharan Blend crude for
loading in November to a 25 cent preimum to North Sea Dated
Brent, according to an e-mailed price list from the company.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Millennium Fund Said to Hire Barclays’s Rosengren for Energy (1)  Millennium Capital Partners LP, the U.K. unit of U.S. hedge
fund manager Millennium Management LLC, hired former Barclays
Plc trader Ola Rosengren as a portfolio manager, a person with
direct knowledge of the appointment said.  Malicious Code in Aramco Cyber Attack Suggests Lone Culprit (1)  Within hours after a virus had devastated the computer
network of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest state-
owned crude oil exporter, investigators began searching for
evidence of who was behind the attack.  Stocks Drop After Fed Statement While Oil Falls on Supply Growth  U.S. stocks fell, erasing early gains, and commodities
dropped for a third day as the  Federal Reserve  said growth in
employment remains slow and strains in financial markets
continue to pose risks to the economy. Oil slid to a three-month
low after American supplies increased.  Shale Glut Becomes $2 Diesel Using Gas-to-Liquids Plants: Energy  Drivers are next in line to benefit from the U.S. shale
boom.  Conoco Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Production Boost (3)  ConocoPhillips, which spun off its refining business in
April, reported third-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates after it said petroleum production was at the high end
of an earlier forecast.  Occidental Profit Falls on Higher Costs and Gas Price Drop (1)  Occidental Petroleum Corp., the largest onshore crude
producer in the continental U.S., said third-quarter profit fell
22 percent as a surge in output failed to make up for higher
costs and declining commodity prices.  Malicious Code in Aramco Cyber Attack Indicates Lone Perpetrator  Within hours after a virus had devastated the computer
network of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest state-
owned crude oil exporter, investigators began searching for
evidence of who was behind the attack.  EON, RWE Said Poised to Sell Nuclear JV for Nearly $1 Billion  EON AG and RWE AG, Germany’s two largest utilities, are set
to sell their U.K. venture Horizon Nuclear Power to Japan’s
Hitachi Ltd. for about 600 million pounds ($967 million), people
familiar with the matter said.  OTHER MARKETS  U.S. Stock Futures Drop on Apple Results as Treasuries Retreat  U.S. stock-index futures retreated after Apple Inc.’s
earnings and forecast trailed analyst estimates. Treasuries fell
for a second day as an auction of $29 billion in seven-year
notes drew the weakest demand since 2009.  Yen Set for Biggest Weekly Drop in 2 Months on BOJ Easing Bets  The yen was set for the biggest weekly drop in two months
before a government report today that may show a decline in
consumer prices, fanning speculation the central bank will add
to monetary easing next week.  Wheeler Says RBNZ Prepared to Sell Kiwi If Conditions Are Met  New Zealand’s new central bank chief, in his inaugural
address, signaled a willingness to sell the nation’s currency if
it stays unjustifiably high and doing so wouldn’t derail
inflation goals.  U.S. Stocks Advance on Better-Than-Estimated Corporate Earnings  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index up from the lowest level in seven weeks, amid better-than-
estimated corporate earnings.  European Stocks Climb as Unilever, Sanofi Results Beat Estimates  European stocks climbed for a second day as companies
including Unilever and Sanofi posted results that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  France Tops U.S. Wheat With Premium Seen at Record: Commodities  Surging demand for European Union wheat is reducing
stockpiles to a 14-year low and driving prices in France, the
biggest exporter, to a record premium over U.S. grain after
drought withered supply from the  Black Sea region .  Gold Futures Rise Most in Three Weeks on Central Bank Purchases  Gold climbed the most in three weeks as Brazil and Turkey’s
central banks increased holdings of the precious metal and amid
signs that purchases are rising in India, the world’s biggest
buyer.  Panetta Says Poor Intelligence Prevented Forces to Benghazi (1)  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the U.S. military
lacked intelligence needed to respond during the Sept. 11 attack
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , during which
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans were killed.  Colin Powell  Endorses Obama as Candidates Hit Swing States (5)  President  Barack Obama , whose defense-spending plans are
under attack by challenger  Mitt Romney , was endorsed for re-
election today by retired Army General Colin Powell, a onetime
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and former secretary of
state.  SPORTS  Arsenal Is Two Years Away From Financially Competing, CEO Says  Arsenal is two years away from competing financially with
major soccer clubs as the London team signs more valuable
sponsorship contracts and the sport’s European governing body
starts to enforce financial rules, its chief executive officer
said.  Wolfsburg Coach Magath Leaves After Slump to Bottom of Table  Felix Magath  left his post as Wolfsburg coach today as the
club lies at the bottom of German soccer’s Bundesliga.  Gloucester Rugby’s Hazell Banned 14 Weeks for Striking Opponent  Ex-England rugby forward Andy Hazell has been banned for 14
weeks for striking an opponent in an Amlin Challenge Cup game on
Oct. 11.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  