-- Oshkosh Board Unanimously Rejects Icahn’s $3 Billion Bid
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-10-26T14:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/oshkosh-board-unanimously-rejects-icahn-s-3-billion-offer-1-.html
Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) ’s board of directors
rejected an unsolicited offer from billionaire activist director
 Carl Icahn  to buy the truck maker for about $3 billion.  Icahn, Oshkosh’s largest investor with a 9.5 percent stake,
has criticized the firm’s executives for poor performance. He
said his proposal, made earlier this month, would amount to
roughly $32.50 a share.  The offer is “inadequate, undervalues the company and is
not in the best interests of all Oshkosh shareholders,” the
board said in a statement today.  Oshkosh shares gained as much as 3.5 percent and were up
less than 1 percent to $30 as of 10:17 a.m. in  New York  trading.  An employee who answered the phone at Icahn’s New York
headquarters said he couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  The Oshkosh, Wisconsin-based company makes commercial
trucks and supplies blast-resistant trucks to the U.S. Army and
Marine Corps. The military work resulted in a surge in wartime
sales that have slowed with the end of the Iraq War and the
U.S.’s planned withdrawal from  Afghanistan .  Oshkosh said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing
today it would cut 450 jobs in January due to lower demand from
the Defense Department.  JLG Spinoff  Icahn has said he wants to spin off JLG Industries Inc.,
which makes construction lift equipment, because it is more
valuable as a separate entity. The unit was purchased by Oshkosh
about six years ago.  The Oshkosh board called the proposed spinoff an “ill-
advised strategy,” and accused Icahn of trying “to enrich
himself at the expense of all other Oshkosh shareholders” in
its statement today.  “Your board encourages shareholders to send a clear
message to Mr. Icahn that you will not allow him to pursue his
self-serving agenda and will not permit him to take control of
Oshkosh for a price significantly below the company’s value,”
Richard M. Donnelly, chairman of the board of directors, said in
the statement.  Shareholder Rights Plan  The board adopted a plan that would let shareholders buy
one preferred share for each share of common stock held at the
close of business on Nov. 5, according to the statement. The
rights would be exercisable if someone acquired a 10 percent
stake in the company.  “The rights plan is intended to enable all shareholders to
realize the long-term value of their investment in the company
and to protect them from unfair or coercive takeover tactics,”
according to the statement.  Oshkosh also announced today that its defense sales
declined 19 percent to $953.7 million in the fourth quarter
ended Sept. 30, compared with a year ago.  For the year, the declines in military sales were offset by
gains in commercial segments, as revenue rose 7.9 percent to
$8.18 billion from $7.58 billion in fiscal 2011.  Full-year adjusted profit fell 26 percent to $208.5
million, from $280.8 million, in 2011. The profit decline was
“primarily attributable to an adverse product mix and lower
sales in the defense segment, offset in part by significantly
improved access equipment and commercial segment results,” the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  