-- Paulson’s $100 Million Park Gift Raises Fairness Question
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/paulson-s-100-million-park-gift-raises-fairness-question.html
Billionaire John Paulson’s $100
million donation to New York’s  Central Park Conservancy  threw
into relief inequities between parks frequented by the wealthy
and those in less affluent neighborhoods.  Paulson said the gift, announced Oct. 23, would enhance the
city’s most democratic institution, enjoyed by 40 million
visitors a year. The founder of Paulson & Co., a  New York-based
hedge fund, said he played in the park as a child. Now, at 56,
he enjoys a treetop view of its expanse from his residence on
Fifth Avenue.  The conservancy, a private nonprofit organization that
manages and raises money for the park, said the contribution was
the largest donation to any park anywhere and will add $50
million to what had been a $144 million endowment. New York
Mayor Michael Bloomberg is among several who credit the
conservancy, created in 1980, with saving the 843-acre (341-
hectare) tract from years of underfunding and neglect.  Yet many of the city’s 1,700 other parks, playgrounds and
recreation facilities, which attract fewer visitors, languish,
advocates say.  “It’s wonderful that Central Park received this great gift
but it doesn’t address the underfunding of its other parks,”
said Geoffrey Croft of  NYC Park Advocates , a watchdog group.
“What this donation does is highlight the enormous disparity
between the haves and have-nots.”  Moving Money  The gift won’t mean more money for other parks in the city,
Bloomberg said at a press briefing where Paulson’s donation was
announced. The donation “doesn’t mean we’re going to transfer
any money from one place to another,” the mayor said. The city
remains committed to funding and maintaining all its parks, the
mayor said.  Dena Libner, a spokeswoman for the conservancy, declined to
comment on the disparity in park funding.  New York devoted about $338 million, less than 0.5 percent
of its $68.5 billion operating budget this year, to its 29,000-
acre park system, down from $380 million. The city budget
supports about 15 percent of Central Park’s $45 million annual
operating costs, according to the conservancy website.  “Overall condition ratings declined slightly in the city’s
parks,” according to the mayor’s  management report , by 2
percentage points to 82 percent; 88 percent were rated
acceptable, the same as last year. “Both ratings remained below
their respective performance targets,” the report said.  By comparison, the  Chicago Park District , a semi-autonomous
authority funded through dedicated property taxes, revenue from
facilities such as Soldier Field and private donations, intends
to spend $407 million on its 7,800-acre system, plus more than
$80 million in capital improvements, said Jessica Maxey-
Faulkner, a spokeswoman. Los Angeles spends $189.5 million of
its $7.2 billion budget on parks.  New Parks  New York City plans $595 million in capital spending from
municipal-bond sales through 2016. It has used more than $1.5
billion in such funds since 2002 to improve facilities and
create new parks, according to the parks department, including
one near the  Brooklyn Bridge , which has its own conservancy. It
has also developed the 2,200-acre site of the former  Freshkills 
landfill on Staten Island; and along waterfronts in Manhattan,
Brooklyn and Queens, said Julie Wood, a mayoral spokeswoman.  Private foundations and trusts have been created to support
the  Hudson River Park  on the west side of Manhattan and the High
Line, a landscaped promenade on a former elevated rail line that
extends from Greenwich Village through part of Chelsea. Such
public-private partnerships work only for parks located in
affluent neighborhoods, Croft said.  Queens Tops  From the time Bloomberg took office in 2002, the city has
spent $345 million in capital improvements in  Manhattan  parks,
$13 million less than in Queens, which got the most capital
spending in the five boroughs, according to the Parks
Department.  The city has added more than 700 acres of parkland during
the mayor’s tenure, said Zachary Feder, a parks spokesman. The
mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  “This is the largest era of city-funded parks expansion”
in New York’s history, he said.  In fiscal 2013, the city has earmarked $28.8 million for
parks in Manhattan, almost double the amount in the Bronx, which
has more than twice as much park acreage. The city budgeted
$25.3 million for parks in Queens, $23.4 million for  Brooklyn 
and $10.2 million for Staten Island. Staffing in city parks has
declined 25 percent since 2009, to 5,744 employees.  Barren Fields  Flushing Meadows Corona Park , a 1,255-acre expanse in
Queens that was the site of the World’s Fair in 1939 and 1964,
is marred by barren fields where grass once grew and shuttered
recreation facilities “where the city could easily spend $100
million,” Croft said.  Ferry Point Park  in the Bronx “now functions as a public
toilet,” Croft said, after officials reduced staff, abandoned
ball fields and closed public restrooms. “Without any security
or supervision, men set up roulette tables for open-air
gambling,” he said.  Central Park, too, suffered from neglect before the
conservancy took over funding and management. “A dust bowl,”
is how Croft described the Sheep Meadow, now an emerald green
grass carpet. A running track around the Central Park Reservoir,
formerly a bumpy mix of stones and mud, now attracts joggers by
the hundreds.  Paulson’s gift “is a good thing not just for Central Park
but for parks generally because it highlights how important
parks are to people,” said Holly Leicht, executive director of
 New Yorkers for Parks , an advocacy organization.  City Obligation  “It also puts the onus on the city to make sure there’s
enough money in the maintenance budget to properly maintain the
1,700 other parks that can’t draw this level of private
funding,” Leicht said.  The best solution to the problem of funding all the parks
would be the creation of a citywide conservancy-like institution
to attract private and public funding, said Melissa Mark- Viverito, a Democrat who heads the City Council’s Parks and
Recreation committee and whose Manhattan district of East Harlem
includes a portion of Central Park.  “The challenge is to prevent our parks from becoming a
two-tiered system where some have conservancies and some
don’t,” said Mark-Viverito.  “We can’t have the city walking away from its obligation
and responsibility for upkeep and maintenance,” she said.
“That’s not the message we should be sending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net  and Martin Z. Braun in New York at +1-
   mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  