-- Pentagon Withholds $47 Million From Lockheed on F-35
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-26T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/pentagon-withholds-47-million-from-lockheed-on-f-35.html
The Pentagon is withholding $46.5
million from  Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT) , its biggest contractor,
because of continued flaws with a business system used to track
costs and schedules for the F-35 fighter.  The money held back was assessed against two F-35
production contracts and a smaller development agreement with
the Israeli  Air Force  that’s managed by the U.S. The funds equal
5 percent of periodic billings against the contracts for
reimbursement of money spent by the company performing the work.  The F-35 has been criticized by Pentagon officials and
lawmakers for test-performance failings, delays and its
ballooning cost. At an estimated $395.7 billion for eventual
production of 2,443 planes, the cost is up 70 percent, adjusted
for inflation, from the $233 billion projected when Lockheed
Martin won the program from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in late 2001.  The funds being withheld won’t be released until all the
deficiencies in the system used by Lockheed Martin’s  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based Aeronautics unit “are corrected and the system
regains approval status” from the  Defense Contract Management
Agency , Pentagon spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Chris Kubasik, Lockheed Martin’s president and chief
operating officer, told reporters on a conference call Oct. 24
that the Bethesda, Maryland-based company is making progress
correcting deficiencies with the system.  2007 Concerns  The Pentagon agency first raised concerns in 2007 about the
internal company data generated for Lockheed Martin’s fighter
programs -- the F-35, F-22 and F-16 jets. The contract
management agency decertified the Pentagon-mandated Earned Value
Management system for Lockheed Martin’s aircraft operations in
October 2010.  A Pentagon rule that took effect in August 2011 requires
all new contracts to include language spelling out the potential
for withholding payments because of deficiencies such as those
in the management system.  The maximum the Pentagon can withhold from the billings
under the regulation is 5 percent.  The requirement, intended to protect taxpayers from
overbilling, focuses on systems that companies use to estimate
costs for bids, purchase goods from subcontractors, manage
government property and materials and track costs and schedule
progress.  Corrective Plan  The provision was included in all F-35 contracts negotiated
after the fourth production pact. The largest payment being held
back is $45 million on the fifth production contract, final
details of which remain in negotiation.  Kubasik said he reviews the Earned Value Management system
and progress toward complying with Pentagon requirements daily.  “We have a corrective action plan that has been approved,
and we are executing to that,” Kubasik told reporters during
the conference call on Lockheed’s third-quarter earnings.  “We are having status checks monthly, and by all accounts
everybody is satisfied with the progress that we are making,”
he said. “So we expect to have a certified” system “in due
course and possibly have the withhold reduced here as we make
progress.”  The Aeronautics unit’s sales in the third quarter fell 6.7
percent to $3.7 billion, and profit fell 6.5 percent to $415
million from the year-ago quarter, the company said in an
earnings statement on Oct. 24.  Initial production orders of F-35 jets during the quarter
valued at about $300 million partially offset lower sales
volumes from C-130 transports and F-16 fighters in the
Aeronautics unit, Lockheed said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  