-- Peripheral Bond Sales Falter as Buyers Digest Record Issuance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-26T15:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/peripheral-bond-sales-falter-as-buyers-digest-record-issuance.html
Sales of corporate bonds from the
euro area’s periphery slumped after last month’s record as signs
of a deepening debt crisis curbed investor demand. Bond risk
headed for the biggest weekly increase since September.  Companies from Italian utility  Enel SpA (ENEL)  to  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in
 Madrid  sold 7.2 billion euros ($9.3 billion) of notes this
month, a 45 percent drop from September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps on 50 companies with mostly high-yield
ratings rose six basis points to 535 as of 4 p.m. in  London , its
seventh day of increases and the longest run since August 2011.  “The market is probably close to saturation point on
peripheral issues,” said Georg Grodzki, head of credit research
at Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. in London, which
manages $622 billion of bonds. “A more steady flow should avoid
indigestion.”  Issuance is retreating as the euro region’s economic
recovery sputters with Spanish unemployment jumping to a record,
French banks downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  and earnings from
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  to Ericsson AB missing analyst targets. The
regional government of Madrid pulled a sale of bonds on Oct. 23,
citing lack of investor demand.  There were no corporate bond sales in  Europe  today,
contributing to a 17 percent decline in offerings this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Risk Rises  Credit-default swaps on  Spain  rose 14 basis points this
week to 303 after joblessness in Spain increased to 25 percent
in the third quarter. Contracts on  Italy  climbed 22 basis points
to 268.5, the biggest weekly increase since Sept. 28. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Swaps on  France  fell eight basis points this week even as
BNP Paribas SA, the country’s largest bank, was among lenders
whose credit rating was cut by S&P on concern it will be hurt by
Europe’s prolonged economic weakness.  “The market is slightly weaker as risk taking is pulling
back a bit,” said Neil Seyffert, a credit strategist at
Barclays Plc in London. “Earnings and macro data have been
mixed, at best, and progress on the sovereign front is slow.”  Sales Surge  This month’s drop in peripheral company bond sales
contrasts with September when European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s pledge to buy unlimited amounts of sovereign
bonds fueled investor demand for higher-yielding alternatives to
the safest  government securities . Sales reached 13.1 billion
euros, compared with an average 2.6 billion euros in the first
eight months of the year.  The demand meant utility  Energias de Portugal SA  was able
to sell the nation’s first benchmark-sized corporate bond
offering in 20 months on Sept. 14, followed a week later by an
issue from Portuguese toll road operator Brisa Concessao
Rodoviaria SA.  “A lot of investors who were running underweight positions
on peripheral corporates had seen the positive ECB developments
and had to fight to get allocations in the primary market,”
said Nicolo Bocchin, a portfolio manager at Aletti Gestielle SGR
SpA in Milan, who helps oversee 2 billion euros of assets.  Prices of peripheral corporate bonds rose more than any
other company debt issued since September, accounting for the
top four price climbers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ESB Finance Ltd. led gains as the Irish power company’s
6.25 percent 2017 notes sold Sept. 4 climbed 11.6 percent since
they were issued to 111.59 cents on the euro. Madrid-based
Telefonica’s 5.811 percent 2017 bonds rose 9 percent and Italy’s
 Snam SpA (SRG) ’s 5 percent 2022 securities were up 8.8 percent. That
compares with an average price gain of 1.1 percent for all non-
financial company debt issued since August.  Biggest Issuers  Peripheral companies were among this year’s biggest bond
issuers in Europe. Rome-based Enel raised 6.3 billion euros from
bonds, the third-highest after Volkswagen AG and BHP Billiton
Plc, while Telefonica sold 4.5 billion euros of securities.  “I get the sense that the stronger peripheral names, such
as Telefonica, already have enough liquidity to cover maturities
for 2013 and 2014,” said Kieran Roane, a London-based portfolio
manager at Investec Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $3.1
billion.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose eight basis points this week to a
two-week high of 129 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  