-- Peru Seeks to Relax Limits for Pension Funds by Year-End
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-10-26T19:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/peru-seeks-higher-foreign-limits-for-pension-funds-by-year-end.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
raise the limit on pension fund investments abroad by year-end
as part of measures to fight an appreciation of the sol, central
bank President Julio Velarde said.  The monetary authority is awaiting a written statement on
the restrictions from the pension regulator before moving
forward, Velarde said in an interview in Miami yesterday. That
opinion should be coming “in the next few weeks,” he added.
The move, which could ease pressure on the sol, comes after the
currency reached a 15-year high of 2.5780 per dollar on Oct. 22.  “We don’t want the currency to appreciate too much outside
the fundamentals” of the economy, Velarde said before the start
of a forum sponsored by Latin Trade magazine. “We’re always
concerned that if there is too much appreciation the demand for
protectionism will grow.”  Peru has raised  reserve requirements  on dollar accounts,
tightened restrictions on sales of greenbacks and  boosted
reserves  by buying $12 billion in the  currency market  this year
to tame the sol. Raising foreign investment restrictions for
Peru’s four pension funds, which are near the 30 percent limit
on their $35 billion in assets, would aid that effort, Velarde
said.  ‘Some Success’  “We’ve had some success over the past four years” in
fighting the appreciation, Velarde said. “Peru is one of the
few countries in  Latin America  where people are used to taking
out loans in dollars, so that makes monetary policy a bit more
difficult.”  The move to limit local banks’ U.S. currency sales in the
spot market to 10 percent of their equity from 15 percent may
reduce bets against the dollar, said Alonso Segura, head of
investment and strategy at  Banco de Credito del Peru (CREDITC1)  in Lima.
The sol has gained 16 percent in the past five years, the best
performance among major Latin American currencies.  “It may limit some speculative flows but the majority of
flows are long-term,” Segura said in a phone interview
yesterday.  ‘Volatility’  The measure also seeks to limit banks’ dollar sales in the
forwards market to 20 percent of their equity or 300 million
soles ($116 million), whichever is greater, according to an Oct.
19 statement on the website of the Superintendency of Banking,
Insurance and Pension Fund Administrators.  The sol weakened 0.4 percent to 2.6025 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, the steepest fall in three months, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The yield on the nation’s
benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond due August 2020 rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.27 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank said on its website it purchased $20
million in the  spot market  today. The bank previously bought
dollars only when the sol appreciated and is now also buying
when it depreciates, as it seeks to create volatility and make
movements in the currency less predictable.  “We want to have some volatility” while making sure the
movements aren’t “excessive”, Velarde said.  Vacant Seats  The central bank increased pension funds’ foreign
investment ceiling four times in 2010 to 30 percent. Congress
last year gave the central bank authorization to take the limit
to 50 percent.  The central bank doesn’t need to wait for Congress to fill
vacant seats on its seven-member board before raising the
ceiling, Velarde said.  Under Velarde’s tenure, annual inflation has averaged 3.34
percent with economic growth of 6.9 percent, while bank loans
have increased 180 percent to 139 billion soles, fueled by
booming private investment and consumer demand. He has
quadrupled the country’s foreign reserves to a record $62
billion.  `So Much Optimism'  The 60-year-old Velarde, who studied economics at
Universidad del Pacifico and  Brown University , took office in
2006 and was re-appointed to a second five-year term last year
by President Ollanta Humala.  Fueled by growing domestic demand, construction and exports
of copper and gold, Peru’s economy probably grew 6.5 percent in
the third quarter, Velarde said. Growth should average about 6
percent per year over the next four to five years, he added.  “There are so many investment projects going forward and
there’s so much optimism in the business community,” Velarde
said.  The central bank is seeking to slow credit growth that’s
running at 17 percent, though policy makers don’t see a need to
raise reserve requirements after three increases between May and
October, Velarde said.  Inflation will be below 3 percent next year, he said.
Inflation has remained above 3 percent, the upper limit of the
central bank’s target range, for five quarters.  Policy maker are studying measures to slow the pace of
lending in dollars, including increased bank provisions, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  