-- Pesos Go Underground as Dollar Ban Backfires: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-10-26T19:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/pesos-go-underground-as-dollar-ban-backfires-argentina-credit.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s foreign-exchange controls are driving
pesos underground.  A quarter of Argentines are keeping their pesos at home, up
from 19 percent a year ago, according to a  survey  conducted in
September by the  Catholic University  of Argentina and TNS
Gallup. The increase reflects how people are shifting money out
of banks to trade dollars in a cash-dominated black market where
the cost of the U.S. currency has surged 35 percent this year,
according to Buenos Aires-based research company EconViews.  The migration of cash out of the financial system is
stripping banks of funding and undermining Fernandez’s efforts
to hold down interest rates and bolster an economic rebound. The
30-day  deposit rate  has jumped 1.8 percentage points in the past
four months to 14.8125 percent. A three-day decline of 0.8
percentage point that pared the increase in the benchmark rate
will prove short-lived as annual inflation of 24 percent drives
more Argentines to move money into the underground economy, said
Eric Ritondale, an economist at Econviews.  “Money’s moving out of the banking system and out of the
formal economy,” Ritondale said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires. “As much as the government wants to promote the
use of pesos, the truth is they won’t be able to achieve it. You
can’t get it done” with interest rates below inflation.  Rate Disparity  The so-called badlar rate, which banks pay on deposits of 1
million pesos ($210,400) or more, will climb to 17 percent by
the end of this year, Ritondale said. That’s more than double
similar rates in  Brazil  and almost five times those in  Mexico .  The average  interest rate  offered among private banks for
 time deposits  less than 100,000 pesos fell to 12.64 percent on
Oct. 22 from an eight-month high of 12.85 percent on Oct. 19,
central bank data show. Total peso deposits increased at the
slowest pace in a year in September, central bank data show.  Fernandez’s controls are making it harder for Argentines to
buy dollars to protect against inflation and a weaker currency.  The university survey, conducted from Sept. 21 to Sept. 30,
found that 11 percent of individuals said they choose to buy
dollars to keep at home or put in a bank as a preferred method
for savings based on convenience, down from 21 percent a year
ago, after the restrictions were set in place.  ‘No Incentive’  “Banks aren’t offering attractive interest rates,”
Angeles Arano, one of the researchers at TNS Gallup who
conducted the poll, said in a telephone interview from  Buenos
Aires . “There’s no incentive for people to put their money in
the system.”  Argentine bonds fell today after the country lost a bid to
reverse U.S. lower-court rulings that may help creditors collect
$1.4 billion on defaulted debt. Dollar-denominated notes due
2015 dropped 4.81 cents to 84.73 cents on the dollar at 3:09
p.m.  New York  time, pushing yields up 2.2 percentage points to
13.73 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  The U.S. Appeals Court in New York ruled that Argentina,
which carried out a record sovereign default in 2001, can’t
discriminate against holders of the defaulted bonds in favor of
holders of the securities it restructured. A three-judge panel
upheld orders issued by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in
 Manhattan .  Of the 41 billion pesos pumped into the nation’s monetary
base this year by the central bank, 84 percent are circulating
among individuals, according to the latest  central bank  data.
That compares with 59 percent in the same period last year. In
total, just 21 billion pesos are in the banking system, about 8
percent of the monetary base on Oct. 12.  Cash Holdings  Cash in the hands of individuals accounted for 51 percent
of private  money supply , compared with 49 percent a year ago,
EconViews found in an Oct. 22 study of central bank data.  The country’s money multiplier ratio, an indication of how
much central bank-created cash is making its way through the
financial system, fell to 1.495 on Oct. 5, the lowest since
December 2007.  Bank deposits expanded 37 percent in September from a year
earlier, while lending grew 40 percent, central bank data show.  Last month,  liquidity  in the banking system dropped 0.3
percentage point from August to 35.5 percent, the lowest since
December. The central bank defines liquidity as the percentage
of cash, deposits in current accounts and central bank notes
relative to total deposits.  The badlar will resume its climb as liquidity drops and
Fernandez’s recent measures, including forcing insurance
companies to allocate $1.5 billion in state-sponsored projects,
deter investment, according to Maria Jose Anastasio, a portfolio
manager at Standard Bank  Argentina  SA.  Badlar Futures  “It’s an upward trend and you’ve got lots of drivers,”
Anastasio said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.
“These are part of the distortions that lead people to prefer
to take on debt rather than save.”  Trading in the futures market shows investors expect the
badlar will climb to 17.76 percent by April.  The drop in the badlar was expected as higher interest
rates would hamper the government’s effort to bolster economic
growth, according to Camilo Tiscornia, a former central bank
economist.  “The government has thousands of ways -- through the
central bank, through the social security agency, through the
Banco Nacion -- to make the rate fall,” Tiscornia, who now runs
research company C&T Asesores Economicos, said in a telephone
interview from Buenos Aires. “They think that high rates will
stem consumption and investment.”  Tighter Controls  Over the last year, Fernandez has tightened controls on the
foreign-exchange market to curb capital flight, which almost
doubled to $21.5 billion in 2011. After her re-election last
October, individuals and companies were required to get
authorization from the federal tax agency before buying dollars.  In July, the central bank issued a list of acceptable
reasons to buy foreign currency, which didn’t include savings or
real estate.  The peso has weakened 9.5 percent this year in the official
market to 4.7513 yesterday, and will drop 3 percent by the end
of December to 4.9, according to the median estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the unregulated market, known as the blue-chip swap,
which investors use to acquire dollars by buying assets locally
in pesos and selling them abroad in U.S. currency, the peso has
weakened 27 percent this year to 6.4127 pesos per dollar.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps surged after the court
ruling, climbing 432 basis points to 1,391 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a
government or company fails to comply with debt agreements.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Argentine government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
rose 132 basis points to 983, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  EconViews’ Ritondale says more individuals are turning to
the parallel market to sell their pesos for dollars, where
counterparties remain flush with local currency that continues
to circulate in the informal economy.  “As the parallel market grows, each day you have more
pesos outside of the formal economy,” Ritondale said. “If bank
rates aren’t raised, you’re going to see the black market
exchange rate shoot up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  