-- Brazil’s Petrobras Posts Surprise Profit Decline on Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-26T22:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/petrobras-quarterly-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-on-costs.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
biggest oil producer in deep waters, said third-quarter profit
fell 12 percent, missing analysts’ forecasts, after fuel imports
pushed up costs and crude output slipped.  Net income  declined to 5.57 billion reais ($2.7 billion),
or 43 centavos a share, from 6.34 billion reais, or 49 centavos,
a year earlier, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said today in a
statement. Per-share profit excluding some items trailed the 58-
centavo average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fuel imports are curbing profit as imported gasoline and
diesel prices exceeded those in  Brazil . In the quarter imported
gasoline cost about 10 percent more than domestic fuel because
the government, which control’s Petrobras’ board, fixed prices
to rein in inflation, said Lucas Brendler, who helps manage
about 6 billion reais at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimentos.  “You are still importing at a price much higher than you
are selling in the downstream,” Brendler said in a telephone
interview from  Porto Alegre , Brazil, before the report was
released. “They have to solve this problem.”  Price Increases  Petrobras increased prices for gasoline and diesel by 7.8
percent and 3.9 percent, respectively, on June 25, and then
lifted diesel prices an additional 6 percent on July 12 to
reduce the discount with international prices. Still, Petrobras
sells imported fuel at a loss and strong demand from farmers
during Brazil’s harvest season increased third-quarter imports,
Jose Consenza, the head of refining at Petrobras, said in Rio de
Janeiro on Oct. 9.  “The downstream side of the house is really where they
took a hit,”  Gianna Bern , president of risk-management
consultant Brookshire Advisory & Research, Inc. in  Chicago , said
by telephone today. “You layer on the weaker Brazilian currency
and it’s a recipe for a challenging quarter.”  Petrobras’s refining, transport and logistics division
posted a loss of 5.65 billion reais compared with the 3.17
billion-real loss a year ago.  Brent oil for December settlement rose 1 percent to close
at $109.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange today.  Largest Discovery  Petrobras is heading for its first annual decline in output
since 2004 after production slid for three months to 2.54
million barrels a day in August, the lowest since October 2010.
Petrobras’s production fell 0.5 percent in the first nine months
of the year to an average of 2.59 million barrels a day.
Petrobras plans to more than double output to 5.7 million
barrels a day in 2020.  Petrobras is investing $236.5 billion over five years to
build refineries, develop deep-water fields and ramp up output
at Lula, the largest discovery in Brazil’s history. Petrobras
produces more oil than any other company in waters deeper than
1,000 feet (305 meters) and is building dozens of platforms and
drill ships to expand output.  Investments rose 18 percent to 59.8 billion reais in the
first nine months of the year, with 48 percent of spending
dedicated to exploration and production and 37 percent to
refining, the company said.  Petrobras rose 1.6 percent to 22.10 reais in  Sao Paulo 
today. The earnings report was released after the end of regular
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  