-- Pharmacy in Meningitis Deaths Found Mold in January
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/pharmacy-in-meningitis-outbreak-found-with-mold-bacteria.html
New England Compounding Pharmacy
Inc., the company linked to a U.S. meningitis outbreak,
discovered elevated levels of mold and bacteria at its drug-
making facility in January and didn’t act, regulators said.  When the contamination was found to have exceeded limits
the pharmacy itself set for mold and bacteria, “no documented
corrective actions were taken,” the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a preliminary  report  that cites company
documents. The FDA’s investigators uncovered tainted steroids
and unsanitary conditions during inspections that began Oct. 1
at the facility in Framingham, Massachusetts, the agency said.  “It wouldn’t be proper for us to characterize this firm
beyond the factual observations at this time,”  Howard Sklamberg, the FDA’s deputy associate commissioner for
regulatory affairs, said yesterday on a call with reporters.
“This is part of an investigation. A broader investigation is
where an agency characterizes and draws conclusions.”  The pharmacy suspended operations Oct. 3 after state and
federal regulators began to link one of its steroid products,
methylprednisolone acetate, to fungal meningitis infections that
have now killed 25 people. The company, which used the name New
England Compounding Center, recalled more than 17,000 doses of
the steroid sold to at least 75 hospitals and clinics in 23
states. The government has said about 14,000 people received
shots of the steroid, which is injected into the spinal cavity
to relieve neck and back pain.  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord. Fungal infections connected to the medicine
have been reported by 338 people in 18 states, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention said today on its  website .  ‘Foreign Matter’  During its inspection this month, the FDA found greenish
yellow and tarnished discolorations on equipment and in areas
where the steroid was mixed, according to the report, known as a
483. The agency also said 83 of 321 vials of the steroid
appeared to contain “greenish black foreign matter.” Seventeen
vials from the same bin contained “white filamentous
material.”  “The FDA issues a 483 at the end of an inspection when the
investigators believe that they observed conditions or practices
that, in their judgment, may indicate violations of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or related regulations,” the
agency said in a  statement .  The company is a compounding pharmacy, which is supposed to
prepare individual prescriptions unavailable through regular
avenues, such as those with a unique dosage. These pharmacies
are regulated by state governments.  Massachusetts Report  Massachusetts  officials had released preliminary results of
a state investigation Oct. 23, saying there was evidence that
sterilizing procedures weren’t fully followed at the company’s
facility. A leaking boiler was found adjacent to a clean room,
and it was determined that compounded drugs weren’t labeled with
patient-specific identifiers, according to the report.  The company received the FDA’s report and “will follow the
existing regulatory process and provide our comments to the FDA
after we have had adequate time for a complete review,” the
pharmacy said in a statement.  New England Compounding Center conducted its own
“environmental monitoring program” in two clean rooms that are
supposed to reduce the risk of microbial contamination during
drug processing and found elevated levels of mold and bacteria,
the FDA said in its report. A clean room is an enclosed space
that is supposed to have low levels of airborne particles and
surface contamination, the agency said.  The area is supposed to maintain low humidity levels and
appropriate temperatures, said Steven Lynn, director of
manufacturing and product quality at the FDA Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research’s Office of Compliance. Instead, the
company turned off the air conditioning nightly from 8 p.m. to
5:30 a.m., according to the report.  The FDA tested 50 vials of the steroid from the bin of
discolored doses and confirmed the presence of viable microbial
growth in all of them.  The FDA conducted the investigation with the cooperation of
Massachusetts authorities, Sklamberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  