-- Planned Parenthood Gets Texas Clinic Funding Ban Halted
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/planned-parenthood-sues-texas-again-over-abortion-funding-1-.html
Planned Parenthood  won a state court
ruling blocking Texas from cutting off public funds to its
clinics that don’t provide abortion services the day after a
federal appeals court refused to hear a related dispute.  Judge Amy Clark Meachum in Austin issued a temporary
restraining order hours after the organization sued the state
yesterday to void a Texas law that cuts off public funding for
affiliates of abortion providers. A copy of the order was
provided by Planned Parenthood. It couldn’t immediately be
independently confirmed in court records.  Planned Parenthood contends Texas violated state law by
enacting a regulation that bars the group’s clinics which don’t
provide abortion services from participating in the state’s
health program for poor women because they are associated with a
larger abortion-rights organization.  Under the  Texas  Human Resources Code, which governs the
women’s health program, any provision is “inoperative if it
causes Texas to lose federal matching funds” for that program,
Planned Parenthood said in an e-mailed statement. “The rule
will cost Texas taxpayers nearly $200 million over five years.”  The Obama administration withdrew U.S. funding for the
Texas women’s health program after state lawmakers last year
passed the regulation blocking participation by groups
affiliated with elective-abortion providers. Federal funding had
previously underwritten 90 percent of the program’s cost,
Planned Parenthood said in the statement.  Public Funds  Yesterday’s complaint sought a court order preventing Texas
from immediately cutting off public funds to 49 Planned
Parenthood clinics in Texas that don’t provide abortion
services. The organization also seeks a permanent injunction
barring Texas from enforcing the “affiliate ban.”  “Plaintiffs would continue to provide the same covered
services to Women’s Health Program enrollees as they have done
since the program’s inception in 2007, services the state
rightly considers critical for women who would otherwise lack
reasonable access to such care,” Planned Parenthood’s lawyers
said in the complaint.  Republican Texas Governor  Rick Perry  said in a Twitter post
that the court ruling ignores the will of the state Legislature
and the people.  “TX will keep fighting to protect innocent life,” he
said.  Federal Lawsuit  The organization sued Texas in federal court in Austin in
April. In that action, Planned Parenthood claimed the state
violated the group’s constitutional rights of free speech and
association by using the affiliate ban to cut off funding to
Planned Parenthood clinics that provided services to almost
48,000 poor women last year.  In the federal case, Planned Parenthood won a lower-court
ruling that temporarily blocked the state from cutting off
funds. That ruling was reversed in August by the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in New Orleans.  The appellate panel refused on Oct. 25 to rehear the case,
clearing the way for the state to withhold taxpayer funds. A
trial on the merits of Planned Parenthood’s constitutional
claims hasn’t been scheduled yet.  The state court case is Planned Parenthood of Greater Texas
Family Planning and Preventative Health Services Inc. v Texas
Health & Human Services Commission, D-1-GN-12-003365, Judicial
District Court of Travis County (Austin).  The federal case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County
Texas v. Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Texas (Austin). The appeals court case is Planned Parenthood
of Hidalgo County Texas v. Suehs, 12-50377, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  