-- Plouffe Says Romney Dishonest Over What He Would Do as President
-- B y
-- 2012-10-26T22:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/plouffe-says-romney-dishonest-over-what-he-would-do-as-president.html
White House senior adviser  David
Plouffe  said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
Republican Mitt Romney is “disingenuously” hiding his
positions from voters as polls show the U.S. presidential
contest deadlocked in the campaign’s final days.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  JULIANNA GOLDMAN , BLOOMBERG NEWS: Hello. I’m Julianna
Goldman, filling in for Al Hunt this week. We begin the show
with White House senior adviser David Plouffe. David, thanks for
the time.  DAVID PLOUFFE: Of course.  GOLDMAN: Ten days to go, and two new national tracking
polls put Mitt Romney at 50 percent. Isn’t that danger zone for
the president?  PLOUFFE: No. There’s national polls that are all over the
place. I think there’s a poll coming out every hour that’ll tell
you what you want to see. This race is going to come down to
eight or nine states. We think the president’s in good position
in those states. And we think that the last few weeks of this
campaign, the president’s really laying out where he wants to
take the country economically. We think there’s big distinctions
for the middle class out there in terms of who they can trust.  And, you know, from a campaign standpoint, we just have to
really work hard now to convince those few remaining undecideds
in states like  Ohio  and  Florida  to choose the president and to
get our vote out.  GOLDMAN: What would the ramifications be, though, for the
president’s second term if he narrowly loses the popular vote
and narrowly wins the Electoral College?  PLOUFFE: Well, I don’t want to get into hypotheticals.
We’ve always known this would be a close race. You know, we
think if the election were held today, we’d win both the
national popular vote and an Electoral College majority, so
we’re just trying to make sure we execute well here in the
close.  You know, the president was out for the past two days
barnstorming the country, and I think there was a lot of energy
out there, a lot of passion for what he wants to do in a second
term. And that’s really where we’ve got to drive the next 10
days, is the choice between where these two men would take the
country.  GOLDMAN: We talk about the nine states where this campaign
is playing out. Ohio, Virginia, Colorado or Florida, which state
are you in the best shape?  PLOUFFE: Oh, you know, it’s like choosing between your
children, really. I can’t do that. I think that - it’s clear the
Romney campaign understands that they’ve got big problems in
Ohio. You know, we’ve had a clear and sustainable lead there for
a long time. Governor Romney’s opposition to saving the American
 auto industry  is one of the big problems there.  You know, Florida, he’s spending all day in Florida
tomorrow. We feel very good about where we are in Florida, in
terms of the early vote. Virginia’s going to be a very close
race.  So, you know, there’s like a Rubik’s Cube of how you put
together 270 electoral votes. From our perspective, the great
thing is, all the states that we targeted, we still think we
have a very plausible pathway to winning those states.  GOLDMAN: In a state like Ohio, could the president lose the
vote on Election Day, but win early vote, and that could make
the difference in Ohio?  PLOUFFE: Well, you know, there’s going to be some states
where, you know, we think we’re going to win both early vote and
- and Election Day vote. Others - you know, Florida is a state
traditionally where the Republicans have done very well in
absentees. We’ve narrowed that lead. So it depends on the state.  I mean, our view on early vote is, if someone was a
certainty to vote on Election Day, and they vote early, that’s
great to get the vote in the bank and they may be freed up to
help on Election Day. But the real premium is for people who
aren’t reliable voters, frequent voters, to get them to vote
early is very important, and that’s where our focus is on.  And I think you’re seeing a lot of smoke and mirrors coming
out of the Romney campaign about how well they’re doing in early
vote. I think if you look at these states,  Nevada , Florida, Ohio
or  Iowa , we feel that we’re on a trajectory in those states
that’ll allow us to win.  GOLDMAN: I want to ask you about comments that former
Governor John Sununu made this week. He suggested that General
Colin Powell endorsed the president because of race. Do you
think  Mitt Romney  is trying to inject race into the final days
of this campaign?  PLOUFFE: Well, you know, John Sununu, you know, says things
kind of in the Donald Trump category it seems like, from time to
time. I think I’ll let General Powell speak for himself about
why he endorsed the president. He said on both, you know,
domestic and economic issues, as well as foreign policy issues,
very strong things to say about the president and some
criticisms about where Governor Romney would take the country.
So I’ll let, you know, Colin Powell’s words speak for
themselves.  GOLDMAN: Do you think it could drive a further wedge with
white voters in these final days?  PLOUFFE: These comments?  GOLDMAN: Uh-huh.  PLOUFFE: Listen, I think - I think  Colin Powell ’s comments
about why he’s endorsing the president probably are going to be
impactful with all voters. And so, no, I think that’s more just
kind of nuttiness from their side.  GOLDMAN: Well, after Romney for months had been saying that
the president doesn’t have a plan for the next four years, he
said that again in his speech this week, finally, the campaign
this week released a 20-page glossy booklet outlining the
president’s second-term agenda. Why did he wait so long to do
that?  PLOUFFE: Well, we laid out in our convention speech with
great detail where the president wants to take the country.  GOLDMAN: But vote - that didn’t necessarily trickle down to
voters.  PLOUFFE: No, well, we thought his convention speech was
very well received. You know, if you look at the president, all
after the convention, talking about our plan to build
manufacturing and American-made energy and training in our
community colleges, hiring 100,000 math and science teachers,
which could be one of the most important things we can do,
reducing the deficit in the right way, every day he’s out there.
So the booklet was just a way at the end to make sure we get in
front of voters, this is exactly what the president’s going to
do.  So, basically, you know, Romney was out there yesterday
talking about big change. All it is, is a big relapse to the
same economic policies that devastated the middle class and our
economy, and that’s the choice in front of people, which is we
are beginning to make progress. The question is, do we build on
that progress or do we take an enormous risk and go back to the
very same policies, in many cases on steroids, that  Governor
Romney ’s offering that devastated the economy?  GOLDMAN: Well, one of the elements that’s adding
uncertainty to the economy right now is the fiscal cliff, and
the president has suggested that if Republicans insist on
keeping high income taxes, that he’s going to hold the line,
even if that means going over the fiscal cliff. And Republicans
are saying, well, that’s a bluff, the president has caved before
on fiscal and debt issues.  PLOUFFE: Well, these - obviously, these discussions will
intensify after the election. So I don’t want to get ahead of
them. But I do think that the president’s view is, we’ve - all
the numbers have been run. You know, we know the choices in
front of us. And if people here in  Washington  are willing to
have two, I think, items - compromise, if you’re willing to
compromise, and you’re willing to adopt a balanced approach, you
know, cutting spending, as well as asking those at the top to do
a little bit more, we can not only solve our fiscal challenges
for a long period of time, but that will also help our economy
grow.  And, you know, we think that, at the end of the day, these
things are never easy, but, you know, the attention is quickly
going to turn from the election to these fiscal challenges that
are facing us, immediately probably, as soon as, you know, in
another - another couple weeks.  GOLDMAN: Well, before - until then, the final days of the
campaign, what is your central charge against Mitt Romney, is
that he’s a rigid conservative ideologue or that he’s a serial
flip-flopper? Because both can’t really be true.  PLOUFFE: Well, I think - I think our view is he’s trying to
be dishonest about what he intends to do as president. So he’s
not switching positions; he’s trying to hide them. But the core
argument against him is, his economic ideas are the same ones
that led to the recession. They will harm the middle class. They
won’t help our economy grow. So if you’re - if you’re someone
who’s concerned about economic growth, if you’re concerned about
an economy that the middle class is front-and-center, then Mitt
Romney is a disastrous choice.  Now, on social issues, it’s true. On women’s health care
issues, you know, Mitt Romney said he would get rid of  Planned
Parenthood , appoint Supreme Court justices that would outlaw Roe
v. Wade. These are big consequences. These are the things he’ll
do as president.  So he’s kind of trying to have a masquerade ball here at
the end, but we, I think, have done a good job of saying, this
is what he’ll do.  GOLDMAN: But, David, last year you said he has no core. So
now you’re saying he does?  PLOUFFE: Well, my point is that he is trying to
disingenuously hide his positions. I think his core is known in
terms of what he would do. Economic policy, return to the failed
economic policies. Social policy really out of the 1950s. Cold
War-era foreign policy mindset. So that’s what he’s going to do
as president. He’s trying to hide it now, fudge it, which is a
really remarkable thing this close to an election, like it’s -
treat it like it’s a game. It’s not. This is an election for the
presidency of the  United States . And the American people need to
understand, if Mitt Romney’s elected president, there’s
consequences.  And so as we’re making that clear over the last 10 days,
the other thing we’re going to do is make sure people understand
what President Obama is going to do in a second term to help
this economy grow.  GOLDMAN: David Plouffe, thank you so much for the time.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 