-- Praet Says Monetary Policy Can’t Address Cause of Crisis
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-10-26T09:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/praet-says-monetary-policy-can-t-address-crisis-root-causes.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Peter Praet said  monetary policy  can’t address the
root causes of the current crisis and that abundant liquidity
can create unwanted side effects.  It should be kept in mind that “monetary policy can exert
mitigating effects, but cannot solve the underlying problems,
often of a structural nature,” Praet said at a speech in Milan
today. “In addition, the creation of abundant liquidity can in
itself create side effects that need to be carefully
monitored.”  The sovereign debt crisis, which erupted in  Greece  about
three years ago, has forced five of 17 euro-area countries into
seeking bailouts and eroded investor confidence in the monetary
union. ECB President  Mario Draghi  in August unveiled a plan to
buy  government bonds  to quash speculation of a euro breakup. The
German Bundesbank opposes the plan, saying it is tantamount to
financing governments.  The program, dubbed Outright Monetary Transactions,
addresses “severe distortions in government bond markets which
in particular originate in unfounded fears on the part of
investors of the reversibility of the euro,” Praet said. It
also aims “to safeguard the monetary policy transmission
mechanism in all countries of the euro area, thereby preserving
the singleness of the ECB’s monetary policy.”  Long-Term Loans  Referring to the ECB’s long-term refinancing operations,
Praet said “there are indications” that they “have proven
effective in preventing an abrupt deleveraging” in the
financial sector.  The ECB pumped more than a trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
into the region’s banks via two three-year LTROs over the past
year in an effort to unfreeze interbank lending and restart
economic growth. “They significantly helped in restoring
confidence in financial markets,” Praet said.  Turning to plans for a common euro-area banking supervisor
run by the ECB, Praet said it should establish “a common
resolution framework, including a resolution authority at euro-
area level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  