-- Rabobank Says Crop Prices May Gain on South America Delays
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-10-26T15:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/rabobank-says-crop-prices-may-gain-on-south-america-delays-1-.html
Corn and soybean prices may rebound
on South American planting delays, Rabobank International said.  Seeding has slowed because of a late start to the wet
season in northern Brazil and excess rain in southern Brazil and
 Argentina , analysts Erin FitzPatrick and Nick Higgins said today
in an e-mailed report. Corn and soybean prices may reach record
highs in a “worst case scenario,” they said. U.S. Department
of Agriculture production forecasts for South America are too
high, according to the report.  Corn has dropped 12 percent since U.S. drought concerns
sent prices to a record $8.49 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade in August. Soybeans are down 13 percent from a record
$17.89 a bushel in September.  “We believe current prices do not reflect the production
risks,” FitzPatrick and Higgins said. “Although we believe
there is still potential for USDA’s optimistic production
estimates for South America to be realized, it will require an
improvement in South America’s weather conditions to near
perfect.”  Brazil  may produce 79.8 million metric tons of soybeans
this season, 20 percent more than last year when crops were
damaged by drought, FitzPatrick and Higgins said. The USDA,
which expects Brazil to overtake the U.S. as the world’s biggest
soybean grower, has pegged the country’s crop at 81 million
tons. Rabobank estimates Argentina’s soybean harvest at 54.6
million tons, less than USDA’s forecast at 55 million tons.  Soybean Estimates  Farmers in Brazil may harvest soybeans on 26.9 million
hectares (66.5 million acres), Rabobank said. Twenty percent of
the country’s crop has been planted. While the bank forecasts
yields at 2.9 tons per hectare “without improved precipitation
in coming weeks, further yield downgrades will be needed,”
FitzPatrick and Higgins said. Argentina may harvest 19.5 million
hectares with yields of 2.8 tons a hectare, they said.  “Considerable uncertainty remains as soybean plantings
have barely started in Argentina, and excess moisture has
delayed corn plantings which could result in further acreage
increases for soybeans,” FitzPatrick and Higgins said.
“However, if precipitation continues above average levels,
there may be downward revisions to total row crop area.”  Corn production may total 73.3 million tons in Brazil and
25 million tons in Argentina, they said. That compares with USDA
estimates of 70 million tons for Brazil, the third-biggest
exporter, and 28 million tons for Argentina, the second-largest.  ‘Worst Case’  If weather deteriorates, combined soybean output in Brazil
and Argentina may total only 120 million tons while corn
production in the two countries may slide to 88 million tons,
Rabobank said. “Worst case production” may boost corn prices
by 90 cents a bushel and boost soybeans by $2 a bushel,
according to the report. Corn for December delivery was at
$7.435 a bushel today on the CBOT and January-delivery soybeans
were at $15.60 a bushel.  “Given it is still planting season in South America, there
remains time for crop expectations to improve,” FitzPatrick and
Higgins said. “However, because of already high price levels
due to reduced U.S. supplies, if South America’s output does not
increase year over year as forecast, our price scenarios are for
CBOT corn and CBOT soybean prices of record levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  