-- RBC, SocGen Said to Be Among Banks Subpoenaed in Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-26T16:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/rbc-socgen-said-to-be-among-banks-subpoenaed-in-probe.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Royal Bank of
Canada , and  Bank of America Corp.  are among nine additional
banks subpoenaed in a multistate investigation of alleged
manipulation of Libor, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  The subpoenas, issued by  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman starting in August, bring to 16 the number of banks
subpoenaed in the states’ investigation, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because there wasn’t authorization to
speak publicly.  Schneiderman and Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen
have been jointly investigating claims that banks rigged the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a worldwide benchmark
for borrowing. The same person said in August that seven banks
were subpoenaed in their investigation, including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   The probe is now “a large, well-coordinated multistate
investigation that includes  attorneys general  throughout the
U.S.,” Jaclyn Falkowski, a spokeswoman for the Connecticut
attorney general, said today in an e-mailed statement.  “A primary focus of the multistate investigation is to
identify whether state and municipal issuers with financial
instruments pegged to Libor and other benchmark  interest rates 
have been harmed by the alleged conduct and, if so, to seek
recovery of those taxpayer funds,” Falkowski said, declining
further comment.  Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi has also issued
subpoenas to more than a dozen financial institutions, including
 UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Subpoenaed Banks  Besides  Societe Generale ,  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of
America, the other six banks to receive subpoenas from New York
are:  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) ,  Bank of Tokyo  Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
Norinchukin Bank, Rabobank, Lloyd’s Banking Group Plc, and West
LB AG, a German lender that ceased operations.  Representatives of those banks couldn’t be reached for
comment or declined to comment on the subpoenas.  Lloyd’s has said it’s assisting various regulators in their
investigations into the setting of Libor. Royal Bank of  Canada 
has said it’s cooperating with regulators and found no evidence
of collusion with other banks.  Rabobank said in a report this year that it received
subpoenas and requests for information from regulatory agencies
in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  and is cooperating.  Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  