-- Treasuries Advance on Spain’s Jobless Rise After GDP
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-26T21:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/treasuries-head-for-weekly-loss-before-third-quarter-gdp.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
yields down from almost the highest in five weeks, as a report
showing  Spain ’s  unemployment rate  at a record high raised
concern the region’s debt crisis may worsen.  U.S. debt briefly  pared gains  earlier after a report showed
the  U.S. economy  expanded at a faster-than-forecast 2 percent
annual rate in the third quarter. The Commerce Department report
also showed slower  core inflation , producing positive real 10-
year note yields for the first time since 2011. The  Federal
Reserve  purchased $1.77 billion of longer-term securities as
part of its Operation Twist program to boost economic growth,
according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  “There’s still a flight-to-quality bid being generated by
concern for  Europe ,” said  David Coard , head of fixed-income
trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors. “It’s a roller-coaster ride.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 1.75 percent at 5:10 p.m. in New York
after rising to 1.85 percent yesterday, the highest level since
Sept. 17, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 climbed 22/32, or $6.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 29/32.  Real Yields  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was greater than the
pace of core consumer price increase during the third quarter
for the first time since December as yields exceed consumer
gains by 45 basis points.  Inflation measured by the  personal consumption expenditures
index , a gauge preferred by Fed, rose 1.3 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, less than the central bank’s goal
of 2 percent, according to data from the Commerce Department
today in  Washington .  Negative real yields were in place during the second
quarter when the PCE figure of 1.7 percent exceeded the yield on
the 10-year note of 1.65 percent by five basis points. At the
end of the first quarter, both leveled at 2.2 percent after
inflation picked up. The 10-year note had exceeded inflation by
almost 60 basis points at the end of the fourth quarter 2011.  Another Fed-preferred measure of inflation expectations,
the  five-year, five-year  forward break-even rate was 2.84
percent on Oct. 23, after rising to 2.88 percent last month, the
most since August 2011. The gauge projects the expected pace of
consumer price increases over the five-year period beginning
2017.  Bond Demand  The U.S. expansion has been strong enough to lead investors
to favor corporate bonds over  government securities  as they seek
higher yields.  Treasuries have returned 1.4 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Bonds in an index of
investment-grade and high-yield corporate securities gained 10
percent, the figures show.  The central bank said on Oct. 24 it will maintain its $40
billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities aimed
to cap borrowing costs. “Economic activity has continued to
expand at a moderate pace,” it said in a statement.  The Fed is also swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer-term securities to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. The central bank bought securities due from
November 2022 to February 2031 today, according to the Fed Bank
of New York’s  website .  Economic Pace  Overall gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced in the U.S., rose after climbing 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, Commerce Department figures showed. The
median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 1.8 percent gain.  “It’s a little bit better than expectations,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse
Group AG, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“Consumption was weaker than thought. It’s a mixed bag
altogether.”  Employment and growth are central themes in the campaigns
of President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
before the Nov. 6 elections. Today’s report will be the last
reading on the economy before the vote. A report Nov. 2 is
forecast to show the U.S. added 120,000 jobs, according to
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A separate report is
forecast to show the unemployment rate rose to 7.9 percent, from
7.8 percent.  Spanish unemployment exceeded 25 percent in the third
quarter as a deepening recession left one in four workers
jobless, a government report showed today. Spain’s 10-year bond
yields are set for the biggest weekly increase since August.  The benchmark yield will drop to 1.73 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings. The rate will
rise to 2.33 percent by the close of 2013, the responses show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  