-- Record Cash Sends Europe Travel Stocks to Valuation Jump
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-10-26T07:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/record-cash-sends-europe-travel-stocks-to-valuation-jump.html
Investors are paying the most in
almost 20 months for European travel and leisure stocks, betting
management will return record cash at companies from  Accor SA (AC)  to
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  and Sodexo as dividends.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Travel & Leisure Index climbed 21
percent this year through yesterday. The gains sent its
 valuation  up 24 percent to 1.99 times book value, the biggest
increase among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Travel and leisure companies may return money to investors
after accumulating 16 billion euros ($20.7 billion) in cash and
equivalents. That’s the most since at least 2003, according to
company filings.  Dividend yields  at the firms are forecast to
rise to the highest level since 2008 next year, according to
analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.  “They can sell assets, they can give money back to
shareholders,” Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee
$6 billion at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva, said in a phone
interview. “Hotels have more flexibility to improve their
profitability. Accor has sold actual hotel buildings to focus on
operating the hotels. That allows a company to cut debt and
arrive at a point where it can pay out to investors in the form
of dividends or share buybacks.”  Top Dividends  Investors whipsawed by fluctuating markets have been drawn
to stocks paying the biggest dividends. The  Stoxx Europe Select
Dividend 30 Index (SD3P) , a gauge tracking companies with the top
dividend yields across 18 western European nations, reached its
highest level since March last month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The measure  trades  for 9.71 times estimated earnings, near
the most expensive valuation this year, according to the data.  The Stoxx 600 sank 14 percent from March 16 through June 4
amid concern  Greece  will be forced to leave the euro currency
union. The benchmark gauge for European equities has since
rallied 16 percent as the  European Central Bank  agreed to
implement unlimited bond purchases to control borrowing costs in
the region’s weakest economies.  Travel companies are set to boost dividends faster than
other industries. Yields at companies in the Stoxx travel and
leisure index will climb to 3.8 percent in 2013 from 3.5 percent
this year, while for the broader Stoxx 600 they will advance to
4 percent from 3.9 percent, according to analyst projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  European  travel and leisure shares  slipped 0.3 percent at
8:52 a.m. in  London  today, while the Stoxx 600 lost 0.6 percent.  Accor Debt  Accor, Europe’s largest hotel operator, said on Oct. 2 it
will cut debt by 780 million euros after selling the Motel 6
chain for $1.9 billion. The shares rose 21 percent in 2012
through yesterday and touched a one-year high in August. The
Paris-based company will  increase  its regular annual dividend to
68 euro cents next year from 65 cents in 2012, Bloomberg
forecasts that account for earnings and options prices indicate.  InterContinental, the world’s biggest provider of hotel
rooms, has gained 25 percent this year. In August, the stock
reached the highest price since it started trading in London in
2003 after announcing a plan to return $1 billion to
shareholders through a special dividend and share buyback.  The Denham, England-based company said this week that U.S.
revenue per available room, a measure of rates and occupancy
known as revpar, grew 4.6 percent in the third quarter.  Sodexo Yields  Sodexo (SW) , the second-largest provider of catering services,
will raise dividends the most among Europe’s travel and leisure
stocks, Bloomberg data show. Payout yields at the Issy-les-
Moulineaux, France-based company will climb to 2.7 percent in
the next 12 months from 2.4 percent, according to Bloomberg
dividend forecasts.  The Stoxx travel and leisure index’s  valuation  retreated 22
percent last year, the fourth-largest drop among Europe’s 19
industry groups and more than the 14 percent drop in the Stoxx
600’s price-to-book ratio, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Valuations were very low, to the point of being not
logical,” Emmanuel Soupre, a fund manager who helps manage $5.5
billion at Neuflize Private Assets in Paris, said in a phone
interview. “These stocks were really hurt by the crisis.”  Analysts have  increased  their full-year profit forecasts
for travel and leisure companies. Earnings-per-share projections
rose 3.1 percent since the Sept. 14 low to 7.99 euros a share
excluding some items yesterday, according to estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Outdated’ Airlines  While hotel and leisure companies may be attractive,
investors should avoid airlines and their “outdated” business
models, said Matthieu Giuliani of Banque Palatine SA. Carriers
faced the highest  premiums  for  jet fuel  since 2008 in Europe and
 Asia  last month, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said last month its cost-cutting
program won’t be sufficient to deliver an improvement in
earnings this year. Europe’s second-biggest airline is offering
buyout and early retirement packages to employees at its main
base in  Frankfurt  as part of the carrier’s 1.5 billion-euro
savings drive.  “The models of airline companies, other than low-cost, are
outdated,” Giuliani, who helps manage $4 billion at Banque
Palatine in Paris, said in a phone interview. “ Oil prices  are
expensive and competition makes things very complicated. It’s
becoming difficult for them.”  For Jacques Porta, who helps manage $627 million at Ofi
Patrimoine in Paris, travel companies will continue to gain
faster than the broader market if investors believe the ECB’s
actions are controlling the debt crisis.  “It’s a sector that can rise or fall quickly,” Porta said
by phone. “If the efforts of central banks don’t work, this
industry can suffer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  