-- Reliance Steel Looking to Buy Bigger Targets, CEO Says
-- B y   L y d i a   M u l v a n y
-- 2012-10-26T23:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/reliance-steel-looking-to-acquire-bigger-targets-ceo-says.html
(Corrects location in eighth paragraph.)  Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co. (RS) , the
largest U.S. metals-servicing center company, said it was
looking to increase the size of its acquisitions to $500 million
or more to expand its business in  North America .  Reliance has an $800 million revolving  credit line  that can
be used to fund acquisitions, which may bring an additional $2
billion of revenue, David Hannah, chief executive officer of the
Los Angeles-based company, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. Acquisitions have accounted for 85 percent of the
company’s growth since it went public in 1994, he said.  “It’s more meaningful to our operations and our numbers if
we can add 20 cents or 50 cents to earnings per share, as
opposed to something that adds 2 or 3 cents,” Hannah said.  The company made  six  deals this year that will collectively
bring in around $200 million in revenue, Hannah said. It will
continue to buy smaller companies of $50 million to $200 million
in revenue, as they comprise a large part of the industry, he
said.  Reliance made two deals of around $1 billion each in 2006
and 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Metals-servicing centers process and distribute metals.
Reliance’s largest market is non-residential construction, which
hasn’t recovered since the financial crisis four years ago,
Hannah said. Other markets such as the auto, aerospace and
energy industries are seeing growing volumes and spurred 400 new
hires this year, Hannah said.  Acquisition Targets  Hannah declined to say what Reliance’s next acquisitions
targets were.  “Reliance has shown an ability in the past to consolidate
the distribution space and to remove costs and improve inventory
returns at those acquisitions,” Arun Viswanathan, an analyst at
Longbow Research in New York, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  A.M. Castle & Co. (CAS) , a metals-processing company with
revenues of $1.13 billion last year, may be a target for
Reliance, Viswanathan said  “A.M. Castle with its aerospace mix would make sense for
them,” Viswanathan said. “If you talk to Reliance about them,
they know everything, so they’re probably looking at that one.”  The biggest challenge this year for metals-service centers
was volatile steel prices, Hannah said.  “You just don’t see long periods of time anymore where
prices continually go up and down,” he said.  Steel imports rose in the U.S. as other large economies
like Europe and  China  falter in comparison, Hannah said, which
hurt mill suppliers and devalued inventories in the service-
center industry.  Reliance rose 0.3 percent to $54.93 at the close in  New
York . The shares have risen 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lydia Mulvany in New York at 
 lmulvany1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  