-- Rich Choose ETF Over Buffett’s Berkshire in Indexing Gain
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/rich-choose-etf-over-buffett-s-berkshire-in-indexing-gain.html
U.S. millionaires would rather match 
the stock market through an exchange-traded index fund than try 
to beat it using higher-fee hedge funds or billionaire Warren 
Buffett’s holding company  Berkshire (BRK/A)  Hathaway Inc.  The  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY)  surged to the No. 2 stock pick
in an annual survey of the Tiger 21 investing network’s members
scheduled to be released today. The security, which tracks the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and is offered by Boston-based  State
Street Corp. (STT) , followed No. 1-ranked Apple Inc. and beat No. 3
Berkshire Hathaway after failing to make the top 10 last year.  “Individual stock-picking is shrinking a little bit,”
Michael Sonnenfeldt, founder and chairman of New York-based
Tiger 21, said in an interview. “If you want public-equity
exposure it’s dramatically cheaper and generally more effective
to do it through ETFs.”  Index and exchange-traded funds as a group were a more
popular vehicle than equity  hedge funds  and mutual funds at
 Tiger 21 , a peer group of 202 entrepreneurs, inventors and
executives who each have at least $10 million in investable
assets and collectively manage $19 billion. Twenty-three percent
of members said the generally passive securities, which offer
low fees while sacrificing the chance to outperform benchmarks,
are their preferred way of equity investing, compared with 19
percent in 2011.  Hedge funds  fell to 21 percent from 27 percent.  Individual stock picking, still the No. 1 method for
participating in equity markets, dropped 7 percentage points to
43 percent. Mutual funds were favored by 13 percent.  Real Estate  Most of Tiger 21’s members have created their own wealth
rather than inheriting it, Sonnenfeldt said. Members meet
monthly across the U.S. and  Canada  to share investing ideas, and
they pay annual membership fees of $30,000.  A typical member has 23 percent of assets in real estate,
22 percent in stocks, 15 percent in private equity, 13 percent
each in fixed income and cash, 10 percent in hedge funds and 1
percent in commodities, according to the survey.  “Members have crept, crawled and walked back to the kinds
of investment portfolios they had before 2008,” Sonnenfeldt
said. “They still are holding high levels of cash but the other
areas such as gold and commodities -- that were seen as safety
valves for the unexpected -- people have been giving up a bit.”  The shift toward ETFs and index funds shows that members
see the market stabilizing and acting more normal, Sonnenfeldt
said. ETFs are usually linked to indexes and trade like stocks.  Lower Fees  U.S.-domiciled ETFs returned 7.4 percent on average this
year through Sept. 30, according to Chicago-based researcher
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  They charge an average 0.6 percent annual fee
compared with 1.2 percent for the typical mutual fund,
Morningstar data show.  Assets in the SPDR S&P 500 ETF totaled $108 billion as of
Oct. 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ETF rose
 14 percent  this year through yesterday, including dividends,
almost identical to the S&P 500 Index, Bloomberg data show.  “For most Tiger 21 members the SPDR ETF is an easy access
to the broad market exposure,” said Greg Rogers, a member of
the group since 2005, and founder and managing partner of
Greenwich, Connecticut-based RayLign Advisory LLC. Rogers, who
has 15 percent of his assets in ETFs, doesn’t own the SPDR S&P
500. The 46-year-old uses the securities for access to markets
such as emerging economies.  The disappointing performance of some alternative
strategies in the past five years has turned members’ attention
to investments that are more liquid, easier to understand and
transparent, Rogers said in an interview. He’s reduced his
holdings in long-short equity hedge funds since the financial
crisis, and now has about 15 percent to 20 percent of his assets
allocated to them.  Apple Adoration  Apple (AAPL)  was the top stock pick for the second straight year.
Shares of the Cupertino, California-based company gained 51
percent in 2012.  “It’s one of the few situations where people get to use a
company’s products every day and see the most extraordinary
momentum of a company in our lifetime,” Sonnenfeldt said of
Apple. At least three-quarters of Tiger 21 members have iPhones
and most have iPads.  Shares of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, the
millionaires’ No. 1 stock pick two years ago, gained 14 percent
this year. The stock  trailed  the advance of the S&P 500 Index in
five of the past 10 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Core Positions  Berkshire surged in its first 25 years under Buffett as the
investor transformed a textile maker into an insurer and placed
winning bets on stocks such as Capital Cities/ABC Inc. and  Coca-
Cola Co. (KO)  Growth slowed in the last 15 years as the billionaire
directed the company’s earnings toward takeovers in industries
such as  machine tools , power production and railroads.  “We like the structure of ETFs with the low cost and tax
efficiency,” said  Greg Peterson , director of investment
research at Ballentine Partners LLC, based in Waltham,
 Massachusetts . The multifamily office, whose clients usually
have a net worth of $50 million to $150 million, has used ETFs
such as the  Vanguard S&P 500 ETF (VOO)  and the  Vanguard MSCI Emerging
Markets ETF (VWO)  to build core positions in markets and replaced many
active mutual funds with them.  The biggest change in Tiger 21 members’ asset allocation
was in private equity, which rose to a record 15 percent from 10
percent in 2011, Sonnenfeldt said. Much of the growth was via
direct investments in startups, private companies or personal
businesses rather than through funds, he said.  Golub, Elliott  A separate study released Oct. 18 by the  Wharton Global
Family Alliance , a unit of the  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School, found that so-called single-family offices also
increased their direct allocations to private companies and real
estate. The firms, which generally manage the financial affairs
of one family clan with at least $100 million, reported an
average 11 percent of their holdings in direct investments last
year compared with 6 percent in 2009.  Tiger 21’s survey was based on responses from 74 members
collected in May, June and July.  Members listed New York-based  Golub Capital Inc. , which
specializes in debt-oriented investments, and Elliott Management
Corp., the New York-based hedge fund founded by billionaire  Paul Singer , as two of their favorite investment managers. Both firms
have been among the top-ranked since the survey started.  Investors looking at ETFs should be aware that not all of
them track well-defined, diversified indexes, and they should
research how each security is structured before buying, said
Peterson of Ballentine Partners.  “There’s a lot of strange ducks out there so you have to
be careful,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  