-- TSA to Test Private Vendor to Help Speed U.S. Airport Checks
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-10-26T20:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/tsa-to-test-private-vendor-to-help-speed-u-s-airport-checks-1-.html
The U.S. Transportation Security
Administration plans to test using a private vendor next year to
expand its expedited-security program at airports, Administrator
 John Pistole  said.  Consumers who aren’t part of an airline frequent-flier
program would be able to pay a vendor a fee to undergo a
security check based on criteria set by the agency, Pistole said
in an interview. The company would notify TSA who gets approved,
and applicants who pass a second review by the agency would be
admitted to the PreCheck program, he said.  “Taxpayers aren’t paying, footing the bill on this, and
that’s the beauty of it,” Pistole said in the interview in  New
Orleans , where he addressed the American Bar Association
Aviation Law Forum. “It’s really recognizing the strength of
private industry to provide a solution that helps a government
function.”  The pilot program may help TSA rapidly expand the number of
people who can use PreCheck, a key component of Pistole’s
strategy to move the agency toward risk-based security instead
of treating all travelers the same.  PreCheck participants can keep their shoes, belts and sport
coats on at airport checkpoints, keep their laptops in cases and
and leave toiletries packed in their luggage. The program has
cleared more than 3 million passengers so far. PreCheck lines
are available at 29 U.S.  airports  through five participating
airlines.  Infrequent Fliers  Still, the 1 million PreCheck screenings a month that
Pistole projects for next year probably will be about 2 percent
of U.S. passengers, far from the 50 percent to 75 percent that
agency officials say they want to move into the speedier lines.  TSA has relied on airlines to nominate PreCheck candidates
from among their best customers. Because not all airlines
participate, and some consider frequent-flier information
secret, a passenger qualifying under one airline can’t use
PreCheck if flying another carrier. Agency officials have said
they don’t have the technical capability now to create a
clearinghouse that might resolve the roadblock.  Under the new approach “you could be an infrequent flier
but still a known, trusted person because of your background,”
Pistole said.  U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, an Alabama Republican who
oversees the agency through his Transportation Security
subcommittee, said earlier this month that the agency needs to
turn to a private-industry partner that can market the program
and create a database of PreCheck fliers.  Standard Procedure  “Taxpayers are already spending billions every year on
TSA,” Rogers said in an e-mail today. “Risk-based screening
should be the standard operating procedure, not an extra cost to
the traveling public.”  Companies that have made unsolicited proposals to expand
PreCheck have told the agency the new approach could add “tens
of millions” of travelers to the program, Pistole said. About
650 million people fly each year.  The TSA wouldn’t need to go through a rulemaking process to
start the program, though it may sign a contract with a company,
Pistole said. “It allows us to provide the most effective
security in the most efficient way,” he said. “You can do this
without years of rulemaking.”  Pistole declined to say which companies have been involved
in discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  