-- Sandusky Scandal Leads Moody’s to Cut Penn State’s Credit Rating
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-26T16:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/sandusky-scandal-leads-moody-s-to-cut-penn-state-s-credit-rating.html
Pennsylvania State University  had
its  credit rating  cut one level by Moody’s Investors Service
because of the “substantial financial impact” of the Jerry Sandusky child sex-abuse scandal.  The downgrade, to Aa2, the third-highest rating, affects
$893 million of debt. On Oct. 15,  Standard & Poor’s  revised its
credit outlook on Penn State to negative. S&P also gives the
university its third-highest rating.  A former Penn State assistant football coach, Sandusky, 68,
was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison Oct. 10 for sexually
abusing children over a 15-year period. Prosecutors said he was
a serial child molester who used a charity he set up called
Second Mile to recruit victims, then plied them with money and
trips to the school’s football games.  The resulting upheaval led to the firings of Penn State
President  Graham Spanier  and Coach  Joe Paterno , who led the
school’s football program for 46 years. Paterno died in January.  While the university has taken action toward settling with
the victims quickly, the number of claims and the final cost may
be significant, Moody’s analysts led by Diane Viacava said in a
statement. Active state and federal investigations hold the
potential for more charges, they said.  The rating has a stable outlook because the victims’ claims
should be manageable at that lower ranking, Moody’s said.  “We expect that Penn State will remain a leading U.S.
public university with favorable student demand, positive
operating performance, high donor support and a strong research
position,” the analysts wrote.  Moody’s said moves to overturn a culture dependent on a few
senior managers with inadequate board oversight are under way,
“but it could take time for the strong internally focused
culture of  Penn State  to fully implement and embrace the
recommendations of best practices.”  A Penn State bond maturing in 2040 traded yesterday to
yield 3 percent, compared with 3.2 percent on July 24, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  