-- Sausage Bonds Meet Trucker Debt as Haven Spreads: Nordic Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-26T08:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/sausage-bonds-meet-trucker-debt-as-haven-spreads-nordic-credit.html
Investor demand for debt sold out of
 Scandinavia  is prompting some of the region’s biggest companies
to issue bonds for the first time.  DSV A/S (DSV) , the biggest Nordic truck company, plans to tap
capital markets in its first ever bond sale, while Danish Crown
A/S, the world’s largest pork exporter, is talking to investors
ahead of its first debt sale in eight years.  DSV plans to sell bonds “within quarters rather than
years,” Chief Executive Officer Jens Bjoern Andersen said in a
phone interview yesterday. The Broendby, Denmark-based company
is “relatively far in the process” of arranging a sale, the
CEO said, declining to comment on the planned amount or on the
identity of its advisors.  Denmark, a European Union member that has opted out of the
euro, has emerged as a haven from the region’s economic crisis
thanks to a debt burden that’s less than half the currency
bloc’s average. While investors initially sought refuge in
Danish  government bonds , appetite has spread to mortgage and
corporate debt, prompting a number of companies to test the
market with new sales.  Denmark’s government pays about 21 basis points less than
 Germany  to borrow over 10 years while its benchmark two-year
note yields only 0.01 percent, or eight basis points less than
bunds. That’s dragged down yields on corporate bonds, with the
yield on Carlsberg Breweries A/S’ 3.375 percent note due 2017,
dropping to 1.77 percent yesterday, compared with 3.48 percent
in the beginning of the year.  ‘New Black’  Thomas Hovard, chief credit analyst at Denmark’s biggest
lender Danske Bank A/S, predicted last month that more Danish
companies will issue bonds, describing the corporate  debt market 
as “the new black.”  Corporate issuance is also being driven by bank
deleveraging, as the financial industry struggles to meet
stricter  capital requirements . Companies are also trying to wean
themselves off bank loans in case lenders cut their credit
supply to address capital or liquidity shortfalls, Hovard said.  Danish banks in September increased rates on new loans to
businesses to the highest in six months, according to central
bank statistics released yesterday. Margins rose to 2.5 percent
from a low of 1.7 percent in July. Banks charged 2.8 percent in
March. Rates on outstanding loans were unchanged from August at
4.3 percent.  Pork Bonds  “We don’t have any problems with our banks, but it’s
always a good idea to be more diversified in the funding,”
Andersen, 46, said. “The advantage of bonds is that the funding
runs a longer time. So we would get longer money and also
presumably cheaper money, because we wouldn’t do this if it
wasn’t helpful to the company.”  Danish non-financial companies have sold bonds for 33.6
billion kroner ($5.82 billion) so far this year, according to
data compiled by Povl Bak-Jensen, a director at the debt  capital
markets  unit of Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. That compares with
18.3 billion kroner in all of 2011.  Danish Crown said last month it plans to issue its first
krone bond since 2004. The Randers, Denmark-based company said
today investors showed “large” interest in the note, which
will be listed on Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen’s new exchange for
company debt, the First North Bond Market. Danish Crown will
raise as much as 750 million kroner, it said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s biggest shipping line,
said in May it will accelerate bond sales after the Copenhagen-
based company sold 750 million euros ($973 million) of debt on
Aug. 21.  ‘We’re Comfortable’  DSV, founded by 10 truckers in 1976, has expanded through
acquisitions to become  Denmark ’s fifth-biggest listed company by
revenue. Its debt  peaked  at 9.54 billion kroner at the end of
2008, when it bought Brussels-based ABX Logistics Worldwide SA,
its second-largest purchase to date. The company said yesterday
it had net debt of 6.48 billion kroner at the end of September,
down 3.5 percent from three months earlier.  “We’re comfortable with our debt,” Andersen said.  DSV said Oct. 1 it agreed to buy Dubai-based Swift Freight
for an undisclosed amount to boost its presence in  Africa .
Andersen said that DSV will accelerate acquisitions over the
next year as takeover targets become more affordable.  “We’re looking at medium and small-sized targets, so we
will probably be able to finance the acquisitions with
operational income,” Andersen said. “We don’t expect to depend
on going to the markets for acquisition funding.”  Takeover Plans  DSV is mainly looking for acquisitions for its air and sea
freight division and Andersen favors geographical markets
“everywhere besides  Europe ,” with  South America  topping the
list, he said.  DSV yesterday reported third-quarter net income of 435
million kroner, beating the average estimate of 412 million
kroner in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts. The company had
cash of 429 million kroner at the end of September compared with
405 million kroner a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  