-- BBC Faces Lawsuits by TV Star’s Alleged Sex-Abuse Victims
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-26T15:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/savile-s-alleged-victims-seek-redress-after-years-of-disbelief.html
The British Broadcasting Corp. may
be weighed down for years by a wave of civil lawsuits and
reputational damage resulting from allegations of decades of
sexual abuse of children by former television star Jimmy Savile.  London  police are probing allegations that Savile, who died
last year at the age of 84, may have abused more than 300 people
as early as 1959. Claims may reach the BBC’s highest ranks if
there was a cover-up to save its reputation, said Mark Burden, a
liability insurance director at Prime Professions Ltd.  “If there’s some systemic issue about the way the
institution was being run, obviously the directors or officers
who were there at the time could be held accountable,” Burden
said in London. “From a reputational point of view, you just
don’t know how that’s going to affect the business going
forward. It could have significant consequences.”  The  BBC , the world’s largest public broadcaster, is running
internal probes and cooperating with police and lawmakers
investigating the incidents. It seeks to avoid the type of
damage that befell  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publisher after civil
lawsuits revealed that a phone-hacking conspiracy, with hundreds
of victims, had been covered up for years by executives.  Savile’s alleged victims “deserve their day in court,”
said  Liz Dux , a lawyer at Russell Jones & Walker Solicitors, who
is representing at least 10 people. Many of the potential
claimants have said they told people years earlier about the
abuse and “weren’t believed,” Dux said.  ‘Somewhat Robbed’  “The victims feel somewhat robbed, because he obviously
cannot be prosecuted and cannot give evidence -- he’s not there
to suffer the repercussions,” Dux said of Savile.  Previous attempts to investigate Savile failed. A woman
called the Metropolitan Police in 2003 claiming Savile touched
her inappropriately in the 1970s, though she didn’t file a
complaint, Commander Peter Spindler said yesterday. Prosecutors
who reviewed similar claims in 2007 didn’t press charges.  The scandal was brought to light in a documentary by
broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  this month that featured several women
accusing the host of BBC’s “Top of the Pops” music show of
sexual abuse when they were teens. Savile, who was knighted in
1990, also fronted “Jim’ll Fix It,” which granted children’s
wishes, such as meeting celebrities.  Savile retained his popularity in Britain after the shows
ended, using his fame to promote charity work that gave him
access to children. A friend of Prince Charles who stayed at
 Margaret Thatcher ’s country home when she was prime minister,
Savile died a year ago this month, two days before his 85th
birthday. The Guardian newspaper’s obituary described him as the
“eccentric king of children’s TV.”  TV Star  The BBC will probably be sued for negligence in failing to
stop the TV star and may be forced to pay “hundreds of
thousands of pounds” to each victim, said  David Foster , a
lawyer with Barlow Robbins LLP in Guildford,  England , who isn’t
involved in the cases.  “Proof will be an issue so long after the incidents have
happened, so it won’t be easy for people to bring claims,”
Foster said. Once filed, what “the  BBC  will try to say is ‘This
chap was on a frolic of his own,’ and they couldn’t have done
anything about it.”  In sex-abuse cases involving children, it’s common for
victims to come forward only after years of silence, sometimes
decades, said Alicia Alinia, a lawyer working with Dux. Many
victims would have been “acutely aware” of Savile’s popularity
and standing as a “national treasure,” she said.  Psychological Barrier  “Unlike most civil claims, there is something quite
different about someone who has been sexually abused -- it’s not
about compensation,” Alinia said in an interview. “There’s a
psychological barrier for most of these people, who’ve
experienced deep trauma,” and it’s more difficult “when you
think you’re the only one.”  The cases could involve claims of negligence and so-called
vicarious liability, where the BBC would be accused in place of
Savile for acts of negligence that caused harm, Alinia said. At
issue will be who knew or ought to have known about
circumstances that led to someone being hurt, she said.  One of the BBC’s internal inquiries involves the role of
executives such as former Director General  Mark Thompson , who is
scheduled to start as  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s chief executive
officer next month, in canceling a BBC “Newsnight”
investigative program into the Savile allegations last year.  Entwistle Testimony  Thompson’s successor, George Entwistle, told lawmakers this
week that he failed to ask any questions after being warned
Savile was the subject of the Newsnight probe that could
interfere with tribute programs following the star’s death,
saying he didn’t think it would be appropriate to interfere.  “Our main concern has to be for the victims of abuse and
worse -- men as well as women, but mostly women -- who’ve been
marooned for years trying to tell their stories and not being
believed, including, it seems, to the BBC,” BBC Trust Chairman
 Chris Patten  said in an interview yesterday on the BBC Radio 4’s
“Today” program. “Secondly, we have to deal with the
incredible damage to the reputation of the BBC.”  BBC Trust spokeswoman Hannah Murdoch declined to comment on
potential suits, saying it may conflict with the internal
investigations.  Potential lawsuits may also target institutions where
Savile allegedly gained access to victims, including Leeds Royal
Infirmary, Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Broadmore psychiatric
hospital and a children’s home that can’t be identified for
legal reasons, Dux said.  Claims Deadline  Lisa Potter, a spokeswoman for the  National Health Service ,
which runs U.K. health-care institutions, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Under U.K. law, victims of child abuse must file civil
claims within three years of turning 18. Since that deadline has
expired for many victims, those who sue will need to seek court
permission, and that may be difficult since Savile can’t defend
himself, Dux said.  Dux hasn’t filed a lawsuit yet and said the timing of any
litigation may depend on the police probe and whether it
uncovers more victims.  Police in Surrey, England, probed claims in 2007 that the
TV star abused a girl at a children’s home in the 1970s, and
sent a file of evidence to the  Crown Prosecution Service  in
2009, the agency said in a statement on Oct. 22. CPS said it
dropped the cases without charges due to insufficient evidence.  The BBC appointed former Court of Appeal Judge Janet Smith
and former  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  journalist Nick
Pollard to head investigations related to Savile, who worked at
the BBC for more than 30 years.  Hacking Settlements  News Corp. has paid more than $315 million in legal fees
and costs associated with closing the News of the World tabloid,
where phone hacking took place, and to settle a wave of lawsuits
by victims. A second round of more than 150 cases is scheduled
for trial in June.  While it’s easy to compare the BBC scandal to the one at
New York-based News Corp., the BBC has a better reputation and
great trust from the public, Foster said.  At News Corp., “most people think there was a rotten
culture,” Foster said. “In the Savile incident, it seems to be
one rather odd bloke who was able to get away with a lot as a
result of his persona.”  That would change if there’s evidence the abuse was covered
up, Foster said.  Savile “had a predatory nature and he sought out very
vulnerable children,” Alinia said. More victims and potential
witnesses are coming forward “on a day to day basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  