-- Scene in D.C.: Gergiev in Exchange, Twitter on Runway
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-26T15:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/scene-in-d-c-gergiev-in-exchange-twitter-on-runway.html
The  Library of Congress  looked like
a scene from “Doctor Zhivago” last night.  Professional skaters glided to Tchaikovsky on a specially
designed rink surrounded by a wintry forest. Lighting effects
included snowflakes floating from the neoclassical dome.  The evening was hosted by the  Initiative for Russian
Culture  at American University and the  Mariinsky Foundation .  The IRC is in its second year fostering educational and
cultural exchanges between young Americans and Russians.  Most of the guests were college students from East Coast
universities that have participated in the program.  “A mighty American culture and a mighty Russian culture
are destined to go on,” said Mariinsky Theatre Artistic
Director Valery Gergiev.  He joined Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak for a
discussion on the role of the arts in international relations
after a beef stroganoff supper.  Kislyak made the observation that art and music are those
rare things that “don’t require translation.”  After the talk, guests walked into the winter wonderland
where snowflake coconut cake and swan-shaped pastries were
served with gelato and Russian black tea.  Other guests included Susan Lehrman, the chairman of the
IRC’s advisory committee, and Bay Fang, deputy assistant
secretary for the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs.  Chic Geeks  Claire Diaz-Ortiz, the social-innovation manager for
Twitter Inc., posted a tweet Wednesday night:  “I am now about to watch my boss walk down the runway. At
a fashion show. My male boss. The end.”  The boss in question was Adam Sharp, Twitter’s head of
government, news and social innovation and one of many techies
in the annual Geek 2 Chic fashion show.  Before strutting down the runway at Bloomingdale’s in  Chevy
Chase ,  Maryland , Sharp and Adam Conner, manager of public policy
for  Facebook Inc. (FB) , typed furiously on their mobile devices to
update friends and followers.  Organized by Mark Drapeau, who is with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
office of civic innovation, Geek 2 Chic raises money for civic
causes, including the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship,
which helps young people start businesses.  In addition to ticket sales, the Network was supported by
Bloomingdale’s extended shopping hours. The store gave 10
percent back to the organization.  The night had a young vibe. The models were mostly in their
20s and 30s. The audience consisted of mainly female admirers.  James Bond  A DJ played ’90s hits and  James Bond  theme songs.  Drapeau was joined by Microsoft colleague Ashish Jaiman, a
casual dresser instantly transformed by a camel cashmere coat.  Menswear from the likes of  Ralph Lauren , Turnbull & Asser
and John Varvatos gave a dash of elegance to Jason Harris
Tepperman, director of the Department of Treasury’s small-
business-lending fund, and Sergio Rodriguera, Jr., who is
with the House Financial Services Committee.  Eric Schulze, a biologist from the  Food and Drug
Administration  walked the runway in glasses and bowtie while his
iPad showed a cover photo of his hero, Carl Sagan.  Other participants included young venture capitalists like
Jonathon Perrelli, managing director of  Fortify.VC , and teenage
entrepreneurs like Jordan Brooks. Brooks, a recent high-school
graduate, won the Network’s Greater  Washington  Region’s Winter
Youth Entrepreneurship Challenge earlier this year.  The 18-year-old looked debonair in a Hugo Boss tuxedo with
pink pocket square.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine , Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 