-- Serbia Adopts Law Enabling Postanska Bank to Take Over Agrobanka
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-26T17:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/serbia-adopts-law-enabling-postanska-bank-to-take-over-agrobanka.html
Serbia  adopted a law on merging
state-owned banks, enabling  Postanska Stedionica Banka AD (PSBN)  to
absorb Nova Agrobanka, a bridge bank formed following the
collapse of Agrobanka AD.  Lawmakers approved the bill today, which Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic , speaking today in parliament, said may have only
one application, to transfer what’s left of the troubled bank to
state-controlled Postanska Stedionica. The government said it
consulted the  International Monetary Fund  in drafting the bill.  The transaction will expand Postanska’s assets to more than
1 billion euros ($1.29 billion) and add some 250,000 clients of
Nova Agrobanka, along with the transfer of assets. The bridge
bank was formed in May as a temporary solution after the
authorities put Agrobanka in receivership because a regulator
had found its capital didn’t match the risk it had assumed.  The government held a 20 percent stake in Agrobanka, and
smaller, private shareholders have warned they would take legal
action against Serbia to protect their investment, seen at 70
million euros.  The minority shareholders “have nothing to lose with this
law, because they lost already” when owners failed to replace
Agrobanka managers who let the rate of non-performing loans
reach 80 percent, Dinkic said.  He proposed a similar solution for the troubled  Razvojna
Banka Vojvodine AD (MTBN)  where non-performing loans stand at 75
percent.  The authorities of the northern Vojvodina province, which
control the Novi Sad-based Razvojna Banka, decided to inject
capital in the bank to try to save it. Vojvodina’s own
parliament voted late yesterday in favor of organizing the
province’s first bond issue to raise 15 billion dinars ($170
million) needed for the capital increase. Dinkic said they were
making a “grave mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Misha Savic in Belgrade
at   msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  