-- Romney’s Testimony, Simpson, Reed Smith: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-26T10:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/simpson-thacher-alston-reed-smith-business-of-law.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , as a board member of Staples Inc., voted to set a
low price on the stock and create a new class of shares as a
“favor” to its co-founder who was involved in a divorce.  Romney, in testimony in 1991 in the divorce case of Staples
co-founder Tom Stemberg, said the special class of Staple shares
was created because Stemberg “needed a settlement with his
wife.”  The testimony, made public yesterday, deals with the
investment in Staples by  Bain Capital LLC , the private-equity
firm Romney co-founded. He addressed the valuation of the
company, the value of the stock Stemberg’s wife received in the
divorce settlement, and the business relationship between the
two men.  The testimony was released by  Massachusetts  Probate Judge
Jennifer Ulwick after a hearing in which Stemberg’s ex-wife
urged its disclosure, initially requested by the  Boston  Globe.
At a hearing in Canton, the judge said that while Romney’s
testimony would be released, a confidentiality agreement between
the ex-spouses remains in effect.  Gloria Allred , a women’s rights lawyer, appeared in court
with Stemberg’s ex-wife, Maureen Sullivan Stemberg, and said she
was backing a request by the Globe to unseal the documents.  Asked for comment, Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the
Romney campaign, referred to a statement from Romney’s lawyer,
 Robert Jones , lawyer with Ropes & Gray LLP in Boston.  “These tabloid charges being shopped by Gloria Allred, one
of President Obama’s most prominent supporters, are absolutely
false,” Jones said yesterday in the statement. “Every time a
court has reviewed the allegations of her client over the past
24 years, they have been rejected. There is no new information
here.”  At the Republican national convention, Tom Stemberg, 63,
spoke on behalf of Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts,
who was given his party’s nomination for president in the Nov. 6
election against President  Barack Obama .  Tom Stemberg’s lawyer, Brian Leary, told the judge
yesterday that Romney’s statements were a “primer” on Staples’
early development. Lisa Arrowood, a lawyer for Staples, said the
company didn’t oppose the release of Romney’s testimony.  Allred opposed a confidentiality order that was left in
place, telling the judge she wants her client to be able to talk
about Romney’s testimony.  “She needs to be able to speak,” Allred said. “She
apparently is the only person in the U.S., maybe in the world,
who cannot speak about Governor Romney.”  The judge said Margaret Sullivan Stemberg could file a new
motion to modify the gag order in the case. Allred said it was
“the most comprehensive gag order I have ever seen in my 36
years of practicing law.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Simpson Thacher Advises McKesson on PSS World Medical Deal  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised  McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the
largest U.S. drug distributor, on its agreement to buy  PSS World
Medical Inc. (PSSI)  for about $2.1 billion to expand in providing
medical supplies and services. Alston & Bird LLP represented PSS
World.  Mergers and acquisitions partners Rob Spatt and Eric Swedenburg are leading the Simpson Thacher team. Additional
partners include Joseph Kaufman and Joyce Xu,  capital markets ;
David Rubinsky, executive compensation and employee benefits;
Nancy Mehlman, tax; and Peter Thomas, regulatory.  The Alston & Bird team was led by corporate head David E. Brown Jr. and former Health Care head Steven L. Pottle, and
included health care mergers and acquisitions partner Sarah E.
Ernst, health care and FDA regulatory partners Dawnmarie R.
Matlock and Marc J. Scheineson, benefits partners John B.
Shannon and Blake C. MacKay, and antitrust counsel Valarie C.
Williams. PSS World’s general counsel is Joshua DeRienzis.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , financial adviser to PSS World. The Cleary
Gottlieb corporate team includes New York partner Ethan Klingsberg and associate Ritu Narula.  The $29-a-share agreement to purchase the Jacksonville,
Florida-based company also includes the assumption of PSS
World’s debt, San Francisco-based McKesson said in a statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Reed Smith Starts Emergency Relief and Injunction Team  Reed Smith  LLP started a firm-wide emergency relief and
injunction team comprising nine members of the commercial
litigation and disputes practice. Wayne C. Stansfield, a
Philadelphia-based Reed Smith commercial litigation partner,
will head the team.  The member lawyers all have experience prosecuting and
defending litigation in emergency situations. The initial roster
includes Doug Albritton in Chicago, Jesse Miller in  San
Francisco , Michael Garabed in Los Angeles, John McIntyre and
Jayme Butcher in Pittsburgh, Brian Rostocki in Wilmington,
Delaware, Travis Sabalewski in Richmond, Virginia, and David
Kochman in New York.  “Clients who require or face emergency action, such as
injunctions, need a specialized resource because of the unique
nature of these types of matters and the speed at which they
move,” Stansfield said in a statement. “That is why Reed Smith
created this specialized team.”  Lawyers on the team have experience in securing emergency
relief, including situations requiring competitors or former
employees to be enjoined from misappropriating trade secret
information or competing unfairly, preventing tenants from
holding over on leases, or obtaining injunctions to prevent
damage to property.  The team will advise clients across the U.S. on emergency
actions, from initial investigation to resolution. They will
aggressively seek and defend emergency relief, whether in the
form of a temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions
or expedited discovery orders.  Reed Smith has more than 300 commercial litigation and
disputes lawyers in 23 offices. The firm has more than 1,700
lawyers in the U.S., Europe,  Asia  and the  Middle East .  Clifford Chance’s Shipman to Head Asia Corporate Practice  Clifford Chance LLP said Mark Shipman was elected to head
Clifford Chance’s corporate practice in Asia Pacific beginning
in January. He will continue to lead the global funds and
investment management sector.  Roger Denny, who was previously head of the Asia Pacific
corporate practice, steps down after 10 years. He will continue
to be head of mergers and acquisitions for Asia Pacific.  “Our highly talented Asia Pacific Corporate team is
playing key roles in many of today’s most high-profile deals and
I believe the practice will only go from strength to strength
under Mark’s leadership,” Peter Charlton, the regional managing
partner for Asia Pacific, said in a statement.  Shipman joined  Clifford Chance  in 1991 and has been a
partner since 2001. He has been in Asia since 1997.  Shipman has experience advising managers, sponsors and
investors on funds and advises financial institutions on
regulatory matters.  Clifford Chance’s corporate practice has 750 legal advisers
worldwide. The firm has 34 offices in 24 countries with about
3,400 legal advisers.  Moves  Baker & McKenzie Private-Equity Head Jumps to King & Wood  King & Wood Mallesons will hire Mark McNamara next month as
head of private equity. He was previously Baker & McKenzie LLP’s
global head of the private equity practice and the head of its
Australian corporate markets practice, the firm said.  McNamara will lead a team of about 60 partners and lawyers.
His practice includes mergers and acquisitions transactions for
private-equity clients.  “The private equity market in Asia is set to grow,” Tony
O’Malley, King & Wood’s managing partner for Australia, said in
a statement. “With our talent, and our relationships, we are in
a unique position to provide clients with world-class private-
equity expertise and second-to-none access to the go-to lawyers
in this field.”  King & Wood is a Beijing-based firm with 21 offices in
China, the U.S. and Tokyo.  Troutman Sanders Hires Winston & Strawn Partner and Counsel  Troutman Sanders LLP announced the addition of partner
Jeffrey P. Rosenstein and a lawyer as of counsel, both formerly
with Winston & Strawn LLP. They are joining the construction
practice group in New York.  Rosenstein advises construction-industry clients on all
phases of construction projects, including contract negotiation
and drafting and resolution of project disputes.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers in 15 offices
throughout the U.S. and China.  Litigation  Rajaratnam Judges Voice Concern Over U.S. Wiretap Request  Judges hearing the appeal of Galleon Group LLC co-founder
 Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving 11 years in prison for  insider
trading , voiced concern over whether prosecutors improperly won
authority to wiretap his phone calls.  A three-judge panel in Manhattan heard arguments yesterday
over whether to reverse Rajaratnam’s conviction for insider
trading. The central issue is if prosecutors misled the lower
court judge who authorized the wiretaps in 2008 by omitting key
facts from their request for the secret recordings, and if
Rajaratnam’s conviction should be overturned as a result.  “What happens if we agree with you?” U.S. Circuit Judge
Robert Sack asked Rajaratnam’s lawyer, Patricia Ann Millett, a
partner at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, at the start of
the argument. “Does this mean a new trial?” Millett responded
yes.  A second judge, Jose Cabranes, suggested in his questions
that prosecutors had acted properly. The third judge, Susan Carney, asked Millett what the “remedy” would be if the judges
agreed that prosecutors had misled the district court.  The appeals court didn’t rule. A reversal would lead to a
new trial for Rajaratnam where wiretaps wouldn’t be played,
while a decision for the government will keep Rajaratnam behind
bars. He is serving his time at the Federal Medical Center
Devens in Ayers, Massachusetts.  Rajaratnam was convicted of directing the biggest hedge
fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history. At the trial, the
government introduced 45 wiretap recordings, along with
documents and testimony derived from the wiretaps.  During yesterday’s argument, Millett argued that
prosecutors violated federal law by deceiving the judge who
authorized the wiretaps through numerous “misstatements.”
Prosecutors omitted important details about the scope, duration
and methods of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
insider-trading investigation, she said.  “In paragraph after paragraph” of the government’s
wiretap request, “there were statements that had no reality,”
she said. “You cannot ask for a wiretap without showing what
you’ve done.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish defended the U.S.
wiretap request, saying prosecutors didn’t intend to mislead the
lower court judge. If prosecutors had included details of the
SEC investigation and the difficulties then confronting the
agency in gathering evidence against Rajaratnam, the lower court
judge would have been even more likely to authorize the
wiretaps, he said.  “No suppression is warranted,” Fish argued.  Kevin O’Brien , a partner at Harris, O’Brien, St. Laurent &
Houghteling LLP in New York and a former federal prosecutor,
said prosecutors must follow strict disclosure rules before
obtaining approval for a wiretap because wiretaps are so
invasive.  The Rajaratnam appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York); the Gupta
case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-00907, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  