-- Slim Ties $1 Billion Colombia Network Investment to Regulation
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-10-26T21:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/slim-ties-1-billion-colombia-network-investment-to-regulation.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  said his
 America Movil (AMXL)  SAB will spend $1 billion on network investments
in Colombia next year if regulators reverse course and grant the
company access to 4G wireless airwave licenses.  The investment would be an increase from $920 million this
year, Slim,  America Movil ’s controlling shareholder, told
reporters today in Cartagena, Colombia. The  Mexico  City-based
company also plans a $30 million real-estate project around one
of its operational complexes in Bogota, he said.  Colombia’s government is drawing up a plan for an auction
of fourth-generation radio licenses, and an early document
outlining the bidding process excluded America Movil. Lawmakers
and competitors such as  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Empresa de
Telecomunicaciones de Bogota say the company’s 60 percent market
share makes it too dominant and limits competition.  “Excessive regulation inhibits investment in the sector,”
Slim said. “It undermines legal certainty and delays the
possibility of mobile broadband.”  America Movil’s Colombia and Panama division makes up 8.6
percent of revenue and is the company’s third-most profitable
 market  behind Ecuador and Mexico, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The unit recorded a profit margin last year of about
47 percent, leaving out interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  Hajj said today America Movil is budgeting about $10
billion next year for network investments across  Latin America .  Slim said doesn’t plan to personally discuss the 4G auction
with Colombia President  Juan Manuel Santos . He didn’t say how
much the company, which operates under the Claro brand in
Colombia, would spend next year if it is excluded from the
auction.  “I don’t think that’s an option, because I wouldn’t
understand how you could leave 26 million Claro clients without
access to new technology,” he said.  Capping Share  A bill presented this week to Congress to cap market share
in Colombia’s mobile-phone market at 30 percent probably won’t
be supported by the government, America Movil Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Hajj told analysts today on a conference call.  The proposed bill seeking to cap market share, introduced
by Jorge Robledo, an opposition leader in the Senate, is backed
by 18 other lawmakers, said Roy Barreras, president of
 Colombia ’s Congress. Barreras, a member of the ruling party who
supports the proposal, said there’s a good chance the bill will
pass.  Slim said he continues to be interested in investments in
Colombia’s energy market. Last year, his holding company Grupo
Carso SAB agreed to pay $23.3 million for a 70 percent stake in
Tabasco Oil Co., which has a contract to explore and produce oil
in a field in eastern Colombia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  