-- Slovak Nuclear Power Plants Must Ramp Up Power Supply
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-26T11:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/slovak-nuclear-power-plants-must-ramp-up-power-supply.html
Stress tests at Slovakia’s two
nuclear power stations revealed that the facilities need to
improve the safety of auxiliary electricity supply, the
country’s nuclear security chief said.  Plants in Jaslovske Bohunice and Mochovce, controlled by
 Enel SpA (ENEL) , were forced to review and improve the diesel
generators that ensure the supply of power to the power
stations, especially the circuits operating the nuclear
reactors, Marta Ziakova, the chairwoman of the Slovak Nuclear
Safety Office, said in an interview in Valec,  Czech Republic 
yesterday.  The Mochovce plant, which currently operates two Soviet-
designed water-pressure reactors VVER and is building two more,
had to increase the capacity of its diesel generators to be able
to supply all four units with electricity at the same time, she
said. Her office also asked the Jaslovske Bohunice plant to
carry out a seismic safety review.  “We asked the Bohunice management to review the plant’s
resistance to seismic activities, especially the resistance of
the diesel generators,” Ziakova said.  The reviews were part of Europe-wide nuclear stress tests
carried out after the reactor disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in March last year. The accident occurred when a
tsunami knocked out power supply to Fukushima reactors,
disrupting the cooling process that led to reactor meltdown,
causing mass evacuations and leading to long-term environmental
damage.  The post-Fukushima stress tests have delayed the completion
of units 3 and 4 at Mochovce to 2014-15. So far there is no
indication of further delays, Ziakova said.  The older Jaslovske Bohunice reactors received a 10-year
life extension in 2008. Slovenske Elektrarne AS, the Slovak
utility controlled by Enel, invested about 500 million euros
($645 million) into modernization and improving output.
Slovenske can apply for further lifespan extension by 2014, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  