-- Soaring Online Revenue Boosts U.S. Home-Video Spending
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-26T17:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/soaring-online-revenue-boosts-u-s-home-video-spending.html
Fast-growing Internet services like
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , online movie purchases and DVD rentals from Redbox
kiosks lifted U.S. home-video spending in the third quarter,
countering the continued drop in DVD sales.  Total sales rose 0.2 percent to $3.94 billion, the
industry-backed  Digital Entertainment Group  said today in an e-
mailed statement. Revenue from subscription streaming more than
doubled while online purchases of movies and TV shows rose
almost 38 percent, the group said.  Hollywood studios are counting on digital sales and pay
services like Hulu Plus to bolster revenue and replace shrinking
DVD spending as more consumers watch videos online from
televisions and smaller devices. Sales rose 1 percent year to
date to $12.3 billion, the association said.  “The growth businesses are all growing consistently, month
after month,” Ron Sanders, president of  Time Warner (TWX)  Inc.’s
Warner Home Video, said in an interview. “They’re starting to
offset the downturn we've seen previously.”  The major studios and electronics companies are backing
UltraViolet, a service to let consumers purchase a film or TV
show and watch from a variety Web-linked devices. Studios are
working to entice more retailers to participate in the service,
according to David Bishop, president of  Sony Pictures Home
Entertainment .  “We’re on the verge of increasing the retail base,”
Bishop said in an interview. “We need more in the market and
will have more in the market. That will help the ownership
concept among consumers.”  Streaming Accord  Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. yesterday announced an
agreement to provide films to Redbox Instant, a new online
venture by Redbox owner  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  Last month, the pay television channel Epix reached a deal
to sell and rent movies through Amazon.com Inc.’s Amazon Prime
service.  Third-quarter sales from subscription streaming soared to
$579.2 million, the DEG said. Sales of electronic copies of
films and television shows rose to $187.1 million. Kiosks
rentals, a category led by Redbox, rose up 9.9 percent to $454.8
million.  Sales of physical disks dropped 4 percent to $1.67 billion
for the quarter, the DEG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  