-- Spain Joblessness Breaches 25%, Adding to Rescue Pressure
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-10-26T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/spain-joblessness-breaches-25-adding-to-rescue-pressure.html
Spanish  unemployment  climbed to a
record in the third quarter as a deepening recession left one in
four workers jobless, adding pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to seek a second European bailout.  Unemployment, the second  highest  in the European Union
after Greece, rose to 25.02 percent from 24.6 percent in the
previous quarter, the National Statistics Institute said in
Madrid today. That is the highest since at least 1976, the year
after dictator  Francisco Franco ’s death led  Spain  to democracy.  “The situation is serious,”  Ricardo Santos , an economist
at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said by telephone. “There is still
room for a deterioration in unemployment. Activity is weak and
the government will reduce jobs as there are strict targets to
adjust the number of public-sector temporary workers, especially
in health and education.”  Nearly three months after the  European Central Bank  offered
bond buys to lower its borrowing costs, Spain is still playing
for time. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on Oct. 23 that
the recent improvement in funding conditions shows they depend
on investors’ perception of the euro’s future rather than
domestic issues.  Yield Declines  Since the ECB’s offer, the yield on Spain’s  10-year
benchmark bond  has dropped more than 200 basis points from a
July 25 euro-era high of 7.75 percent. It was at 5.67 percent at
8:41 a.m. in Madrid while the spread with similar German
maturities was 411 basis points, compared with a 650 basis-point
record in July.  In line with a 25 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 7 economists, joblessness has nearly tripled since
2007, before a real estate-fueled boom ended. The euro-area
average is 11.4 percent, according to Eurostat.  De Guindos on Oct. 23 expressed confidence that foreign
investors are returning to the Spanish  debt market , hours after
the Bank of Spain forecast the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy will continue to slump following a fifth quarter of
 contraction  in the three months through September.  “That is because the government is doing what it has to do
and because we are all acting to dissipate doubts on the euro’s
future,” de Guindos told lawmakers in Madrid.  ‘Multifaceted Problem’  “Unemployment is one part of a multifaceted problem in
Spain,” said Justin Knight, a European rate strategist at UBS
AG in London. “The recession is looking very bad and it looks
like it will be worse than forecast. This is a Spanish problem
as much as it is a problem of the euro; Spain’s public and
private sector net external debt is the same size as  Greece ’s.”  While Rajoy this week praised the ECB’s proposal as “an
important step forward,” he stopped short from applying for
aid. After a summit with European leaders in Brussels, Rajoy
said on Oct. 19 that he feels no pressure to make a decision and
that aid for Spain wasn’t discussed.  “It’s unlikely that the government’s forecasts will be met
next year as fiscal consolidation accelerates,” said Sara Balina, an analyst with Madrid-based consultant firm Analistas
Financieros Internacionales, or AFI, that counts public
administrations among its clients.  “Third-quarter data were better than expected because they
were distorted by a temporary increase in demand before a value-
added tax increase and by exports that may suffer from weakening
growth in the euro zone,” she said.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the economy will
shrink 1.4 percent next year, compared with the government’s 0.5
percent prediction. Unemployment is seen rising above 27 percent
by 2014, while Rajoy expects joblessness to start falling next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  