-- Spain’s Unemployment Reaches Record as Bailout Looms
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-10-26T12:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/spain-s-unemployment-reaches-record-as-bailout-looms.html
Spanish  unemployment  climbed to a
fresh record in the third quarter as a deepening recession left
one in four workers jobless, adding pressure on Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy to seek a second European bailout.  Unemployment, the second  highest  in the European Union
after  Greece , rose to 25.02 percent from 24.6 percent in the
previous quarter, the National Statistics Institute said in
Madrid today. That is the highest since at least 1976, the year
after dictator Francisco Franco’s death led Spain to democracy.
The euro-area average is 11.4 percent.  Nearly three months after the European Central Bank offered
bond buys to lower its borrowing costs, Spain is still playing
for time. Rajoy is ignoring pressure to seek more European aid
even as the country’s recession worsens and banks report
decreasing third-quarter earnings following an increase in
provisions for souring real-estate assets. Spain’s  Ibex 35 stock
index  has dropped 10 percent this year, the only decline among
major European equity markets.  “The situation is serious,” said Ricardo Santos, an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “There is still room for
a deterioration in unemployment. Activity is weak and the
government will reduce jobs as there are strict targets to
adjust the number of public-sector temporary workers, especially
in health and education.”  Stocks Down  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped 0.4 percent at 2:08 p.m.
in Paris, with the Ibex down 0.9 percent. The euro traded at
$1.2902, down 0.24 percent on the day.  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA, Spain’s third-largest lender, said today
third-quarter profit dropped 42 percent to 7 million euros ($9
million) from a year ago as it provisioned for real estate
losses. Its bad loans ratio climbed to 8.42 percent from 5.58
percent in June.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  said profit fell 23
percent to 75.6 million euros in that period.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  has dropped
more than 200 basis points from a July 25 euro-era high of 7.75
percent since the ECB announced its bond plan, the so-called
OMT. Still, it rose after unemployment data and ECB Executive
Board members’ comments dampened investor sentiment. The yield
was up 5 basis points at 5.67 percent at 2:09 p.m. in Madrid,
widening the spread with similar German maturities by 11 basis
points to 4.14 percentage points.  Bond Program  In  Germany , Joerg Asmussen said in a speech that tapping
Europe’s bailout fund won’t automatically trigger the bond
program, while in Milan, Peter Praet said the issue with Spain
is “not a question of bailouts, it’s a question of
adjustment.”  “If ECB council members continue to dial down expectations
on the OMT, then we could see some continued weakness in the
Spanish market,” Justin Knight, a European rate strategist at
UBS AG in London, said in a telephone interview. “We expect the
ECB will come in quite aggressively as some point but if legal
hurdles prevent it from capping yields, Spain will lose market
access completely next year.”  The euro area requires three more years of “costly,
painful adjustments” to emerge intact from its debt turmoil,
Lucio Vinhas de Souza, sovereign chief economist at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in an interview in Moscow yesterday.  ‘Huge Uncertainty’  “Nothing has changed regarding the ECB’s intervention in
secondary markets,” Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said in  Madrid  today. “We are at the same point,
analyzing all the possibilities, the timing and we’ll take the
best decision for the Spanish economy.” The Treasury’s planned
gross debt issuance of 207 billion euros in 2013 will be updated
by the end of the year, with the 17 semi-autonomous regions’
funding needs yet unknown, he said.  Latorre said the economy is facing “huge uncertainty” and
that he can’t tell when net job creation will resume.
Joblessness has nearly tripled since 2007, before a real estate-
fueled boom ended. The Bank of Spain forecast earlier this week
that the euro region’s fourth-largest economy will continue to
slump following a fifth straight quarter of  contraction  in the
three months through September.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the economy will
shrink 1.4 percent next year, compared with the government’s 0.5
percent prediction. Unemployment is seen rising above 27 percent
by 2014, while Rajoy expects a decline from next year.  Japan’s Risks  Elsewhere in the world, governments are also seeking ways
to revive their economies.  Japan  announced 750 billion yen (9.4
billion) of stimulus with some of the extra money coming from
tapping discretionary budget funds, the government in  Tokyo  said
today. Economy Minister Seiji Maehara told reporters that the
measures would boost gross domestic product by 0.1 percentage
point, without specifying over what period.  Japan has the highest debt load among developed nations and
an economy at risk of contracting. The government this month
downgraded its economic assessment for a third month, the
longest streak since the 2009 global recession.  In South Korea, Asia’s fourth-largest economy, GDP rose 1.6
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the weakest
since 2009, data showed today.  U.S. data due later today may show that the world’s largest
economy expanded an annualized 1.8 percent in the third quarter
after growing 1.3 percent in the previous three-month period,
according to a Bloomberg survey. That would be the first back-
to-back readings lower than 2 percent since the U.S. was
emerging from the recession in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  