-- Spanish Bonds Head for Their Worst Week Since August
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-26T15:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/spanish-bonds-head-for-their-worst-week-since-august.html
Spain ’s 10-year bonds had their
worst week since August after a government report showed the
nation’s jobless rate climbed to a record, adding to evidence
the economy is contracting.  Two-year notes  also dropped this week after the central
bank said three days ago that gross domestic product shrank for
a fifth quarter. German bunds rose today as French household
sentiment worsened, boosting demand for the region’s safest
assets. Spanish  securities  pared their weekly decline after the
European Union and the  European Central Bank  said the bailout of
the country’s banks was “on track”.  “Contracting pressures in the economy remain persistent”
in Spain, said Elwin de Groot, a senior market economist at
Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “It will be very hard for the
Spanish government to achieve its budget targets. It is likely
to be negative for the bonds.”  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, this week to 5.59 percent at 4:37 p.m.  London 
time, the biggest increase since the period ended Aug. 31. The
5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 dropped 1.575, or 15.75
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 101.815. The yield fell
three basis points today.  The two-year  note yield  jumped 31 basis points this week to
3.06 percent.  Unemployment in Spain increased to 25.02 percent in the
third quarter from 24.6 percent in the previous three months,
the National Statistics Institute said in  Madrid . That is the
highest since at least 1976, the year after dictator  Francisco Franco ’s death led Spain to democracy.  Economy Shrinks  Spanish GDP declined 0.4 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, the central bank
said in its monthly bulletin released Oct. 23.  JPMorgan Asset Management cut its holdings of Spanish
securities this week to match the benchmark used to monitor
performance as El Confidencial said the nation would miss its
budget-deficit target, according to Iain Stealey, a portfolio
manager at the International Fixed-Income Group in London.  Spain may struggle to boost its economy as the government
attempts to impose the deepest budget cuts in three decades,
said Douglas Renwick, a director at  Fitch Ratings  in Barcelona.  “The economic impact might be worse than is currently
being anticipated, that is certainly a risk,” he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with
 Francine Lacqua .  ‘Successful Program’  Spanish bonds gained today after the European Union and ECB
said the first aid disbursements for the nation’s banks may be
ready soon. EU authorities have completed the first review of
Spain’s financial-sector bailout, which may be as much as 100
billion euros.  “Overall, the findings of this mission point to a
successful program whose implementation is on track,” the ECB
and the European Commission, the EU’s executive, said in a joint
statement.  German bunds extended a weekly gain after France’s national
statistics office Insee said its measure of household sentiment
in the nation dropped to 84 this month from 85 in September.  The 10-year bund yield declined four basis points to 1.54
percent, having dropped five basis points this week.  France ’s
 10-year yield  was little changed at 2.25 percent.  Italy Auction  Italian bonds fell as the nation sold a combined 4 billion
euros of inflation-linked and zero-coupon debt.  Italy auctioned 3 billion euros of zero-coupon debt due in
September 2014 at a yield of 2.397 percent, compared with 2.532
percent at the previous sale on Sept. 25. The nation also sold a
combined 1 billion euros of inflation-linked debt maturing in
September 2021 and September 2026.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds climbed four basis
points to 4.90 percent.  Volatility on  Portugal ’s government bonds was the highest
in the euro-region markets today, followed by the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent maturity debt,
the spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit
default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.5 percent this year through
yesterday according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spain’s
securities rose 2.7 percent, and France’s gained 8.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  