-- Bankia Posts $9.1 Billion Loss as EU Prepares Bailout Funds
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-26T17:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/spanish-bank-bailout-on-track-as-banks-struggle-eu-ecb-say.html
Bankia (BKIA)  group, the lender whose
nationalization pushed Spain toward a European bank bailout,
announced a 7.05 billion-euro ($9.1 billion) loss, as European
officials said the country may get its first rescue funds soon.  Bankia said the nine-month loss compared with a pro-forma
profit of 295 million euros a year ago, as deposits fell 13
percent from December and lending dropped 10 percent. It posted
results as the European Union and European Central Bank said the
bailout is “on track.”  Spain, which asked for the 100 billion-euro bailout in June
and has started implementing the conditions of the agreement,
has yet to receive any cash from the European rescue fund. It
sought help a month after nationalizing Bankia as the
government’s access to capital markets narrowed, and Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy is under growing pressure to request a
second international rescue, this time for the government.  “Overall, the findings of this mission point to a
successful program whose implementation is on track,” the ECB
and the European Commission, the EU’s executive, said in a joint
statement today.  Acute Challenges  EU authorities completed the first review of Spain’s
financial-sector bailout.  Spain’s banking industry faces “very
acute challenges” that “warrant decisive policy action,”
according to the statement. Authorities reviewed a broad range
of financial-sector conditions and found that Spain is “well
advanced” in its preparations to qualify for aid payments, the
ECB and the commission said in the statement.  Bankia, the fourth-biggest lender with an asset base almost
a third the size of Spain’s economy, said client deposits and
commercial paper declined 13 percent in the nine months through
September. It made provisions of 11.5 billion euros over the
nine months, wiping out its earnings, and the lender said it’s
now completed 75 percent of the provisioning effort ordered by
government decrees.  Legislation passed by Rajoy is pushing banks to recognize
losses and sell off real estate that piled up on their books as
the collapse of the property boom prompted a surge in defaults.
As part of the bailout agreement, Spain will set up a so-called
bad bank to lift soured assets off banks’ books. The structure
of that vehicle and the prices it will pay banks for their toxic
assets is set to be announced in the coming days.  Bad Bank  European authorities have reached an agreement with Spain
on the size, design and functioning of the future Asset
Management Company, a “cornerstone” of the rescue package. It
is on track to be operational by Dec. 1, according to the
statement.  The International Monetary Fund today urged a push to get
the bad bank working by December. The Washington-based lender
said Spain has taken important steps to revamp its financial
system and needs to maintain momentum.  Spain’s banking stress tests, which were a condition of the
bailout, proved to be a sound guide for identifying banks that
are short of capital, the IMF said. It said capital shortfalls
need to be made up quickly and “non-viable banks promptly wound
down,” while avoiding mergers that don’t make sense.  Credit Supply  While financial conditions have improved since the ECB made
its pledge in September to buy Spanish bonds, the economy and
banks still “face headwinds,” the IMF said. It urged Spain to
avoid placing too many constraints on credit supply across the
financial system.  The EU will review the recapitalization and restructuring
plans of Spanish banks in “coming weeks,” Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said in a separate
statement. This “should pave the way for the first
disbursements for entities in need of public support,” he said.  Rehn said the bank aid is one of three elements needed to
address the crisis in Spain. Budget cuts and economic reforms
also need to continue, he said, adding that he is “confident in
the commitment of the Spanish government to proceed.”  EU authorities looked at Spain’s progress on issues
including “the enhancement of the credit registry, the
improvement of banks’ transparency, the further development of
non-banking financial intermediation and the strengthening of
the governance of former savings banks,” the EU and ECB said.  The IMF is due to send a final report to the EU and other
authorities in November. It will produce its second financial-
sector monitoring report in the first quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  