-- Syrian Troops Battle Insurgents as Cease-Fire Violated
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-10-27T01:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/syrian-troops-battle-insurgents-as-cease-fire-violated.html
Forces loyal to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad fought with rebels in the capital, Damascus, and
other cities on the first day of a United Nations-brokered
cease-fire to mark the Eid al-Adha Muslim holiday.  The opposition Local Coordination Committees said troops
killed 97 people across the country yesterday, including 39 in
or around Damascus. There were at least 287 violations of the
truce, it said in an e-mailed statement.  The fighting is a “clear violation of the cease-fire,”
the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-
mail. Syrian state television, citing an army statement, blamed
“terrorists” for breaching the cease-fire in areas including
Idlib, Homs, Deir Azzour, Daraa and suburbs of Damascus.  At least 35,000 people have been killed since the uprising
against Assad’s government began 19 months ago, according to the
observatory. The UN has registered more than 350,000 Syrians who
have fled from their homeland to escaped the conflict that has
spilled over into Lebanon and  Turkey .  A car bomb exploded near the Omar bin al-Khattab mosque in
Damascus yesterday, leaving dozens dead and wounded and
destroying several homes, the observatory said. Syrian TV
reported five deaths and 32 injuries in the blast.  “It was always very unlikely that the cease-fire was going
to work,” Torbjorn Soltvedt, a senior Middle East analyst at
Bath, U.K.-based risk-advisory firm Maplecroft, said yesterday
by phone. “None of the underlying issues have been addressed.
As the opposition is so fragmented, a fully effective cease-fire
was going to be very hard to achieve.”  Government Camp  Fighting broke out early yesterday at a government camp
near Maarat al-Numan in Idlib province between rebels and pro-
Assad forces, the observatory said. At least nine government
soldiers were killed when rebels bombarded a building inside the
government’s Wadi al-Deif encampment and four opposition
fighters died during battles around its perimeter, the
observatory said on its  Facebook page .  Syrian TV said Oct. 25 that the army would recognize the
truce while reserving the right to respond to rebel attacks.  The agreement to respect the truce negotiated by UN special
envoy Lakhdar Brahimi during Eid al-Adha, the Muslim feast of
sacrifice, is the first time since April that the two sides said
they would stop fighting. While neither side upheld the previous
cease-fire, arranged by Brahimi’s predecessor, Kofi Annan, the
truce slowed the tempo of killing for a few days.  More than 140 Syrians were killed in fighting Oct. 25, the
observatory said on its Facebook page, adding that 71 civilians
including five youngsters and 29 rebel fighters were among the
dead.  Defuse Violence  “The idea that you can have a comprehensive cease-fire is
unimplementable,” Ayham Kamel, a Middle East analyst at Eurasia
Group Ltd., said by phone from  London  yesterday. “The cease-
fire is an opportunity to de-escalate and reach a lower level of
violence.”  The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said it
would send 550 metric tons of supplies to 13,000 Syrian families
in previously inaccessible areas if the truce holds. About 1.2
million people in Syria need emergency humanitarian aid, the
Geneva-based agency said in an Oct. 25 statement.  Saudi Arabia said two days ago it deported three people
working in Syria’s consulate in Jeddah after concluding that
“their behaviors are incompatible with their consular duties
and assignments,” according to the state-run Saudi Press
Agency, which cited a Foreign Affairs Ministry statement.  The kingdom, which is hosting Islam’s annual hajj
pilgrimage to Mecca, closed its embassy in Damascus in March, a
month after expelling  Syria ’s ambassador to  Riyadh .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  