-- U.K. Stocks Close Little Changed after U.S. GDP Data
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-26T16:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/u-k-stocks-fall-extend-weekly-drop-on-earnings-concern.html
The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  closed
little changed, erasing an earlier selloff, after U.S. economic
data bolstered confidence in the world’s largest economy,
offsetting investor concerns about company earnings.  Anglo American rallied 4.1 percent after announcing the
resignation of its chief executive officer.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) 
climbed 1.7 percent amid speculation U.S. rival Gardner Denver
Inc. may be taken over.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  fell 1.3 percent after
Apple Inc.’s profit forecast missed analyst estimates.  The benchmark FTSE 100 rose 1.66 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 5,806.71 at the close in  London , erasing an earlier
loss of as much as 0.9 percent after U.S. gross domestic product
figures topped forecasts. The gauge declined 1.5 percent this
week after company earnings disappointed investors.  The U.S. data “is broadly in line with the  Federal
Reserve ’s projections of growth remaining slightly below 2
percent in 2012, confirming the moderate pace of activity,”
Annalisa Piazza, a strategist at Newedge Group in London, wrote
in a note to clients. “The underlying trend is a touch stronger
than headline figures suggest.”  The FTSE All-Share Index fell less than 0.1 percent, paring
losses of as much as 0.9 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
climbed 0.2 percent. The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE
100 companies was 12 percent lower than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. data follows yesterday’s U.K. report that showed
the British economy expanded at the fastest pace in five years.
Today’s Commerce Department figures showed GDP, the value of all
goods and services produced in the U.S., rose at a 2 percent
annual rate, beating the median economist forecast of a 1.8
percent gain, after climbing 1.3 percent in the prior quarter.  Fink Comments  Stocks also advanced after Laurence D. Fink, chairman and
chief executive officer of Blackrock Inc., the world’s largest
asset manager, told CNBC that he believes  Spain  will seek a
second European bailout next week. Spanish data today showed
unemployment rose to a record 25 percent in the third quarter.  Anglo American climbed 4.1 percent to 1,933.5 pence, for
the biggest advance on the FTSE 100, after the company said
Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  will quit and also step
down as chairman of Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and  De Beers .
The metal producer has lost almost a quarter of its value during
her five-year tenure.  Weir Advances  Weir Group gained 1.7 percent to 1,717 pence after rival
Gardner Denver late yesterday said it’s studying options
including a sale or a merger and has appointed Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. as its adviser.  Reuters reported that private equity firms including KKR &
Co. and Blackstone Group LP are considering making offers for
the U.S. company, citing people familiar with the matter whom it
didn’t identify.  Burberry Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury maker, rose
1.7 percent to 1,153 pence. French rival PPR SA reported a 16
percent increase in third-quarter sales and said it’s confident
of revenue and profit growth in 2012.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  climbed 2.3 percent to 81.85 pence, extending
yesterday’s 3.9 percent advance. U.K. newspapers including The
 Daily Mail  and The Telegraph cited takeover speculation for the
hedge-fund manager’s gain. The stock had slumped 17 percent the
previous six sessions.  ARM Slips  ARM, whose chip designs power Apple’s iPhone, lost 1.3
percent to 656.5 pence. The shares earlier fell as much as 2.9
percent after Apple forecast profit that missed analyst
estimates amid rising competition from Samsung Electronics Co.,
Microsoft Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.  Apple also said gross profit margin, the proportion of
sales left after deducting production costs, will fall to about
36 percent, the lowest level in more than four years.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  slid 2.9 percent to 714.5 pence as Macquarie
Group Ltd. downgraded the copper producer to neutral, the
equivalent of hold, from outperform.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  retreated 3.4 percent to 465 pence
after it said it will miss a production target for the third
straight year as illegal miners and operational issues continue
to hold back its mines. The precious metal producer forecast
full year production about 5 percent to 10 percent below the
bottom of its previous range.  Elementis Plc (ELM)  dropped 5.6 percent to 204.9 pence after the
world’s largest maker of hectorite-clay additives used in
cosmetics said a temporary slowdown in shale drilling will weigh
on annual profit. Full-year earnings per share may still meet
analysts’ expectations because of a lower group tax charge, the
company said.  Asos Plc (ASC) , the largest online-only fashion retailer,
retreated 4.8 percent to 2,215 pence after directors and other
executives sold shares in the company.  Numis Securities handled the sale of 2.75 million shares at
2,150 pence each in a placement that was oversubscribed,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  