-- U.S. Stocks Post Weekly Drop Amid Disappointing Earnings
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-10-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/u-s-stocks-post-weekly-drop-amid-disappointing-earnings.html
U.S. stocks  slumped for the week,
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index heading toward its first
monthly decline since May, as companies from  3M Co. (MMM)  to DuPont
Co. reported disappointing quarterly results and forecasts.  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 fell at least 0.8 percent for
the week. DuPont tumbled 8.4 percent after saying it will
eliminate about 1,500 jobs amid a smaller-than-estimated profit.
3M plunged 5.3 percent as it reduced its full-year projection.
 Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  slid 14 percent after U.S. regulators
confirmed reports that the company’s energy drinks were cited in
five deaths.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  rose 6 percent after Chief Executive
Officer  Marissa Mayer  outlined her turnaround strategy.  The S&P 500 slid 1.5 percent to 1,411.94 for the week. The
benchmark gauge for U.S. equities has retreated 2 percent in
October, indicating it will end  four straight months  of gains.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 236.3 points, or 1.8
percent, to 13,107.21.  “Companies are reporting their third quarter, and relative
to expectations, there have been weaker earnings and especially
weaker sales,” Jason Benowitz, who helps manage $5 billion at
Roosevelt Investment Group Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s reflective of the weak global economic
environment, especially internationally.”  Of the 273  S&P 500  companies that have reported  quarterly
earnings  results, about 59 percent missed analysts’ estimates
for sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost 72
percent topped projections for earnings, the data show. Concern
about a worsening picture for corporate results has sent the S&P
500 down 3.7 percent from this year’s high on Sept. 14. The
index is still up 12 percent in 2012.  Modest Growth  Equities fell as the  Federal Reserve  said the economy is
still growing modestly and unemployment remains elevated as the
central bank maintains $40 billion in monthly purchases of
mortgage-backed securities. Outside the U.S., a survey showed a
contraction in China’s manufacturing is easing and investors
speculated the  Bank of Japan  will expand monetary stimulus next
week.  Investors are also watching the U.S. presidential race. The
latest Washington Post/ABC News tracking poll showed Republican
 Mitt Romney  with 49 percent support among likely voters and
President  Barack Obama  with 48 percent support, a result within
the survey’s three percentage point margin of error.  Election Watch  “Active investors have pulled some chips off the table,”
John De Clue, the Minneapolis-based global investment strategist
at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees $113 billion,
said by phone. “They’re in more of a wait-and-see mode on the
election and what happens after the election.”  Investors sold shares of companies most tied to economic
growth during the week. Raw-material producers fell the most out
of 10 groups in the S&P 500, losing 2.8 percent. Energy stocks
slumped 2.4 percent for the second-largest drop. The  Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC) , a gauge of 30 U.S. stocks, erased 1.1
percent.  An S&P index of 11 homebuilders slumped 3.7 percent after a
disappointing report on pending home resales.  DuPont tumbled 8.4 percent to $45.18 for the biggest loss
in the Dow. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman 
plans to save $450 million with the job cuts and other actions
as a weak global economy challenges her 12 percent profit-growth
target. The most valuable U.S. chemical maker also cut its
forecast for the year on declining demand for paint pigment and
solar cells.  Scotch Tape  3M plunged 5.3 percent, the most since November, to $88.03.
The manufacturer of products including Scotch tape and dental
braces reduced its full-year forecast as a recession in Europe
and slowing Asia growth crimped sales, missing analysts’ third-
quarter revenue predictions. Facing slowing demand, Chief
Executive Officer Inge Thulin has raised prices and kept costs
in check to boost profit.  Boeing Co. (BA)  retreated 3.9 percent to $71.11. The planemaker
said it expects challenges next year that include a tougher
defense market and higher pension expense. The defense unit,
which accounted for 40 percent of total sales last year, is
bracing for cuts in Pentagon spending, according to the Chicago-
based company. The projected $3.5 billion in pension expense
next year will be about $1 billion more than this year’s.  Monster Beverage  Monster Beverage tumbled 14 percent to $45.86. The
company’s energy drinks have been cited in the deaths of five
people in the past year, according to incident reports that
doctors and companies submit to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. The FDA said the incidents are considered to be
allegations, and no conclusion is drawn until an investigation
is completed.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  removed  Monster Beverage from its
conviction buy list and Citigroup Inc. said the argument for a
takeover has “evaporated.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  slid 1 percent to $604. The maker of iPads and
iPhones forecast profit and sales that missed analysts’
predictions as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  boosts spending
to revamp the company’s line and get new products in stores by
year-end holidays. Earlier in the week, Cook introduced a
smaller, cheaper version of the iPad, designed to keep customers
from buying low-cost tablets from competitors. Apple has soared
49 percent this year.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  climbed 1.3 percent to $69.44 for the
second-biggest gain in the Dow. The largest consumer-products
maker reported first-quarter  adjusted earnings  that topped
analysts’ estimates as the Cincinnati-based company slowed
market-share losses and reduced manufacturing costs.  Turnaround Strategy  Yahoo rose 6 percent to $16.79, the highest level since May
2011. The largest U.S. Web portal reported third-quarter
earnings that exceeded the average analyst estimate by nine
cents a share. Mayer outlined her turnaround strategy,
emphasizing mobile technology and personalized services, on her
first call with analysts since being named CEO in July.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  surged 15 percent to $21.94. The biggest
social networking site posted sales that topped analysts’
estimates, allaying concerns over its ability to make money from
mobile ads. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is showing
early success with the more than half-dozen services unveiled
since March that are designed to help businesses woo social-
network users on tablets and smartphones.  Gamco Investors Inc.’s Howard Ward said he is fully
invested in equities and sees the S&P 500 surpassing 1,500 in
the next year, helped by a recovery in  consumer spending  and
housing. He said the benchmark gauge for U.S. stocks was due to
decline and investors should focus on earnings estimates for
2013 rather than short-term retreats.  “You should not be reactive to these impulses in the
market that can really be in the hands of the high-frequency
traders,” Ward, chief investment officer of growth equities at
Gamco in Rye, New York, said in an Oct. 24 television interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . His firm oversees
$36 billion. “Ignore it. There’s a lot of noise. There were a
lot of occasions in the last year where we had big swings in the
market on any given day, only to see the market rally the next
day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  