-- U.S. Third-Quarter Advance Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-10-26T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/u-s-third-quarter-advance-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and
services produced by labor and property located in the  United
States  -- increased at an annual rate of 2.0 percent in the
third quarter of 2012 (that is, from the second quarter to the
third quarter), according to the “advance” estimate released by
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  In the second quarter, real
GDP increased 1.3 percent.  The Bureau emphasized that the third-quarter advance
estimate released today is based on source data that are
incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency
(see box below).  The “second” estimate for the third quarter,
based on more complete data, will be released on November 29,
2012.  The increase in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), federal government spending, and residential
fixed investment that were partly offset by negative
contributions from exports, nonresidential fixed investment, and
private inventory investment.  Imports, which are a subtraction
in the calculation of GDP, decreased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the third quarter primarily
reflected an upturn in federal  government spending , a downturn
in imports, an acceleration in PCE, a smaller decrease in
private inventory investment, an acceleration in residential
fixed investment, and a smaller decrease in state and local
government spending that were partly offset by downturns in
exports and in nonresidential fixed investment.  FOOTNOTE.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.  Quarter-to-
quarter dollar changes are differences between these published
estimates.  Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data
and are annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005)
dollars.  Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site along with
the Technical Note and Highlights related to this release.  Final sales of computers added 0.17 percentage point to the
third-quarter change in real GDP after subtracting 0.10
percentage point from the second-quarter change.  Motor vehicle
output subtracted 0.47 percentage point from the third-quarter
change in real GDP after adding 0.20 percentage point to the
second-quarter change.  The  price index  for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 1.5 percent in
the third quarter, compared with an increase of 0.7 percent in
the second. Excluding food and energy prices, the price index
for gross domestic purchases increased 1.3 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.4 percent in the second.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 2.0
percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of 1.5
percent in the second.  Durable goods increased 8.5 percent, in
contrast to a decrease of 0.2 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.4 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent.
Services increased 0.8 percent, compared with an increase of 2.1
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment decreased 1.3 percent
in the third quarter, in contrast to an increase of 3.6 percent
in the second.  Nonresidential structures decreased 4.4 percent,
in contrast to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Equipment and
software decreased less than 0.1 percent, in contrast to an
increase of 4.8 percent.  Real residential fixed investment
increased 14.4 percent, compared with an increase of 8.5 percent.  Real exports of goods and services decreased 1.6 percent in
the third quarter, in contrast to an increase of 5.3 percent in
the second.  Real imports of goods and services decreased 0.2
percent, in contrast to an increase of 2.8 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment increased 9.6 percent in the third quarter, in
contrast to a decrease of 0.2 percent in the second.  National
defense increased 13.0 percent, in contrast to a decrease of 0.2
percent.  Nondefense increased 3.0 percent, in contrast to a
decrease of 0.4 percent.  Real state and local government
consumption expenditures and gross investment decreased 0.1
percent, compared with a decrease of 1.0 percent.  The change in real private inventories subtracted 0.12
percentage point from the third-quarter change in real GDP after
subtracting 0.46 percentage point from the second-quarter change.
Farm inventories subtracted 0.42 percentage point from the
third-quarter change after subtracting 0.17 percentage point
from the second-quarter change.  Nonfarm inventories added 0.30
percentage point to the third-quarter change after subtracting
0.29 percentage point from the second-quarter change.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 2.1 percent in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.7 percent in the second.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.1 percent in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
1.0 percent in the second.  Disposition of personal income  Current-dollar personal income increased $89.3 billion (2.7
percent) in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
$130.3 billion (4.0 percent) in the second.  Personal current taxes increased $13.2 billion in the third
quarter, compared with an increase of $20.2 billion in the
second.  Disposable personal income increased $76.1 billion (2.6
percent) in the third quarter, compared with an increase of
$110.0 billion (3.8 percent) in the second.  Real disposable
personal income increased 0.8 percent, compared with an increase
of 3.1 percent.  Personal outlays increased $111.4 billion (4.0 percent) in
the third quarter, compared with an increase of $57.4 billion
(2.0 percent) in the second.  Personal saving -- disposable
personal income less personal outlays -- was $445.0 billion in
the third quarter, compared with $480.3 billion in the second.
The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a percentage of
disposable personal income -- was 3.7 percent in the third
quarter, compared with 4.0 percent in the second.  For a
comparison of personal saving in BEA’s national income and
product accounts with personal saving in the Federal Reserve
Board’s flow of funds accounts and data on changes in net worth,
go to www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 5.0 percent, or $190.1
billion, in the third quarter to a level of $15,775.7 billion.
In the second quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 2.8 percent,
or $107.3 billion.  BOX. Information on the assumptions used for unavailable source
data is provided in a technical note that is posted with the
news release on BEA’s Web site.  Within a few days after the
release, a detailed “Key Source Data and Assumptions” file is
posted on the Web site.  In the middle of each month, an
analysis of the current quarterly estimate of GDP and related
series is made available on the Web site; click on Survey of
Current Business, “GDP and the Economy.”  For information on
revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their Major
Components.”  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-
mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  Next release -- November 29, 2012, at 8:30 A.M. EST for:
Gross Domestic Product:  Third Quarter 2012 (Second Estimate)
Corporate Profits:  Third Quarter (Preliminary Estimate)  Release Dates in 2013  2012: IV and 2012 annual      2013: I        2013: II
2013: III  Gross Domestic Product
Advance...          January 30          April 26       July 31  October 30
Second...           February 28         May 30         August 29
November 26
Third...            March 28            June 26        September
26     December 20  Corporate Profits
Preliminary...          ........        May 30         August 29
November 26
Revised...          March 28            June 26        September
26     December 20  Comparisons of Revisions to GDP  Quarterly estimates of GDP are released on the following
schedule:  the “advance” estimate, based on source data that are
incomplete or subject to further revision by the source agency,
is released near the end of the first month after the end of the
quarter; as more detailed and more comprehensive data become
available, the “second” and “third” estimates are released near
the end of the second and third months, respectively. The
“latest“・estimate reflects the results of both annual and
comprehensive revisions.  Annual revisions, which generally cover the quarters of the
3 most recent calendar years, are usually carried out each
summer and incorporate newly available major annual source data.
Comprehensive (or benchmark) revisions are carried out at about
5-year intervals and incorporate major periodic source data, as
well as improvements in concepts and methods that update the
accounts to portray more accurately the evolving U.S. economy.  The table below shows comparisons of the revisions between
quarterly percent changes of current-dollar and of real GDP for
the different vintages of the estimates.  From the advance
estimate to the second estimate (one month later), the average
revision to real GDP without regard to sign is 0.5 percentage
point, while from the advance estimate to the third estimate
(two months later), it is 0.6 percentage point.  From the
advance estimate to the latest estimate, the average revision
without regard to sign is 1.3 percentage points.  The average
revision (with regard to sign) from the advance estimate to the
latest estimate is 0.2 percentage point, which is larger than
the average revisions from the advance estimate to the second or
to the third estimates.  The larger average revisions to the
latest estimate reflect the fact that comprehensive revisions
include major improvements, such as the incorporation of BEA’s
latest benchmark input-output accounts.  The quarterly estimates
correctly indicate the direction of change of real GDP 97
percent of the time, correctly indicate whether GDP is
accelerating or decelerating 72 percent of the time, and
correctly indicate whether real GDP growth is above, near, or
below trend growth more than four-fifths of the time.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  