-- Hulic’s Profit to Beat Target on More Rental Space, CEO Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-10-26T06:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/hulic-s-profit-to-beat-forecast-on-added-rental-space-ceo-says.html
Hulic Co. (3003) ,  Japan ’s best-performing
real estate company in the past six months, said it will beat
its profit forecast after an increase in leasing space following
a merger with Shoei Co. boosted rental income.  Tokyo-based Hulic, which has beaten net income forecasts
for three consecutive years, will probably achieve higher profit
for the year ending Dec. 31, Chief Executive Officer Saburo Nishiura said in an interview. The developer increased the total
leasing space for office, apartments and nursing homes by 62
percent after acquiring Shoei in July, he said.  “Increasing office space through redevelopment is one of
the main reasons we are likely to beat the forecast,” said
Nishiura. “The merger with Shoei that boosted our leasing space
will also contribute. Rental apartments and senior housing may
also help.”  The real estate company is seeking ways to increase revenue
even as  Tokyo ’s office vacancy rate is near a  record high  and
Japan’s population is set to decline. Hulic is focusing on
boosting rental space for medium-size buildings and plans to add
more nursing homes, Nishiura said.  Hulic expected  revenue  to increase 7 percent to 80 billion
($1 billion) and predicted net income to gain 2 percent to 9.5
billion yen for the year, according to a company presentation
published on Aug. 31.  Tenant Demand  The developer this year delisted its own shares after it
bought Shoei and retained the Hulic name for the listed entity.
The  shares  gained 89 percent in the past six months, more than
seven times the 12 percent gain in the Topix Real Estate Index.
They rose as much as 2.3 percent today and closed 0.2 percent
higher at 560 yen as of 3 p.m. in Tokyo.  Hulic develops medium-size office buildings with 200 square
meters (2,153 square feet) to 500 square meters of space per
floor because that is where most of the tenant demand is,
Nishiura said. Less than 1 percent of 1.8 million companies in
Japan have more than 300 employees, according to the Statistics
Bureau.  The company’s vacancy rate for office, apartment and
nursing home space rose to 0.6 percent as of June from six
months earlier, according to the Aug. 31 presentation. That
compares with 3.7 percent for  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , and 4.47
percent for  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s two-largest
developers, for the same period.  Nursing Homes  The company plans to almost triple the number of nursing
homes to 17 from six by next year as part of a goal to boost
non-office leasing revenue to 30 percent, Nishiura said.  It recently converted a two-story residential building into
a seven-story home for elderly in central Tokyo, increasing
leasable space by 6,600 square meters, according to Hulic’s
 website .  A quarter of Japan’s 125 million people will be older than
65 years in 2014, compared with 14 percent in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As a property company, we have to look at three to five
years ahead,” Nishiura said. “As we face an aging population,
expanding the nursing home business is certainly the way to
grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  