-- Tumbling Gasoline Prices Diminish Issue for Obama Critics
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-10-26T04:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/tumbling-gasoline-prices-diminish-issue-for-obama-critics.html
The 17-day slide in  gasoline  prices
this month may diminish a campaign issue that President  Barack
Obama ’s critics have frequently raised though the decline is
unlikely to sway undecided voters.  Republican  Mitt Romney  has cited higher prices at the pump
as evidence Obama’s energy policies have failed. During the Oct.
16 debate with Obama, Romney said gasoline costs had doubled
since the president took office in 2009.  Obama responded by saying prices were low early in his term
because the  U.S. economy  “was on the verge of collapse.” He
said domestic oil production has increased during his term.  Cheaper gasoline may make voters feel more “flush” and
that the economy is headed in the right direction,  Michael
Webber , an associate professor at the  University of Texas  who
studies  energy policy , said in an inteview. While not
determinative, gasoline costs are part of a “suite of issues”
that voters will weigh in choosing a candidate, he said.  “I think it makes a difference,” Webber said. “It takes
a line of attack away from Romney. It may not make people like
Obama more, but it’s one less weapon in Romney’s arsenal.”  Gasoline prices nationwide fell below $3.60 a gallon on
average on Oct. 24, down 20 cents from a month ago, according to
figures released by AAA, the largest national motoring group.
The AAA price has declined every day starting Oct. 8.  Michael Green , a Washington-based spokesman for AAA, said
prices may fall as low as $3.40 by Election Day on Nov. 6. That
would still be the highest price on a presidential election,
Green said.  Gasoline Rebounds  Gasoline futures rose yesterday for the first time in 11
days, ending the longest decline since trading began in 1986, on
concern Hurricane Sandy may threaten East Coast refineries next
week. Gasoline jumped 2.8 percent in  New York  trading.  On the day Obama took office, gasoline prices on average
were $1.85 a gallon. Just six months earlier, in July 2008
during  George W. Bush ’s administration, gasoline reached a
record-high daily average of $4.11, prompting calls from
Republicans to “drill, baby, drill” and develop domestic
resources.  Voters tend to lump gasoline prices in a larger bucket of
issues that help give a feel for the overall health of the
economy, said  Bruce Oppenheimer , a political science professor
at  Vanderbilt University  in Nashville,  Tennessee .  He said gas prices would have minimal impact this election.  ‘Going Down’  “It’s better to have them going down,” Oppenheimer said
in an interview. “Does that change any votes for president? I
don’t think so.”  Rising gasoline costs emerged as an election issue at the
start of this year, when prices touched record highs and the
approaching U.S. summer driving season threatened to push them
up even higher.  Romney in March referred to the head of the Environmental
Protection Agency, and the secretaries of Energy and Interior as
the “gas-hike trio.”  The American Energy Alliance, a Washington-based group
funded in part by  oil companies , criticized Obama in a
television commercial titled “Nine Dollar Gas.”  Prices receded, removing the issue as a campaign topic
until rebounding in August and touching $3.87 on Sept. 13.  “It was an issue early, in late winter and early spring
when prices were going up and it looked like they were headed
through the roof,” Oppenheimer said. “It doesn’t matter too
much when its $3.50 a gallon and going down. The people who were
already upset about it, they decided how they were going to vote
a long time ago.”  While Webber said the fall was “good news” for Obama,
there is a down side. Gas prices are tied to the price of oil
and high crude prices translates to more domestic production,
which reduces the need for oil imports, he said. High gasoline
prices also force drivers to conserve, which is good for the
environment, he said.  Neither Obama nor Romney will probably talk about the
benefit of keeping gas prices high during the final two weeks of
the campaign, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  