-- University of California Must Disclose Fund Investments Details
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-26T00:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/university-of-california-must-disclose-fund-investments-details.html
The University of  California , which
manages a $70 billion investment portfolio for retirees, faces a
tentative court order to make “a good faith effort” to get and
disclose the returns it earns from Sequoia Capital and Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers funds.  State court Judge Evelio Grillo in Oakland, California,
said in a tentative ruling that information about the
university’s commitment to the funds, cash in them, current net
asset values and returns for individual investment vehicles with
Kleiner and Sequoia, and communications with the private equity
firms, isn’t exempt from disclosure under state laws passed in
2005 that shield some investment data from the public.  Grillo rejected the university regents’ argument in a
public records lawsuit that the information should remain secret
because that’s what Kleiner and Sequoia want and the school
values its relationship with the venture firms. The 26-member
board of regents governs the university.  “The regents has not demonstrated that the public interest
in permitting the regents the opportunity to make investments
with Sequoia and Kleiner Perkins ‘clearly outweighs’ the public
interest in public review of communications between public
pension funds and investment vehicles,” Grillo said in the
provisional ruling disclosed Oct. 23.  Kleiner, which provided startup financing to Amazon.com and
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , and Sequoia, which backed  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) , haven’t provided individual fund performance information
to the university since 2004, Grillo said.  The ruling came in a public records lawsuit against the
university filed by Reuters America LLC, a unit of  Thomson
Reuters Corp. (TRI)  The news agency is a competitor of Bloomberg News.  Order on Hold  Grillo ordered the university and Reuters to meet about
disclosing the information. He put his ruling on hold until Jan.
16 to allow the parties to appeal his decision. Menlo Park,
California-based Kleiner and Sequoia aren’t named as defendants
in the lawsuit.  “We don’t believe it’s appropriate to comment until he
issues his final ruling after considering the arguments
presented by the parties” at an Oct. 19 hearing, said Dianne
Klein, a spokeswoman for the University of California’s office
of the president, in an e-mail today.  Andrew Kovacs, a spokesman for Menlo Park-based Sequoia
Capital Operations LLC, declined to comment on the ruling. An e-
mail to Kleiner’s media office wasn’t immediately.  The case is Reuters v. Regents, RG12-613664, Alameda County
Superior Court (Oakland, California).  To contact the reporters on this story:Karen Gullo in San
Francisco at  kgullo@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  