-- University of Miami Passes $1 Billion in Fundraising Bid
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-10-26T10:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/university-of-miami-passes-1-billion-in-fundraising-bid.html
The  University of Miami  has raised
more than $1 billion in its fundraising campaign as President
Donna Shalala seeks to bolster medical research and increase
financial aid and faculty at  Florida ’s top-rated college.  Since January 2008, the school has received 124 donations
of more than $1 million as it targets $1.6 billion by 2016,
Shalala said in a phone interview from the Coral Gables campus.
The single largest gift, $100 million, came from the  Diabetes
Research Institute Foundation  after Shalala expanded medical-
research programs and opened a biomedical institute in 2009.  “We’ve done what we told our donors we’d do, and that’s
become a world-class research institute,” said Shalala, who
headed the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services under
President  Bill Clinton . Enhancements to the university’s medical
campus have “made a big difference in this campaign.”  Fundraising is ahead of schedule, Shalala said, even as
Florida struggles with an  unemployment rate  of 8.7 percent as of
September, higher than the national average of 7.8 percent. The
U.S. economic slowdown since 2008, precipitated in part by a
housing glut in Florida, caused some donors to extend their
donations over a longer period, said Sergio Gonzalez, the
university’s vice president for external affairs.  “We’ve had to make the case stronger than ever that there
would be an impact from these donations,” Gonzalez said.
“Folks are really looking to make gifts that they believe will
be transformative.”  100,000 Donors  By comparison,  Princeton University  completed a five-year
fundraising campaign on June 20, raising a record $1.88 billion.
 Harvard University  is expected to start a $6 billion fundraising
effort next year, the Harvard Crimson student newspaper reported
in April.  Among the 100,000 donors who have taken part in the Miami
campaign is arts patron Adrienne Arsht, former chairman of
TotalBank, who made a $5 million commitment. An additional $8
million came from hoteliers Patti and Allan Herbert. The
school’s endowment was valued at $678.7 million as of May 31.  Once the campaign is completed, the university expects to
put at least $200 million of the funds raised toward need-based
scholarships at the school, where tuition and fees, room and
board and other expenses is almost $59,000. The school has
already used donations to establish 17 endowed chairs and
professorships and build or renovate 14 facilities, including a
wellness center and research laboratories.  Founded in 1925, the University of Miami is the highest-
ranked college in Florida, according to an annual survey by U.S.
News & World Report, placing 44th in 2012. Alumni include U.S.
Senator Marco Rubio, Olympic diver Greg Louganis, Honduran
President Porfirio Lobo and Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, former
chief executive officer for American International Group Inc.  The school’s previous campaign, which ended in 2007, raised
$1.4 billion, the university said. Shalala has served as
president since 2001.  A study commissioned by the university and published Oct.
22 said the school has an economic impact of more than  $6
billion  in south Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  