-- US Airways CEO Reaps Union Criticism Amid Bid for AMR
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/us-airways-ceo-reaps-union-criticism-amid-bid-for-amr.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  pilots and
flight attendants joined other unions in urging Chief Executive
Officer Doug Parker to end the carrier’s labor disputes before
trying to merge with AMR Corp.’s bankrupt  American Airlines. (AAMRQ)   Employees are frustrated that Parker reached conditional
agreements with American workers in a matter of weeks yet hasn’t
combined the two biggest labor groups from the 2005 merger
between America West Holdings Corp. and US Airways, US Airline
Pilots Association President Gary Hummel said.  “Our patience is coming to an end,” Hummel said he told
Parker and other  executives  yesterday in a regular quarterly
meeting at the airline’s Tempe,  Arizona , headquarters. “We are
not opposed to a merger. However, we do not have confidence in
management’s ability to integrate the employees because of your
track record.”  Discord at US Airways runs counter to the image of union-
management unity that Parker has sought to project. He moved in
April to win support of American labor groups, which failed to
agree on cost-saving contract concessions in talks starting as
long as five years before AMR’s Nov. 29 Chapter 11 filing.  “Employees are a foundational issue,” said Deborah Volpe,
president of the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA at the
former America West. “If you don’t take care of the foundation,
then everything else tends to crumble eventually.”  Airline’s View  John McDonald, a US Airways spokesman, said a nondisclosure
agreement signed with AMR to review financial data prevents the
company from discussing a potential merger with its own unions.
US Airways has reached labor accords with eight work groups
since the combination with America West, he said.  “The idea that management is unable to come to agreements
with unions is a fallacy,” McDonald said in an interview.  US Airways, the fifth-biggest U.S. airline, hasn’t made a
formal bid for No. 3 American because that carrier holds the
exclusive right to file a reorganization plan. A combined
airline would be the world’s largest by traffic.  US Airways has said its strategy would require fewer job
reductions than American’s plan, which at one point called for
eliminating as many as 13,000 positions. AMR CEO Tom Horton has
told employees his stand-alone strategy would create a stronger
airline and is paring the cuts in negotiations.  Hummel said AMR creditors and  bondholders  already concerned
with labor strife at that airline would have to weigh the
prospects for a merger that would combine three workforces,
counting Fort Worth, Texas-based American’s and US Airways’
still-separate union groups.  ‘Can’t Believe’  “I can’t believe anyone would be interested in investing
in a company knowing that 30,000-plus employees of US Airways
and 80,000 employees of American combined would be in
disarray,” said Hummel, who like Volpe spoke in an interview
after the meeting with management. Volpe wasn’t at that session.  US Airways has more than doubled this year on speculation
that an AMR merger would succeed. The shares fell 3.2 percent to
$11.97 yesterday at the close in New York, for only the second
decline in the past 10 trading days.  AMR had about 77,900 employees as of Sept. 30, according to
an airline statement, while US Airways’ workforce totaled
30,845. Pilots and flight attendants at the smaller carrier
continue working under separate contracts from counterparts at
America West seven years after the merger that brought US
Airways out of bankruptcy.  Bargaining with pilots has been mired in a union legal
battle over how seniority lists at US Airways and America West
would be combined. US Airways has maintained that the pilots
must resolve that issue before a contract can be negotiated.  The Association of Flight Attendants rejected a tentative
contract agreement with US Airways last month for a second time,
by a vote of 51 percent to 49 percent. The 6,700-member union
plans to hold a strike authorization vote starting Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  