-- EDF Sues Veolia for Parity Ownership of Dalkia as Chiefs Clash
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-26T12:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/veolia-says-edf-lawsuit-over-dalkia-ownership-lacks-merit.html
Electricite de France SA  sued  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE) , the world’s biggest water company, over the
right to own 50 percent of their Dalkia energy-services
business, heightening tensions between the utilities’ chiefs.  Veolia plans to “strongly oppose” EDF’s suit, saying it’s
without merit, according to a statement today from the water
utility. “EDF lost its right to increase its ownership in the
capital of Dalkia in 2005.”  EDF said 50-50 ownership of Dalkia by the two utilities was
part of a December 2000 agreement, while “several” attempts to
put it in place failed, according to its own statement.  EDF and Veolia said last year they were in discussions
about the future shareholding of Dalkia, which has contracts for
heating and cooling office buildings and hospitals. Veolia owns
66 percent of Dalkia in  France , and EDF holds the rest. Veolia
Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said in March the company
was building an industrial partnership with EDF and changes
within the shareholding of Dalkia may follow. EDF CEO Henri Proglio said Nov. 8 that ownership may become 50-50, which
Frerot confirmed a month later. Veolia would have operational
control of the venture, Frerot said.  The lawsuit, filed Oct. 22, is the latest sign of friction
between Frerot and Proglio, who resigned from Veolia’s board
earlier this month. Proglio, who spent most of his career at
Veolia, working his way up to chairman and CEO, now heads state-
controlled EDF,  Europe ’s biggest power generator and the owner
of a 3.9 percent stake in Veolia.  Original Principles  In recent months, Veolia held talks on a possible tie up
with Suez Environnement, which is 34 percent owned by EDF’s
competitor  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the former French gas monopoly,
according to three people with knowledge of the discussions. The
two utilities said Oct. 21 that a merger isn’t planned. GDF Suez
also has energy services businesses that compete with Dalkia.  Two weeks before EDF filed the lawsuit, Veolia said Proglio
had resigned from the board.  EDF and Veolia don’t break out results for Dalkia, which
reported 8.3 billion euros ($10.7 billion) in revenue last year,
according to its  website . EDF bought 34 percent of Dalkia in
June 2000.  For antitrust reasons in France, where EDF was the power
monopoly, EDF wasn’t granted management control of Dalkia
operations in France although it shares 50-50 control outside
the domestic market.  Veolia has pledged to sell billions of euros of assets and
pull out of dozens of countries in a bid to lower debt and
reverse losses.  Frerot earlier this year reshuffled the Veolia board, which
in February backed the slimming down of the utility and Frerot’s
position at the helm. This came after reports in the French
press that Proglio had tried to garner support for Frerot’s
ouster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  