-- Virgin Atlantic in Advanced Alliance Talks, Branson Say
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-10-26T14:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/virgin-atlantic-in-advanced-alliance-talks-branson-say.html
Virgin Atlantic, the airline
controlled by U.K. billionaire Richard Branson, is in “fairly
advanced talks” to join an aviation alliance as the carrier
seeks to boost its competitive position and restore earnings.  “Virgin Atlantic has always enjoyed its independence, but
since pretty well every competitor that we have has an alliance
I think we have finally decided that to survive we need to have
an alliance,” Branson said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Mumbai today. He declined to name the group the
London-based airline is speaking with.  The carrier is struggling to become profitable amid a
management change while confronting shifts in industry tie-ups,
rising fuel prices and the global economic slowdown. Deals this
month have included Qatar Airways Ltd. joining British Airways’
Oneworld alliance,  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  ending a 17-year
partnership with British Airways to cooperate with Emirates, and
SkyTeam alliance co-leader  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  forging sales
links with Etihad Airways.  “I’d say it would be 60-40 in favor of SkyTeam” as the
potential Virgin Atlantic partner, Robin Byde, a London-based
analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald International, said in a phone
interview. The U.K. carrier’s routes to the Caribbean, U.S. and
Asia may “tip them in favor of the SkyTeam alliance more than
Star,” the group led by  United Airlines (UAL)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG (LHA) , which already has a route network serving those markets.  Carrier’s Control  Branson has said since early 2011 that Virgin Atlantic is
looking at joining a global alliance, though he wouldn’t
consider a deal that involved him giving up control of the
airline.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , a Star Alliance member, owns
49 percent of Virgin Atlantic.  The billionaire has lobbied antitrust regulators for more
than a decade in an unsuccessful effort to stop British Airways
from cooperating more closely with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Airlines, the U.S. co-leader of Oneworld, on trans-Atlantic
routes.  “There’s a degree of bad blood between Virgin and British
Airways and that would rule out that alliance,” said Byde of
Cantor Fitzgerald.  The agreement reached between Paris-based Air France, Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad and  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  is only a so-called code-
sharing accord allowing joint seat sales on some routes, and
doesn’t bring the Persian Gulf or German carriers into SkyTeam.
Air Berlin joined Oneworld in March. Etihad declined early this
month to comment on its strategy toward SkyTeam.  Order Delay  Virgin Atlantic posted a loss of 80.2 million pounds ($129
million) for the year ended February, and has delayed adding
bigger planes. It’s seeking a successor for Chief Executive
Officer Steve Ridgway, 61, who retires early next year after 11
years in the post.  The new CEO may be chosen before the Dec. 25 Christmas
holiday, Ridgway said in an interview in  India , where he and
Branson were attending ceremonies today marking the resumption
Oct. 28 of Virgin Atlantic’s Mumbai- London  route.  The airline, which flies from the British capital’s
Heathrow and Gatwick airports as well as from Manchester,
 England , is considering U.K. routes to other Indian destinations
such as Hyderabad, Goa and Bangalore, Branson said at a press
conference in Mumbai.  The Virgin Atlantic brand “is massive, but the airline is
relatively small,”  Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles
Stanley Securities, said in an interview in London. “There’s a
distinct lack of scale.”  Reaching an alliance agreement “will definitely strengthen
Virgin,” Branson said. “It will be good for the traveling
public and good for Virgin Atlantic’s bottom line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in Mumbai via 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  