-- Vivendi’s Credit Rating Affirmed by S&P Amid Review of Portfolio
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-26T11:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/vivendi-s-credit-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-amid-review-of-portfolio.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s debt rating was
reaffirmed by Standard and Poor’s, which expects the group’s
management will keep a lid on debt as it reviews its asset
portfolio and options for a reorganization.  S&P had said in July that it may cut Vivendi’s BBB long-
term rating within three months depending on the outcome of the
group’s strategy review. The negative outlook on the company
today reflects the possibility of a downgrade by one level
within the next two years, S&P said.  The ratings agency said Vivendi’s key financial metrics are
likely to deteriorate within limits allowing the company to keep
its rating, the second-lowest investment grade.  “We believe that management is committed to preserving our
current rating,” S&P said in an e-mailed statement. “Any large
asset disposals would likely be accompanied by significant debt
reduction and a material strengthening of the group’s financial
risk profile.”  The cost of insuring Vivendi bonds using credit-default
swaps jumped more than 2 basis points, or 1.4 percent, to 172
basis points following the statement. The price of the swaps has
surged 22 percent since Sept. 19, according to Bloomberg data.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  A representative for the Paris-based group said this was
good news for the company.  With Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou pledging to overhaul
Vivendi’s unique telecommunications-to-media structure, the
group is exploring options for its assets. Fourtou has attempted
finding buyers for its video-game unit  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
and has hired banks to explore a sale of phone companies Maroc
Telecom in Morocco and GVT in  Brazil , according to people
familiar with the matter.  Shares of Vivendi were unchanged at 15.77 euros at 1:12
p.m. in Paris trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  