-- Vodafone Makes U.K. Front Pages as Newspapers Cede to Ads
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-26T12:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/vodafone-takes-over-u-k-front-pages-ahead-of-ee-4g-sales-start.html
British newspaper readers have to
move to page three today to find the front-page headlines.  The parlous finances of local newspapers and the strength
of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  were thrust in readers’ faces this morning
with advertisements in the phone company’s signature red
occupying entire front pages. The wrapper-style covers of the
Telegraph, the Guardian and the Independent proclaim the quality
of a faster network the operator is building.  The newspapers ceded their most prominent section to an
advertising client as they try to increase revenue with new
marketing methods to counter a decline in print readership amid
a shift of readers to Web publications. The print circulation of
Britain’s national newspapers slumped about 9 percent in
September from a year earlier and advertising clients are
cutting spending amid the  European debt crisis .  “It’s a reflection of the commercial reality today, the
editor is totally superseded by the commercial director,’ said
 Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at  Panmure Gordon & Co.  in
London. ‘‘What Vodafone is doing today wouldn’t have happened 10
or 15 years ago, but circulations were 20 percent higher.”  Vodafone’s ads, asking customers to wait for the start of
its fourth-generation wireless network as competitor  EE  will be
able to offer that service earlier, read “After being voted the
best network, there’s only one way to go. Better.”  Declining Value  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO) , which publishes the Daily
Mail newspaper, dropped 10.4 percent in the last two years
through yesterday, Daily Mirror publisher  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) 
slumped 42 percent and Johnston Press Plc, which owns more than
230 U.K. publications, fell 24 percent. In the same period,
Vodafone gained 2.9 percent while the British FTSE 100 benchmark
index rose 0.9 percent. The Telegraph, the Guardian and the
Independent are published by closely held companies.  British newspapers, including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s London-based
Times, already sold front-page ads to Olympic sponsors this
summer.  “If one of the U.K.’s biggest companies comes along and
offers you millions of pounds for your front page, you’re going
to take it,” DeGroote said.  Today’s ads allowed Vodafone, the world’s biggest mobile
operator behind  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , to prominently advertise the
Mobile Choice Consumer Awards, which said that the operator had
been voted the best network by readers earlier this month.  EE, the No. 1 wireless company in the U.K., will begin
selling its faster 4G offering in 10 cities on Oct. 30. Vodafone
and others had tried to prevent EE from offering the service
before they were able to secure the spectrum they need to offer
their own. An auction of spectrum suitable for 4G traffic will
be held early next year and Vodafone may be able to offer the
service by the middle of 2013.  ‘Still Relevant’  EE, the U.K. mobile-phone venture of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , is starting its own ad campaign featuring
the actor  Kevin Bacon , which will appear during prime-time TV
music competition X-Factor on Nov. 30.  To counter the slump in print revenue and circulation,
newspapers have also been expanding their Internet offerings.
Still, online ads generate less money for most publishers than
their print counterparts.  As a result, newspapers are increasingly charging online
users for content by putting up paywalls around some or all of
their stories on the Web, a bid to offset the loss of
advertising dollars to Internet companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Charging Online  Pearson Plc (PSON)  said in July that the digital subscribers to
its Financial Times newspaper surpassed its print customers for
the first time. The business publication was one of the first
major newspapers to offer a metered payment plan. While some
articles are available for free, readers need a subscription for
unlimited access.  In the U.K.,  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. introduced online
paywalls at the Times and News of The World newspapers and
removed all news content from Google’s search engine.  Newspapers, which still get the bulk of revenues from
advertising, are also under pressure as companies cut marketing
spending amid the European debt crisis.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the third-largest advertising company,
today reported third-quarter sales that missed analysts’
estimates, citing a “sudden downturn” in ad spending in
European economies. Britain’s  WPP Plc (WPP) , the largest advertising
company, yesterday slashed its full-year sales growth target for
the second time in two months.  Douglas McCabe , an analyst with Enders Analysis, said that
the Vodafone campaign shows that newspapers are still relevant
for marketers and indicates how publications need to offer new
formats to attract advertising.  “Newspapers remain incredibly powerful as a tactical
advertising vehicle,” he said in an interview. Vodafone’s
campaign “would be described as a compromise in editorial
rooms, but as a very good use of real estate by sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  