-- WDH Falls as Nordea Sees Competition Squeeze: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-26T09:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/wdh-falls-as-nordea-sees-competition-squeeze-copenhagen-mover.html
William Demant Holding A/S (WDH)  fell to
the lowest price in five weeks in Copenhagen after Nordea Equity
Research said the biggest Nordic hearing-aid maker may fail to
reach its goal of winning market share.  WDH fell as much as 1.2 percent to 511 kroner, the lowest
since Sept. 20. The stock declined 1.1 percent to 511.50 kroner
at 10:46 a.m. in the Danish capital with 28,813 shares traded.
Daily trade has  averaged  74,363 shares in the past six months.  WDH needs to sell more low-cost hearing aids to reach its
goal of winning market share, Nordea said. Yet the company faces
 competition  in the low-end segment from market leader  Sonova
Holding AG (SOON) , which is stepping up its range of more affordable
products, according to the bank. Nordea published its report
after attending a hearing aid congress this week in  Frankfurt ,
where industry leaders including Sonova and WDH were
represented.  WDH’s focus on cheaper hearing aids will hurt
profitability, Nordea said. The bank repeated a hold
recommendation on the Smoerum, Denmark-based company.  “We continue to expect fierce competition and price
pressure for the company in upcoming quarters, until a new
product is launched in the first quarter of 2013,” Soeren V. Holm Soerensen, an analyst at Nordea in Copenhagen, said in the
note. “We find it difficult for the company to gain significant
market share in the wholesale business before new products are
brought to the market.”  UBS AG removed WDH from its list of most preferred stocks
today, three weeks after adding the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  