-- Wells Fargo Loses Bid to Force Arbitration on Overdrafts
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-26T15:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/wells-fargo-loses-bid-to-force-arbitration-on-overdrafts.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, lost a bid to force the arbitration of customer
disputes about overdraft fees.  The bank can’t force arbitration after twice waiving its
right to do so, the U.S. Appeals Court based in Atlanta ruled
today, denying the bank’s motion to dismiss a class-action
lawsuit.  The court found that the bank put the customers through a
litigation process that lasted years and yielded about 900,000
documents before asserting its right to force the customers to
arbitrate their dispute.  “We’re disappointed with the ruling,” Richele Messick, a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. The
company will continue to defend its position in the litigation,
she said.  Customers have sued more than 30 banks claiming they
reordered overdrafts to maximize fees.  Bank of America Corp. 
agreed to pay $410 million last year to settle customer claims
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  reached a preliminary agreement in
February to pay $110 million to resolve a lawsuit. A suit
against other banks is pending in federal court in Miami.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , declined a trial
court’s offer to arbitrate the disputes in November 2009 and
April 2010. The company filed a motion to dismiss five proposed
class-action, or group, lawsuits two days after the  Supreme
Court  ruled in April that federal law allows companies to compel
customers and employees to arbitrate claims individually,
trumping state laws that may bar such provisions.  ‘Substantial Prejudice’  Before the Supreme Court ruling, laws in some states made
arbitration provisions that contained class-action waivers
unenforceable, the bank said.  Wells Fargo acted “inconsistently” with the arbitration
right, the appeals court said.  “If we were to compel arbitration, the plaintiffs would
suffer substantial prejudice,” the court said.  The appeals case is Garcia v. Wachovia, 11-16029,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Eleventh Circuit. The trial court case
is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation, 09-md-02036,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  