-- Wen Jiabao Family Linked to Billions in Assets, NYT Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-26T07:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/wen-jiabao-s-family-linked-to-billions-in-assets-nyt-reports.html
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s
extended family has controlled assets worth at least $2.7
billion, the  New York  Times reported, citing corporate and
regulatory records and unidentified people familiar with the
family’s investments.  Among them is a holding in the name of Wen’s mother, Yang
Zhiyun, in  Ping An Insurance Co. (2318)  that was valued at $120 million
in 2007, the newspaper reported, citing public records,
government-issued  identity cards  and an ownership trail to three
investment entities. Cecile Zhang, a public relations official
at Ping An, said she couldn’t immediately comment, and Ping An
spokesman Sheng Ruisheng didn’t answer a call to his mobile
phone.  Wen’s son, Winston, founded private equity firm New Horizon
Capital, which has returned about $430 million to investors, a
fourfold profit, since it began operations in 2005, the
newspaper reported, citing SBI Holdings, a unit of  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  Winston Wen has handed over day-to-day operations of the
fund, according to the report. Horizon Capital didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “Relevant press reports are intended to tarnish  China ’s
image and have ulterior motives,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Hong Lei said at a briefing in Beijing today.  Diamond Companies  Wen’s wife, Zhang Beili, has through her management of
state diamond companies helped relatives build a billion-dollar
portfolio of investments in insurance, technology and real
estate ventures, the newspaper reported.  The  New York Times (NYT)  found no holdings in Premier Wen’s name
and no evidence that he used his political clout to influence
the holdings, the report said.  After the story was published the Chinese government
blocked access to the New York Times’s Chinese-language website
in China and intermittently to its English-language website, the
newspaper reported in a separate article.  Asked why the newspaper’s websites were blocked, Hong said
China governs the Internet “according to laws and
regulations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  