-- Wheat Climbs on Demand for U.S. Supplies; Corn, Soy Gain
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-26T18:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/wheat-climbs-on-demand-for-u-s-supplies-corn-soy-gain.html
Corn fell for the fifth straight
session, the longest slump since August, on signs of slowing
demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s biggest producer.
Soybeans and wheat also declined.  In the week ended Oct. 18, export sales of corn totaled
142,331 metric tons, down 58 percent from a year earlier,  data 
yesterday from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  showed. Total
sales commitments are 48 percent below the same pace a year
earlier. U.S.  production  of ethanol since Sept. 1 was below the
average of the past two years, Energy Department data show.  “Overseas demand, ethanol production and domestic feed
demand are all shrinking,”  Mark Schultz , the chief analyst for
Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in  Minneapolis , said in a
telephone interview. “There is little end-user interest in corn
because no one is making a profit producing meat or fuel.”  Corn futures for delivery in December declined 0.3 percent
to $7.3975 a bushel at 1:13 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade,
heading for the longest slump since Aug. 28. The price dropped
2.6 percent during the previous four days and is down 13 percent
from the record of $8.49 on Aug. 10.  Soybean futures for January delivery slid 0.3 percent to
$15.61 a bushel on the CBOT. A close at that price would still
mark a gain of 1.6 percent this week on increased overseas
demand for supplies from the U.S., the biggest producer.  Corn and soybeans also fell on forecasts for rain next week
in northern and eastern Brazil, boosting soil moisture for
planting this year’s crop, Northstar’s Schultz. Drier weather
next week may firm muddy fields for  farm equipment  and
accelerate delayed planting in northern  Argentina  and southern
Brazil, Schultz said.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 0.9 percent to
$8.65 a bushel in Chicago. A close at that price would leave the
grain down 0.8 percent this week, after rising 1.8 percent last
week.  Corn is the most valuable U.S. crop, followed by soybeans,
hay and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  