-- Woongjin Coway Advances as Sale to MBK to Proceed: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-10-26T07:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/woongjin-coway-advances-as-sale-to-mbk-to-proceed-seoul-mover.html
Woongjin Coway Co. (021240) , a South Korean
water-purifier maker, jumped to a one-month high in Seoul stock
trading after its parent and creditors agreed to stick with a
plan to sell a controlling stake to MBK Partners Ltd.  Woongjin Coway rose 12 percent to 39,800 won, the highest
closing price since Sept. 26., at the end of trading on the
Korea Exchange today.  Woongjin Holdings Co. (016880) , Coway’s biggest
shareholder, jumped by the daily limit of 15 percent. The
benchmark  Kospi index  fell 1.7 percent.  Woongjin Holdings, its creditors and MBK yesterday agreed
that Woongjin Holdings will proceed with an August contract to
sell MBK a 31 percent stake in Coway, Kim Hee Joong, a judge at
the Seoul Central District Court, said by phone today. Woongjin
Holdings had halted the 1.2 trillion won ($1 billion) sale after
it and a unit sought  bankruptcy protection  last month.  “The anticipation that new management will bring changes
and remove uncertainties in the business will also bring
positive sentiment to Coway shares,” Lee Sang Koo, a Seoul-
based analyst at Hyundai Securities Co. wrote in a report today.
The sale may be completed in early 2013, Lee said.  The details of the Coway sale will be discussed later and
creditors had agreed to cooperate for a revival of Woongjin
Holdings in yesterday’s hearing, according to Kim, the Seoul
Central District Court judge. The court on Oct. 11 approved
court receivership for Woongjin Holdings and its Kukdong
Engineering & Construction Co. unit. Woongjin is selling Coway
as part of a plan to cut debt.  Coway’s affiliates also climbed.  Woongjin Energy Co. (103130)  gained
2.6 percent and Woongjin Chemical Co. rose 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  