-- World Financial Center Renamed in Brookfield Tenant Shift
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-26T18:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/world-financial-center-renamed-in-brookfield-tenant-shift.html
Lower  Manhattan ’s World Financial
Center, the 8 million-square-foot complex near the  Hudson River ,
will soon have a new identity as owner  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO)  seeks to attract a shifting mix of tenants.  By late next year, the property will be known as Brookfield
Place, said Mitchell Rudin, the company’s president of U.S.
commercial operations. The landlord has already started the
process, with its  website  referring to the new name under the
current one.  The change reflects the smaller role finance plays in lower
Manhattan as Brookfield faces vacancies at the site.  Bank of
America Corp.  is leaving almost 3 million square feet (279,000
square meters) inherited with its 2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch
& Co., which was based at the property. Its leases expire next
year in what Green Street Advisors Inc.’s  Michael Knott  calls a
“perfect real estate storm” because it coincides with two new
towers at the nearby World Trade Center becoming available and a
broader slowdown in leasing by financial firms.  “We’ve seen many tenants in media, entertainment, law,
consumer products, in addition to seeing tenants in the
financial sector,” Rudin said in a telephone interview. “The
non-financial tenants have indicated to varying degrees that it
was not appealing to be in a complex that was denominated
financial. So we decided to accommodate that.”  Merrill, Lehman  The World Financial Center, built in the 1980s, was
designed by Cesar Pelli to accommodate top global finance firms.
Besides Merrill, it was also home to Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. until the 2001 terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center
heavily damaged the company’s offices at 3 World Financial
Center. The now-defunct investment bank moved to Midtown.
 American Express Co. (AXP)  remains headquartered at the complex.  Brookfield, which owns office buildings in the U.S.,
 London , Australia and its original home in  Canada , has started a
rebranding campaign that reflects “the changing demographics of
lower Manhattan and the companies and industries relocating to
the area,” according to a memo to employees.  Information technology and media have been the most
aggressive customers of  Manhattan office space . They accounted
for 23 percent of leasing volume in the third quarter, compared
with only 11 percent for financial services, according to a
report by Cresa, a brokerage that that represents tenants. Banks
and financial firms have announced about 60,000 job cuts
worldwide this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Altering Space  Knott, a REIT  analyst  with  Newport Beach , California-based
Green Street, estimated that it may cost Brookfield about $70 a
square foot to alter and subdivide the former Merrill offices to
make them more compatible to non-financial tenants. That’s
probably going to be more than the annual  rent  it can achieve,
he said. Asking rents averaged $61 a square foot in the trade
Center/financial center submarket in the third quarter,
according to a report by brokerage Newmark Grubb Knight Frank.  “Getting ‘financial’ out of the name is smart, but it’s
not a silver bullet,” Knott said. “The leasing task in front
of them remains monumental.”  The new name has been well-received so far, Rudin said.  “We had a terrific broker event, we had several hundred
senior members of the brokerage community here, and everyone
that raised the issue thought it was absolutely the right thing
to do,” he said. “It eliminates a hurdle for some of them at
least as they’d been thinking about the now-World Financial
Center for their non-financial tenants.”  More Companies  Though they intend to accommodate some smaller tenants,
“we’re not going to be changing the inherent nature of the
complex in terms of size,” Rudin said. He estimated that the 3
million square feet will eventually be filled by companies that
number in the “high single digits.”  The Brookfield Place logo will start going up around the
complex gradually over the next year, and will culminate when
the company opens the new entry pavilion on West Street to the
Winter Garden atrium, when the current name will be “retired,”
according to the memo. Brookfield is spending about $250 million
remaking the retail concourse, adding waterfront dining, a
gourmet food marketplace, and high-end fashion shops.  Along with the renaming of the complex, the individual
buildings will be known instead by their street addresses, the
memo said. One World Financial will be called 200 Liberty St., 2
World Financial will be 225 Liberty, 3 World Financial will be
200 Vesey St. and 4 World Financial -- Merrill’s former
headquarters -- will be 250 Vesey.  Toronto, Australia  The company already has Brookfield Places in Toronto and
Perth,  Australia .  Toronto’s Brookfield Place , a 2.6 million-
square-foot, two-tower property, is the home of the Hockey Hall
of Fame.  Rudin said he’d put the financial center’s “buzz up any
day” against midtown south, the area between Midtown and lower
Manhattan where demand from technology, media, fashion and
advertising firms has driven vacancy rates to the lowest in the
U.S. The mix of vintage buildings both to live and work in,
restaurants, parks and nightclubs has made the area attractive
to so-called creative firms, said Robert Stella, senior vice
president of Cresa New York.  The soon-to-be Brookfield Place has all those attractions,
along with proximity to the Hudson River, Rudin said. It also
offers Arts Brookfield, a year-round series of free performances
and exhibits that have included parts of the River to River and
Tribeca Film festivals. It’s surrounded by a community of high-
rise apartment buildings known as Battery Park City.  Outdoor Appeal  “It’s not only what the buildings look like but the
environment that surrounds it,” Rudin said. “You find people
running in the morning or after work, getting on their bikes,
getting on a skateboard, taking a yoga class outside. Where else
can you do that on the water but here?”  Technology and creative firms will inevitably have to
consider spaces like the ones Brookfield has to offer, Stella
said. The company has the “deep pockets” to accommodate a wide
range of tenants, he said.  “Midtown south, much as everybody likes it, doesn’t have
enough space to accommodate the demand,” he said. If landlords
in the area “ keep raising the price, other places are going to
look more attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  