-- LyondellBasell to Pay Dividends More Often After Gas Boom
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-26T20:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/lyondellbasell-to-pay-dividends-more-often-as-shale-boosts-cash.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
biggest maker of polypropylene plastic, plans to pay special
dividends more often as a boom in U.S. natural gas production
reduces costs and helps generate excess cash.  A special dividend of $2.75 a share will be paid on Nov. 15
along with the quarterly 40-cent dividend, Rotterdam-based
LyondellBasell said in a statement today. The company plans to
pay more frequent, possibly smaller, special dividends and it
may also buy back shares, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jim Gallogly said on a conference call.  “Assuming that the results remain strong and we’re fully
funding our growth plans, we intend to return cash to
shareholders in a periodic fashion, perhaps in varied amounts
and more frequent intervals,” Gallogly said on the call. “We
like a strong balance sheet, but we have shown very clearly that
we will return value to our shareholders.”  U.S. gas production is expected to increase 29 percent from
2010 to 2035 because of shale output, according to the  Energy
Information Administration . LyondellBasell is benefiting from
shale-gas extraction that has boosted supplies of natural gas
liquids used to make polypropylene resins for bottle caps, car
parts and textiles.  The company’s cash balance surged 80 percent to $3.55
billion during the third quarter, according to a  presentation 
posted on its website today. The company is expected to boost
its regular dividend 25 percent next year, according to a
 Bloomberg forecast .  Share repurchases may occur after Jan. 1 because of a
change in the company’s tax treatment under Dutch law, Gallogly
said on the call from Houston, where the company’s operational
headquarters is located.  Olefins Profit  Operating profit in the U.S. olefins unit, which makes
polyethylene and polypropylene, rose 23 percent in the quarter,
the company said in a separate statement today. About 15 percent
of U.S. plastics output was exported, mostly to  Latin America ,
Gallogly said on the call.  Net income in the third quarter fell 5.7 percent to $844
million, or $1.46 a share, from $895 million, or $1.51, a year
earlier, the company said. A narrower profit margin from the
European olefins unit, where oil-derived naphtha is the main raw
material, contributed to the decline.  LyondellBasell is taking “a much harder look” at
structuring some of its U.S. ethylene assets as a master-limited
partnership after a recent Internal Revenue Service ruling,
Gallogly said. The tax treatment, common in the pipeline
industry, generally eliminates income taxes at the corporate
level.  “We’ll take some time to develop a firmer opinion as to
whether this opportunity can be executed by us to the benefit of
shareholders,” Gallogly said on the call.  Ethylene Production  Gallogly also announced plans to boost annual U.S.
production of ethylene by about 250 million pounds in
Channelview,  Texas . A larger expansion at  Corpus Christi , Texas,
will be detailed later, Gallogly said on the call. The
expansions are in addition to a 50 percent increase at an
ethylene plant in LaPorte, Texas, and other projects announced
last year.  Capital spending  will increase to about $1.5 billion next
year and in 2014, from $1.2 billion this year, he said.  LyondellBasell rose 0.7 percent to $53.75 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 66 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  