-- ThyssenKrupp Said to Ask for New Bids for Americas Plants
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-10-26T16:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-26/thyssenkrupp-said-to-ask-for-new-bids-for-americas-plants.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, has asked companies to resubmit offers for its
unprofitable Americas unit after original bids were deemed too
low, according to people familiar with the matter.  Interested bidders must hand in new bids to the Essen-based
company by the deadline today, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because talks are private. ThyssenKrupp is seeking
at least the $9 billion book value of the plants in the U.S. and
 Brazil  to avoid writedowns, they said.  ThyssenKrupp attracted about eight initial bids for its
U.S. and Brazilian plants at the end of September, people
familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Posco (005490) ,
 ArcelorMittal (MT) ,  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) ,  JFE Holdings
Inc. (5411) ,  Nucor Corp. (NUE) ,  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) ,  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional
SA (SID)  and  Ternium SA (TX)  handed in indicative offers for one or both of
the locations, they said at the time.  Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, declined to
provide details or comment on the process.  European and North American steel firms are looking to cut
costs and sell assets amid competition from Asian players like
 China ’s  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019)  Chinese Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  is overseeing a $23 billion investment in new mills to
stimulate automaking and housing in the world’s second-largest
economy, where growth has slowed this year.  ThyssenKrupp said in May that a sale of its Alabama and Rio
de Janeiro state plants is among “strategic options” as it
grappled with the rising costs. Heinrich Hiesinger,
ThyssenKrupp’s chief executive officer, said in August he wants
to sell the unit for its book value of at least $9 billion.  The plants may fetch $3 billion to $5 billion, the people
said earlier this month. Steel Americas’ adjusted loss before
interest and taxes grew to 778 million euros ($1 billion) in the
first nine months of the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 as
production costs outstripped expectations amid sluggish steel
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  