-- About 40 ETFs Are Halted During Volatility Brake Implementation
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-08-19T22:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/about-40-etfs-are-halted-during-volatility-brake-implementation.html
Trading was briefly halted today in
about 40 exchange-traded funds and notes when the securities
were added to a program aimed at curbing sudden price swings.  Most of the ETNs and ETFs trade so seldom that there
probably wouldn’t have been any transactions even if they hadn’t
been halted, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They were set off
during  implementation  of the protocol known as limit up/limit
down that pauses securities when bid-ask spreads become too
wide, according to NYSE Euronext.  “It is typical for small stocks that don’t trade very
often to have very wide spreads,” James Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University ’s business school in
 Washington , said in a telephone interview. Market makers “are
not going to quote a narrow spread because they’re going to have
trouble trading out of the position,” he said.  Exchanges have occasionally urged regulators to slow the
adoption of limit up/limit down, which replaces the old price-based system of halts known as circuit breakers, so that its
effect on trading can be studied. Regulators have sought ways of
reducing swings in securities since the May 2010 flash crash
that briefly sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down almost
1,000 points.  Initial Phase  “The rollout of limit-up/limit-down is in its initial
phase” for ETFs and ETNs, Katrina Clay, an NYSE spokeswoman,
wrote in an e-mail today. “We will continue to work within
established guidelines, and explore with regulators and other
markets to address this and other market structure issues going
forward.”  The securities were listed on NYSE Arca and halted between
9:30 and 10:30 a.m. in New York today. Among them, the ProShares
German Sovereign/Sub-Sovereign ETF, tracking the performance of
a gauge of German government debt, traded an average of 528
shares a day this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The AdvisorShare Pring Turner Business Cycle ETF is an asset
allocation fund with about 2,500 shares changing hands each day.  The old system of circuit breakers halted trading for five
minutes when the price of a stock or ETF moved 10 percent in
five minutes.  Under the limit-up/limit-down system, trades aren’t allowed
to take place more than a specified percentage above or below
the average price over the preceding five-minute period. If
prices don’t move away from the specified limits within 15
seconds, the listing market declares a trading pause of five
minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  