-- Abu Dhabi’s First Gulf Bank to Hire as It Boosts Asia Growth
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-19T10:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/abu-dhabi-s-first-gulf-bank-to-hire-as-it-boosts-asia-growth-2-.html
First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the United
Arab Emirates’ third-biggest bank, said it’s planning new hires
for its investment banking business and is seeking to double the
share of profit from its international unit in five years.  The Abu Dhabi-based lender, which has two mandates to
arrange initial public offerings for local companies, will hire
bankers in mergers and acquisitions, debt and  equity capital
markets , Chief Executive Officer Andre Sayegh said in an
interview yesterday. The lender also plans new offices in South
Korea, China and Indonesia over the next 18 months as it seeks
to raise the contribution of international business to profit to
the “teens or more” from 5 percent last year, he said.  First Gulf Bank in March hired Simon Penney, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s CEO for the Middle East and Africa, as head
of its wholesale banking business to boost growth. The lender is
among several  Abu Dhabi  banks expanding overseas as a local
population of 8.3 million restricts growth at home and local
companies expand their trade and investments abroad.  First Gulf Bank aims to “provide more value” to companies
through its investment banking services such as helping them
access capital markets, risk-hedging and Islamic banking, Sayegh
said. “I expect more listings to happen probably starting next
year and to be even encouraged by the government.”  Benchmark Index  Abu Dhabi’s  benchmark share index  has jumped 48 percent
this year and Dubai’s 64 percent, fueling expectations of a
revival of local IPO activity after the financial crisis curbed
investor appetite for offerings. Stock markets in the U.A.E. and
neighboring Qatar were upgraded to emerging-market status in
June by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , triggering speculation that foreign investors
will channel more money into these oil-rich countries.  First Gulf Bank rose 0.6 percent to close at 17.1 dirhams
in Abu Dhabi today, bringing the surge for the year to 47
percent.  First Gulf Bank in July reported second-quarter profit rose
15 percent to 1.17 billion dirhams ($319 million), the second-highest in the U.A.E. after  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC .
Borrowings by companies and consumers helped boost lending 7.4
percent in the first half and the bank expects to maintain the
“same momentum of growth” over this year, Sayegh said.  Net Interest Margin  First Gulf Bank’s net interest margin, the difference
between what the bank earns on loans and investments and what it
pays on deposits and debt, narrowed by 0.04 percentage points in
the second quarter to 3.6 percent. The decline in local  interest
rates  over the last two months will result in “mild pressure”
on the interest margin as the bank plans to expand its retail
and small- and medium-enterprise businesses, which traditionally
carry higher yields, Sayegh said.  The U.A.E. has the biggest banking market in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, which also includes  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar. Fifty-one commercial banks operate in the country,
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Citigroup Inc.  First Gulf Bank in June bought Dubai First, a consumer loan
and credit card company, for 601 million dirhams from Dubai
Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by Dubai’s ruler. First
Gulf Bank managed the deal itself, Sayegh said.  The bank, controlled by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, already
has a presence in Singapore, India,  Hong Kong , Qatar and  Libya ,
Sayegh said. The lender has avoided overseas acquisitions and
usually begins by setting up representative offices in new
markets and upgrading them to full branch status.  “It’s very important to position yourself where the trade
links are,” Sayegh said. “It’s important to be in this belt of
London, U.A.E., Qatar, India and the Asia-Pacific. That’s very
important for financial exchange and for trade.”  Other U.A.E. lenders which have announced expansion plans
include  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest
Shariah-compliant bank, which said this month it had applied for
licenses in Algeria and Libya while top-ranked  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) 
bought a bank in  Egypt  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  