-- AIG Tops MetLife in Annuity Sales First Time Since 2008
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-19T20:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/aig-tops-metlife-in-annuity-sales-first-time-since-2008.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
topped  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in U.S. annuity sales for the first time
since 2008 as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  regains
market share lost by his predecessors in the financial crisis.  AIG sold $3.9 billion of the retirement products in the
second quarter, while MetLife’s figure was $3.1 billion,
according to  data  today from industry group Limra. London-based
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s Jackson National was the top provider, with
$6.4 billion of sales. The industrywide total fell to $56.5
billion from $57.3 billion a year earlier.  Benmosche is increasing sales to consumers at New York-based AIG after repaying a government bailout last year. At
MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, CEO Steve Kandarian is
scaling back from capital-intensive businesses such as annuities
while focusing on growth in  emerging markets  and from accident
and health products.  “Variable-annuity sales continue to be strong as others
struggle with what to do with that business,” Benmosche, 69,
said on a conference call with analysts this month.  Annuities can help retirees secure a stream of lifetime
income. In variable annuities, account values can change based
on fluctuations in stocks and bonds, and some insurers sold the
contracts with a guarantee that the values would rise over time.  Those promises burned insurers when  stocks crashed  in the
financial crisis, and companies including  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Sun Life Financial Inc. have retreated
from the business.  ‘Strategic Shift’  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the No. 2 seller of individual
annuities last year, fell to sixth in the three months ended
June 30, with sales of $2.6 billion. The  Newark , New Jersey-based company reduced some guarantees on the products to help
margins, Prudential Vice Chairman Mark Grier said on a
conference call with analysts.  MetLife was the No. 3 seller of annuities in 2012 and fell
to No. 5 in the second quarter. The New York-based company has
cut benefits on new products and scaled back its adviser force
by a third.  “This quarter’s results reflect the continuation of our
strategic shift away from capital-intensive market-sensitive
products,” Kandarian said on a conference call with analysts
this month to discuss second-quarter earnings.  MetLife slipped 1.4 percent to $47.61 at 4:03 p.m. in New
York. The company has rallied 45 percent this year, compared
with the 31 percent gain at AIG.  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  jumped from the No. 5 seller last
year to No. 2 in the second quarter, with sales of $4.6 billion.  Risk Control  AIG cut some guarantees tied to its variable annuities
beginning in 2010, and sold fewer of the policies in the past
than some rivals, said Jay Wintrob, CEO of AIG’s life insurance
unit.  “The combination of a relatively small legacy block and
enhanced risk control in our current features has allowed us to
capitalize on opportunities when competitors have chosen, or
been forced, to pull back,” Wintrob said on the Aug. 2
conference call with analysts.  Once the world’s largest insurer, AIG was leading in U.S.
annuity sales for the first nine months of 2008 before the
company was hobbled by losses on mortgage bets. In the third
quarter of that year, AIG posted $5 billion, compared with $4.5
billion at MetLife.  In September 2008, AIG received a U.S. bailout that swelled
to as much as $182.3 billion. The insurer repaid taxpayers in
December 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 Dkraut2@bloomberg.net  