-- Amec Makes Approach for Kentz to Expand in Oilfield Services
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-08-19T16:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/amec-offers-to-buy-kentz-to-expand-oilfield-services-business.html
Amec Plc (AMEC) , a U.K. oil engineering
company, made an approach to buy  Kentz Corp. (KENZ)  for as much as 680
million pounds ($1.1 billion) to expand its energy construction
and services business.  The offer at 565 pence to 580 pence a share was rejected by
Kentz, Amec said today in a statement. Kentz  surged  24 percent
to a record 591 pence by the close in London, valuing it at 696
million pounds. Amec was little changed at 1,085 pence.  Kentz, based in Tipperary, Ireland, received interest from
several potential buyers, three people familiar with the matter
said. Buying Kentz would give Amec, with a market value of 3.2
billion pounds, expertise in the liquefied natural gas business,
said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at VSA Capital Ltd. in London.  “It makes a huge amount of sense for Amec to do such a
deal,” Youngson said. “Amec wants to get more involved in the
LNG business and buying Kentz would help it achieve that.”  Kentz said Amec’s offer undervalues the company and it
isn’t considering others after rejecting a lower bid from M+W
Group GmbH. Kentz hired UBS AG and Investec Plc as advisers.  A bid at 700 pence would probably be taken seriously, said
Youngson, who has a buy recommendation on Kentz’s stock.  Amec said buying Kentz would boost its presence in growth
areas, expand its range of services and bolster its position in
mining, oil and gas. Chief Executive Officer Samir Brikho said
Aug. 8 that he sees growth in the  North Sea ,  Gulf of Mexico , and
 Middle East . He’s targeting earnings per share of 100 pence by
next year, compared with the 82 pence last year.  The company must say whether it will make a firm offer for
Kentz by 5 p.m. on Sept. 16, according to U.K. trading rules.  Kentz this month won long-term contracts in southern Africa
and is involved with LNG projects in Australia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  