-- Hamptons Scene: Clintons, Perry, Lampert, Harris, Schmidt
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/hamptons-scene-clintons-perry-lampert-harris-schmidt.html
Bill and Hillary Clinton stopped by
the Sagaponack General Store yesterday as  Eric Schmidt ,
executive chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , settled into brunch at
CittaNuova in East Hampton, paging through real-estate ads over
eggs.  On Saturday, the former president dropped by the Artists
and Writers Softball Game (the artists won), and went to a party
with his wife in Wainscott.  Saturday night was also the second part of the Paddle &
Party for Pink fundraiser for the Breast Cancer Research
Foundation, with the evening’s guests gathering at the North
Haven home of Richard Perry, president of Perry Partners LP, and
his wife, fashion designer Lisa Perry.  Joshua Harris of Apollo Management Holdings LP said he’d
done a triathlon in the morning. Also present were Jonathan Gray
of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , and Marc Lipschultz of  KKR & Co. (KKR)   Gary Cohn, president of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , brought
his house guest,  New York  Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira.  Edward Lampert, chairman and chief executive of Sears
Holding Corp., chatted with fellow Goldman Sachs alumnus Richard
Perry, chairman of Barneys New York.  Lampert’s wife, Kinga, who wore a hot-pink Lisa Perry
dress, is co-chairman of the Breast Cancer Research Foundation.
The fundraiser, in its second year, started with paddle races in
the morning. More than 500 guests attended the party, raising
$1.2 million, about double last year’s total.  Laird Hamilton  A big draw was surfer Laird Hamilton, who made the trip
from Malibu with his wife, volleyball Olympian Gabrielle Reece,
and their children.  Hamilton, based in  Hawaii , agreed with Lars Svanberg,
president of East Hampton-based Main Beach Surf and Sport, that
Long Island is a haven for stand-up paddling.  “You guys have an incredible amount of coastline,”
Hamilton said. “What you lack in grand surf you make up for in
the fun of exploration.”  Hamilton was on the water to help paddlers during the race.
Some of his advice: Keep the board straight and go for deep,
short strokes rather than long, shallow ones.  Racers included David Wassong, managing director at Soros
Fund Management LLC, and Maria Baum, co-owner of Tutto Il Giorno
in Sag Harbor, whose experience paddling during breast-cancer
treatment and recovery led to the creation of the Paddle & Party
for Pink. Baum got to wear a diamond necklace by event sponsor
Leviev.  Board Painting  Artist Lisa Pevaroff-Cohn completed the 6-mile course. At
the party she got a kiss from her husband in front of a paddle
board featuring a painting of hers. Thom Filicia and Aerin
Lauder also decorated boards that are up for auction on
CharityBuzz.com until Tuesday at 1:30 p.m.  In one of the dozens of mini-living rooms composed of white
lounge chairs on the Perry lawn, Cohn hung out with female
partners at Goldman including Stacy Bash-Polley and Michele Docharty. A big reveal: his favorite food in the Hamptons is
corn on the cob.  Cohn, rather than racing, volunteered at Havens Beach,
helping people get into the water and cheering a lot.  Guests danced as surf rocker Tom Curren performed. Ann
Tenenbaum, co-founder of Curren’s record label, Wolfbomb
Productions, was one of them.  Martha Stewart, in blue, said she paddles and sails, and
that Saturday had been a “gorgeous” day to do both.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 