-- Manchester City Beats Newcastle to Close Premier League Openers
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-19T23:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/manchester-city-beats-newcastle-to-close-premier-league-openers.html
Manchester City beat Newcastle
United 4-0 to give manager Manuel Pellegrini a winning start in
the Premier League and complete the opening round of matches.  David Silva  and  Sergio Aguero  scored in the first 22
minutes at City’s Etihad Stadium last night. Yaya Toure and
Samir Nasri added second-half goals after Newcastle’s  Steven Taylor  was shown the red card just before the break for striking
Aguero’s head during an aerial challenge.  City, which won the English soccer championship in 2012,
signed four players at a cost of about 87 million pounds ($136
million) and hired Pellegrini to replace the fired Roberto Mancini after it failed to win a major trophy last season.  “It’s a very good start but I was very confident that the
team would play well, we worked very hard during preseason,”
Pellegrini said in a news conference. “We were trying another
style of football and maybe we must continue to improve but for
the first match, it was good.”  City went ahead in the sixth minute when Silva headed in
Edin Dzeko’s cross and Aguero doubled the lead 16 minutes later
by steering a shot past Newcastle goalkeeper  Tim Krul .  Toure marked his 100th Premier League appearance by curling
in a 50th-minute free kick and Nasri completed the scoring with
15 minutes remaining. It was City’s eighth straight league win
against the Magpies.  City tops the standings after the opening matches on goal
difference from defending champion  Manchester United , which won
4-1 at Swansea three days ago. Arsenal was upset 3-1 at home by
Aston Villa, and there were 1-0 wins for Liverpool, Fulham and
Southampton. West Ham defeated promoted Cardiff 2-0 and Norwich
drew 2-2 with Everton.  Two days ago, Chelsea beat Hull City 2-0 to give manager
Jose Mourinho victory in his first league game since returning
to the London club and Tottenham Hotspur won 1-0 at Crystal
Palace.  Chelsea hosts  Aston Villa  tomorrow in a match rescheduled
because of the Blues’ participation in the UEFA Super Cup
against  Bayern Munich  on Aug. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  