-- Maoist Death Threat Stymies $2 Billion Project: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-08-20T03:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/maoist-death-threat-stymies-2-billion-project-corporate-india.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , which is
building two electricity plants in eastern  India  at a cost of $2
billion, halted all work following death threats from Maoist
guerillas against developing an adjoining coal mine.  “Our people are mortally scared to go into the area,”
Managing Director Ravi Uppal said in an interview in New Delhi,
where the company controlled by billionaire lawmaker Naveen Jindal is based. “We’ve asked the government for security.
We’ll not move ahead unless our safety is guaranteed.”  Halting the projects in the eastern state of Jharkhand
jeopardizes Jindal’s plan to increase generation capacity more
than tenfold in seven years and underscores the risk the Maoists
pose to industry. The rebels are adding to challenges Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  faces as he tackles the slowest pace of
economic growth in a decade, the rupee’s plunge to a record and
an unprecedented current-account deficit.  The rebels, who have waged a war against the government
from dense forests, draw support from villagers who believe they
have a natural right to the  mineral resources  lying beneath
their habitat. Singh has called Maoists the greatest threat to
India. In May, about 300 armed rebels killed 27 people including
senior leaders of Singh’s ruling Congress.  ‘Step by Step’  “Risks to coal availability and the depressing business
atmosphere are making the company cautious,” said Giriraj Daga,
an analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai, who halted
covering the stock last month. “The economic slowdown looks
very real now and it’s wise to move step by step.”  Jindal  shares  fell as much as 2.6 percent to 213.30 rupees
and traded at 216 rupees as of 9:20 a.m. in Mumbai. The shares
have declined 52 percent this year, compared with a 7.3 percent
retreat in the key  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   The Maoists’ campaign is threatening to derail Singh’s push
to boost power generation in a nation where outages lower
factory output and deprive more than half its population of
education and healthcare. Average peak power supply lagged
demand by 6 percent in the four months to July 31, according to
data from the Central Electricity Authority, a unit of the
federal power ministry.  Last month, the Maoists killed five policemen in Jharkhand,
including the head of the police in the district where Jindal is
building one of the coal-fired plants. The two plants were
planned to have a combined capacity of 2,640 megawatts.  Mine Allocations  The Maoist death threats come amid probes by India’s top
investigating body into allocations of coal mines to Jindal and
its rivals. Jindal is among the biggest beneficiaries of a
policy that gave away coal mines without auctions, a plan that
may have cost the government 1.86 trillion rupees ($30 billion),
according to a report by the state auditor last year.  “These controversies have distracted us, they have set us
back,” Uppal said. “We’ve been dragged into this while we were
trying to put all our energy into the projects.”  The Central Bureau of Investigations raided Jindal’s
offices across the nation and Chairman Naveen Jindal’s residence
in  New Delhi  on June 11. It will question  Naveen Jindal after
the monsoon session of parliament ends on Aug. 30, The Economic
Times said Aug. 19.  “This is an ongoing CBI investigation into coal block
allocations,” Manu Kapoor, the head of external affairs at
Jindal, said in a June 11 e-mailed statement. “JSPL is
committed to fully cooperate with the CBI.”  Cut Spending  Slowing demand for steel, raw material shortages and
difficulties in executing projects prompted Jindal to scale back
its capital spending plans in the two years to March 2015 by 40
percent. The company will spend 120 billion rupees in the period,
compared with an earlier plan of 200 billion rupees, Chief
Financial Officer K. Rajagopal said July 31.  The company will also slow expansion of its steel plant at
Angul in the eastern state of Odisha after struggling to obtain
coal and iron-ore mining permits. The mill, India’s first to use
thermal coal to make steel, went on stream this month and is
awaiting permits for a  coal mine  for almost a year after
completing regulatory formalities.  “We won’t proceed with a project unless we have all
clearances in black and white,” Uppal said.  The company is considering  buying back shares  from the
public to shore up the price and a plan may be announced by Sept.
15, he said.  “The share buyback plan is one way to tell the investors
that we believe in what we are doing,” Uppal said. “We’re
doing everything that’s in our hands -- improving efficiency,
cutting costs, expanding markets and innovating.”  Net Debt  Last week, Uppal met some investors and pledged not to
allow Jindal’s net debt-equity ratio breach 1.5 at any time, he
said. The company had a net debt of 255 billion rupees as of
June 30, which may climb to 300 billion rupees by March,
according to Rajagopal. Limiting  capital spending  will help the
company keep its debt at a manageable level at a time when
earnings are sliding, Nirmal Bang’s Daga said.  Jindal last month reported its lowest quarterly profit in a
year for the three months ended June 30 following a drop in
steel and power prices and non-cash foreign exchange losses on
overseas debt caused by the weakening of the rupee. The currency
sank 2.3 percent to 63.1300 per dollar in Mumbai yesterday after
touching an unprecedented 63.2300 intraday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg from local banks.  The challenges at home have prompted Jindal to increase its
earnings from overseas, expand its businesses and boost exports.
The company is seeking coal and iron ore mines in  Africa  and
 Australia  and is considering setting up a number of 300
megawatt-power plants in Africa. The company expects revenue
from exports and overseas businesses to rise to 35 percent of
the total in two years from 25 percent.  “We have to expand where we see value,” Uppal said.
“There’re enormous challenges of doing business in India today.
The government must act as if there is no tomorrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  