-- Marathon’s Richards Sees TXU Debt Restructuring Before November
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-19T19:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/marathon-s-richards-sees-txu-debt-restructuring-before-november.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s
October and November interest payments on its $43.6 billion of
total debt will prompt the former TXU Corp. to restructure,
according to Marathon Asset Management LP’s Bruce Richards.  The Dallas-based power company that was taken private by
KKR & Co. and TPG Capital six years ago in the largest leveraged
buyout in history will have to make about $270 million in
 interest payments  Nov. 1 on two of its unsecured bonds.  “The company is asset-rich with a valuable business that
will most probably require a restructuring sometime before the
end of the year,” Marathon Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Richards said today in a telephone interview. Coupon
payments in October and November may prompt the restructuring,
he said in a separate interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle .  Marathon, which is based in New York and has about $10
billion in assets, owns some Energy Future debt. Adam McGill, a
spokesman for Dallas-based Energy Future, declined to comment.  The power company  reported  a $71 million loss for the three
months ended June 30, its 10th straight unprofitable quarter.
Wholesale electricity rates have dropped as natural gas prices
declined about 75 percent from a July 2008 high.  Energy Future has interest payments due Nov. 1 on its $1.83
billion of 10.25 percent unsecured bonds due 2015 and the $1.75
billion 10.5 percent notes due 2016, according to the
prospectuses for those securities. The debentures due 2015
traded at 6.5 cents on the dollar Aug. 12, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Forced Bankruptcy  Richards forecast a filing before in Bloomberg TV
appearances in May and December.  “You’re going to see names like TXU in the next year
probably file for bankruptcy and be forced to restructure,” he
said on Market Makers on Dec. 4.  Marathon was founded in 1998 and specializes in global
credit, including high-yield, bank, distressed and emerging-market bonds, along with structured finance, debt transactions
and real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  