-- U.S. Stocks Rise as Treasuries Gain While Dollar Weakens
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-08-20T20:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/asian-futures-fall-as-wti-drops-amid-treasury-yield-surge.html
U.S. stocks rose, snapping a four-day slump and halting a global slide, as retailers gained after
reporting better-than-estimated earnings. Ten-year Treasury
yields retreated from the highest levels since 2011 and the
dollar weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to
1,652.35 by 4 p.m. in New York, rebounding from a six-week low
as more than four stocks gained for each that fell. The MSCI
All-Country World Index slipped 0.2 percent, paring a drop of as
much as 0.7 percent, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.8
percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index tumbled 1.4 percent.
Ten-year Treasury yields slid 6.4 basis points to 2.82 percent
while oil slipped 2 percent. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index 
retreated 0.3 percent, snapping a two-day advance.  Best Buy Co., Urban Outfitters Inc. and TJX Cos. led gains
in the  S&P 500  after earnings beat estimates. Investors withdrew
$8.4 billion from emerging-market exchange-traded funds this
year as weakening economies from  India  to  Indonesia  fueled
pessimism in markets already concerned the  Federal Reserve  will
start cutting bond purchases in September. The central bank
publishes minutes of its July meeting tomorrow.  “We had some pretty good retail earnings, it just shows
the consumer is not dead and that things are moving in the right
direction,”  Frank Ingarra , head trader at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a
phone interview. His firm manages about $1.7 billion. “Everyone
is still focused on Fed tapering. We remain cautiously bullish
with pretty full exposure to stocks.”  Market Movers  Benefits of more bond purchases “are likely to be
negligible,” Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in an
interview in Richmond Times-Dispatch newspaper Aug. 18.  Retailers in the S&P 500 rallied 1.2 percent as a group as
28 of 32 companies advanced. Best Buy jumped 13 percent after
posting results that exceeded projections and its largest
quarterly profit in more than two years. J.C. Penney Co. added 6
percent amid signs the company’s sales slide is slowing and
after  Bloomberg News  reported that a person familiar with the
matter said hedge-fund manager J. Kyle Bass is betting on a
comeback by the company in credit markets.  Urban Outfitters jumped 8.2 percent after earnings-per-share beat estimates by 6.7 percent and Wedbush Securities Inc.
raised its rating on the stock.  Zillow Inc. (Z)  dropped 4.8 percent
after the operator of the largest U.S. real-estate website
announced a share sale.  About four shares declined for each that advanced in the
Stoxx 600.  CRH Plc (CRH)  sank 2.2 percent in  London  after the cement
maker cut its second-half  earnings guidance , citing weak demand
from the euro region. HeidelbergCement AG lost 2.5 percent. John
Wood Group Plc, a U.K. oil-services provider active in Africa
and the  Middle East , tumbled 8 percent after cutting the profit
outlook at its engineering division.  European Movers  Glencore Xstrata Plc dropped 1.6 percent in London trading
after writing down $7.7 billion of assets acquired in the
Xstrata Plc takeover three months ago. GSW Immobilien AG rallied
6.3 percent in Frankfurt after Deutsche Wohnen AG offered to buy
Berlin’s biggest publicly traded residential landlord in an all-share transaction. Deutsche Wohnen fell 4.7 percent.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a fourth day and
reached the lowest level since July 10. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  slid
2.9 percent. Benchmark gauges in  Brazil , South Korea, Malaysia
and Thailand dropped at least 1.5 percent.  Emerging Markets  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell for the first time in 10 days,
snapping its longest rally since August 2010, as commodity
producers tumbled.  The Jakarta Composite Index sank 3.2 percent, extending a
four-day slide to 11 percent. Indonesia’s current-account
deficit widened to a record last quarter and the economy grew
less than 6 percent for the first time since 2010 in the second
quarter, data showed this month.  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities lost 0.6 percent as
West Texas Intermediate oil declined to $104.96 a barrel.  Brent
crude  added 0.2 percent to $110.15. Soybeans fell 1 percent and
corn dropped 2.1 percent on prospects for bigger crop harvests
this year.  Treasury yields retreated after reaching almost 2.90
percent yesterday, the highest level since July 2011.  Price swings as measured by the Merrill Lynch Option
Volatility Estimate MOVE Index climbed to 99.48 yesterday, the
highest level since July 9. The average for 2013 is 68.  Yen Rebounds  The yen strengthened for the first time in three days
against the dollar on increased demand for the relative safety
of the Japanese currency. The yen appreciated 0.3 percent to
97.26 per dollar. The euro added 0.6 percent to $1.3420.  Australia’s dollar fell for a second day, following its
biggest drop this month, after the central bank said the
currency’s direction will be important in determining policy.
New Zealand’s dollar tumbled 1.1 percent against the dollar
after the country’s central bank chief said it will impose bank
lending restrictions, reducing the need for interest-rate
increases. Norway’s krone slid as a report showed the economy
expanded less than analysts estimated in the second quarter.  Australia’s currency dropped 0.4 percent to 90.72 U.S.
cents. New Zealand’s dollar slid to 79.8 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  