-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Drop, Led by Emerging Markets
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-19T10:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/asian-stocks-fall-for-third-day-as-raw-materials-lead-declines.html
Asian  stocks outside Japan  fell for
a third day as a retreat in emerging markets dragged the
regional equities gauge to its lowest level in a week. Japan’s
Topix index gained amid low trading volume.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. dropped 3.6 percent after saying
two workers were exposed to dangerous radiation at its crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactor.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  sank 14
percent as sales missed analyst estimates and Australia’s No. 1
steel producer forecast a weaker first half of the financial
year.  JX Holdings Inc. (5020)  gained 4 percent after Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. advised buying the Japanese
refiner’s shares.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  fell 0.9
percent to 442.97 as of 7:25 p.m. in Tokyo, with all 10 industry
groups on the gauge dropping. The measure has lagged an increase
in U.S. stocks this year as growth slows in China and
speculation that the Federal Reserve will curb bond buying
spurred investors to sell risk assets across Asia and  emerging
markets . The Federal Open Market Committe’s July meeting minutes
are scheduled to be released on Aug. 21.  “The market’s going to be watching the FOMC minutes this
week to see if there’s any more indication in regards to
potential of tapering in September, which is what we’re
currently predicting,” Martin Lakos, a Sydney-based director at
Macquarie Private Wealth, told Bloomberg TV. “There are still
some concerns that a big move in QE will be disruptive.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index has dropped 5
percent this year,  lagging  a 16 percent surge in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional gauge
that includes  Japan , slid 0.4 percent today. It traded at 13
times estimated earnings through Aug. 16, compared with 15 for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 index and 13.9 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Topix index rose 0.6 percent, reversing a decline
of 0.4 percent, with trading volume 43 percent below its 30-day
average. Japanese exports increased 12.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, data showed today, less than the 12.8 percent
estimated by economists. Imports jumped 19.6 percent.  The Topix gained 34 percent this year, the world’s best-performing developed equity market, amid optimism Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe will push through reforms while the central bank
provides record stimulus to spur an economic recovery. Daily
trading volume on the gauge fell to the lowest this year on Aug.
12 and remained near that level throughout last week as
investors took summer vacations.  Regional Gauges  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi
index lost 0.1 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index slipped
0.8 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index slid 0.3 percent.
 Thailand ’s SET Index slid 3.3 percent and  Indonesia ’s Jakarta
Stock Exchange Composite Index plunged 5.6 percent.  India ’s S&P
BSE Sensex Index retreated 1.6 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.2 percent as property
developers retreated. China’s Shanghai Composite gained 0.8
percent.  Chinese stocks were roiled Aug. 16 by a trading error at
Everbright Securities Co. that spurred a 53 percent surge in
volume and a swing of more than 6 percent in the Shanghai
Composite Index. Erroneous buy orders from Everbright’s
proprietary trading group sparked the early rally, the
securities regulator said.  China Property  China ’s new home prices rose in July for a third month in
all but one city, led by gains in the biggest metropolitan
centers on anticipation the government will focus on a longer-term housing plan rather than immediate curbs.  Country Garden Holdings Co. dropped 2.6 percent to HK$4.91
in Hong Kong, pacing losses among Chinese developers.  “If prices rise too quickly, it does encourage the
mainland authorities to come back with some policy measures to
try to cool the market,” Andrew Lawrence, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., told Bloomberg TV. “This
rise in prices will concern investors with regards to policy
responses.”  Huaneng Power International Co. (902) , the unit of the mainland’s
largest electricity producer, tumbled 9.4 percent to HK$7.70,
leading utilities lower in Hong Kong. Chongqing Times reported
China may cut electricity prices as soon as this October, citing
unidentified people close to National Development & Reform
Commission.  Futures on the S&P 500 were little changed today. The U.S.
gauge capped its biggest weekly drop in almost two months on
Aug. 16 as investors weighed data showing housing starts climbed
in July while a gauge of  consumer confidence  fell.  Tepco Radiation  Tokyo Electric Power retreated 3.6 percent to 622 yen. Two
workers at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant were exposed to
radiation today near a quake-resistant building, after the
radioactivity alarm of a dust monitor went off, according to an
e-mailed statement from the utility.  Bluescope tumbled 14 percent to A$4.70 after forecasting
profit this half won’t beat the preceding six months.  JX Holdings advanced 4 percent to 547 yen in Tokyo.
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley upgraded the shares to outperform
from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  