-- Balfour Beatty Rises as U.K. Construction Rebounds: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-08-19T11:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/balfour-beatty-rises-as-u-k-construction-rebounds-london-mover.html
Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY) , Britain’s
largest construction company, had the biggest two-day gain in
five years after Deutsche Bank said a recovery in the U.K. and a
solid U.S. market will boost earnings in the next two years.  Balfour’s order intake will “remain at a good level,
supporting margins and working capital inflow,” Manu Rimpela, a
London-based analyst at the bank, said in an Aug. 16 note. He
raised his recommendation to buy from hold, and increased his
price prediction 27 percent to 280 pence.  Shares of the London-based company, which builds structures
from Hong Kong viaducts to U.S. college buildings, rose as much
as 3.4 percent and were up 2.5 percent at 251.8 pence at 11:24
a.m. That took the two-day gain to 11 percent, the most since
December 2008.  The U.K. Purchasing Managers Index for construction jumped
to 57 in July from 51 in June, the highest since June 2010 and
ahead of the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. Construction
data show “clear signs of pickup” in the U.K., Rimpela said.  Balfour’s advance came less than a week after it reported a
67 percent drop in first-half operating profit led by weaker
performance in the U.K. and  Australia . That prompted the stock
to drop 6.8 percent on Aug. 14. Chief Executive Officer Andrew McNaughton said the U.S. will be the  biggest  part of the
business in 2014.  “By no means were first-half results good, but we believe
they marked the earnings trough,” Rimpela said. Balfour has a
“sustainable” dividend yield of 6 percent, supported by
disposals including the sale of facility management business
WorkPlace, that offers protection to investors, he said.  Of the 16  analysts  who share recommendations on Balfour
with Bloomberg, five have buy recommendations, while six
advocate holding the shares and five advise selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  