-- Banks Dump Treasuries for Loans as Yields Jump: Chart
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-19T04:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/banks-dump-treasuries-for-loans-as-yields-jump-chart.html
U.S. commercial banks are dumping
Treasuries at the fastest pace in a decade and boosting loans,
helping make the debt securities the world’s worst performers as
the economy gains momentum.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows banks’ holdings of U.S. Treasury
and agency debt tumbled $34.7 billion to $1.81 trillion in July,
the biggest monthly decline in 10 years, according to the
 Federal Reserve . The level dropped to $1.79 trillion in the
first week of August, Fed data showed on Aug. 16. Also tracked
are 30-year bond yields climbing to a two-year high. The lower
panel records commercial and industrial loans as they surged to
$1.57 trillion, the highest since 2008.  Bank sales of Treasuries accelerated after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 policy makers may
reduce the bond-buying program they use to support the economy.
Concern the Fed will trim its $85 billion a month of Treasury
and mortgage purchases helped send notes and bonds due in a
decade or longer down 11 percent in the past 12 months. It was
the biggest loss of 174 debt indexes tracked by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  “Banks are holding lots and lots of Treasuries,” said Ali Jalai, who trades the securities at Scotiabank in Singapore, a
unit of  Canada ’s  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of the 21 primary
dealers that deal directly with the U.S. central bank. “As loan
demand picks up, they’re going to reduce their Treasuries.
Tapering fear has caused banks and individuals to reduce some of
their bond holdings.”  Yields (USGG30YR)  on 30-year bonds rose to 3.88 percent today, the
highest level in two years. Gross domestic product grew an
annualized 1.7 percent in the second quarter, accelerating from
1.1 percent in the first, based on Commerce Department figures.
The recovery will strengthen to 2.7 percent next year, a
Bloomberg News survey of economists showed.  The Fed will begin to reduce bond purchases next month,
according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from
Aug. 9-13. Investors and analysts will be looking for clues on
Aug. 21 in the minutes of the central bank’s most recent
meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  