-- Barcelona Opens League Title Defense With 7-0 Rout; Real Rallies
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-08-19T00:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/barcelona-opens-league-title-defense-with-7-0-rout-real-rallies.html
Barcelona opened the defense of its
Spanish soccer title under new coach Gerardo Martino by routing
Levante 7-0, while Real Madrid rallied to give Carlo Ancelotti a
winning start with a 2-1 victory against Real Betis.  Barca got six goals in the first half at its Camp Nou
stadium yesterday as  Lionel Messi  scored twice and  Alexis Sanchez ,  Dani Alves , Pedro Rodriguez and  Xavi Hernandez  added
the others. Pedro closed the scoring in the second half, while
new signing Neymar made his league debut as a substitute.  Isco scored with four minutes left in his Real Madrid debut
to secure the home win in Ancelotti’s first league game as
coach. Jorge Molina had put Betis ahead before Karim Benzema
tied it. Atletico Madrid, which hosts Barcelona in the Spanish
Super Cup opener in two days, won 3-1 at Sevilla last night.  In Germany, Borussia Dortmund had a 2-1 win over promoted
Eintracht Braunschweig yesterday with goals from Jonas Hofmann
and Marco Reus. Dortmund tops the Bundesliga with six points
through two games alongside Bayer Leverkusen,  Bayern Munich ,
Mainz and Werder Bremen.  Bayern won 1-0 at Eintracht Frankfurt two days ago and
Leverkusen won by the same score at Stuttgart.  In France, champion Paris Saint-Germain’s 64 million euro-($85.2 million) signing Edinson Cavani scored with four minutes
remaining to secure a 1-1 home draw against Ajaccio.  Emmanuel Riviere grabbed a hat trick and Radamel Falcao
added a penalty kick as promoted Monaco beat Montpellier 4-1 at
home. Monaco joined Lyon, Marseille and Saint-Etienne in winning
its opening two games in Ligue 1.  Ajax, seeking its fourth straight Dutch league title, had a
2-1 win over Feyenoord with two goals by Kolbeinn Sigthorsson.  Carlos Tevez marked his competitive debut for Juventus with
a goal as the Serie A champion routed Lazio 4-0 in the Italian
Super Cup in Rome. The league season starts next weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 