-- Barnes & Noble Spat With Simon & Schuster Resolved
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-08-19T23:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/barnes-noble-spat-with-simon-schuster-resolved.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, has settled a dispute with  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s
Simon & Schuster book-publishing unit that may end shortages of
certain titles at the retailer’s stores.  Barnes & Noble and Simon & Schuster “have resolved their
outstanding business issues,” the companies said in an e-mailed
statement today distributed by Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for
the book publisher. “They look forward to promoting great books
by Simon & Schuster authors.”  Details of the settlement weren’t disclosed. The companies
have fought since January over issues including store promotions
and e-book discounting in a fray that has led to shortages of
Simon & Schuster books at Barnes & Noble stores, the  Wall Street
Journal  reported.  Barnes & Noble is considering splitting up its businesses
after Chairman and founder  Leonard Riggio  said in February that
he planned to make an offer for its 680 stores and website. The
company also created a digital-media division last year with the
possible goal of spinning it off.  Simon & Schuster is among publishers that filed an
objection in U.S. federal court on Aug. 7 to the government’s
bid to force Apple Inc. to terminate existing contracts with
them. They claimed the government’s proposal would punish them
by forcing Apple to find new ways of making deals with
publishers to distribute e-books.  The publishers had previously settled an antitrust lawsuit
with the U.S. Justice Department over pricing of electronic
books.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for New York-based Barnes
& Noble, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  