-- Baseball Asks Rodriguez Lawyer to Allow Release of Drug Evidence
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/baseball-asks-rodriguez-s-lawyer-to-allow-disclosure-of-evidence.html
Major League Baseball  asked Alex Rodriguez’s lawyer to allow the release of evidence that led to
the three-time Most Valuable Player’s 211-game drug suspension.  MLB released a letter yesterday from Executive Vice
President of Economics and League Affairs  Rob Manfred  addressed
to Joseph Tacopina, the lawyer for the  New York  Yankees’ third
baseman, asking him to waive confidentiality provisions in the
sport’s joint drug agreement. That would allow the disclosure of
information and documents regarding Rodriguez’s drug-testing
history, test results and evidence regarding his use of banned
substances, Manfred said.  Rodriguez is playing as he appeals the suspension, the
longest performance-enhancing drug ban in baseball history. He
has acknowledged taking performance-enhancing drugs as a member
of the  Texas Rangers  from 2001 to 2003, and denied any use after
that.  Tacopina said yesterday in a statement that he couldn’t
sign the proposal from Manfred without the MLB players union
being a party. He said Manfred’s letter was never delivered to
his office, and called it a “cheap publicity stunt.”  “It’s nothing but a theatrical trap hoping I would sign,
knowing that I couldn’t, and in fact, would have me breaching
the JDA agreement if I did,” Tacopina said in the e-mailed
statement.  Both Manfred’s letter and Tacopina’s letter accused the
other side of already breaching the confidentiality provisions.  ‘Today’ Delivery  Tacopina said on NBC’s “Today” show that he would “love
nothing more” than to talk about some details of the case that
he isn’t allowed to disclose, including Rodriguez’s testing
history and the scientific evidence. When told of the letter on
the air, he declined to say whether he would accept Manfred’s
proposal.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said when he announced the
discipline on Aug. 5 that Rodriguez used testosterone and human
growth hormone over “multiple years” and tried to “obstruct
and frustrate” baseball’s investigation. Manfred’s letter makes
specific reference to releasing evidence regarding the 14-time
All-Star’s attempts to interfere with investigators.  The letter also mentions evidence of Rodriguez’s treatment
by Anthony Bosch, founder of the Biogenesis of America anti-aging clinic in  Coral Gables ,  Florida , at the center of the
case, and Victor Conte, who was sentenced to four months jail
time in 2005 after pleading guilty to  money laundering  and
conspiracy to distribute steroids.  Rodriguez is in the sixth season of a 10-year, $275 million
contract, the largest in baseball. He was activated from the
disabled list the day the suspension was announced and has hit
.319 with two home runs in 12 games this season.  Tacopina also said on NBC that the evidence against
Rodriguez wouldn’t be enough to uphold the suspension in
arbitration. The appeal isn’t expected to conclude until after
the season.  “I know the evidence against  Alex Rodriguez  and I will
tell you this: It will never stand up in a court of law or an
arbitration panel court room,” he said. “Never.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  