-- Blackstone Said to Sell Broadgate Stake for $2.7 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-08-19T20:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/blackstone-said-to-sell-broadgate-stake-for-2-7-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest
manager of private-equity real estate funds, agreed to sell its
50 percent stake in  London ’s Broadgate office complex for more
than 1.7 billion pounds ($2.66 billion), according to two people
with knowledge of the deal.  A sovereign-wealth fund is under contract to acquire the
interest, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the transaction is private. Norway’s government-wealth
fund, which had been in talks to buy the stake, isn’t the
purchaser, one of the people said, declining to identify the
buyer. Blackstone had agreed not to sell the stake for three
years after buying it in a 2009 deal that valued the whole
complex at 2.1 billion pounds.  The New York-based firm also has begun raising a new fund
for European real estate targeted at $5 billion, according to
the people. It would be Blackstone’s fourth for European 
property. The company expects to raise the fund from mostly 
U.S., Middle Eastern and Asian investors, the people said.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment on the property sale and fundraising. The Financial
Times reported the fundraising plans earlier today.  British Land Co. owns the remaining stake in Broadgate. Pip
Wood, a spokeswoman for the London-based company, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call for comment placed after
regular U.K. business hours.  Among Biggest  The sale of Blackstone’s interest in Broadgate “would
certainly be among the biggest office deals” in Europe, said
Dan Fasulo, managing director of New York-based property-research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Broadgate, located in the heart of London’s financial
district, includes 16 office buildings on 30 acres (12
hectares), along with restaurants, pubs, stores and health
clubs, according to British Land’s website. About 30,000 people
work in the complex, which has 4 million square feet (371,600
square meters) and 700,000 square feet under development,
according to the website.  The office complex is about 96 percent occupied, according
to the website.  British Land has said it plans to keep its stake in
Broadgate after Blackstone sells its interest.  “We have a strong vision of how Broadgate will develop as
a vibrant mixed-use estate in the heart of the  City of London 
and expect it to benefit from its position around one of
London’s most important transport hubs,” British Land Chief
Executive Officer Chris Grigg said in a Jan. 29 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  