-- BNDES Said to Be Willing to Let LLX Delay Debt Payment
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-19T20:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/bndes-said-to-be-willing-to-let-llx-delay-debt-payment.html
Brazil ’s development bank will let
LLX Logistica SA, the port operator former billionaire  Eike Batista  is ceding control of, delay a 518 million reais
($214 million) loan payment in September, a government official
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Talks on the details of the debt restructuring are
continuing between the bank, known as BNDES, and Rio de Janeiro-based LLX, and no formal deal has been reached, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the negotiations are
private. BNDES has no plans to call the collateral for the loan
and wants the company to pay as its cash flow permits, the
person said.  LLX has tumbled 29 percent this year as Batista’s
commodities empire collapsed and concern intensified that the
company wouldn’t be able to complete its Acu project, which
Batista said would be the biggest port in the Americas. The debt
deferral is designed to help  LLX (LLXL3)  recover as Batista hands the
company over to a new controlling shareholder, the person said,
adding that BNDES plans to help other Batista companies after
they are sold.  LLX said on Aug. 14 it reached an agreement to sell as much
as 1.3 billion reais of new shares to private-equity fund EIG
Global Energy Partners. Batista will remain a “relevant
shareholder” after the deal, and won’t be part of management,
LLX said.  A BNDES official declined to comment and asked not to be
identified in keeping with bank policy.  LLX is in “advanced” talks with BNDES and Banco Bradesco
SA to renegotiate debt, LLX said in an e-mailed statement today.  The company has a 345 million-real loan with Bradesco due
in February. It said on May 3 it reached a deal with the Sao
Paulo-based bank to extend payment of a separate 467.7 million-real loan due in October 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  