-- Nigerian Says Boko Haram Leader Shekau Is Probably Dead
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-08-20T13:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/boko-haram-leader-is-probably-dead-nigeria-s-military-says.html
Nigeria ’s military said the leader
of the militant Boko Haram group probably died from wounds
sustained in a gun battle with security forces, a development
that could set back its violent campaign to establish an Islamic
state in  Africa ’s largest oil producer.  Abubakar Shekau was injured on June 30 in a clash at
Sambisa Forest in northeastern Nigeria, Sagir Musa, a spokesman
for the military  task force  fighting the Islamists, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday, citing intelligence reports. He
provided no evidence to back up the claim.  “Shekau was mortally wounded in the encounter and was
sneaked into Amitchide, a border community in Cameroon, for
treatment,” Musa said. “Shekau might have died between July 25
and Aug. 3.”  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has carried out gun and bomb attacks
across Nigeria’s mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja,
killing thousands of people since 2009. Nigeria’s more than 160
million people are roughly equally split between Christians,
predominant in the south, and Muslims.  It was the second time in a week that defense officials
announced the death of a senior Boko Haram commander. On Aug.
14, Nigeria’s  Defense Ministry  said the group’s second in
command, Momodu Bama, was killed in clashes with security
forces. Bama’s death “has been confirmed by other arrested
terrorists,” ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade said at the
time. That claim has not been verified independently.  Emergency Rule  “The media should take the claim with a pinch of salt
until the death is independently confirmed,” Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of New York-based DaMina Advisors
LLP, frontier-market analysts, said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. While Shekau’s death would demoralize his
followers and boost the government, Boko Haram will remain
active “for the foreseeable future as the material social-economic conditions which led to its rise and sustains it are
still there,” he said.  Three months ago, President  Goodluck Jonathan  declared a
state of emergency in the northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and
Adamawa and started an air and ground offensive in the outlawed
group’s stronghold. The army appealed to the Islamist fighters
“to lay down their arms and embrace the federal government’s
offer for dialogue.”  French Citizens  In a video e-mailed on Aug. 12, Shekau claimed
responsibility for a series of attacks in Borno and Yobe states
and said the group’s strength hadn’t been dented by a government
campaign against it.  “We have killed countless soldiers and we are going to
kill more,” Shekau said in the video.  The army said in yesterday’s statement that the video was
faked, made “by an impostor to hoodwink sect members to
continue the terrorism and to deceive undiscerning minds.”  Shekau ordered the kidnap of seven French citizens in
neighboring  Cameroon  earlier this year, the bombing of the
United Nations office in Abuja in 2011 and the police
headquarters in the capital in 2009 among scores of attacks,
according to the military statement.  The U.S. government in June offered to pay a reward of as
much as $7 million for information leading to the arrest of
Shekau, whom it named a “Specially Designated Global
Terrorist” in June 2012. Jonathan declared Boko Haram a
terrorist organization on June 5 and said supporters or members
of the group who were caught faced at least 20 years in jail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  