-- Brevan Howard Traders Said to Leave as Fund has June Loss
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-19T06:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/brevan-howard-traders-said-to-leave-as-fund-has-june-loss.html
Two  Brevan Howard  Asset Management
LLP credit traders left in recent weeks, as the firm scales back
after its biggest hedge fund had the worst monthly loss since
2008 in June, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Wayne Leslie, 38, departed less than a year after joining
the London-based hedge fund from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where
he was a managing director responsible for European investment-grade credit trading, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the departures haven’t been made public.
Jason Feasey, 40, who focused on structured credit, had joined
the hedge fund from  Bank of America Corp.  in 2011.  At least a dozen traders have left Brevan Howard,  Europe ’s
second-largest hedge fund firm, since the end of May as the firm
struggles to profit in markets roiled by the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s indication that it may reduce its purchases of fixed-income assets. The Master Fund, which accounts for more than
two-thirds of Brevan’s $40 billion of assets, fell 2.9 percent
in June, its worst month since September 2008. The pool declined
another 0.9 percent in July, cutting gains for the year to 3
percent, a performance report obtained by  Bloomberg News  shows.  “The very successful macro funds run like a prop-trading
unit at a bank in that they farm out money to various people,”
said  Jacob Schmidt , founder of London-based Schmidt Research
Partners Ltd., which carries out due diligence on  hedge funds 
for investors. “It’s a very disciplined exercise where they
give you money if you make money. If you don’t make money, it’s
‘See you later.’”  Trader Exodus  Feasey didn’t respond to messages left on his mobile
telephone. Leslie didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comment.
Officials at Brevan Howard declined to comment.  Caps on bank bonuses and new rules limiting risk-taking
after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. helped
to trigger an exodus of traders from lenders to hedge funds such
as Brevan Howard. The number of traders at the firm jumped by
about 70 percent since 2009 to more than 80 at the start of this
year, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The
firm has since reduced that number to about 70 on concern it had
grown too big too rapidly, the person said.  The departures include people who had only been at the firm
a few months. Milena Todorova and Dan Mirabella had joined
 Brevan Howard in   New York  in May from hedge-fund firm Galtere
Ltd., according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The
pair joined  Louis Bacon ’s $12 billion hedge-fund firm,  Moore
Capital  Management LLC., this month, the person said. Todorova
and Mirabella didn’t respond to voice-mails left on their mobile
phones. A spokesman for Moore Capital declined to comment.  European Rates  Other traders to leave Brevan Howard include Luke Ding, who
managed a currency fund with $570 million of assets, and Richard Armes, a former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director who traded
interest rates, according to people with knowledge of the matter
and corporate filings.  While Brevan Howard’s Master fund is known as a macro hedge
fund that primarily makes wagers on interest rates based on
global macro-economic trends, it also invests in currencies,
stocks, corporate bonds and other assets.  The loss in June stemmed “mainly” from trading  interest
rates , particularly in Europe, the firm said in a July statement
to investors.  The 3 percent gain for Brevan Howard’s Master fund in the
first seven months of the year compares with an average loss of
0.95 percent for  macro hedge funds , according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. Hedge funds broadly have  risen  4.8
percent in 2013, Hedge Fund Research data shows.  Credit Catalysts  Brevan Howard has two other funds focused solely on credit,
including investments in mortgage securities and collateralized
debt obligations. The Brevan Howard Credit Catalysts fund, run
from New York by David Warren, a former head of structured
credit at Morgan Stanley, gained about 6 percent in the first
seven months of this year.  Alan Howard , 49, started Brevan Howard in 2002 with four
traders from  Credit Suisse Group AG’s (CSGN)  proprietary fixed-income
desk. The Master Fund has produced an average gain of about 12
percent per year since it started trading in 2003 and has never
posted an annual loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  