-- Broker Audits Marred by Conflicts of Interest, Watchdog Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-08-19T18:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/broker-audits-marred-by-conflicts-of-interest-watchdog-says.html
The watchdog of U.S. accounting
firms found deficiencies in more than 95 percent of brokerage
audits it reviewed last year, including where auditors were
checking statements prepared by their own firms.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s examination
of 60 broker-dealer audits discovered “troubling” failures,
according to a report issued today on its second interim
inspection program. Some auditors were involved in preparing
financial statements that they also audited, a breach of U.S.
rules, according to the document.  “We’ve got a long ways to go to ensure compliance with the
audit requirements in this area,” said PCAOB member Jay D. Hanson. “It points to a need for the firms we inspected to
really up their game and show a strong desire to improve.”  Created by the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law, the PCAOB was given
responsibility after the financial crisis to inspect auditors of
U.S. brokerages. Congress expanded the watchdog’s authority
after  Bernard Madoff  carried out the biggest Ponzi scheme in
history while using an accounting firm that failed to conduct a
meaningful audit of Madoff’s securities business.  The PCAOB’s review found some audit firms are still having
trouble complying with Securities and Exchange Commission rules
designed to ensure independence from the client that hired them.
The board’s watchdogs found evidence that auditors were involved
in preparing the financial statements in 22 of the 60 audits
inspected by the board.  Brokerage Auditors  Auditors who worked only for brokerages, as opposed to
public companies, were more likely to have erred, the PCAOB
found. The review found 80 percent of audits done by firms that
only audited brokers strayed from independence standards, while
8 percent of auditors who also reviewed public companies made
the error. Under a temporary rule approved in 2011, the board
doesn’t disclose the names of auditors examined in the review.  “Any firm that wants to continue auditing a broker-dealer
has to immediately stop doing that work of preparing the
financial statements,” Hanson said.  While the PCAOB’s review looked at audits by 43 firms, the
board oversees 783 registered accounting firms that audited the
financial statements of at least one brokerage in 2012. More
than 360 of those firms audited just one brokerage, while almost
300 more audited fewer than six brokers.  “Some may choose that it’s not worth it to continue doing
audits of broker-dealers,” Hanson said. “Every firm really
needs to up their investment to make sure they are adequately
complying with the rules.”  The PCAOB’s examination found that 72 percent of audits
failed to sufficiently test a broker’s internal controls for
detecting material accounting weaknesses. In some cases, the
auditor “limited their procedures to inquiries of management”
and didn’t try to corroborate that information, the board’s
report said.  The board also found that 38 percent of the audits it
reviewed failed to adequately test the broker’s compliance with
SEC rules designed to protect customer assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  