-- Bullish Cocoa Bets Reach 10-Month High on West Africa Dryness
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-19T12:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/bullish-cocoa-bets-reach-10-month-high-on-west-africa-dryness.html
Money managers’  bullish bets  on
cocoa traded in London reached a 10-month high as dry weather
threatens to reduce the coming season’s crop in West Africa, the
world’s biggest growing region.  The net-long position totaled 49,567 futures and options
contracts as of Aug. 13, the Commitments of Traders report
published today on the NYSE Liffe exchange’s  website  showed.
That is the highest since Sept. 25 and compares with 46,601
contracts a week earlier. Cocoa for December delivery gained 2.6
percent in the period.  Rains last week remained mostly north of the cocoa belt in
 Ivory Coast  and  Ghana , the world’s two largest producers, MDA
Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said in a report e-mailed on Aug. 16. Dryness continues to stress the development
of the next main cocoa crop, the forecaster said. The coming
season in West Africa starts in October.  “There are still these supply concerns in West Africa due
to weather issues,” Edward de Wismes, an agricultural-futures
broker at Aurel BGC in Paris, said by e-mail today. “The long-only commodity funds have understood that the potential of
profitability is more on cocoa and U.S. cotton than in any other
agricultural products, and that’s why we have this position.”  Sugar, Coffee  In white, or refined, sugar, money managers boosted their
 net-long position  to the highest since Oct. 16, NYSE Liffe data
on Bloomberg showed. The net-long position totaled 9,405 futures
and options in the latest week, from 7,762 contracts a week
earlier. The sweetener rose 3.1 percent in the period.  “White-sugar demand must be even higher than we thought,”
Robin Shaw, an analyst at futures and options brokerage Marex
Spectron Group in London, said in a report e-mailed today.
“White demand this year exceeded last year’s by some 2 to 3
million tons, or maybe more. Not enough of itself to change the
market, but enough to turn 2014 from balanced-to-slight-surplus
to balanced-to-slight-deficit.”  In robusta coffee, money managers’  net-short position , or
bets on lower prices, more than doubled to 670 contracts from
276 lots a week earlier, the data showed. The beans used to make
instant coffee and espresso rose 1.8 percent in the week.  In  feed wheat , money managers reduced their net-short
position to 522 contracts from 590 lots a week earlier. The
grain fell 3 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net  