-- Can China’s Show Trial Show the Way to Reform?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/can-china-s-show-trial-show-the-way-to-reform-.html
When  Bo Xilai , the disgraced Chinese
Communist leader, is tried this week in the eastern city of
Jinan, what’s his best defense against allegations of
embezzlement, bribery and abuse of power?  On a practical level, he has none. The Chinese Communist
Party is eager to restore its legitimacy with a public that
views it -- charitably -- as hopelessly corrupt, and Bo’s
predetermined conviction is a big part of accomplishing that
task. He will be guilty, and he will go to prison; the Communist
Party and its mouthpieces will celebrate the decisiveness of the
verdict as proof that the party -- and the courts it controls --
won’t tolerate corruption in its ranks.  But who will believe this? Certainly not a Chinese public
that’s bombarded  daily  with news of arrests and convictions of
officials  at all levels  of the party. Far from legitimizing the
party and its rule, this lineup of corrupt officialdom
undermines it with a Chinese public predisposed to believe in
its institutional rot. Sadly, by the standard set by China’s
daily newspapers, Bo’s crimes are extraordinary only insofar as
they involve a very senior official.  Broken Justice  The courts don’t escape this verdict, either. In the
Chinese  judicial system , prosecutors and police work closely
with the courts -– and everyone, especially judges, answers to
the much-maligned Communist Party. Achieving justice means
having the power, money and connections to lobby for it. Alas,
for most Chinese, lacking in power, money and connections, this
state of affairs leaves few alternatives beyond  hopeless
petitioning  and -– in increasing numbers -– vengeance.  Bo knew this situation, and how to use and abuse it, as
well as any official in modern Chinese history. As party
secretary of Chongqing from 2007 to 2012, Bo undertook a  popular
anti-corruption drive  in which he overlooked legal niceties and
used his considerable power over the judiciary and police to
detain (and allegedly frame) thousands of criminals. Bo’s wife,
meanwhile, used that same power to  employ police  in the coverup
of the murder of Neil Heywood, a British national. When, in
early 2012, the Bo family’s crimes and corruption became public,
their detention was depicted as a legal matter. But few doubted
that the driving force behind the prosecution was a Chinese
Politburo long wary of Bo Xilai’s charismatic authoritarianism.  Bo is not a sympathetic character. During his time in
Chongqing he ruled ruthlessly and lived like a  depraved Roman
emperor . Nonetheless, he can still serve as a poster boy for
China’s judicial failings. Bo’s residual power -– his father
was Chinese Communist royalty -- isn’t enough to change a
leveling fact: His verdict and sentence will be decided by
senior Communist Party officials according to political need,
not by judges according to law. This predicament will resonate,
for instance, with Chinese farmers robbed of their land by local
government officials with connections to, if not control of, the
courts and other means of appeal.  Recent weeks have brought tantalizing hints that at least a
few Chinese view him that way. On Aug. 3, for example, the
prominent leftist journalist Song Yangbiao posted to the Sina
Weibo service that “All members of the Chinese Communist Party
should rise up together to oppose the illegal trial in Jinan.”
The post was later deleted, and Song was detained by police on
Aug. 4. The China-based Human Rights Campaign for  China   posted 
on Aug. 8 a photo of a Beijing-based petitioner planning to
protest outside Bo’s trial in Jinan. Behind her was a poster of
Bo’s face, with a  simple question : “If he can’t get justice,
can you?”  Reform Initiative  Most Chinese would undoubtedly answer “no” to that
question -- one probable reason that the Chinese leadership has
in recent weeks made judicial reform one of its signature public
campaigns. The reform initiative had been in the works but seems
to have gained urgency as judicial scandals and unpopular
decisions (often the same thing) increased public outrage at the
courts and perceptions of Communist Party lawlessness.  Bo may not be aware of the recent reform initiative, but
he’s certainly aware of how China’s flawed court system
exacerbates social tensions. Yet, even if he mounted a defense
based on the reasonable suggestion that he’s being subjected to
an unfair trial, the censors would never allow the Chinese
public to hear it. A political trial disguised as a judicial
proceeding isn’t an open forum to air grievances against the
ruling party. Bo, as much as anyone in China, understands that.  His defense, insofar as he can mount one, should be
political, negotiated behind closed doors with hope that his
public -- whoever that might be at this point -– sees in him a
symbol of a failing much greater than his own corruption.
Leniency, much less mercy, is unlikely. But if Bo’s trial leads
to greater public pressure for reform of China’s unjust
judiciary, history might just grant him a bit of accidental
redemption.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 