-- Caroline Kennedy Worth Up to $278 Million, Records Show
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-08-20T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/caroline-kennedy-worth-up-to-278-million-records-show.html
Caroline Kennedy, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee as ambassador to Japan, is worth between $67
million and $278 million, according to personal financial-disclosure reports.  Kennedy and her husband’s assets include family trusts;
government and public authority bonds; commercial property in
New York, Chicago and Washington; and holdings in the Cayman
Islands, according to  statements  posted on the U.S. Office of
Government Ethics website. As is standard for public officials
and nominees, Kennedy listed her holdings in broad ranges.  Obama announced July 24 that he would nominate Kennedy, 55,
as ambassador to Japan. She awaits Senate confirmation and would
be the first woman to serve in that post.  Kennedy gave Obama an early lift in his 2008 campaign,
writing an essay in the New York Times comparing him with her
father, President  John F. Kennedy , and endorsing him at a rally
with her uncle, the late Senator  Edward Kennedy , in Washington
before the biggest primary day, Super Tuesday. She also spoke at
the 2012 Democratic National Convention that renominated Obama.  Kennedy’s 60-page filing listed eight Cayman Island
partnerships, with a combined value ranging from $542,000 to
$1.2 million. They’re listed as Blackstone Capital Partners.  Banking Accounts  She cites multiple accounts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., as well as a Goldman Sachs individual
retirement account worth between $100,000 and $250,000.  The filing showed between $750,000 and $1.5 million in oil
and gas leases. She said she would sell some investment funds,
including one from Goldman Sachs, if confirmed.  Other holdings include property on the Massachusetts island
of  Martha’s Vineyard . She has listed part of it, two waterfront
parcels in the town of Aquinnah, for sale for a total of $45
million.  She received $437,500 for her work on the book,
“ Jacqueline Kennedy : Historic Conversations on Life with John F. Kennedy,” and $325,000 in speaking fees.  In a letter to State Department deputy legal adviser
Richard Visek, she said she would resign from several positions
upon confirmation, including serving on the boards of the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the John F. Kennedy
Library Foundation, the institute of politics at  Harvard
University  and a New York City charter school.  While she said she will remain a trustee of several family
trusts, she won’t be paid for her work on them.  Husband’s Company  Kennedy said her husband, Edwin Schlossberg, won’t contact
the U.S. Embassy in Japan or the Japanese government on behalf
of his companies nor any clients. He owns a firm that designs
interactive museum exhibitions.  She requested a waiver for her “financial interest” in
Austin, Texas-based  Freescale Semiconductor (FSL)  Inc., a technology
company that has two facilities in Japan.  Kennedy isn’t the wealthiest among Obama’s nominees.
Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker  is worth more than $1.5
billion, according to estimates from the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , making her one of the richest cabinet officials in U.S.
history.  Kennedy joins a host of Obama political supporters in top
diplomatic positions. At least 26 of Obama’s current and
nominated ambassadors were major Democratic campaign
contributors, giving a total of at least $13.6 million to him,
the Democratic Party, and congressional candidates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kennedy would replace the current envoy in Tokyo, John
Roos, a technology lawyer and Obama donor.  The appointment of wealthy allies to embassies with which
the U.S. has close relationships goes back decades. Ambassadors
make a maximum base salary of $179,700, and the frequent parties
and dinners they throw can cost hundreds of thousands more, far
more than is covered by their State Department budgets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  