-- China’s Brokers Fall After Everbright Bad Trades: China M
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-19T05:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/china-s-brokers-fall-after-everbright-bad-trades-china-m.html
Shares of  Chinese brokerages  fell
after a trading error at  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  last week
caused the biggest swing in China’s benchmark equity index since
2009, prompting a regulatory probe.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , the country’s largest brokerage by
market value, fell 3.2 percent in Shanghai as of 1:04 p.m.,
poised for the biggest drop since Aug. 8. Second-ranked  Haitong
Securities Co. (600837)  sank 3.7 percent to a three-week low. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.2 percent.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission banned
Everbright Securities from proprietary trading until Nov. 18 and
started an investigation into the brokerage, the watchdog said
in a statement yesterday. China’s fifth-largest securities firm
reported a mark-to-market trading loss of 194 million  yuan  ($32
million) and apologized to investors after errors in order-execution systems sparked a 53 percent surge in the  Shanghai 
Composite Index’s trading volumes.  “Brokerages’ proprietary trading may experience a new
storm of regulatory tightening,” Zhang Haidong, a Shanghai-based analyst at Tebon Securities Co., wrote in a note today.  Internal controls at Everbright were “obviously flawed”
and no human errors were detected, the CSRC said in a  statement 
posted on its website yesterday. Defects in an arbitrage-trading
system in Everbright’s strategic investment department generated
as many as 26,082 unintended market orders in just two seconds,
the company said in its  statement  yesterday.  Risk Controls  The Shanghai Composite jumped on Aug. 16 from a loss of as
much as 1 percent to a gain of 5.6 percent in two minutes during
the morning session. The gauge closed with a loss of 0.6
percent.  Western Securities Co. (002673) , the smallest broker by market
value, tumbled 4.6 percent.  Sinolink Securities Co. (600109) , the second
smallest, dropped 3.5 percent.  “Smaller brokerages are hit harder than bigger ones today,
which are supposed to have better risk control measures,” said
Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “The market is lowering expectations about the
development of brokerages’ proprietary trading business after
the incident.”  Everbright Securities shares have been suspended in
Shanghai and will resume trading tomorrow, the company said in a
 statement  to the city’s exchange yesterday. The stock has
dropped 14 percent this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  