-- China Swaps Rise a Seventh Day as Investors Seen Hedging Bonds
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-19T03:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/china-swaps-rise-a-seventh-day-as-investors-seen-hedging-bonds.html
China’s one-year interest-rate swaps
rose for a seventh day on speculation demand for the contracts
is increasing as investors use them to guard against losses on
 government bonds .  The cost to lock in borrowing costs for a year touched the
highest level since July 24 today. Two-year sovereign notes are
set for a fourth monthly drop, with the yield climbing 21 basis
points in August to 3.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate touched 3.76 percent on Aug. 14, the highest
since 2011. The  10-year yield  increased 22 basis points since
July 31 to 3.94 percent.  “Expectations for medium-term liquidity have changed,”
said Becky Liu, a senior rates strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc in  Hong Kong . “For traders who are looking to hedge their
positions, the best thing thing to do is to pay  interest-rate
swaps . There has been a sharp rise in yields since August.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.13 percent as of 10:37
a.m. in  Shanghai , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rate
increased 26 basis points in the past seven days.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, rose 29 basis points to 4.12 percent after
an 18 basis point drop on Aug. 16, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  Bill Sales  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills this week, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank also asked
banks to submit orders for 28-day repurchase contracts and
seven- and 14-day reverse repurchase agreements this morning,
the trader said. While the authority has added funds to markets
via reverse-repo operations since late July, it’s been rolling
over three-year bills to curb excessive lending.  The PBOC is probably targeting the seven-day repo rate in a
range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent until the economy improves
convincingly, Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a research note.  “A structural liquidity shift is ongoing in  China ,” he
wrote. “As a result, after two years of liquidity improvement,
a period of tightness has started.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  