-- Chinese Man Pleads Guilty in Export Scheme, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-19T18:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/chinese-man-pleads-guilty-in-export-scheme-u-s-says.html
A Chinese man pleaded guilty to
trying to arrange for the illegal sale of thousands of pounds of
carbon fiber to his home country, which prosecutors alleged was
for use in a fighter jet, the U.S. said.  Ming Suan Zhang, 41, pleaded guilty today in federal court
in  Brooklyn , New York, to violating the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act, the government said.  Zhang, described by his lawyer Daniel Nobel as a sports
equipment maker from Quanzhou,  China , was charged in September
with illegally attempting to export the material. Nobel said
today in a phone interview that Zhang didn’t admit trying to
obtain the material for military purposes. He declined to say
whether Zhang contested that allegation.  “Zhang crossed the ocean to obtain massive quantities of
restricted American technology for the stated purpose of
assisting the Chinese military,” U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch
in Brooklyn said in a statement. “He was actively working to
circumvent laws that protect our national security by preventing
specialized technologies from falling into the wrong hands.”  He came to the attention of U.S. authorities through an
investigation into two individuals in  Taiwan  who were attempting
to locate large quantities of aerospace-grade carbon fiber
through Internet contacts, according to the government.  Zhang agreed to meet with an undercover agent, who he
thought was a seller of the material, to obtain a sample. Zhang
said the fiber was needed for the test flight of a fighter
plane, according to the U.S.  Material’s Cost  One ton of the carbon fiber Zhang was seeking, manufactured
by Tokyo-based Toray Industries Inc., typically costs about
$2 million, according to court filings.  The Commerce Department restricts the export of goods that
might contribute to the “military potential or nuclear
proliferation of other nations or that could be detrimental to
the foreign policy or national security of the U.S.,” according
to a criminal complaint in the case. It’s a crime to willfully
export those materials without an appropriate license, the
government said.  Zhang faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and a
fine of as much as $1 million, according to the government.  “It’s a very broad statute,” Nobel said. The plea “does
not mean he’s admitting that he was seeking to supply strategic
materials to the Chinese government for strategic purposes. They
can be used for a lot of other things.”  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 12-mj-00829, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 