-- China Casts Bo Trial as Victory for Xi’s Anti-Graft Campaign
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-20T02:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/china-portrays-bo-trial-as-victory-for-xi-s-anti-graft-campaign.html
Former Politburo member  Bo Xilai ’s
trial in the provincial city of Jinan this week is the most
prominent in a series of graft cases at the heart of Chinese
President Xi Jinping’s bid to cement control with a promise to
clean up the Communist Party.  Bo, charged with bribery as well as abuse of power in the
death of a British businessman, will face trial Aug. 22, the
Xinhua News Agency said Aug. 18. He’ll join a line of punished
officials including a minister who steered contracts to
associates, court judges removed for hiring prostitutes and a
township cadre fired for spending $32,000 on his daughter’s
wedding banquet.  With his verdict, Bo will be the highest-level official to
have faced prosecution during a war on graft that Xi said was
necessary to keep people from losing faith in the Communist
Party. While Bo was removed from his posts and expelled from the
party before Xi came to power, Chinese state media are
attempting to portray Bo’s trial and corruption cases against
other officials as evidence of the party’s zero-tolerance policy
toward graft under Xi.  The trial will “help to consolidate the authority of Xi
Jinping,” said Zhang Qianfan, a professor of law at  Peking
University . “Through this process the party can help to improve
its image because they’ll say, ‘After all we are cracking down
on some tigers, not only flies.’”  Counter Concerns  That’s a reference to the campaign the party has announced
and is meant to counter concerns that only low-level officials
will be targeted and not senior-level cadres who may have the
power to avoid punishment. Last month, former Railway Minister
 Liu Zhijun  was given a suspended death sentence for abuse of
power and taking bribes. Earlier this month, Liu Tienan, the
former vice chairman of the country’s top planning agency, was
expelled from the party for taking bribes.  “Bo’s case also firmly aligns with the Communist Party’s
determination to fight against corruption, once again making it
clear that no one can ride roughshod over the law,” the Global
Times said yesterday, citing Wuhan University constitutional law
professor Qin Qianhong.  Xinhua made the same point earlier this month, reporting
that the party’s treatment of Bo and other powerful officials
accused or convicted of corruption indicates “the CPC’s resolve
to sniff out every corrupt pheromone, punish every guilty
official and constantly eliminate the soil which breeds graft.”  Severe Challenges  Speaking after he was appointed Communist Party general
secretary in November, Xi called corruption one of the “severe
challenges” faced by the party. Xi, named  China ’s president in
March, later said social unrest may rise and could lead to the
party’s demise unless leaders address corruption.  In the months since, state news agencies have regularly
announced investigations against party cadres and government
officials. Earlier this month, Xinhua announced that four senior
Shanghai judges were removed for allegedly hiring prostitutes.
On its website yesterday, the party’s flagship People’s Daily
newspaper highlighted allegations that the wife of a local party
official had received a salary without holding a job for eight
years.  “Leading cadres should have the correct understanding that
cadres’ power is not their own, but belongs to all the people,”
the  editorial said .  Bo was formally charged last month by the prosecutor’s
office in Jinan, the Shandong capital, more than 16 months after
he was removed from his post as the party boss of southwestern
China’s Chongqing municipality.  Wife’s Conviction  His trial follows the August 2012 conviction of his wife,
Gu Kailai, for murdering British businessman Neil Heywood in
Chongqing where Bo was party general secretary. She was later
issued a suspended death sentence.  In a statement released to the  New York  Times yesterday, Bo
and Gu’s son, Bo Guagua, said he had been denied contact with
his parents for 18 months and could “only surmise the
conditions of their clandestine detention.”  “I hope that in my father’s upcoming trial, he is granted
the opportunity to answer his critics and defend himself
without constraints of any kind,” Bo Guagua said in the
statement.  As the son of former Vice Premier  Bo Yibo , one of the
“eight immortals” of the Communist Party, Bo, like Xi, belongs
to the princeling class of second-generation officials whose
families are tied together through decades of shared
experiences, alliances and patronage.  Focused Attention  Bo’s ouster has focused attention on the accumulation of
wealth by the politically connected. The extended families of Bo
and Gu, for example, built a fortune of at least $136 million in
company shares and property, according to regulatory and
corporate filings.  “The problem of corruption cannot be solved in a short
time,” Zhang Ming, a political scientist at Renmin University
in Beijing, said by phone. “The problem is big. You cannot
expect to solve it through a anti-corruption storm, because it’s
a structural corruption in China. We can’t solve it through
current measures.”  Heywood’s family is seeking at least 30 million  yuan  ($4.9
million) in compensation for his death, the Wall Street Journal
reported Aug. 13.  A former commerce minister and governor of northeastern
China’s Liaoning province, Bo, 64, rose to prominence for his
moves in Chongqing to boost social spending and state-led
financing. His crackdown on organized crime, called “da hei,”
or “strike black,” was a cornerstone of his tenure.  Once seen as a possible candidate for the ruling Politburo
Standing Committee, Bo was expelled from the party last
September. The party said he took bribes throughout his career
and abused his power in the homicide case against his wife,
Xinhua reported at the time. He also had improper sexual
relations with “a number” of women, Xinhua reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  