-- China Resources’ Profit Rises 78% Amid Purchase Cost Controversy
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-08-19T04:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/china-resources-profit-rises-78-amid-purchase-cost-controversy.html
China Resources Power Holdings Co. (836) ,
alleged to have deliberately overpaid for coal assets, posted a
78 percent increase in first-half profit as lower prices of the
fuel helped reduce costs.  Net income rose to HK$5.33 billion ($687 million), or
HK$1.12 a share, for the six months ended June 30 from HK$3
billion, or HK$0.63, a year ago, the company said today in a
statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange.  “Supply and demand in the coal market during the first
half of 2013 was easing in general with supply greater than
demand,” China Resources said in the statement. “The easing of
supply and demand and the decrease in spot coal prices enables
us to further control fuel costs.”  China Resources  has been buffeted by allegations related to
its purchase of three coal mines in Shanxi province in 2010. The
official Xinhua News Agency last month posted a letter by one of
its reporters claiming the company and its parent’s chairman,
Song Lin, deliberately overpaid for the assets, prompting a
government audit of the company. A lawsuit by minority investors
alleges the board failed to properly assess the mines and that
buying them was detrimental to the company. China Resources and
Song have denied they acted improperly.  Amid the controversy, the power generator scrapped a plan
last month to combine with group company  China Resources Gas
Group Ltd. (1193)  after shareholders rejected the proposal. Still, 21
of 28 analysts rate the company a buy and none suggest selling,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock fell 1.1 percent to HK$18.50 in Hong Kong as of
the noon trading break. It has gained 7.7 percent in the past
year, compared with a 12 percent gain in the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng Index .  State-owned China Resources Holdings Co. is the parent of
five listed units in Hong Kong, including China Resources Power.
 China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291)  produces the country’s best-selling brand of beer with  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  