-- China Won’t Barter Away Territorial Interest, Chang Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-08-19T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/china-won-t-barter-away-territorial-interest-chang-says.html
China  is prepared to defend its
interests and won’t trade away its territorial claims in the
Asia-Pacific region, General Chang Wanquan, the country’s
Defense Minister, said during a visit to the Pentagon.  While China prefers to solve disputes in the region through
“dialogue and negotiation, no one should fantasize that China
would barter away our core interests,” Chang said at a news
conference yesterday in  Washington  alongside U.S. Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel. “No one should underestimate our will
and determination in defending our territorial sovereignty and
maritime rights.”  The U.S. strategy of rebalancing toward the Asia-Pacific
region has tended to focus on military aspects even as it’s
billed as involving engagement as well, Chang said.  “We also notice that the frequency and intensity of joint
military exercises are increasing,” Chang said. “To a certain
degree, this kind of intensified military activity further
complicates the situation in the region.”  China has been engaged in disputes with  Japan  and the
 Philippines  over islands in the East and South China seas. China
has cut the cables of survey ships working for  Vietnam , and its
dispute with the Philippines has led to several standoffs
between Chinese and Philippine vessels. China claims
“indisputable sovereignty” over more than 100 islets, atolls
and reefs that form the Paracel and Spratly Islands as well as
jurisdiction over the seabed and subsoil.  In discussions yesterday with Chang, Hagel said he
emphasized the longstanding U.S. position that it doesn’t take
sides and that the disputes must be resolved without coercion.  Build Trust  Chang, on his first visit to the Pentagon since becoming
defense minister last year, proposed ways that the two
countries’ militaries can notify each other of their activities
as well as rules of behavior for their armed forces, Hagel said.
Pentagon officials are studying the proposals, Hagel said.  Asked how the two militaries can build trust when Chinese
hackers, backed by the military, continue attacking U.S.
military and civilian computers, Chang said the  People’s
Liberation Army  “has never supported any kind of hacker
activity.”  Chang said China opposed “double standards” on computer
attacks and said his country was also a victim of such attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  