-- Christie Says Gayness Inborn as He Signs Therapy Measure
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   S t a c i e   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-19T19:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/christie-says-gayness-inborn-as-he-signs-therapy-measure.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
a Republican who has opposed same-sex marriage, said that
homosexuality is inborn and not a sin.  The statement was released as he signed a bill banning
therapy that tries to change a minor’s sexual orientation.
Christie said such efforts pose “critical health risks
including, but not limited to, depression, substance abuse,
social withdrawal, decreased self-esteem and suicidal
thoughts.”  “Exposing children to these health risks without clear
evidence of benefits that outweigh these serious risks is not
appropriate,” Christie, 50, said today in the statement.  Christie, who is seeking re-election in November and may
run for president in 2016, has walked a fine line on issues
surrounding homosexuality as polls show a majority of
Republicans oppose gay marriage amid broader acceptance of the
practice. A Gallup poll last month showed about two-thirds of
Republicans are against making same-sex marriage legal in all 50
U.S. states. The survey of about 2,000 adults found that 52
percent of all voters favor such a measure.  Christie told  CNN ’s Piers Morgan in 2011 that while he is
Catholic and his church believes homosexuality is a sin, he
doesn’t share the view. “If someone is born that way, it’s very
difficult to say then that that’s a sin,” he said, a quotation
reproduced in today’s statement.  Ballot Box  Yet on Feb. 17, 2012, Christie vetoed a same-sex marriage
bill, saying he believes that marriage should be between a man
and a woman. Three weeks earlier, he nominated Bruce Harris, a
Republican and openly gay lawyer, to the New Jersey Supreme
Court. Senate Democrats declined to confirm Harris after the
nominee said he would recuse himself from any matters involving
gay-marriage issues.  Christie has said he’d support a referendum on gay
marriage. Democrats have balked at a statewide vote on a matter
that they say is a civil right.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for the governor, declined to
comment on why the governor has divided philosophies on
conversion therapy and same-sex marriage. Colin Reed, a Christie
spokesman, said in the statement that the governor’s action on
conversion therapy “is consistent with his belief that people
are born gay and homosexuality is not a sin.”  ‘Rational Decision’  New Jersey permits same-sex civil-unions under a 2006 law,
one that Christie has said he supports. Seven gay couples sued
in 2011, claiming in state Superior Court that the statute has
made them a separate legal class whose rights aren’t fully
understood or recognized. On Aug. 2, Christie’s administration
filed a brief in that case, saying the state had made a
“rational decision to reserve the name of marriage for
heterosexual couples.”  As the court case plays out, Democratic lawmakers are
pushing for an override of Christie’s veto.  Christie is a Roman Catholic. In July, the faith’s leader,
Pope Francis, opposed a stance by his predecessor, Benedict XVI,
who had written that gays shouldn’t be priests.  “If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has
good will, who am I to judge?” the pope told reporters on a
return flight to  Rome  from  Brazil .  Alienation Risk  Republicans nationally have emphasized opposition to gay
marriage as a central tenet of the party, which is heavily
influenced by the social-issues activists -- including many
evangelical Christians -- who dominate early presidential
contests such as the Iowa caucus that select its presidential
contenders.  The 2012 Republican Party platform endorsed efforts to
protect “traditional marriage,” asserting that it was best for
children and that its erosion ultimately led to bigger and more
costly government.  Yet following their 2012 election losses, when Republicans
failed to win the White House or take over the U.S. Senate, many
party leaders are rethinking their approach. A March report on
remaking the party argued that it “must in fact and deed be
inclusive and welcoming,” or risk alienating young people,
women and others “who agree with us on some but not all
issues” -- a recommendation seen as a call for Republicans to
tone down their rhetoric on gay marriage.  State Issue  The party’s social conservative wing rejected that
approach, demonstrating its sway the month after the report’s
release at a gathering in Los Angeles, when the Republican
National Committee approved a resolution affirming core values,
including that marriage should be between a man and a woman.  Still, Christie isn’t alone among potential 2016 Republican
presidential contenders in distancing himself from the party’s
core supporters on gay marriage. Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky ,
backed by the small-government Tea Party and known for his
libertarian views, has come out in opposition to a national law
banning same-sex marriage, saying the matter should be left to
the states.  New Jersey becomes the second state, after California, to
ban gay-conversion therapy. The law, which passed New Jersey’s
Democratic-controlled legislature in June, prohibits licensed
professional counselors -- including psychiatrists,
psychologists, therapists and social workers -- from engaging in
practices designed to change the sexual orientation of anyone
under age 18.  “Government should tread carefully into this area and I do
so here reluctantly,” Christie said in the statement.  California Challenge  California’s law is being challenged in court by therapists
who say the state can cite no specific evidence that the therapy
is bad for kids and the law illegally quells doctor-patient
speech.  New Jersey’s law was crafted to avoid such a challenge,
according to Troy Stevenson, executive director of Garden State
Equality, a Montclair-based advocacy group for the lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender community.  Stevenson cheered Christie’s support of the gay-conversion
therapy ban, and said he hopes the governor will come around and
support same-sex marriage. Christie is seeking a second term in
November in a state where Democrats outnumber Republicans and a
majority of residents support gay marriage.  Advocates are emboldened by two rulings in June by the U.S.
Supreme Court, which struck down a federal law that denied
benefits to same-sex married couples and cleared the way for
weddings to resume in  California .  “The best way to ensure our LGBT youth are protected from
the abuse of being ostracized is to provide them with full
equality,” Stevenson said in a statement. “We must provide all
NJ youth with acceptance, with hope for the future, and yes, the
promise of the dignity to marry the person that they love.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Stacie Sherman in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  