-- Commonwealth Bank CEO Paid A$7.8 Million Amid Record Earnings
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-19T04:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/commonwealth-bank-ceo-paid-a-7-8-million-amid-record-earnings.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia  paid
Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev’s A$7.8 million ($7.2 million)
in its last business year, during which the lender reported
record profit.  The country’s largest bank by market value reported in its
annual report today that it had boosted Narev’s salary in the
year ended June from A$5.7 million in the previous year, when he
was CEO for seven months. He’s still the lowest paid among the
heads of the nation’s four biggest banks.  Australian lenders are beating a slowdown in credit demand
and posting record profits by cutting costs and jobs. CBA’s cash
profit in the business year that just ended climbed 10 percent
to a record A$7.82 billion as it boosted earnings from  wealth
management  and bad-debt costs shrank in the second half of the
year. The bank’s  shares  touched an all-time high on Aug. 14.  “There is only a limited amount of leadership talent
available and you need to pay to attract that talent,” Peter
Swan, a Sydney-based professor at the Australian School of
Business, said by phone. “CBA shareholders are getting a
bargain when compared to other banks’ performances and CEO
pay.”  Narev was awarded A$2.5 million in fixed salary and pension
and the rest in incentives and equity awards, according to the
bank’s annual report.  His pay compares with A$10.1 million in the year to
September 2012 for  Australia  & New Zealand Group Ltd. CEO  Mike Smith , A$9.6 million for  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  CEO Gail Kelly
and A$8.8 million for  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  CEO Cameron Clyne, according to the lenders’ most recent annual reports.  CBA’s fiscal year ends in June, compared with September for
its main competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  