-- Copper Falls Most in Three Weeks on Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-08-19T17:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/copper-retreats-on-concerns-over-china-error-trade-fed-tapering.html
Copper futures posted the biggest
drop in almost three weeks as concern that the  Federal Reserve 
will scale back U.S. monetary stimulus clouded prospects for
metal demand.  Minutes of July’s Fed policy meeting, due on Aug. 21, may
give details of deliberations on reducing bond purchases that
were intended to boost the  U.S. economy . The central bank
probably will reduce fiscal stimulus next month, according to 65
percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. is the
world’s second-biggest copper consumer.  “We think that despite weaker U.S. numbers we have been
seeing of late, the Fed will indeed start to taper in
September,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in  New
York , said in a report. “The action will likely result in a
stronger dollar and a rollback in many commodity prices,
including base metals.”  Copper futures for December delivery slumped 0.9 percent to
settle at $3.336 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest drop for a most-active contract since July 30. On
Aug. 16, the price reached $3.3835, the highest since June 5.  The metal has dropped 8.7 percent this year amid concern
that demand will ebb in  China , the biggest consumer. Last week,
copper inventories tracked by the Shanghai Futures Exchange rose
from an 11-month low.  “Tapering is still in the air, and real Chinese end use of
copper doesn’t seem to be that strong,”  David Wilson , a London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mail.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.3 percent to $7,306 a metric ton ($3.31 a pound)  Aluminum dropped 1.5 percent to $1,915 a ton in London, the
largest decline since July 26. United Co. Rusal, the largest
producer, said today it will reduce output further this year
after reporting a second-quarter loss.  Zinc, nickel and tin fell on the LME, while lead climbed
less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  