-- Court Orders Mubarak Released as Death Toll Nears 1,000
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-19T22:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/court-orders-mubarak-released-as-death-toll-nears-1-000.html
A Cairo court yesterday ordered
former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s release from prison, and
militants in Sinai killed 26 police officers as the death toll
from six days of unrest in Egypt approached 1,000.  The Cairo criminal court’s order to free Mubarak, who was
toppled in 2011, threatens to inject new tensions in the
standoff between the  Muslim Brotherhood  and the military-supported interim government.  The military removed Brotherhood-backed President Mohamed Mursi on July 3 after days of rallies against him. Since then,
Mursi’s ouster has sparked almost-daily protests by his backers
that frequently boiled over into deadly clashes. The tumult has
made it more difficult for Egypt to emerge from the slowdown
that has battered the economy since Mubarak’s fall.  “No doubt there’s a willingness from some elements of the
former regime of Mubarak to come back to the Egyptian political
landscape,” said Nasser Amin, director of the Arab Center for
the Independence of the Judiciary and the Legal Profession.
“This doesn’t mean a return of the police state. Those who
participated in the Egyptian revolution won’t allow that.”  Mursi has been in military custody since his removal.
Yesterday, he was ordered held for 15 more days pending a probe
into new claims he incited violence during deadly unrest in
December.  Mubarak Cases  Mubarak, ordered freed in connection with a corruption
case, could be released within three days, his attorney, Farid
ElDib, said by phone yesterday. Mubarak has already been ordered
released in connection with two other cases for which he had
been jailed, including his role in the deaths of protesters
during the 2011 uprising against him.  Another case involving gifts from the state-run Ahram group
must be decided before he can be freed, Mahmoud el-Hefnawy, an
official with the prosecutor general’s office, said by phone.  Mubarak is being retried in connection with the protester
deaths after his life sentence was overturned on appeal.  Youth activists from the group that drove the opposition to
Mursi, said Mubarak -- who ruled  Egypt  for 29 years -- won’t be
allowed to govern again.  “The fact that we’re fighting the Brotherhood doesn’t mean
we’ll allow the return of the Mubarak regime, simply because
both regimes are two sides of the same coin,” said Islam
Hammam, a leader of the Tamarod group.  The court ruling came as international censure has mounted
since the government cleared out two pro-Mursi protest camps in
the Cairo area on Aug. 14, touching off a cycle of violence from
which the country has yet to emerge. About 900 civilians and 100
policemen have died since the camps were stormed.  International Response  European Union diplomats met yesterday to discuss a
response to the situation, a day after the 28-nation bloc said
it would “urgently review” relations with Egypt.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said yesterday
that the Obama administration was reviewing aid programs that
benefit the Egyptian government.  In Sinai yesterday, militants armed with rocket-propelled
grenades killed 25 policemen near the border with the  Gaza
Strip . The  Interior Ministry , in an e-mailed statement,
described the incident as a “continuation of the terrorist
crimes in Sinai.”  Another officer was shot dead by a rooftop sniper near the
city of al-Arish, the ministry said. The peninsula has grown
increasingly lawless since Mubarak was pushed from power, and
militants operating there have stepped up their attacks on
police and soldiers since Mursi’s overthrow.  Egypt Stocks  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 stock index fell 0.1 percent at
the close yesterday in Cairo after a 3.9 percent decline the
previous day.  The government’s borrowing costs rebounded from the lowest
in more than two years at an auction of treasury bills
yesterday, with the average yield on 12-month notes rising 18
basis points 12.86 percent, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg.  Interim President Adly Mansour met with Defense Minister
Abdelfatah al-Seesi and Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim to
discuss the situation in Sinai, the presidency said in a
statement.  Al-Seesi, who led Mursi’s ouster last month, warned Aug. 18
that the military won’t “remain silent before the destruction
of the country.” He also urged Islamists to participate in the
government’s plan to steer Egypt toward a civilian democracy.  “By launching the attack just hours after al-Seesi’s
speech, in which he promised to end violence in Sinai, the
Brotherhood and their allies in Sinai are trying to challenge
the army and send a message that they don’t care about his
remarks,” said retired army general Sameh Seif el-Yazal.  Ban Considered  The government is considering banning the Brotherhood.
Hundreds of its members have been detained. Imams who criticize
the army or state institutions in their sermons may be
suspended, Ahram Gate reported, citing a statement from the
ministry of religious endowments.  Deliveries over the next few months of U.S. military
hardware for Egypt, from  AH-64 Apache  helicopters to patrol
boats, may be delayed or withheld as the U.S. evaluates how to
respond to the turmoil there.  The Obama administration put deliveries of five major
procurement programs, including F-16 fighter jets made by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , “under review,” according to a State
Department document sent to Congress and obtained by  Bloomberg
News . It was dated July 16, two weeks after Mursi was ousted.  “We’re reviewing all aspects of our relationship,”
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters yesterday at the
Pentagon when asked whether the Apache deliveries will be
delayed. Citing U.S. interests in Egypt and the region, he said
the U.S. would use its “limited” ability to influence events
to encourage an “inclusive, open democratic process.”  For the year, the administration proposed about $250
million in economic assistance and $1.3 billion for the
military.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Johannesburg at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  