-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Reach 6-Week High; Western Union Sells Debt
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-08-19T21:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/credit-swaps-in-u-s-reach-6-week-high-western-union-sells-debt.html
The cost to protect against losses
on corporate bonds in the U.S. climbed to a more than six-week
high as speculation swelled that the  Federal Reserve  will trim
its bond purchases next month.  Western Union Co. (WU)  sold $250
million of two-year floating-rate notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.7
basis points to a mid-price of 84.3 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since July 5.
The measure rose 6.1 basis points last week, the largest advance
since the period ended June 21.  Signs that the recovery in the world’s largest economy is
strengthening are increasing concern that the central bank will
soon begin to pare its $85 billion of monthly bond buying that
has supported credit markets. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note, a benchmark for  interest rates , climbed to as high as
2.898 percent today, the most since July 2011.  “Investors are starting to get nervous about tapering,”
said  Andrew Brenner , head of international fixed income for
National Alliance Capital Markets. There’s “no question that
higher rates and lower Treasury bond prices are leading to wider
spreads,” he said.  Trading Volumes  The Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
repository for the market, reported $5.6 billion of credit swaps
trades today on the current version of the CDX investment-grade
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Contracts on Western Union climbed 8 basis points to a mid-price of 147 basis points, according to CMA, the data provider
owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc. that compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The world’s biggest money-transfer business sold its
floating-rate notes to yield 100 basis points more than the
three-month  London  interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 0.9 basis point to 131.1
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt climbed 0.7 to 564.8.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 16.2 basis points to 420.6, Bloomberg prices show.  Speculative-grade, or high-yield, high-risk debt, is rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s .  In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 4.1 basis points to 103.1,
Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  