-- CVC Agrees to Buy Skrill From Investcorp for $800 Million
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-08-19T10:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/cvc-capital-buys-skrill-group-from-investcorp-for-800-million.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of
Europe’s largest private-equity firms, agreed to acquire a
majority stake in British online payment company Skrill Group
Plc in its third deal in seven days.  The buyout values Skrill at 600 million euros ($800
million), Bahrain-based Investcorp Bank BSC said today in a
statement. London-based Skrill generated more than 200 million
euros in sales and 50 million euros of earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization in 2012, Investcorp said.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Jefferies Group LLC and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc provided senior debt financing for the
buyout of Skrill, CVC said in a  statement.   CVC plans to fund the deal with 305 million euros of loans,
including 275 million euros of debt that will be drawn for the
acquisition, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the financing is private.  Ed Moore, a London-based spokesman for CVC employed by
Brunswick Group, declined to comment on the debt financing.  Investcorp, an investment firm with about $10.5 billion in
assets, said it will retain a “substantial minority position”
in the company and continue to hold a seat on board. Investcorp
bought Skrill for 105 million euros in 2007 and expanded the
business with the purchase of paysafecard.com Wertkarten AG, an
Austrian provider of prepaid vouchers that enable consumers to
shop online, for about 140 million euros in 2012.  Campbell Soup  CVC also entered into exclusive talks to buy some of the
European business of  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  and agreed to acquire
Domestic & General Group Ltd., a U.K. home-appliance warranty
provider, from Advent International Corp. The firm is paying 750
million pounds ($1.2 billion) for Domestic & General, two people
with knowledge of the transaction said Aug. 13, asking not to be
identified because the information is private.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  