-- Czechs Set to Trigger Snap Ballot to End Political Crisis
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-20T12:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/czechs-set-to-trigger-early-elections-to-exit-political-crisis.html
The Czech Republic is poised to
trigger an early election in a bid to end months of policy
paralysis that’s curbed the country’s ability to revive economic
growth after a record-long  recession .  Lawmakers convened in Prague today to vote on a motion to
dissolve parliament, a condition for calling the snap ballot.
Four parties that backed the motion have more than the 120 votes
needed to pass. No exact time for the vote has been set. If
approved, President Milos Zeman has said he’ll schedule the
election for the end of October.  The eastern European nation is seeking to stem political
turmoil after illegal-spying and graft claims toppled ex-Prime
Minister Petr Necas’s pro-austerity government in June. Zeman
snubbed Necas’s coalition by naming his own interim cabinet,
which lost a parliamentary confidence vote this month, extending
the crisis and hampering the $196 billion  economy’s  pursuit of
measures to aid the economy’s recovery.  “The next election will bring a fundamental decision about
the future of the Czech Republic,” Karel Schwarzenberg, the ex-foreign minister and leader of the TOP09 party that supports
early polls, said yesterday in a statement. “President Zeman’s
ambition is mainly his own power.”  Even as Czech borrowing costs have risen since the start of
the political crisis, those of regional peers Poland and  Hungary 
have increased more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on 10-year  koruna bonds  was at 2.34 percent as of 9:35
a.m. in Prague today, holding at 48 basis points, or 0.48
percentage point, below comparable U.S. Treasuries.  Election Push  The three parties that backed Necas’s previous
administration had wanted a chance to form a new government
before the confidence vote. Their alliance disintegrated during
the session, prompting the TOP09 party to agree to join the
Social Democratic Party in its push for an early ballot.  The Social Democrats have increased their lead in opinion
polls since Necas’s cabinet collapsed and had 34 percent support
in a June 14-July 14 survey by Prague-based Median, more than
the 22 percent the party got in the 2010 election.  The Communists were next with 18.5 percent in the survey of
1,377 people. TOP09 had 15 percent support, while Necas’s Civic
Democrats had 13 percent, according to the poll, which was
published July 24 and had a 1 percentage point margin of error
for smaller parties and 3 percentage points for larger parties.  ‘Only Solution’  “Early elections are the only possible solution for the
political crisis,” Social Democrat Chairman Bohuslav Sobotka
told reporters in parliament today. “There is no alternative.
Failing to dissolve the chamber would risk political chaos.”  The previous government focused on narrowing the budget gap
by trimming investments and raising taxes. While undershooting
2011 and 2012  deficit  targets helped cut borrowing costs, it
frustrated the public and curbed private consumption, worsening
the economic contraction, the central bank has said.  The Czech  economy  exited its 1 1/2-year recession in the
second quarter, when gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent
from the previous three months, preliminary data released last
week showed. GDP will drop 0.4 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund predicts.  The Social Democrats want to support the economy with more
state spending, while keeping the fiscal shortfall below the
EU’s 3 percent of GDP limit, shadow Finance Minister Jan Mladek
said Aug. 15. The party plans to boost state revenue by
increasing taxes for higher earners and some businesses,
including financial, energy and telecommunications companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  