-- Detroit Schools Will Test Michigan Scorn With Note Sale
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/detroit-schools-to-test-muni-market-with-92-million-note-offer.html
Michigan’s Finance Authority plans
to sell $92 million of one-year notes backed by state aid for
 Detroit ’s public schools in the first deal tied to the city
since it sought  bankruptcy protection  July 18.  The securities may be priced today,  Terry Stanton ,
spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, said yesterday by
e-mail. The proceeds will help cover the autonomous school
district’s anticipated cash-flow deficits for the fiscal year
that ends in June, according to offering documents.  Detroit’s state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr,
filed a record municipal bankruptcy last month after decades of
decline left the city unable to pay debts and provide services.
While Orr has no authority over the school district, it has its
own emergency manager, Jack Martin.  The district and the city are “unrelated legal entities
created and existing under different laws of the state,”
according to the sale document. The school district was
Detroit’s fourth-biggest employer last year, with about 7,350
workers, the document shows.  Last week, the authority sold revenue bonds for Ypsilanti
Community Schools, about a half-hour drive from Detroit, with
yields as high as 4.82 percent for tax-exempt debt maturing in
August 2026, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale
came after three other issuers in the state -- Genesee County,
 Battle Creek  and Saginaw County -- postponed offerings that
followed Detroit’s bankruptcy because rates were too high.  First Dibs  Standard & Poor’s  rates the one-year Detroit school debt
SP-1, its second-highest grade on short-term securities. The
notes have first claim to state-aid revenue for repayment.  Interest rates  on short-term municipal notes have increased
more slowly than those of longer-maturing bonds since Detroit
sought court protection, listing about $18 billion in debt.  The  yield  on a benchmark index of AAA one-year municipal
securities was 0.32 percent yesterday, up 0.01 percentage point
from July 18 and from this year’s low of 0.21 percent in
February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
steeper gains for indexes of 10-year and  30-year debt , which 
have risen 1.16 percentage points and 1.89 percentage points 
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  