-- Detroit Bankruptcy Should Be Dismissed, Union Tells Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-08-20T23:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/detroit-bankruptcy-should-be-dismissed-union-tells-court.html
(Corrects to show MBIA unit’s inquiry in eighth paragraph
of story published Aug. 19.)  Detroit ’s $18 billion bankruptcy
should be dismissed because it violates the Michigan and U.S.
constitutions, according to a public-employee union, the first
of the city’s biggest creditors to seek a quick end to the case.  The American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, which filed written arguments today, will be followed
by other major creditors who have pledged to fight the
bankruptcy. Today is the deadline to challenge the city’s
eligibility for court protection. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes in Detroit has scheduled a trial on the question for
October.  The union expanded on the claims made in court last month
by its lead lawyer, Sharon Levine, with the New Jersey law firm
Lowenstein Sandler LLP.  Detroit “hastily commenced this unconstitutional,
unlawfully authorized Chapter 9 proceeding seeking the haven of
bankruptcy to illegally attempt to slash pension and other post-employment benefit obligations and cram such reductions down the
throats of current and former city employees, such as the AFSCME
Detroit Employees,” the union said.  The city filed the biggest ever U.S. municipal bankruptcy
in July after the state-appointed emergency manager, Kevyn Orr,
said six decades of economic decline left Detroit unable to pay
creditors, including retired city workers, in full and provide
residents necessary services.  State’s Comments  Michigan  Attorney General Bill Schuette and the Detroit
Institute of Arts, said today they won’t challenge the city’s
eligibility to be in bankruptcy. Schuette said his office will
seek to protect vested pensions from any cuts should that issue
come up later in the case.  The Detroit Institute of Arts, which has an art collection
worth billions, said it supports Orr’s efforts to restructure
the city and its debt. The DIA has said it would oppose any
effort to try to sell its collection to help pay creditors.  In its first two court hearings, lawyers for police, fire
and general-city workers said they were planning to challenge
the city’s right to be in bankruptcy. Other creditors, including
National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a unit of bond insurer
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) , did not file objections to the plan. Lawyers for
National Public Finance asked about the process, known in court
as discovery, which the objectors will use to collect documents
and interview witnesses to support their positions.  City unions and pension officials claim Governor  Rick Snyder  violated Michigan’s constitution by authorizing Orr to
file for bankruptcy. Pension funds for retired city workers
unsuccessfully sued in state court to have the filing canceled.  A recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling shows that Chapter 9 of
the federal  bankruptcy code  violates the U.S. Constitution, the
union claimed.  The union claims the city hasn’t proved it is insolvent,
hasn’t tried to negotiate with creditors and hasn’t been
authorized for bankruptcy under Michigan law.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in federal court in Detroit
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 