-- Dexus CEO Denies Commonwealth Office Fund Buyout Report
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-08-19T06:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/dexus-property-ceo-denies-commonwealth-office-fund-buyout-report.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS)  Chief Executive
Officer Darren Steinberg denied reports that  Australia ’s biggest
listed office landlord has made a takeover offer for
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ’s office fund.  Dexus hasn’t made a proposal to the bank or the manager of
 Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA)  following the acquisition of a
14.9 percent stake in the fund last month, Steinberg said in a
telephone interview. The Sydney-based company today reported  net
income  of A$514.5 million ($473 million) in the 12 months ended
June 30, compared with A$181.1 million a year earlier.  Dexus agreed in July to acquire the stake through a forward
contract arranged by Deutsche Bank after Commonwealth Bank said
it was seeking to exit its property business. Dexus has made an
informal takeover proposal for the office fund to Commonwealth
Bank or its funds management arm and is searching for a backer
for a possible A$3 billion bid, the Australian newspaper
reported today without saying where it got the information.  “Contrary to media reports, no informal or formal proposal
has been made by Dexus to either the bank or to the CPA
responsible entity,” Steinberg said today. “The investment
creates a variety of options for Dexus,” he said, without
providing further details.  Boosting Funds  The fund “may be important to Dexus in the long term,”
Steinberg, who was head of property at Commonwealth Bank’s funds
management arm before taking over as Dexus’s CEO in March 2012,
said in July.  The company has engaged Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. to act as advisers, according to the Australian report.
Steinberg said that Dexus has been working with the two banks
and Deutsche Bank AG over more than 12 months on matters
unrelated to a proposal.  Dexus, which sold off properties in the U.S. and  Europe 
during the year to focus on its Australian office business, is
seeking to boost funds from operations to 8.15 Australian cents
a share in fiscal year 2014, compared with 7.75 Australian cents
in the 12 months to June 30, it said.  The company, which is also seeking to grow its asset
management business, said funds grew by 9.5 percent to A$6.1
billion in fiscal year 2013. When properties that are currently
being developed are taken into account, that will increase to 20
percent, Steinberg said.  Dexus  shares  slipped 1 percent to A $1.015 at the close of
trading in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index closed
little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  