-- Dubai Sees Need for Tallest Office Tower Amid 45% Vacancy
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-08-20T12:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/dubai-sees-need-for-tallest-office-tower-amid-45-vacancy.html
In Dubai, where almost half of the
offices sit empty, the head of a state-owned business zone says
there’s room to build the world’s tallest office tower.  Ahmed Bin Sulayem, chairman of the Dubai Multi Commodities
Centre, said the Persian Gulf business hub can still attract
tenants and investors with such a project because many of its
buildings are unsuitable for large businesses. Bin Sulayem
helped lead the development of the DMCC’s 68-story Almas Tower,
Dubai’s tallest building when it was completed in 2007. The
tower’s full and has a waiting list for tenants, he said.  “The crisis has shown us that well-designed and thought
out developments will always hold value and demand,” Bin
Sulayem, 35, said in an interview in the  Almas Tower . “We will
be running out of space and the world’s tallest commercial tower
will help attract more companies.”  Dubai’s speculation-driven property boom saddled the
Persian Gulf sheikhdom with thousands of offices that are
unattractive to businesses because of their design, location or
ownership. Companies looking for at least 5,000 square meters
(54,000 square feet) are frequently unable to find what they
want and are increasingly looking for “built-to-suit” deals,
broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in an April 14 report. About
45 percent of the city’s offices are empty, according to CBRE
Group Inc., another broker.  For Sale  The skyscraper at DMCC would be at least 520 meters (1,706
feet) tall and stand at the center of a 107,000 square-meter
development that will include commercial buildings for companies
that require their own facilities, said Matthew Lomax, director
of property at DMCC. The free-zone authority plans to sell part
of the tower, to be built over five years at a cost of about $1
billion, and keep the rest to generate rental income.  “We will go around and make sure that multinationals are
aware of this building before we go to the rest,” Bin Sulayem
said. “They tend to need large space and plan expansion years
in advance.”  The cranes won’t be going up anytime soon. The skyscraper
has yet to be designed, a contractor hasn’t been commissioned
and financing hasn’t been secured. Funding will probably come
from advance sales as well as loans and Islamic bonds, the
chairman said.  DMCC is in talks with “seven serious banks, and we have a
number of international banks that want a piece of it,” Bin
Sulayem said. He said investors have called him about buying 25
floors in the tower, even before a design is available.  High Inefficiency  The need for big corporate office spaces doesn’t justify a
project like the one DMCC envisions, said Matthew Green, head of
United Arab Emirates research at CBRE. The higher costs of
building a tall tower force the owner to ask for higher rents
and selling prices, he said.  “Why the tallest tower?” he said. “It’s going to be
inefficient and there’s no point in building an inefficient
building in a great location. Corporate occupiers are not
looking to spend fantastic amounts of money.”  Rent and prices aside, many corporate occupiers shy away
from high towers and that’s driving demand for low-rise business
parks in locations such as TECOM, Meydan and Silicon Oasis, said
Craig Plumb, head of Middle East and North Africa research at
Jones Lang.  “While some corporates will consider taking a number of
floors in large high rise towers, others would prefer low to
mid-rise premises where they are the sole or at least the major
occupier,” he said.  Ambitious Projects  Bin Sulayem’s ambitions mirror those of Dubai developers
and political leaders, who have announced megaprojects ranging
from the world’s highest Ferris Wheel to a Taj Mahal replica
bigger than the original in the last 12 months. Few if any
details have been provided on how the plans will be financed.  As with the residential market, Dubai’s office boom from
2002 to mid-2008 was driven by investment in yet-to-be-built
properties by buyers who frequently resold the contracts to turn
a quick profit. Much of the real estate was sold floor-by-floor,
under a system known as strata title, and ended up with small
investors with little experience in managing commercial
property, CBRE’s Green said.  Dubai’s central business district has an office vacancy
rate of 31 percent, the world’s highest until neighboring Abu
Dhabi’s rate rose to 38 percent several months ago, Jones Lang’s
Plumb said. Mumbai has a vacancy rate of 25 percent while Boston
and Chicago trail with 20 percent and 18 percent respectively,
he said. About 15 percent of Moscow’s central business district
is unoccupied and the rate is 13 percent in Frankfurt and
 Shanghai .  Glut Grows  Vacancies across the city probably will rise to 50 percent
by the end of 2015 as developers fulfilling contracts signed
during the boom add 1.7 million square meters of space, Green
said. About 1.4 million square meters of office space, or 19
percent of current supply, will be added in Dubai by the end of
2015, Jones Lang LaSalle estimates.  While undesirable locations, faulty floor plans,
inefficient designs and lack of parking are all cited as reasons
for the high vacancy rate,  strata titles  may be the most
significant cause. Almost 65 percent of the space that’s being
completed through 2015 will have that ownership structure, which
large tenants find unattractive because they have to deal with
several owners with different rent demands and standards for
maintaining the property, he said.  Fruitless Search  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest lender by
market value, searched for more than two years in Dubai before
deciding to build its own 13-story tower in 2011, when the
vacancy rate across the city was 40 percent. Robin Pugh of Jones
Lang, who assisted with the search, said most buildings weren’t
suitable because of the strata titles.  Dubai has pulled off record-setting projects.  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  sold all the residential space in the Burj
Khalifa, the world’s tallest building, before it was completed
in 2010 and it’s currently expanding the Dubai Mall, already the
world’s largest by area. Palm Jumeirah, the tree-shaped
artificial island built by Nakheel PJSC, commands some of the
city’s highest home prices and the company this year announced a
plan to build 102 beachfront villas on the island.  Almas, which means diamond in Arabic, is the 13th-tallest
office building in the world, according to a  ranking  by the
Council on Tall buildings and Urban Habitat. It shares the spot
with  the Pinnacle  in Guangzhou. Taiwan’s  Taipei 101  is the
world’s highest commercial tower with 508 meters and 101 floors.  Free Zone  The proposed new tower for the DMCC would have the
advantage of being in an area that offers companies tax-free
status for 50 years with no restrictions on capital repatriation
and simpler regulation. Dubai has set up several of the
districts for specific industries, known as free zones, where
companies can retain 100 percent ownership. Outside the areas,
companies can only operate if they are majority-owned by U.A.E.
citizens.  DMCC, which operates a free zone with more than 7,000
businesses, requires companies operating in the business park to
take offices there. It also doesn’t allow tenants to take space
if they’re not companies registered with the zone, a policy the
chairman said prevents speculation. DMCC has 27 towers that
include commercial space within the Jumeirah Lake Towers Free
Zone on Dubai’s main Sheikh Zayed Road.  Bin Sulayem has overseen the expansion of the DMCC from a
gold trading zone to include exchanges for diamonds, tea and
pearls as well as the construction of the Almas Tower. His first
job at the DMCC Authority was to manage the start of the project
in 2001 and he served as chief operating officer when the tower
was commissioned and built. He became DMCC chairman in 2011.  Tall towers are usually designed for multiple uses because
developers “don’t want to put all their eggs in one basket,”
Bin Sulayem said. “But for us, office is what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  