-- The Back Roads to Citizenship
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-19T15:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/the-back-roads-to-citizenship.html
The campaign against immigration
reform appears to be  faltering . Only about 50 people showed up
last week for an anti-immigration rally in  Virginia  featuring
Representative Steve King, the Iowa Republican whose views on
the subject range from  bizarre  to  misleading . Meanwhile, since
the start of the August recess, a few Republican House members
 have announced  their support for some kind of comprehensive
immigration reform.  This is good news. The key will be how exactly they define
“support” -- and, consequently, finding a legislative sweet
spot that represents the minimum that Democrats will accept and
the maximum that the Republican rank and file will tolerate.  The sticking point is legalization followed by citizenship
for about 11 million undocumented immigrants already living in
the U.S. Republicans decry “amnesty” for the undocumented,
while Democrats insist on a pathway to citizenship.  There will be no immigration reform without some kind of
citizenship provision, which the bipartisan bill the Senate
passed in June provides. Legalization with no chance of
citizenship would create an official second class; nothing could
be more un-American. But to overcome the objections of many in
their own caucus, and the intransigent “ no special pathway ”
rhetoric they’ve adopted, House Republican leaders may have to
get creative.  The best option, of course, would be to adopt the Senate
bill and accept the short-term political consequences on the
anti-immigrant right. This seems unlikely, to put it charitably,
and at any rate the lower chamber is historically and
institutionally loath to accept the work of the upper chamber
without alteration.  A second, perhaps no less risky, choice would be to produce
House legislation that provides multiple back roads to
citizenship in lieu of a single superhighway. House Republicans
would stick to their “no special pathway” talking point while
liberalizing existing paths to citizenship to accommodate
millions more applicants. For example, limits on both low-skilled ( capped  at 5,000 annually) and high-skilled immigrants
( capped  at 85,000) could be raised for undocumented residents.
Family reunification could be expanded, in part by eliminating
the  Catch-22  known as the three-year and 10-year bars, which
require some undocumented immigrants who are married to U.S.
citizens to leave the country for three years or a decade before
they can become citizens themselves.  These and other policies, such as easier paths to
citizenship for veterans and refugees, would be combined with a
repackaged, rebranded Dream Act to provide citizenship to
undocumented youths who were brought to the U.S. as children.  Such partial paths to citizenship would be a bitter pill
for Democrats, not to mention the undocumented immigrants who
would be denied citizenship. If the legislation proved too
stingy, Democrats would no doubt refuse to support it, with
Republicans probably bearing the brunt of the blame. However,
Republican leaders probably also understand that if they can
provide citizenship to many, even most, of the nation’s millions
of undocumented immigrants through back roads, such legislation
would be difficult for Democrats to resist.  How many millions? That’s hard to know and hard to find
out.  A full path to citizenship would be the best course, on
both moral and practical grounds. According to a  white paper 
issued by the White House, a path to citizenship would boost the
nation’s gross domestic product by $568 billion by 2022, add
820,000 jobs and $321 billion in national income, and produce an
extra $75 billion in federal and state tax revenue compared with
legalization. More important, it would produce American citizens
free to pursue their dreams without fear.  If an immigration bill reduced the undocumented population
from 11 million to, say, 5 million or so, it might be possible
to provide a path to citizenship for this smaller group at a
later date. We can’t say for certain whether we’d support such a
bill. But we might.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 