-- EADS Fights to Keep Typhoon in South Korean Combat Jet Contest
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/eads-fights-to-keep-typhoon-in-south-korean-combat-jet-contest.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  is working to keep alive the Eurofighter Typhoon’s sales
prospects in South Korea after the agency set to select the
provider of 60 combat planes raised questions about the bid.  South Korea’s DAPA defense armaments agency requested a
draft contract over the weekend as EADS sought to clarify its
proposal that had “confused” the customer, said Christian Scherer, the sales chief of EADS’s Cassidian defense unit.  South Korea is also evaluating offers from  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
which is trying to sell an upgraded version of the F-15E called
the Silent Eagle, and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter made by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  The country, already a buyer of F-15s, is
looking to acquire 60 jets under the so called F-X program.  “We have all to play for,” Scherer said in a telephone
interview late yesterday. “I am still optimistic that whoever
is uncomfortable with how we structured our bid will come around
and see there is more to it.”  DAPA said on Aug. 18 one of three contestants it refused to
identify did not meet conditions specified for the contract.
South Korean’s Yonhap News reported on Aug. 19 that EADS did not
meet the requirements, while the Lockheed Martin F-35 offer did
not meet the government’s strict budget cap.  “The F-X source selection process has multiple phases and
we will continue to work closely with the U.S. government as
they offer the F-35 to  Korea ,” Lockheed Martin said in an e-mailed statement. “Lockheed Martin has not to date received an
official notification from the Republic of Korea regarding the
results of the price bidding for the F-X Program.”  Traditional Buyer   South Korea reopened the fighter bids on Aug. 13 after
temporarily halting the process in July because all three
competitors exceeded the 8.3 trillion won ($7.5 billion) budget.  Boeing has not received any official notification and “we
await word on the next steps in the selection process and will
continue to work closely with the Republic of Korea in meeting
their defense requirements,” the Chicago-based company said by
e-mail.  EADS, which is leading the South Korean bid for the
Eurofighter joint venture that also includes  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , was fully compliant with the country’s rules,
Scherer said. The package provided by Eurofighter would help
Korea to come to the most cost-effective choice for the F-X
program, he said.  The fight for military exports is intensifying as defense
companies from Lockheed Martin, the world’s largest, to EADS
seek sales abroad to make up for shrinking prospects in their
home markets. Eurofighter lost out to the F-35 in a competition
in  Japan  and last year came short in  India , which opted for the
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  Rafale.  South Korea has traditionally procured most of its military
equipment from the U.S., which has stationed almost 30,000
troops on the peninsula to aid in the country’s national
defense. That reality drove EADS to make an aggressive proposal,
Scherer said.  EADS said its offer includes about $2 billion in
investments into a future indigenous South Korean fighter
development, the KF-X. The company also had offered to assemble
53 of the 60 planes in  South Korea , Scherer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  