-- ECB Guidance Doesn’t Rule Out Rate Hike, Bundesbank Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-08-19T12:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/ecb-guidance-doesn-t-rule-out-rate-hike-bundesbank-says.html
The  European Central Bank  may raise
rates if inflation pressure increases, even after it pledged to
keep borrowing costs low, according to  Germany ’s Bundesbank.  The ECB’s commitment “is not an imperative statement, and
it doesn’t represent a change” in the monetary policy stance,
the German central bank said today in its monthly report.
“Forward guidance doesn’t rule out an increase in the benchmark
rate if greater inflation pressure emerges.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in July for the first time
that the ECB will keep  interest rates  at current levels or lower
for an extended period of time. He reiterated his statement this
month, trying to assure investors that the Frankfurt-based
central bank won’t tighten policy too soon after it cut its
 benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent in May.  “It is decisive to note that this statement is
conditional” upon the unchanged obligation to guarantee  price
stability , the Bundesbank said. “Therefore the euro system’s
forward guidance doesn’t represent an unconditional promise
about the future path of the benchmark rate.”  The euro rose more than a third of a cent against the
dollar after the report was released and was trading at $1.3351
at 1:54 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Fed Comparison  While the ECB’s forward guidance is different from that
provided by the U.S. Federal Reserve because it doesn’t set
thresholds for unemployment or inflation, there are also
similarities, the Bundesbank said.  “It has to be emphasized that both central banks base
their forward guidance on their respective monetary policy
strategy,” according to the report. The Fed’s “monetary policy
decisions are, therefore, also conditional upon actual economic
developments.”  The ECB and the Fed use guidance only to define their
mandates, not to alter them, the Bundesbank said.  The ECB’s vague commitment has left investors unsure about
the time frame of the central bank’s guidance. With the 17-nation economy emerging from its  longest-ever recession  in the
second quarter, some economists suggest the ECB’s loose monetary
policy stance might come to an end.  “Rate cuts are off the table for now,”  Andreas Scheuerle ,
an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt said last week.  ECB Confusion  While Draghi said on Aug. 1 that “forward guidance is
valid until further notice,” other policy makers have offered
different interpretations.  Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in an interview
with Reuters TV in July that “it is not six months, it is not
12, it goes beyond,” only to be corrected by an official
clarification shortly afterward, with the ECB saying that no
exact length for how long rates will remain low was given.  Executive Board member Benoit Coeure told  Bloomberg News  on
July 11 that the ECB will reassess its pledge every month.  “The additional information with regards to the monetary
policy’s direction complements the previous communication,” the
Bundesbank said today. “The goal is to explain the monetary
policy stance in simpler terms so that as many market
participants as possible can understand it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  