-- Egypt Defense Chief Says Army Will Fight to Protect State
-- B y   T a r e k   E l   T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-19T18:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/egypt-defense-chief-says-army-will-fight-to-protect-state.html
A Cairo court ordered ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  freed from prison, a move that could
complicate Egypt’s increasingly violent political transition,
while militants in Sinai killed 26 policemen.  The Cairo criminal court’s order to free Mubarak threatens
to inject new tensions in a nation convulsed by unrest that has
killed almost 1,000 in the past six days. His potential release
may spur arguments by the  Muslim Brotherhood  and others locked
in a standoff with the government that the military-installed
leaders want to restore the kind of police state Mubarak led.  The military removed Brotherhood-backed President Mohamed Mursi on July 3 following days of rallies against him, a move
that has sparked near-daily protests by his backers that have
frequently boiled over into deadly clashes. The tumult has made
it even more difficult for  Egypt  to emerge from the slowdown
that has battered the economy since Mubarak was toppled.  “No doubt there’s a willingness from some elements of the
former regime of Mubarak to come back to the Egyptian political
landscape,” said Nasser Amin, director of the Arab Center for
the Independence of the Judiciary and the Legal Profession.
“This doesn’t mean a return of the police state, those who
participated in the Egyptian revolution won’t allow that.”  Military Custody  Mursi has been in military custody since his removal. He
was ordered held today for 15 more days pending a probe into new
claims he incited violence during deadly unrest in December.  Mubarak, ordered freed in connection with a corruption
case, could be released within three days, his attorney, Farid
ElDib, said by phone today. He has already been ordered released
in connection with two other lawsuits for which he has been
jailed, including his role in the deaths of protesters during
the 2011 uprising against him. Another case involving gifts from
the state-run Ahram group must be decided before he can be
freed, Mahmoud el-Hefnawy, an official with the prosecutor
general’s office, said by phone.  Mubarak is being retried in the protester deaths case after
his life sentence was overturned on appeal.  Youth activists from the group that drove the campaign to
oust Mursi said the autocratic leader who ruled Egypt for 29
years won’t be allowed to govern again.  ‘Same Coin’  “The fact that we’re fighting the Brotherhood doesn’t mean
we’ll allow the return of the Mubarak regime, simply because
both regimes are two sides of the same coin,” said Islam
Hammam, a leader of the Tamarod group.  The court ruling comes at a difficult time for the
government. International censure has mounted since it cleared
out two pro-Mursi protest camps in the Cairo area on Aug. 14,
touching off a cycle of violence from which the country has yet
to emerge. About 900 civilians and 100 policemen have died since
the camps were stormed.  In Sinai today, militants armed with rocket-propelled
grenades killed 25 policemen near the border with the  Gaza
Strip . The  Interior Ministry , in an e-mailed statement,
described the incident as a “continuation of the terrorist
crimes in Sinai.”  Another officer was shot dead by a rooftop sniper near the
city of al-Arish, the ministry said. The peninsula has grown
increasingly lawless since Mubarak was pushed from power, and
militants operating there have stepped up their attacks on
police and soldiers since Mursi’s overthrow.  Military Warning  Interim President Adly Mansour met with Defense Minister
Abdelfatah al-Seesi and Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim to
discuss the situation in Sinai, the presidency said in a
statement.  Hours earlier, at least 36 Muslim Brotherhood members were
reported killed during what the Interior Ministry said was an
attempt to escape from custody while en route to prison. The
cabinet said in a statement that security forces responded after
prisoners took a police officer hostage. There was no way to
reconcile the reports.  Al-Seesi, who led Mursi’s ouster last month, warned
yesterday that the military won’t “remain silent before the
destruction of the country.” He also urged Islamists to
participate in the government’s plan to steer Egypt toward a
civilian democracy.  “By launching the attack just hours after al-Seesi’s
speech, in which he promised to end violence in Sinai, the
Brotherhood and their allies in Sinai are trying to challenge
the army and send a message that they don’t care about his
remarks,” said retired army general Sameh Seif el-Yazal.  Brotherhood Ban Considered  The government is currently considering banning the
Brotherhood. Hundreds of its members have been detained. Imams
who criticize the army or state institutions in their sermons
may be suspended, Ahram Gate reported, citing a statement from
the ministry of religious endowments.  Egypt’s benchmark stock index extended yesterday’s biggest
drop in more than two months. The EGX 30 index fell 0.1 percent
at the close in Cairo, taking the two-day decline to 4 percent.  The government’s borrowing costs rebounded from the lowest
in more than two years at an auction of treasury bills today,
with the average yield on 12-month notes rising 18 basis points
12.86 percent, according to central bank data on Bloomberg.  European Union diplomats met today to discuss a response to
the situation, a day after the 28-nation bloc said it would
“urgently review” relations with Egypt.  U.S. Aid Review  The U.S. has taken initial steps to withhold economic
assistance without cutting off the much larger military aid
provided, the  New York  Times reported, citing officials in
President  Barack Obama ’s administration it didn’t identify. For
the year, the administration proposed $250 million in economic
assistance and $1.3 billion for the military.  State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said today that the
U.S. was reviewing aid programs that benefit the Egyptian
government.  Deliveries over the next few months of military hardware
for Egypt, from  AH-64 Apache  helicopters to patrol boats, may be
delayed or withheld as the U.S. evaluates how to respond to the
turmoil there.  The Obama administration put deliveries of five major
procurement programs, including F-16 fighter jets by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , “under review,” according to a State Department
document sent to Congress and obtained by  Bloomberg News . It was
dated July 16, two weeks after Mursi was ousted.  “We’re reviewing all aspects of our relationship,”
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters today at the
Pentagon when asked whether the Apache deliveries will be
delayed. Citing U.S. interests in Egypt and the region, he said
the U.S. would use its “limited” ability to influence events
to encourage an “inclusive, open democratic process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  