-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Outflow Concern as Rupee Tumbles
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-08-19T22:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/emerging-stocks-decline-for-third-day-on-capital-outflow-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in six weeks as  Indonesia ’s record current-account deficit
and  Thailand ’s recession spurred concern that capital outflows
will accelerate.  India ’s rupee sank to an all-time low.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 1.4 percent to 944.88.
The Jakarta Composite Index dropped by the most since October
2011, while Thailand’s SET Index retreated to a one-month low.
India’s S&P BSE Sensex extended a drop from its July 23 high to
almost 10 percent and the rupee led losses in 23 of 24
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s swap
rates climbed as the real touched a level weaker than 2.4 per
dollar for the first time in four years.  Indonesia’s current-account shortfall widened to $9.8
billion last quarter, the largest in data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 1989. Thailand cut its 2013 growth forecast as the
country entered recession for the first time since the global
financial crisis. India’s rupee plunged on speculation a
strengthening U.S. economy may prompt the  Federal Reserve  to
pare its $85 billion monthly bond-buying program.  “The emerging markets that are down the most today are
those that are most dependent on foreign capital inflows to fund
their balance of payments,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets
strategist at Amiya Capital LLP in  London , said by e-mail.  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell today
as health-care and utility companies had the biggest losses. The
 broad measure  dropped 10 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent surge in the MSCI World Index. The  gauge  of developing
nations is trading at 10 times estimated earnings, below the
valuation of developed markets of 13.6.  Emerging ETF  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund slid 1.9 percent at $38.56. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 4 percent to 24.57.  “There’s some concern about policy in the U.S, global
demand,” Kevin Caron, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based market
strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $147
billion, said by phone. “All that has the potential to dampen
demand and create some risk in emerging markets.”  Most Brazilian stocks fell as Gafisa SA led homebuilders
lower on speculation policy makers may speed up the pace of
interest-rate increases to curb inflation, dimming the outlook
for companies that sell on credit. The real declined 0.8 percent
to the weakest level since March 2009.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.2 percent as Bank of America
Merrill Lynch raised its recommendation for OAO Gazprom. The
Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index sank 2.6 percent, while the
lira weakened to a record against the euro.  Indonesia, Thailand  The Jakarta Composite Index of shares has fallen almost 8
percent in two days, and is now the world’s worst performer this
quarter. Thai’s SET slumped 3.3 percent today. The S&P BSE
Sensex slid 1.6 percent as  State Bank of India  and ICICI Bank
Ltd. tumbled at least 2.6 percent.  China’s stocks rose for the first time in four days as
communication shares and rare-earth producers rallied after the
government said it will expand the country’s broadband network.
Brokerages declined.  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Yonyou Software Co. jumped by
the 10 percent daily limit.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 323 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  