-- ETFs Spur Loan Volatility as Funds Attract Cash: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-19T16:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/etfs-spur-loan-volatility-as-funds-attract-cash-credit-markets.html
Leveraged loans are becoming more
volatile as they attract unprecedented cash from investors
seeking debt that offers protection from rising interest rates.  Loan  prices  have swung 11.92 cents on the dollar since the
end of 2010, compared with a 1.5-cent fluctuation in the three
years ended Dec. 31, 2006, according to the Standard &
Poor’s/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 index. Mutual and exchange-traded
funds that focus on the floating-rate debt have attracted about
$45.5 billion of new money this year, increasing their assets by
60 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.  While the flows have helped speculative-grade companies
refinance and lower rates on more than $300 billion of existing
loans, concern is rising that the cash could flow out just as
quickly, causing borrowing costs to soar. Mutual funds and ETFs
now own about 20 percent of the U.S. leveraged-loan market,
about the most ever, and may contribute to bigger price swings
going forward, according to Fitch Ratings.  “I don’t think it’s all going to be smooth sailing,”
Darin Schmalz, a director at Fitch in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “Looking at loans over time, it was a
pretty stable asset class. We found out this can be a volatile
asset class.”  Bond Outflows  This year’s flows into leveraged-loan funds contrast with
$9.3 billion of withdrawals from U.S. high-yield bond funds,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show, with investors fleeing debt
that’s grown more vulnerable to rising rates after a four-year
rally pushed yields to record lows. Yields on 10-year Treasuries
climbed to 2.83 percent Aug. 16, the highest since July 2011 as
the Federal Reserve considers slowing its unprecedented stimulus
effort.  Trading has increased more than 12 times this year in the
biggest leveraged-loan ETF, Invesco Ltd.’s  PowerShares Senior
Loan (BKLN)  Fund, as investors seek a quick and easy way into a less-liquid, over-the-counter market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Volumes in the underlying debt aren’t rising as quickly,
increasing 53 percent in the past year, according to the Loan
Syndication and Trading Association.  ETFs “might be a small part of the market, but they can
have an outsized impact on market prices relative to their
size,” Eric Gross, a credit strategist at Barclays Plc in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “Investors and traders
need to be cognizant of what the ETFs are doing because they can
affect pricing, sentiment, and flows.”  Bond Yields  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. rose with the Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rising 1.3 basis points to a mid-price of 82.8 basis points at 11:55 a.m. in New York, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London  the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of credit-default
swaps tied to the debt of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings rose 0.23 to 99.05.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Swap Spreads  The two-year U.S. swap spread was unchanged at 18.9 basis
points. The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of government securities and narrows when they favor
assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
were the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers last week, accounting for 3.52 percent of
the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Investors have gravitated toward leveraged loans as they
seek protection from losses incurred by rising rates while also
getting extra income from lower-rated securities. Yields on 10-year  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  rose by more than a percentage point since
December as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated policy makers
could scale back monthly bond purchases this year.  Policy ‘Misunderstanding’  Loans are typically pegged to floating-rate benchmarks that
rise alongside increasing benchmark borrowing rates.  “It’s easy to raise money by offering such a simple
solution,” Gary Herbert, a fund manager at Brandywine Global
Investment Management LLC, which oversees about $38 billion in
fixed-income assets, said in a telephone interview. “Smaller
companies that are aggressively levered dominate the loan
market. There’s a lot of misunderstanding about what happens
when the central bank’s balance sheet shrinks.”  Loan mutual funds now manage more than $115 billion in
assets, up from $71 billion in 2012, JPMorgan said in an Aug. 8
research note. Two new leveraged-loan ETFs started trading this
year, including the  SPDR Blackstone/ GSO Senior Loan ETF (SRLN) , a
joint venture between  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and State Street Corp.
The fund started with $65 million in assets and has multiplied
more than seven times in the last four months to about $475
million.  Invesco ETF  Invesco’s PowerShares Senior Loan fund, the first and
biggest loan ETF, has grown to about $5 billion in assets since
its inception in March 2011. The $5.5 billion in assets under
management for loan ETFs at the end of July accounts for about 1
percent of borrowings included in the S&P/LSTA index, according
to an Aug. 12 report from CreditSights Inc.  Trading volumes in Invesco’s ETF rose to an average 3
million shares per day in July, from about 241,000 a year
earlier, Bloomberg data show.  “The market is still being driven by CLOs, but the
relative importance of mutual funds has grown, and ETFs are kind
of a tail on that dog at this point,” Alex Jackson, the head of
the bank loan group in Armonk, New York at Cutwater Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview. “The price
volatility of the loan market is almost double what it was pre-crisis.”  Loan Prices  The  average price  on the 100 largest first-lien loans
climbed to a six-year high of 98.88 cents in May from 96.1 cents
at the end of December, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged
Loan 100 index. Accelerating demand for floating-rate debt has
enabled speculative-grade borrowers to refinance $157 billion of
loans this year, while reducing the rate on $187.7 billion of
existing loans through the end of July, according to S&P’s
Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary and Data.  This year’s rally has reversed the eight-month stretch
through October 2011, when loan prices fell 9.5 cents as concern
grew that policy makers would be unable to reign in spiraling
borrowing costs in Europe that hampered Ireland and Portugal’s
ability to sell debt. Spain,  Greece , Ireland, Portugal and
Cyprus all required bailouts, with policy makers creating the
 European Financial Stability Facility  in 2010.  During the financial crisis, in the fourth quarter of 2008,
bank loans underperformed speculative-grade notes, losing 23
percent.  ‘Post-crisis’ Market  “The interesting thing to note though is how the loan
market has evolved post-crisis,” Fitch’s Schmalz said. The
growth in the proportion of the market owned by individual
buyers “will have an impact if investors begin to take money
out of the asset class, which will force retail funds and ETFs
to sell,” Schmalz said.  While collateralized loan obligations are still the
dominant owners of the $593 billion U.S. leveraged loan market,
holding about 53 percent of the debt, their share has dropped
from 60 percent in the first quarter, according to the LSTA.  The volume of loans traded in the secondary market jumped
to $150 billion in the three months through June, compared with
$98 billion in the same period last year, LSTA data show.  The floating-rate debt has  gained  3.1 percent this year,
according the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, outpacing the 2.3
percent gains on the Bloomberg USD High Yield Corporate Bond
Index.  “There’s been a blindness toward the concept of risk while
choosing duration protection,” Herbert said. “When the market
sentiment turns, the less sophisticated investors will be the
ones harmed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 