-- EU Says ‘No Options Ruled Out’ on Egypt Ahead of Aug. 21 Meeting
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-08-19T14:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/eu-says-no-options-ruled-out-on-egypt-ahead-of-aug-21-meeting.html
The European Union said no options
are off the table as the 28-nation bloc’s foreign ministers
prepare to respond to escalating violence in  Egypt  at an Aug. 21
meeting.  “No options were ruled out today” at a meeting of EU
diplomats, Bernardino Leon, the EU’s special representative for
the southern Mediterranean, told reporters in Brussels. While an
arms embargo is one possibility that has been suggested, Leon
said sanctions haven’t been discussed.  “We still think there are democratic forces left, and we
will try to address them and to keep working with them
constructively” to find a political solution, Leon said.
“There are no easy solutions and no easy way out, but the
European Union will keep striving for this.”  More than 900 people have died in the turmoil that has
gripped Egypt in the past week after the government moved to
crush Islamist protests. Militants attacked two police vehicles
in northern Sinai early today, killing 25 officers. Defense
Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi, who led the ouster of Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi last month, warned yesterday that the
military won’t tolerate additional violence.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  will present
proposals on relations with Egypt to foreign ministers on
Wednesday, Leon said. It’s “difficult to predict” what the
ministers will decide, he said.  The Egyptian government has a “special responsibility” to
find a political solution, “but not the only responsibility,”
Leon said. “We have been saying very clearly that all violence
from both sides has to stop.”  The EU warned yesterday that an escalation of the turmoil
could have “unpredictable consequences” for the country and
the region. The bloc will “urgently review” its relations with
Egypt with the goal of ending the violence and fostering the
resumption of political dialogue in the country, EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
said in a joint statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  