-- Euro Strengthens as Bundesbank Says Rates May Rise; Rupee Slumps
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-19T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/euro-strengthens-as-bundesbank-says-rates-may-rise-yen-weakens.html
The euro rose to two-week high
against the yen after  Germany ’s Bundesbank said the  European
Central Bank ’s pledge to keep borrowing costs low doesn’t rule
out higher  interest rates  to curb inflation.  The single currency advanced versus most of its 16 major
counterparts as Germany’s central bank said in its monthly
report that forward guidance “doesn’t rule out an increase in
the benchmark rate if greater inflation pressure emerges.” The
yen weakened for a second day against the dollar as  Japan 
reported a trade deficit.  India ’s rupee slumped to a record as
the nation’s stocks slid.  “The euro is trading higher on the back of those
comments,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit, said in a telephone interview. “It
reintroduces the possibility that, should inflation pressures
re-emerge, the ECB’s forward guidance could be replaced with
something a bit less dovish.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to 130.09 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York  after appreciating to 131.03 yen, the highest level since
Aug. 5. The common currency rose 0.1 percent to $1.3335 after
climbing to $1.34 on Aug. 8, the strongest since June 19. The
yen weakened less than 0.1 percent to 97.55 per dollar.  Rupee, Lira  India’s rupee plunged to a record low versus the dollar on
speculation a strengthening U.S. economy will prompt the  Federal
Reserve  to pare its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases as
soon as next month. The currency fell 2.4 percent to 63.13 per
dollar after falling 2.6 percent to 63.23.  Overseas investors sold a net $3 billion of Indian stocks
and bonds last month as the slowest growth in a decade made
 Asia ’s third-largest economy vulnerable to a pullout of funds
from  emerging markets , spurred by speculation the Fed will
reduce stimulus.  The Turkish lira declined to a record low against the euro
as sovereign-bond yields climbed. The currency fell 0.6 percent
to 2.6067 per euro after earlier sliding 0.8 percent to 2.6117.
It decreased 0.6 percent to 1.9545 per dollar after touching
1.9563, its weakest level since July 12.  The currency is “vulnerable to risk sentiment in global
markets” amid expectations that the central bank will leave
rates unchanged at a monetary policy meeting tomorrow, Erkin Isik, fixed-income strategist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi, said
today in an e-mailed report.  Rand Slides  South Africa ’s rand fell versus most its major counterparts
as bond yields soared to the highest in 16 months on concern
capital outflows from emerging markets will accelerate as the
Fed considers a reduction in monetary stimulus. The currency
slipped 1.1 percent to 10.2057 per dollar after reaching
10.2218, the weakest since July 8.  The Indonesian rupiah declined versus all but the rupee
among its 31 most-traded peers after the country’s current-account deficit widened to a record last quarter. It slid 1
percent to 10,490 per dollar after touching 10,500, the lowest
since June 2009.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in July for the first time
that the central bank will keep interest rates at current levels
or lower for an extended period of time. He reiterated his
statement this month, trying to assure investors that the
central bank won’t tighten policy too soon after it cut its
benchmark rate to a record low of 0.5 percent in May.  ‘Piling In’  “The comments from the German central bank are providing
some support for the euro,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “There seems to be a slightly more
positive view on the euro. It seems like investors are gradually
piling in.”  The euro has strengthened 5.3 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 4
percent, while the yen slumped 8.8 percent.  A composite index based on surveys of  purchasing managers 
will show services and manufacturing in the bloc expanded this
month at the fastest pace in two years, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts before Markit Economics releases the data on
Aug. 22. The region emerged from its  longest-ever recession  in
the second quarter, the European Union’s statistics office said
Aug. 14.  Yen Falls  The yen weakened as the Ministry of Finance said Japan’s
imports outpaced exports by 1.02 trillion yen ($10.4 billion) in
July, compared with the median estimate for a 773.5 billion yen
shortfall. It was the biggest deficit since January, when it was
a record 1.63 trillion yen.  “Japan’s external balance remains deeply in deficit and
that’s obviously a yen negative,” said Callum Henderson,
Singapore-based global head of currency research at Standard
Chartered Plc.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $24 billion, compared with $18 billion on Aug. 16,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  totaled $3.1 billion, the largest
share of trades at 13 percent. Options on the U.S. dollar-Chinese  yuan  amounted to just under $3.1 billion, or about 13
percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 39 percent less than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day.
Dollar-yuan options trading was 50 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  