-- Europe Claims Golf’s Solheim Cup With Record-Setting Win in U.S.
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/europe-secures-first-win-in-u-s-to-retain-golf-s-solheim-cup.html
Europe  claimed the Solheim Cup on
U.S. soil for the first time with the most lopsided win in the
13 editions of the premier team competition in women’s golf.  Caroline Hedwall of  Sweden  became the first player to win
all five of her Solheim Cup matches as the European team rolled
to an  18-10 victory  in the three-day competition at  Colorado 
Golf Club in Parker, Colorado.  Europe won consecutive Solheim Cup titles for the first
time since the event began in 1990, having also defeated the
U.S. 15-13 at the 2011 tournament in Ireland to end a run of
three straight losses. Europe is now 5-8 overall.  “This is really what you practice for, to be part of this
moment,” Hedwall said. “It’s unbelievable.”  Hedwall ensured Europe would retain the trophy by hitting
her approach to within four feet of the cup at the 18th hole,
setting up a birdie that gave her a victory against Michelle Wie. Catriona Matthew of  Scotland  then provided the winning
half-point by earning a draw against Gerina Piller.  Europe had entered the 12 singles matches on the final day
with a record five-point advantage.  Europe’s six rookies had a combined 12-5-2 record, with
Carlota Ciganda of Spain going 3-0, including yesterday’s win
against Morgan Pressel in which she ran off five straight
birdies to end the match. England’s 17-year-old Charley Hull
went 2-1 and gave Europe its first point yesterday by routing
Paula Creamer, after which she asked her beaten opponent to
autograph a golf ball.  “They played great this week,” Wie said of the European
team. “There’s nothing you can do about that. We have two years
to get ready for  Germany  and we’re going to get that cup back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  