-- Euro Near Week-High Before PMI Reports; Rupee Slides to Record
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-08-20T06:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/euro-trades-near-week-high-before-manufacturing-services-report.html
The euro traded near the highest
level in more than a week before manufacturing and services data
that may add to evidence of the region’s strengthening recovery
from a six-quarter contraction.  The dollar held gains versus most major peers after
 Treasury yields  climbed to a two-year high yesterday and as
investors await Federal Reserve meeting minutes due tomorrow for
clues on when it will reduce stimulus.  India ’s rupee slid to a
record and  Indonesia ’s rupiah slumped to the lowest level since
April 2009 on concern funds will flow out of Asian markets as
the U.S. recovers. New Zealand’s dollar fell after the central
bank governor said the currency was overvalued.  “Euro strength has coincided with the first quarter of
positive growth in six quarters,” said Andrew Salter, a
currency strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  in Sydney. There are “some signs growth is starting to
stabilize.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3349 as of 7:01 a.m. in
 London . It touched $1.3380 on Aug. 16, the highest since Aug. 9.
It declined 0.2 percent to 129.81. The dollar slid 0.3 percent
to 97.23 yen.  An  index  of activity in manufacturing and services in the
euro area probably rose to 50.9 in August from 50.5 a month
earlier, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before an Aug. 22 report from London-based
Markit Economics. A gauge of manufacturing in Germany, the
region’s biggest economy, gained to 51.1 this month from 50.7 in
July and the services index climbed to 51.7 from 51.3, a
separate poll showed. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  ECB Guidance  The ECB’s commitment “is not an imperative statement, and
it doesn’t represent a change” in the monetary policy stance,
 Germany ’s central bank said yesterday in its monthly report.
“Forward guidance doesn’t rule out an increase in the benchmark
rate if greater inflation pressure emerges.”  Traders raised their expected increase in the ECB’s
benchmark rate over the next year to 23 basis points yesterday,
near the 26-basis-point level on Aug. 15 that was the highest
since June 25, according to a  Credit Suisse AG index  based on
swaps.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, was little changed at 1,023.28 after
climbing 0.3 percent in the previous two days.  Minutes Clues  Minutes of the Fed’s July 30-31 meeting may indicate when
central bankers plan to trim purchases of $85 billion of debt a
month. Officials will probably begin to reduce the buying next
month, according to 65 percent of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13.  “The market has received sufficient signals such that we
now expect a tapering in September and the U.S. dollar has
reflected that, especially against low-yielding currencies like
the euro and yen,” ANZ’s Salter said.  The  yield  on 10-year Treasuries was at 2.83 percent today
after touching 2.9 percent yesterday, the highest since July
2011.  The rupee sank to a record low 64.12 per dollar before
trading 1 percent weaker at 63.73. The Indonesian rupiah touched
10,728 per dollar, the weakest since April 2009, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Liquidity Squeeze’  “Until long-term yields in the U.S. stabilize, the threat
to global growth and a liquidity squeeze in vulnerable emerging-market countries is heightened,” Greg Gibbs, a senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore ,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today. “It may turn out
that asset market performance is becoming much more dependent on
domestic fundamental conditions.”  Of the $155.6 billion investors poured into developed-market equity exchange-traded products in the first seven months
this year, North American funds received $102.4 billion or 65.8
percent, according to BlackRock Investment Institute.  Japan 
attracted a record $28 billion, while Europe-focused funds got
$4.3 billion. In contrast, $7.6 billion flowed out of emerging-market funds.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.7 percent, set
for a four-day loss, which would be the longest string of
declines since the period through July 29.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies slid after
comments from the nations’ central banks. Minutes released today
of the Reserve Bank of  Australia ’s Aug. 6 meeting signaled
further interest-rate cuts remain a possibility. Reserve Bank of
New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler announced lending
restrictions to curtail house prices and said the currency is
“over-valued relative to what would be sustainable long-term.”  The Aussie fell 0.5 percent to 90.66 U.S. cents, while the
kiwi tumbled 1 percent to 79.89 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  