-- Everbright Shares Plunge 10% as Brokerage Risks Penalties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-20T08:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/everbright-at-risk-of-fines-as-china-seeks-to-boost-confidence.html
Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  plunged in
Shanghai as the broker faces possible fines and more
restrictions on business after an unprecedented stock trading
error that threatens to erode confidence in China’s market.  The shares fell by the 10 percent daily limit to 10.91 yuan
at the close today, with trading volumes about 68 percent below
this month’s average.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837)  sank the most in
three weeks as its board secretary said the company was looking
into media reports about a trading problem.  State-controlled Everbright had been suspended since it
made 23.4 billion yuan ($3.8 billion) of erroneous buy orders on
Aug. 16, an event the China Securities Regulatory Commission
described as the first of its kind. The company mispriced 10
million  yuan  of government bonds yesterday. The CSRC banned
Everbright from proprietary trading for three months as the
regulator seeks to lure investors back to the world’s second-worst performing stock market in the past four years.  “It wouldn’t be surprising, as market participants and
investors eagerly await, if the regulators hand down a harsh
penalty and hefty fines to ensure that similar incidents will
not happen again,” said Hubert Tse, a Shanghai-based partner at
the law firm Boss & Young who’s not involved in the case. “The
CSRC is likely to come to a decision fairly soon, probably in
weeks.”  The bad trades prompted the regulator’s second
investigation of Everbright this year, following a probe of an
initial public offering that the firm worked on. The CSRC hasn’t
said when it will finish its investigation, or what further
penalties it could impose. It didn’t respond to phone and fax
requests for comment on whether it will include the bond trade
in its investigation of the stock purchases.  Haitong Securities  “The company is capable of solving liquidity issues,”
Everbright’s Board Secretary Mei Jian said by phone, without
commenting on the timing or potential penalties in the
investigation. “We have normal operations and other financing
channels, such as short-term loans on the interbank market.”  Everbright,  China ’s 12th-largest brokerage by revenue, has
been ordered to determine responsibility and to take corrective
measures, the CSRC said in a statement on Aug. 18. The
securities industry should be on “high alert” because of the
flaws exposed by the Everbright case, it said.  Haitong Securities’ information department is looking into
media reports of a trading system problem, Jin Xiaobin, board
secretary of China’s 2nd-largest brokerage, said by phone today.
The stock slumped 3.3 percent, the most since July 29, in
Shanghai. The firm’s Hong Kong shares slumped 5.7 percent.  Trading Loss  Everbright isn’t the first state-controlled Chinese company
to face regulatory scrutiny for its trading operations. Citic
Pacific Ltd. reported a currency-derivative loss of about HK$15
billion ($1.9 billion) in October 2008, the biggest by a Chinese
company, prompting the resignation of Chairman Larry Yung and a
bailout from state-owned parent Citic Group.  China Aviation Oil ( Singapore ) Corp.’s former head Chen
Jiulin in 2006 was sentenced to four years and three months in a
Singaporean prison after a $550 million trading loss that
prompted the company to seek protection from creditors.  Trading errors may erode confidence in a stock market where
the benchmark index has slumped 25 percent in the four years to
yesterday. The drop by the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is the
second biggest among equity gauges in 45 emerging and developed
countries, after a 61 percent slide in  Greece ’s ASE Index.  Lower Volumes  Trading in Everbright shares dried up after an initial
surge in volumes at the open, suggesting investors aren’t eager
to purchase the stock at today’s lower valuation. About 4.5
million shares changed hands at the close in Shanghai, 68
percent below this month’s daily  average , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Investors are scared about touching the stock given all
the noise of the last few days,” said Gerry Alfonso, a trader
at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. “After the prop trading ban
ends, the sentiment could start to change.”  Of Everbright’s 23.4 billion yuan of buy orders, 7.27
billion yuan were transacted, the company said. Everbright had a
mark-to-market loss of about 194 million yuan based on Aug. 16
closing prices, and the final value may change, the company said
in a statement to the  Shanghai  exchange on Aug. 18.  Everbright’s final trading loss could reach 300 million to
400 million yuan, Citigroup Inc. analyst Paddy Ran wrote in a
note dated Aug. 16.  Mispriced Bonds  “It’s difficult to see the endgame other than a tightening
of the scope of proprietary activity for the brokers,” Howard Wang, who oversees $10 billion as head of Greater China
investments at JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong, wrote in
an e-mail yesterday. “More regulation is a definite at this
point.”  Everbright Securities said yesterday it sold 10 million
yuan of government bonds at a yield of 4.2 percent, 25 basis
points higher than the valuation on the previous trading day.
The trade won’t be settled following negotiations with the
counterparty, the brokerage said in a statement posted late
yesterday on its website.  Disruptions in electronic markets have been under scrutiny
since a May 2010 incident in which the Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell almost 1,000 points in minutes before rebounding.
Separately, Knight Capital Group Inc. lost more than $450
million after sending erroneous orders to U.S. exchanges on Aug.
1, 2012, because of a computer malfunction. Knight was later
bought by Getco LLC to create KCG Holdings Inc.  Everbright Securities is part of China Everbright Group, a
company supervised by China’s State Council, with businesses
spanning from banking and insurance to tourism and property
development. The group had 2.4 trillion yuan of assets and
almost 50,000 employees at the end of last year, according to
its website.  --Aipeng Soo, Jun Luo. With assistance from Stephanie Tong, 
 Cathy Chan , Weiyi Lim and Shidong Zhang. Editors: Darren Boey,
Nathaniel Espino  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  