-- Lew Seeks No-Drama Debt Limit as Recovery Endures: Economy
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-08-19T20:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/lew-seeks-no-drama-debt-limit-rise-as-recovery-endures-economy.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
is trying to persuade Congress to raise the $16.7 trillion debt
 ceiling  without the drama that contributed to a stock market
rout in 2011. A stronger economy this time around may help keep
investors calm.  In August 2011, when Congress agreed after months of
haggling to increase the debt limit on the day the government’s
ability to borrow was to run out,  unemployment  was 9 percent.
Last month it was 7.4 percent, the lowest since December 2008.
Consumer  confidence , sinking back to recession levels two years
ago, is now close to a five-year high. The budget  deficit , $1.3
trillion in 2011, is projected by the  Congressional Budget
Office  to shrink to $642 billion this year.  “The economic backdrop is definitely different this
time,” said Joseph Lavorgna, the New York-based chief economist
at Deutsche Bank AG. “Two years ago we had a serious fear of
recession risk, of a double-dip. We have a much healthier
economy, or the sense that things are getting better. The labor
market best reflects that.”  When Congress returns from its recess on Sept. 9, lawmakers
and the Obama administration will confront fiscal decisions that
include funding the government by Sept. 30 to avoid a federal
shutdown and raising the debt ceiling. Republican lawmakers are
demanding spending cuts, while Lew argues that austerity and
“brinksmanship games” over increasing the debt limit could
stifle the recovery.  Self-Created Crises  So far, the rhetoric from both parties suggests an
agreement won’t be reached quickly. House Speaker  John Boehner 
said July 23 his party wouldn’t increase the debt ceiling
“without real cuts in spending” that would achieve a further
reduction in the deficit. Lew, in TV interviews that aired five
days later, insisted that he and President  Barack Obama  won’t
negotiate on the debt limit.  “We can’t afford self-inflicted wounds and we can’t have
these kinds of self-created crises month after month, year after
year,” Lew told ABC’s “This Week” program. “We saw how bad
that was for the economy in 2011.” The debt-limit debate adds
uncertainty by raising the question of whether the U.S. will
default on its obligations, he said.  The Treasury has said it probably will be able to finance
government operations by using special accounting measures until
after Congress returns. The Bipartisan Policy Center, a
nonprofit research group, projects the U.S. will reach the point
where it is unable to pay its bills sometime between mid-October
and mid-November unless Congress increases the limit.  Hiring Deterred  The last time the Treasury was in this position, in 2011,
the negotiations “put the brakes on for a lot of businesses as
far as hiring and capital spending decisions they were making at
the time,” said  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  In July 2011, at the height of the debt-limit stalemate,
Americans were applying for unemployment  benefits  at the rate of
more than 400,000 a week. That figure was down to 320,000 in the
week ended Aug. 9, the fewest since before the recession started
in 2007.  In the two weeks before a debt-limit deal passed on Aug. 2,
2011, the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  fell 5.5 percent. This
month, the index reached a record high. The index fell 0.6
percent to 1646.06 at the close of today’s trading in  New York .  This year’s talks “should have less of an impact now on
the economy and markets, partly because the last couple of
experiences have taught us that it will get done,” Sharif said.  Financial markets “have learned to ignore political
uncertainty, given how frequently it has happened in the last
two years,” said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , who follows fiscal issues
in Congress as the New York-based co-head of fixed income,
currencies and commodities research at Barclays Plc.  Stopgap Funding  A stopgap measure called the continuing resolution to fund
the government after Sept. 30 could be more contentious than the
debt limit, Rajadhyaksha said. Some Republicans are advocating a
continuing resolution only if it withholds funds to implement
Obama’s health-care law, set to take effect Jan. 1. Republicans
in Congress are split over the wisdom of that tactic.  Automatic, across-the-board budget cuts of $109 billion are
also looming with the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, after $85
billion in cuts that took effect in March. Obama wants to end
automatic cuts, while the Republican-controlled House has shown
little inclination to avoid them. The forced spending cuts,
known as sequestration, have been a drag on the economy.  Lew will renew his debt-limit pitch during an Aug. 22
speech in  Mountain View ,  California , armed with some of the
strongest economic data since Obama took office in 2009.  In addition to the improvement in labor markets, home
 prices  rose in May by the most in more than seven years, and
houses are  selling  at an annual rate of more than 5 million,
compared with 4.4 million in August 2011.  S&P’s Rally  Federal Reserve stimulus helped push the S&P 500 more than
150 percent above its low in 2009. The rally that sent the index
up 20 percent in 2013 to a record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2 was the
broadest in at least 23 years, with 445 companies higher for the
year on that date.  In the 2011 debt ceiling debate, lawmakers and the White
House battled for months before Obama signed an increase into
law on Aug. 2, the day the Treasury Department warned that U.S.
borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s , which downgraded the U.S. one step to
AA+ three days later, changed its outlook in June of this year
to “stable” from “negative.”  Though the downgrade by S&P, the world’s largest credit
rater, contributed to a global stock-market slump,  U.S.
government debt  lost none of its attraction for investors.
Yields on  Treasury securities  dropped to record lows rather than
going higher after the downgrade. Yields on 10-year Treasuries
dropped 0.74 percentage point in the seven weeks following the
downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent.  In the end, Congress will raise the ceiling in time for the
Treasury to continue borrowing because it doesn’t want to be
seen as responsible for the U.S. defaulting on its bills, Sharif
said.  “The debt limit will get raised, and the U.S. is not about
to default,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  