-- Mexico Opposition Rebuffs Pena Nieto Pemex Changes With New Plan
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-08-19T19:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/mexico-opposition-rebuffs-pena-nieto-pemex-changes-with-new-plan.html
A key Mexican opposition party
unveiled its counter proposal to President Enrique Pena Nieto’s
plan to modernize state-owned  oil company   Petroleos Mexicanos ,
rejecting changes to the constitution to attract private
investment.  The bill seeks to reduce the tax burden on Pemex, as the
oil company is known, and allow the company to decide its
budget, party founder Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, whose father
nationalized oil in 1938, said today in  Mexico  City. The
proposal also seeks to boost the company’s refining capacity,
increase the strength of regulators and gradually decrease the
amount of oil that Mexico exports, Cardenas said.  The legislation would not allow profit-sharing contracts
that Pena Nieto said are needed to attract private investment.
Those contracts would end the oil company’s 75-year monopoly on
production. The PRD, as the opposition party is known, will poll
the public on energy reform this month, while  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the PRD’s 2012 presidential candidate, who has
since left the party, called for protests in September.  The government’s amendment proposals “are attempts against
the sovereignty” of Mexico, Cardenas said as he presented the
legislation. The government-backed bills “have a clear
objective to displace the Mexican government of its control and
management over its oil wealth and with it its economic
independence.”  The PRD has 101 seats of 500 in the lower house, and along
with groups that have allied previously with the party, it has a
total of 135 seats. Pena Nieto needs a two-thirds majority of
the lower house to see his legislation passed.  The peso weakened 1.2 percent to 13.0660 per dollar at 2:34
p.m. in Mexico City, the worst performance of 23 major emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  Indian rupee .  Cardenas called on the president to withdraw his oil reform
proposal in a Radio Formula interview earlier today.  Pena
Nieto’s energy bill poses a risk for the nation because it
removes control from the state, he said.  Instead, the party is proposing a gradual five-year change
to the “enormous” tax load on Pemex, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  