-- Mexico Peso Drops for Seventh Session on Fed Concern; Bonds Fall
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-19T14:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/mexico-peso-drops-for-seventh-session-on-fed-concern-bonds-fall.html
Mexico ’s peso fell for a seventh day
and bonds slumped as speculation mounted that U.S. policy makers
are poised to begin reducing monetary stimulus that has driven
demand for the Latin American country’s securities.  The currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 13.0033 per U.S.
dollar at 9:30 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, poised for its longest streak of losses in three
months. Yields on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 rose 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 6.32 percent, the
highest on a closing basis since May 2012.  Investors are selling Mexican bonds before the Federal
Reserve later this week releases minutes of its July 30-31
meeting, which may indicate when the U.S. central bank is likely
to start reducing $85 billion in monthly asset purchases. The
Fed’s first step may be tapering monthly debt buying in
September by $10 billion to a $75 billion pace, according to
Bloomberg survey of economists concluded last week.  “What we’re going to see is more points of view in favor
of this and probably markets are anticipating this,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB,
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “It’s a bit
about the expectation that this week we’re going to get more
information from the Fed through its minutes.”  Speculation has been mounting that the Fed will begin to
reduce its asset purchases, a program to bolster U.S. economic
growth and employment, as soon as next month amid improving
data. Sales of previously-owned U.S. homes rose in July,
analysts said before an industry report due on Aug. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  