-- German Stocks Drop as ThyssenKrupp, HeidelbergCement Fall
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-19T08:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/german-stocks-drop-as-thyssenkrupp-heidelbergcement-fall.html
German stocks  declined as investors
awaited Wednesday’s release of Federal Reserve minutes amid
speculation the U.S. central bank will reduce stimulus measures.  ThyssenKrupp AG, the largest German steelmaker, lost 2.7
percent as Focus magazine reported that a potential European
Commission ruling against power-tax reductions granted to German
industries could threaten the viability of its steel business.
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  slid 2.5 percent as UBS AG downgraded rival
cement makers Holcim Ltd. Zooplus AG jumped 6 percent after
second-quarter revenue beat analysts’ estimates.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.6 percent to 8,339.51 at 10:55 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge rose 0.6 percent last week and
has  rallied 9.6 percent  this year as central banks maintained
monetary stimulus. The broader HDAX Index also retreated 0.6
percent today.  “There is a bad mood coming from America,”  Robert Halver ,
head of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt,
said in a telephone interview. “Tapering is coming. It’s a new
world, terra incognita, for what tapering
could mean for the market as we have no historical benchmark.”  The Federal Open Market Committee’s minutes from its July
30-31 meeting will be released on Aug. 21. The publication will
provide details about discussions that led to the continuation
of the Fed’s $85 billion pace of monthly bond purchases and to a
warning about the potential risks from inflation below the
central bank’s 2 percent goal.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 28 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  