-- GM, Nissan Plants Disrupted in South Africa on Strike
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-08-19T14:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/gm-nissan-plants-disrupted-in-south-africa-on-strike.html
 Carmakers including  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  shut production in South  Africa  as about 30,000
workers began a strike to demand higher wages.  The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa called
for a walkout at plants operated by seven vehicle manufacturers
across Africa’s biggest economy today after a breakdown in wage
talks, according to Castro Ngobese, a spokesman for the union.
“We are waiting for employers to submit a revised offer,” he
said by phone.  Numsa is asking for a 14 percent annual wage increase
alongside improved medical benefits and shift flexibility, the
union’s National Treasurer Mphumzi Maqungo said. Employers are
willing to offer 10 percent in the first year, the union’s
General Secretary Irvin Jim said on Aug. 16. This compares with
the South African Reserve Bank’s forecast for 5.9 percent
average inflation in 2013.  The strike is disrupting output in an industry accounting
for 7 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, according
to the Department of Trade and Industry. A prolonged stoppage of
production will impact economic growth, foreign direct
investment, and South Africa’s reputation as a supplier to the
world’s vehicle industry, economists and the manufacturers’
association say.  Deteriorating Production  “Loss of output can easily become a drag on gross domestic
product as is evidenced by the deterioration in mining and
manufacturing production,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic
research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said by phone.  BMW, where workers have been striking since Aug. 8, is
losing 345 3 Series Sedans every day and will have to re-allocate volume to other plants around the world, Guy Kilfoil,
general manager, group communications and public affairs at BMW
in South Africa, said in an e-mailed statement. Toyota is losing
output of 729 vehicles a day, according to spokesman Leo Kok.
Nissan’s daily output of about 245 units has also been disrupted
by the strike.  General Motors’ South African unit has two plants in Port
Elizabeth, in the Eastern Cape province, where it makes
Chevrolet cars and Isuzu trucks.  “We were not able to continue with normal production in
South Africa today,” Lunga Ntsendwana, product communications
manager for General Motors, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
have had a 20 percent attendance rate, and have re-allocated our
labor to ensure we are able to continue to support dealer
service activities” and delivery of new vehicles.  Radical Unions  The automotive industry receives subsidies of about 18
billion rand ($1.8 billion) a year from the South African
government,  Mike Schussler , chief economist at Johannesburg-based economists.co.za, said by phone, citing National Treasury
data. “It’s not a small amount,” he said. “Unfortunately,
they have got one of the most radical unions in the industry
that the world knows.”  The strike may cost the industry as much as 700 million
rand a day by reducing output by 3,000 vehicles, the National
Association of Automobile Manufacturers of South Africa said on
Aug. 16.  Exports of South Africa-made vehicles increased 18 percent
to 147,616 units in the first six months of 2013 compared with a
year earlier, according to data from Naamsa. Shipping of
vehicles is forecast to reach 337,000 units this year, compared
with 277,893 in 2012.  Strikes would “compromise our record as reliable supplier
of vehicles to the international market,” Naamsa Director Nico Vermeulen said on Aug. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  