-- GM to Offer Smartphones Wireless Charging in 2014 Cars
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-19T20:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/gm-to-offer-smartphones-wireless-charging-in-2014-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, will start offering wireless charging for smartphones
in some vehicles next year, said Ran Poliakine, chief executive
officer of Powermat Technologies Ltd.  Instead of plugging in cables to replenish battery power,
drivers of some 2014 GM models will be able to place mobile
devices onto a Powermat surface inside the car to draw
electricity. Phones must be capable of recharging via built-in
technology, or use a case designed for the purpose.  GM, an investor in Powermat, would be the first carmaker to
build the company’s technology into its models, Poliakine said.
The Detroit-based automaker is competing with Toyota Motor
Corp., which included a rival system in the 2013 Avalon, and
Chrysler Group LLC, which is offering the feature in some 2013
Dart compact cars. Global shipments of wirelessly charging
devices are projected to rise to almost 100 million by 2015 from
5 million units last year, according to IHS.  “The car is a major part of life for everyone with a
smartphone,” Poliakine said in an interview. “And this is
taking care of that part of life.”  Phones that can charge without being plugged in contain a
coil that receives electricity from a magnetic field when placed
on a Powermat-enabled surface. Charging time is comparable to
wired connections. Powermat’s joint venture with  Procter &
Gamble Co . has installed its Duracell Powermat chargers in
tables at Starbucks Corp. shops in Silicon Valley,  Boston  and
 New York ’s Madison Square Garden.  Moving Forward  Several industry groups are promoting different standards:
 Power Matters Alliance , which includes Powermat, BlackBerry and
AT&T Inc.;  Wireless Power Consortium , with Nokia Oyj, Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd. and  Verizon Wireless ; and  Alliance for
Wireless Power , whose supporters include HTC Corp.,  Intel Corp .
and Qualcomm Inc. Some companies joined multiple associations.  Dan Flores, a spokesman for Detroit-based GM, declined to
comment on when Powermat technology would arrive in the
company’s cars.  “We continue to work with Powermat to bring their
technologies to GM products, but for competitive reasons we’re
not discussing specifics at this time,” Flores said. “The
technology continues to move forward.”  Powermat Technologies has raised more than $80 million from
investors, Poliakine said. GM  announced  in January 2011 a $5
million investment in Powermat to promote the use of wireless-charging in cars. At the time, the automaker said the technology
could be in vehicles as soon as mid-2012 and that the Chevrolet
Volt plug-in hybrid sedan would be one of the first to offer it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  