-- Greenwich Stilt Houses Foreshadow Impact of New FEMA Maps
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-08-19T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/greenwich-stilt-houses-foreshadow-impact-of-new-fema-maps.html
In the coastal areas of Greenwich,
 Connecticut , the latest housing craze requires hydraulic jacks,
pylons and stilts. One home towers over its neighbors like a
cruise ship. Others look like expensive tree houses.  “People are stopping in to ask us about it,” said Patrick
Grasso, 59, a resident of the hedge fund enclave who jacked up
his 1920s waterfront house about 3 feet (1 meter). “People want
to know how long did it take and how much did it cost.”  Ten months after  Hurricane Sandy , Greenwich is among the
first U.S. municipalities to adopt revised flood maps from the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  that predict fiercer waves
and higher storm surges. In doing so, the town has fallen in
line with a federal initiative meant to thin the density of low-lying coastal populations, prepare for more damaging weather and
reduce rebuilding costs borne by taxpayers.  The maps add as much as 5 feet to previous predictions of
how high the waters of Long Island Sound would rise during a
100-year storm like Sandy. Starting next year, homes in surge
areas across the country won’t qualify for flood-insurance rates 
based on the old maps. That means some homeowners will face a
choice between paying as much as $150,000 to raise their houses 
or accepting premium increases as high as $20,000 a year.  Big Incentive  Greenwich will soon have company. Over the next four years,
coastal communities in about 350 counties are set to receive new
maps. Adoption is voluntary, though there’s an incentive: Towns
wishing to remain in the National Flood Insurance Program, which
insures 5.6 million homes, must accept the maps. Banks typically
require homeowners in coastal areas to have flood insurance to
secure a mortgage.  The federal government is focusing first on remapping the
East Coast and  Gulf Coast . Draft plans have added 180,000
residents in  New York  City and 32,000 homes in  New Jersey  to
flood plains. Preliminary maps in the West Coast are set for the
next two years, and the Great Lakes and  Florida  will get them in
2015 and 2016.  In Greenwich, home to hedge funds including Tudor
Investment Corp., AQR Capital Management and Traxis Partners,
the median value of a house is almost $1 million and many are at
risk. Tougher standards were adopted for 20 percent of the
residences in the Old Greenwich section. The neighborhood, which
hugs the sound, is the nation’s 11th wealthiest zip code,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  No Choice  Many of the first Greenwich residents to lift their homes
suffered so much damage during Sandy they had no choice: Repairs
exceeded 50 percent of the value of the home, which triggered a
federal rule requiring the structure to be rebuilt higher.  The Ekvalls in  Old Greenwich  are a typical example. Sandy’s
tidal surge sent water up to the kitchen countertops of their
1930s cottage, which was 6.5 feet above  sea level . They decided
to raise the first level to 15.5 feet, higher than the 14 feet
required by the town under the federal maps. Now the roof is 43
feet high, so tall that the family needed a variance on a
different Greenwich ordinance: one restricting roof heights to
35 feet.  “You are really in the trees,” said Patricia Ekvall, 54,
showing off a third-floor view of the tops of weeping willows.
From there, she can see several other homes that have been
elevated or are in the process.  Adding Stilts  The Ekvalls, whose property was assessed at $816,690 before
the renovation, spent more than $300,000 on the project. They
drilled steel pins through the muck below and then lifted the
house onto stilts. In the next major flood, water will be able
to flow under the house like a river below a bridge.  The elevation, while expensive, sent their flood insurance
down to $458 year. Had they not raised the house, it would have
been 6 feet below the new required height and their annual
flood-insurance cost would have soared next year to $5,500, she
said.  Neighbors -- even those with far less damage -- are
considering the same move, said Denise Savageau, the town’s
conservation director, who is coordinating federal Sandy relief
grants to help owners raise houses.  “They realize the water was lapping so very close,”
Savageau said.  Waters are rising elsewhere as well. Extreme weather caused
by global warming is an increasing problem, according to
President  Barack Obama  and state and local government officials.
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has called for a $60 billion
system of flood barriers to protect the city from tidal surges.
The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  New York state now lists  climate change  as a risk to
bondholders after Sandy caused more than $40 billion in damage
last year, and New Jersey is building dunes to protect its 127-mile coastline.  Rising Rates  Under the new FEMA maps, homes more than 4 feet below flood
levels may see premiums jump to $10,700 a year from $3,600,
according to data provided by the agency. In some cases, annual
insurance will rise to $23,150, according to Resources for the
Future, a Washington-based group studying the effects of the
changes.  The looming increases stem from a law passed by Congress
last year to shore up finances at the National Flood Insurance
Program. The system owes $24 billion to the  U.S. Treasury ,
according to FEMA.  ‘Subsidizing Risk’  “By subsidizing risk, we are encouraging people to build
in areas they shouldn’t build and putting that on the
taxpayers,” said R.J. Lehmann, a senior fellow at R Street
Institute, a Washington-based research organization.  “It is a wrenching process, but as we see sea levels rise
and as we see global warming, we are going to see more of
this,” said Lehmann, who helped write the law sponsored by
Representatives Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, and  Judy Biggert , an Illinois Republican.  Lehmann said the legislation was backed by fiscal
conservatives who want to shift the financial burden of
waterfront living to homeowners from all taxpayers, and
environmentalists who say cheap flood insurance leads to
development in sensitive areas.  In other, poorer parts of the U.S., there’s more outcry
over the proposed maps.  Bill Bubrig, a 47-year-old insurance agent who lives in
Belle Chasse,  Louisiana , says his insurance costs will rise to
$15,000 a year from $600 if his community adopts maps that would
put his home 6 feet below required levels.  ‘Stop FEMA’  “This is devastating,” he said. “This is going to be
worse than  Hurricane Katrina . This will cripple the area.”  Rather than lifting his home, he’s lobbying for change.
This summer he traveled to  Washington  on a mission to halt the
insurance increases with a new group based in  New Orleans  called
the Coalition for Sustainable Flood Insurance.  Another organization, Stop FEMA Now, based in Toms River,
New Jersey, is planning rallies against the insurance increases
in late September.  “We have to get communities together to make this a
national issue,” said George Kasimos, who founded the group.  Opponents say they are making progress. In March, FEMA said
it wouldn’t apply the new rates until next year. Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, is pushing legislation that
would halt implementation until an affordability study is
complete.  Federal lawmakers didn’t realize that the new maps would
cause such spikes in insurance rates, said Caitlin Berni, a
spokeswoman for the coalition.  “This was the biggest case of unintended consequences,”
Berni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  