-- Gucci to Intel Join UN Online Bid to Aid Syrian Refugees
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-08-19T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/gucci-to-intel-join-un-online-bid-to-aid-syrian-refugees.html
Companies from  Gucci Group NV (GUCG)  to
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  are using social-media networks to help the United
Nations raise money to aid about 2 million Syrian refugees, as
the international body seeks a political solution to the more
than two-year-old civil war.  The corporate participants also include  Western Union Co. (WU) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which has pledged an initial contribution of
$100,000 to help fill multimillion-dollar gaps in contributions
for humanitarian missions stemming from the Syrian conflict as
well as Afghanistan, Yemen and elsewhere, UN spokesman Matthew
Cochrane said.  As of July 22, the UN refugee agency was $1.9 billion short
of meeting its appeal for $2.9 billion of contributions this
year, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees’
 website .  The UN decided to try to take “online communication and
turn it into something more meaningful,” Cochrane said. The
campaign, called “The World Needs More - - -,” is “also a way
for corporate partners to get visibility with consumers.”  Participating sponsors have chosen words representing what
they think the world needs more of, and will donate $1 each time
their words are shared on social-media services such as Twitter
Inc. or  Facebook Inc. (FB) , in  text messages  or on the campaign’s
 website .  Gucci says the world needs more zeal, education and
strength, while Western Union calls for more inclusion.  The UN hopes other companies will join and that existing
corporate sponsors will increase their contributions as the 37-day campaign builds, Cochrane said.  More than 1.9 million Syrians have fled the two-year civil
war between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime and a
loose coalition of about 1,200 rebel factions, according to the
UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  