-- Gulf Coast Gasoline Strengthens After Texas Refinery Shuts Units
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-08-19T18:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/gulf-coast-gasoline-strengthens-after-texas-refinery-shuts-units.html
U.S. Gulf Coast gasoline
strengthened versus futures after the nation’s  largest refinery 
halted a unit, adding to shutdowns in the region amid a forecast
for increased exports.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline , or CBOB, on the Gulf
Coast gained 0.75 cent to a discount of 19 cents a gallon below
 New York  Mercantile Exchange futures at 12:32 p.m., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline  strengthened by 1 cent to
9.5 cents a gallon less than futures.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel 
was unchanged at 2.88 cents a gallon below ULSD futures.  Motiva Enterprises LLC said it shut a unit at its 600,000-barrel-a-day  Port Arthur ,  Texas , refinery after an operational
issue on Aug. 17. The plant is shutting more units and running
others at reduced rates, Destin Singleton, a Houston-based
company spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Flint Hills Resources LLC said it flared gases on Aug. 17
while doing repairs on a fluid catalytic cracker at the Corpus
Christi West plant, according to a filing with state regulators.  The shutdowns may tighten supplies of gasoline and diesel
along the Gulf, the center for U.S. exports, and contribute to
the strengthening of prices as refiners may need to purchase
fuel to meet commitments.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the  Gulf Coast , a rough measure
of refining margins for gasoline and diesel fuel based on West
Texas Intermediate crude in Cushing,  Oklahoma , narrowed 38 cents
to $12.59 a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 same spread based  on Light Louisiana Sweet oil weakened 43 cents
to $7.69 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  