-- Libya’s NOC Issues Force Majeure at Four Oil Ports
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-08-19T15:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/libya-s-noc-issues-force-majeure-at-four-oil-ports.html
Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp.
declared a force majeure on crude and refined product exports 
from the country’s  Es Sider , Ras Lanuf, Zueitina and El Brega 
ports, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The above mentioned sea port terminals are closed due to
Oil Security Guards who are on strike at these locations since
the end of July 2013, which resulted total shutdown for these
facilities and cease of all exports,” NOC said in the document,
which is dated Aug. 18 and signed by Chairman Nuri Berruien.  An NOC official confirmed the force majeure, a legal clause
that excuses the seller from making deliveries because of events
beyond its control. Libya is currently exporting about 500,000
barrels a day, using the port of Zawiya and offshore loading
platforms at the Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri fields, while
another terminal, Hariga, will probably resume exports, at about
180,000 barrels a day, either tomorrow or the day after, the NOC
official said.  Libya’s production has fallen to less than half the level
pumped before the 2011 uprising against Muammar Qaddafi.
Prolonged losses from the holder of  Africa ’s biggest reserves,
coupled with disruptions in  Iraq  and lower inventories, prompted
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to boost its Brent oil forecast.  Brent crude prices may rise to $115 a barrel in the “very
near term,” Goldman said in a report earlier today, raising its
three-month price forecast for the benchmark grade to $110.  Es Sider  Es Sider, the largest of Libya’s oil terminals with a
capacity of 350,000 barrels a day, has been shut since July 28
because of a sit-in by the Petroleum Facilities Guard, Oil
Minister Abdulbari Al-Arusi said on Aug. 13.  The dispute is crippling the government’s main source of
revenue, costing at least $1.6 billion, Al-Arusi told reporters
in Tripoli on Aug. 15. Prime Minister Ali Zaidan has warned that
only NOC-contracted vessels will be allowed to dock at Libyan
ports, threatening to remove or bomb unauthorized tankers if
they attempt to berth.  Libya produced 800,000 barrels of crude a day last month,
down from 1.6 million a day one year earlier, according to a
monthly Bloomberg survey of OPEC production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  