-- Icahn Asks Judge to Dismiss Herbalife Short-Seller’s Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/icahn-asks-judge-to-dismiss-herbalife-short-seller-s-suit.html
Carl C. Icahn asked a court to
dismiss a lawsuit filed by a short-seller who accused the
billionaire investor of improperly propping up  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) ’s
share price to settle a score with  Bill Ackman .  Daniel Ravicher alleged in a lawsuit filed in March that
Cayman Islands-based Herbalife, which markets nutritional
products, is an illegal pyramid scheme and that Icahn aided the
fraud by publicly promoting the shares. Icahn, 77, called
Ravicher’s case “frivolous” in a filing yesterday in Manhattan
federal court.  “Plaintiff has not alleged any facts to show that he was
deceived by Herbalife or that he acted in reliance on anything
Herbalife said, or suffered any injury caused by Herbalife,”
according to Icahn’s filing. “Without such facts, he has no
fraud claim and therefore no claim against defendant for aiding
and abetting any purported fraud.”  Icahn, with almost 17 million shares, a 17 percent stake,
is the largest Herbalife individual investor, according to
regulatory  filings .  Ravicher said Icahn is engaging in a “short squeeze” to
inflict financial harm on Ackman, who bested Icahn in a previous
legal dispute and has taken a substantial short position in
Herbalife. A short sale is a bet against a security, paying off
if the price declines.  Ackman in December said Herbalife operated like a pyramid
scheme and his firm, Pershing Square Capital Management LP, has
sold short about 20 million shares. Herbalife has denied
Ackman’s allegations.  The case is Ravicher v. Icahn, 13-cv-01666, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  