-- Indonesia Rupiah, Stocks Plummet on Current-Account Gap
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-19T10:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/indonesian-rupiah-stocks-plummet-on-current-account-gap.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell to 10,500
per dollar for the first time since 2009, stocks dropped by the
most in 22 months and government bonds plunged after the
current-account deficit widened to a record last quarter.  The Jakarta Composite Index of shares has fallen 8 percent
in two days, and is now the world’s worst performer this
quarter. The yield on 10-year notes surged to the highest since
March 2011 after  Bank Indonesia  said late Aug. 16 the current-account  shortfall  was $9.8 billion, the largest in data compiled
by Bloomberg going back to 1989. Inflation quickened to a four-year high and economic growth slowed to the least since 2010,
figures showed last week.  “Indonesia has seen a gradual but persistent bout of bad
news, with slowing growth, quickening inflation and then the
current-account deficit,” said Leo Rinaldy, a Jakarta-based
economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the nation’s
largest lender by assets. “The implication going forward is
that demand for dollars will increase.”  The rupiah slid 1 percent to 10,490 per dollar as of 4 p.m.
in Jakarta, the biggest drop since July 23, according to prices
from local banks. It touched 10,500 earlier and has declined 5.4
percent this quarter, the worst performance among  Asia ’s 11
most-traded currencies.  The  Jakarta Composite index (JCI)  fell 5.6 percent to 4,313.52,
the biggest drop since Oct. 3, 2011, on volumes 32 percent
higher than the 30-day average. The gauge lost more than 10
percent this quarter, the most among 94 global indexes tracked
by Bloomberg, and has now erased all of its gains this year.  Falling Exports  Indonesian shares traded at 12.74 times 12-month projected
earnings, the least since July 2012, compared with 15.8 times on
May 20, when the index was at an all-time high. PT Bank Central
Asia, the largest lender by market value, lost 7.8 percent, the
biggest drag to the index, and PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia
declined 6.6 percent.  Among other decliners,  PT Semen Indonesia (SMGR) , the nation’s
largest cement maker, and PT Berau Coal Energy both lost 11
percent, while PT Alam Sutera Realty slid 10 percent.  “This is all because of the current-account deficit
data,” John Rachmat, head of equities research and strategy at
Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta. “Once the rupiah is considered
cheap, capital inflows could start coming back. Right now
foreign investors, especially portfolio investors, are worried
about investing in Indonesia.”  The current account has remained in deficit for seven
quarters and overseas sales decreased for a 15th month in June,
driven by declines in prices for Indonesia’s key commodity
exports. Coal fell 32 percent since the end of 2011, while  palm
oil  slid 26 percent. Bank Indonesia’s policy is to manage the
currency’s depreciation to support overseas shipments,  Edward Teather , a Singapore-based economist at UBS AG, wrote in an Aug.
15 research note.  Bonds Drop  Consumer prices  increased 8.6 percent last month from a
year earlier, and growth slowed to 5.8 percent in the second
quarter, official data showed last week. Bank Indonesia left its
benchmark  interest rate  at 6.5 percent on Aug. 15 after
increasing it by 75 basis points over the previous two meetings.  “The market took the view that Bank Indonesia wasn’t that
concerned about the weakness of the currency,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
 Singapore , wrote in a research note today, referring to the
central bank’s decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged.
“The good news is that we suspect the second-quarter current-account deficit represents the peak, albeit because
deteriorating domestic demand depresses imports further.”  The yield on  government bonds  due May 2023 climbed for a
sixth consecutive day, rising 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 8.37 percent, prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association show. It touched 8.41 percent earlier, the
highest level since March 2011.  Fed Tapering  The rupiah spot rate traded at a 3.4 percent premium to the
one-month non-deliverable forwards, which slid 1.4 percent to
10,845 per dollar. A  fixing  by the Association of Banks in
Singapore used to settle the forwards was set at 10,499. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, surged 1.85 percentage
points to 13.62 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Most Asian currencies fell today on speculation a reduction
in Federal Reserve stimulus that has driven fund flows to
 emerging markets  is imminent.  “Rupiah depreciation today is in line with regional
currency movements,” Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry
Warjiyo said in a mobile-phone text message, adding that the
central bank will stay in the market to stabilize the currency.  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest lender, revised its
2013 current-account deficit forecast for Indonesia to $28.5
billion from $23.5 billion, following the worse-than-expected
second-quarter data, according to Prakriti Sofat, a Singapore-based economist.  “The widening in the current account, no rate hike from
Bank Indonesia and market concerns around Fed tapering are
weighing on the rupiah and Indonesian assets,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  