-- Indonesian Stock Decline Lures Schroder as Foreigners Exit
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-20T03:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/indonesia-stock-drop-lures-schroder-to-banks-as-foreigners-exit.html
The tumble in Indonesian stocks that
sent valuations to the lowest levels in 14 months is creating
buying opportunities in banks and consumer shares, said PT
Schroder Investment Management Indonesia’s Kiekie Boenawan.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 4.8 percent to 4,106.69 at
10:50 a.m. local time, taking stocks into bear-market territory.
The index dropped 5.6 percent yesterday, the biggest retreat in
almost two years, as foreign investors sold a net $169 million
of shares in the biggest outflow since June 21, according to
exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. The index has wiped out
this year’s gains and trades at 12.1 times estimated 12-month
profit, the lowest level since June 2012.  “We see this drop as an opportunity to buy selectively
those stocks that have been overpriced in the past,”Boenawan,
the Jakarta-based head of investment at Schroder Investment
Management Indonesia, the nation’s biggest mutual-fund manager
with 37.9 trillion rupiah ($3.6 billion) under management, wrote
in an e-mail yesterday.  The Indonesian unit of  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Europe’s largest
independent money manager, had more than doubled cash holdings
as the Jakarta index advanced to a record on May 20, Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tjoajadi said in a July 31 interview.
The gauge has lost 20 percent since then as a record current-account gap sent the rupiah to the weakest level since 2009 and
spurred concern the central bank will tighten monetary policy
further to combat the quickest inflation in four years.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.1 percent in Hong Kong,
heading for its lowest close since July 9.  Rupiah Decline  The rupiah slipped 0.1 percent to 10,495 per U.S. dollar
today, after touching 10,500 per dollar yesterday for the first
time since 2009. Rupiah one-month non-deliverable forwards
continued their decline today, plunging 2.2 percent to 11,088
per dollar, the biggest drop since June 20.  The currency fall came after central bank data showed the
current-account deficit widened to a record $9.8 billion in the
three months through June, from $5.8 billion in the previous
quarter. Worse-than-estimated economic data this month spurred
declines, Boenawan said. The economy grew less than 6 percent
for the first time since 2010 in the second quarter.  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the country’s largest lender by assets,
and  PT Bank Rakyat (BBRI)  were the biggest drags on the index today.  Healthy Retreat  The Jakarta Finance Index is valued at 2 times net assets,
an 18 percent discount versus the broader Jakarta gauge,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
five-year average gap of 7 percent.  Indonesia’s current-account deficit will probably narrow
this quarter, Finance Minister Chatib Basri told reporters in
Jakarta yesterday. The central bank also sees a smaller
shortfall in the second half of the year as the weaker rupiah,
slower economic growth and higher fuel prices curb imports,
Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said in a statement yesterday.  Further declines in the rupiah may cause foreign-exchange
losses for overseas investors and an unstable outlook for
businesses that need to hedge currency risk, said Jemmy Paul, an
equity fund manager at Sucorinvest Asset Management in Jakarta.
The benchmark Jakarta index may fall to between 4,200 and 4,000
before new buyers emerge, he said.  Utilities and consumer companies that are more resilient to
economic swings are a better bet, he said. PT Telekomunikasi
 Indonesia  and PT Perusahaan Gas Negara are among his top picks.  The Jakarta index’s decline this quarter, the biggest among
45 emerging and developed markets tracked by Bloomberg, followed
an almost five-fold rally between October 2008 and May. The
Indonesian economy has expanded at an average pace of 5.9
percent during the past five years, versus 0.9 percent for the
U.S. economy.  “A slowdown is quite normal and healthy,” said Boenawan.
“It allows the economy to adjust and not get overheated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  