-- Investors Ditch Ratings for Returns in Bond Boom: Nordic Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   D a l y
-- 2013-08-19T13:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/investors-ditch-ratings-for-returns-in-bond-boom-nordic-credit.html
Norway is about to share its
European dominance in unrated bonds with the rest of the Nordic
region.  Issuance of bonds ignored by Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings has surged in  Sweden  and
 Finland . Many of the companies selling, such as Skanska AB and
 Finnair Oyj (FIA1S) , are finding the lack of a credit rating is no
impediment to attracting more local buyers.  According to a July report by Fitch, issuers based in
northern Europe’s AAA nations have led sales of unrated debt,
tapping investor demand for higher yield from stable economies.
The European market for unrated bonds grew by 108 billion euros
($144 billion) from 2010 to 2012, according to Fitch. Norway’s
91 unrated issuers was the highest total in Europe, Sweden
ranked fifth with 38 and Finland seventh with 28 issuers.  “Bank deleveraging and investors’ need for returns could
see Sweden’s unrated bond market expand from about 20 billion
kronor to 40 billion kronor by the end of next year,” said
Jonas Strom, head of debt capital markets at ABG Sundal Collier.
“It will also require corporates having enough confidence to go
to the market for growth capital, not just refinancing.”  Capital Effect  Bonds made up 55 percent of debt financing at Scandinavian
companies last year and 52 percent in the first half of 2013,
according to SEB AB. That compares with 18 percent in 2011. The
shift follows stricter bank requirements, with Sweden enforcing
some of the world’s toughest capital rules.  Sweden’s status as a haven has driven down borrowing costs,
attracting companies that once viewed bond financing as
accessible only to the largest companies such as  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and
 Electrolux AB. (ELUXB)   ICA Gruppen AB, a grocery chain owner, in June sold the
biggest ever unrated issue in Sweden, raising 5 billion kronor
in bonds. The company’s decision not to apply for a credit
rating hasn’t hampered its efforts to obtain debt financing,
Stein-Petter Ski, a senior vice president at Solna-based ICA,
said in an interview.  “We chose bond funding over bank financing because of
favorable terms that didn’t require security and restrictive
lending covenants, in combination with a material price saving
for the company that amounted to 70-90 basis points,” he said.  Exceeding Bets  Stefan Ericson, a portfolio manager at Carnegie Fonder AB
in  Stockholm , which oversees 13 billion kronor, said the market
for unrated bonds is expanding faster than anticipated as Sweden
takes its lead from  Norway .  Norwegian issuers have long eschewed official ratings,
relying instead on shadow ratings from banks and investors’ own
analysis. Carnegie’s Ericson said that as a bond buyer it’s now
usually possible to get data and forecasts from equity analysis.
Most banks in Sweden have now also merged their equity and
credit analysts, he said.  The main risk from a lack of official ratings for
bondholders is lower liquidity in the secondary market, Ericson
said.  “This should be compensated by a higher coupon,” he said.  According to Fitch’s report, the share of unrated bonds has
stayed level at about 10 percent of the total European corporate
market over the past three years. This share may not rise much
more because many institutional investors have limits on how
much unrated debt they can hold, Fitch said.  Yet for issuers like  ICA (ICA) , there’s no plan to limit unrated
debt sales. Its latest issue attracted about 70 different
buyers, all from the Nordic region, according to Ski.  “Investors are increasingly comfortable with unrated debt
issuers if, like ICA Gruppen, it’s listed on the stock market
and hence already known,” said Ski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Daly in Stockholm at 
 cdaly22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  