-- Iran’s Rohani Acts to Avoid Budget Shortfall, Food Shortages
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-19T12:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/iran-s-president-acts-to-avoid-budget-shortfall-food-shortages.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani’s
new government set to work on overhauling the Ahmadinejad
administration’s “unrealistic” budget to prevent shortfalls
and ensure the availability of basic goods until spring time.  At the cabinet’s first meeting yesterday, ministers agreed
this year’s budget will be reviewed and a new version presented
“within two weeks maximum,” the Tehran-based newspaper Donya-e-Eqtesad said in today’s edition. Iran’s fiscal year ends on
March 20, 2014.  Current projected revenue won’t be met and the budget will
be reviewed to avoid overspending, deputy for planning Mohammad
Bagher Nobakht said Aug. 17, according to the state-run Fars
news agency. First Vice-President Eshagh Jahangiri said a
planning official from the government of former President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told him in a meeting recently that a third
of the revenue stated in the budget is “unrealistic,” Fars
said in a separate  report  yesterday.  Rohani, inaugurated Aug. 4, has pledged to waste no time
fighting inflation topping 35 percent and unemployment of about
12 percent amid international sanctions that squeeze Iran’s
economy, have cut the nation’s crude oil exports and restrict
its access to foreign currency.  Parliament last week approved 15 of Rohani’s nominees for
cabinet. He has appointed three caretakers in the meantime to
head the ministries of education, science and sports while he
searches for new nominees to bring before parliament.  Imports Stranded  The cabinet also decided yesterday that the Central Bank
and related ministries will take action to clear stranded
essential imports through customs, Donya-e-Eqtesad said. Four
million tons of food and medicines are stuck because of a
bureaucratic dispute, the Tehran-based Shargh newspaper said
Aug. 1.  Trade officials had warned that unless the dispute is
resolved quickly, the goods will perish, subjecting  Iran  to
basic food shortages in coming months.  After yesterday’s cabinet meeting, Rohani said “necessary
decisions” were taken regarding essential goods, the state-run
Iranian Students News Agency reported. Before he was confirmed
as industry and commerce minister, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh said
prices of imported essential goods would remain unchanged until
the end of the Iranian year.  The cabinet also rolled back 10 measures passed by
Ahmadinejad’s government providing benefits the budget could not
pay for, today’s Donya-e-Eqtesad said, without elaborating.  Rohani also instructed ministries to propose measures to
help Iranians make ends meet that he can take in his first 100
days in office, the daily said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  