-- Israel Boosts Ties With Egyptian Army as U.S. Mulls Cuts
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-19T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/israel-boosts-ties-with-egyptian-army-as-u-s-mulls-cuts.html
Israel  is working closer with
Egyptian forces to fight militants in Sinai even as top ally
U.S. weighs cutting aid to  Egypt  over a crackdown against
Islamists that has killed almost 1,000, former diplomats and
officials said.  Attacks on Egyptian security personnel in Sinai on the
border of Israel’s southern tip have intensified in the weeks
following Islamist President Mohamed Mursi’s July 3 overthrow,
with gunmen killing 26 policemen there today alone. Islamist
militants also claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on
Israel’s resort city of Eilat.  “Over the last month we’ve seen both a rise in Jihadist
elements operating in Sinai and improved cooperation between the
Israeli and Egyptian militaries to counter this,” Ephraim Kam,
a retired Israeli army intelligence colonel and senior research
fellow at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security
Studies, said in an interview.  Egypt’s  Sinai Peninsula , a wedge of mountainous desert
bounded on the west by the Suez Canal, has attracted militants
in recent years. Their attacks on Israeli and Egyptian targets
have had economic as well as military consequences because the
area is home to Red Sea resorts and is a transit route for gas.  Shared Interests  Israel’s relationship with the Egyptian military “is
clearly going very well at the moment, especially as regards
Sinai,” said Eli Shaked, a former Israeli ambassador to Cairo.
A crackdown “is as much in Egypt’s interest as ours. Their
security forces are also being targeted, and they have to be
worried by the possibility that rockets being fired on Israel
could the next day be aimed at the  Suez Canal ,” he said.  Gunmen armed with rocket-propelled grenades attacked police
on a bus next to a checkpoint near the north Sinai city of
Sheikh Zuweyid, Mohamed Saeed, the region’s chief of criminal
investigations, said by telephone.  An Islamist group said four of its militants were killed
this month by an Israeli drone strike in Sinai while preparing
to launch a rocket across the border.  Egypt denied that account, which would have been the first
Israeli foray into Egyptian territory since the two countries
signed their historic peace deal in 1978. It said its  air force 
carried out the attack.  Unprecedented Operation  Either version represents an unprecedented operation beyond
the limits to military operations in Sinai that Israel and Egypt
agreed to in the 1978 Camp David Accords, Kam said.  “The State of Israel respects the sovereignty of Egypt and
is aware of the Egyptian army’s increased activity against
terror in the Sinai Peninsula,” Israeli Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon said on Aug. 11, adding that “rumor and speculation”
wouldn’t be allowed to jeopardize peace between the countries.  Ya’alon confirmed last month that Israel had given Egypt
approval to boost its forces in Sinai beyond the one division
the peace treaty permits.  Israeli officials are remaining publicly silent about the
Egyptian military’s violent crackdown on street protests by
supporters of Mursi, in contrast to the denunciations issued by
U.S. President  Barack Obama . The U.S. canceled its annual joint
military operation with Egypt.  While Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is not
commenting on U.S. policy toward Egypt, former officials such as
Zvi Mazel, another ex-ambassador to Egypt, are more vocal.  Strategic Ally  “Egypt is the most important strategic ally the U.S. has
in the Arab world and the military wants to create a pro-Western
regime instead of an Islamic dictatorship,” said Mazel, now a
fellow at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. “Obama’s
hesitation to support the Egyptian military only encourages the
Muslim Brotherhood’s intransigence and I assume we are doing all
we can to get this message across in  Washington  and  Europe .”  Israel was concerned by the rise of the Brotherhood when
Mursi was elected last year. The group is the parent
organization of the militant Palestinian Hamas movement that
rules the  Gaza Strip .  The U.S. aid also has a political dimension that’s
important to Israel, said Hassan Nafaa, a political science
professor at Cairo University.  “It’s evident the Israelis don’t want a sudden cut in
military aid to Egypt, because this will immediately affect its
commitment to the peace treaty,” Nafaa said.  Economic Cost  While Israel is not mounting a campaign on Egypt’s behalf,
its diplomats say the military is the only responsible actor
that can restore order, according to an Israeli government
official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to comment publicly.  The Sinai security situation has already cost both
countries in economic terms.  Repeated bombings of the Sinai pipeline after  Hosni Mubarak 
was toppled in 2011 led to the cessation of Egyptian gas exports
to Israel. That reduced Egyptian exports to Israel to $60
million in 2012 from $179 million the previous year, and led to
higher energy costs in Israel.  Israeli concern is also rising over cross-border rocket
attacks from Sinai on Eilat. Israel last month stationed an Iron
Dome missile defense battery outside the Red Sea resort city,
and on Aug. 13 the system recorded it first successful
interception of a rocket fired from Sinai.  Israel today issued a travel warning for Sinai, once a
popular tourist destination for Israelis.  On Aug. 15, Egypt closed its border crossing with the Gaza
Strip, trying to seal off one route for Islamic militants
entering Sinai, while disrupting the connection between the
 Muslim Brotherhood  and its Palestinian ally Hamas.  “The Egyptian army is definitely showing some new
determination and efficiency in taking on the Jihadist groups in
Sinai,” said Kam. “The real question is whether they will be
able to maintain control in the streets of Cairo and Egypt’s
other cities, a job they were never trained for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  