-- Itau, Bradesco Bet $14 Billion on Brazil Mortgage Market
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-08-19T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/itau-bradesco-bet-14-billion-on-brazil-mortgage-market.html
Brazil ’s two biggest privately owned
banks are betting $13.5 billion on housing, helping to push
 mortgage rates  to the lowest in two years at a time when
 borrowing  costs are rising for the rest of the economy.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco Bradesco SA increased
their home-loan portfolios by 32 percent each in the second
quarter from a year earlier to 32.4 billion reais ($13.6
billion). That’s more than double what they had forecast for
growth of all types of credit this year. The two Sao Paulo-based
banks did this while the  average  mortgage rate fell to 11.94
percent in June from 12.91 percent in January, according to
Brazil’s central bank.  The lenders are increasing their mortgage business as
 weaker  economic prospects make other types of loans riskier. The
slowdown is no accident -- the central bank has pushed up its
benchmark rate to fight inflation. Rather than let their home-loan business sag, banks responded by making terms more
attractive, with costs dropping to 3.94 percentage points above
the Selic benchmark from 5.66 percentage points in January.  “Even if the central bank keeps raising Selic, the
competition will maintain the mortgage rates flat or just a
little higher,” said Octavio de Lazari, president of the
nation’s real-estate lenders association, Abecip.  Banks can suppress rates because yields on  savings accounts 
are lower, said Lazari, who’s also a deputy director at
Bradesco. Payments on savings are tied to Selic and limited by
law, ensuring cheap funding for the banks, he said. What’s more,
lenders are required by law to use 65 percent of such deposits
for mortgages.  Savings Soar  Net savings deposits in Brazil reached a record 37.6
billion reais this year through July, a 58 percent increase from
the same period last year, according to the central bank.  Bankers justify the discounts by pointing to the lower
risks on residential mortgages.  “Home loans now have real guarantees and the lowest
delinquency rates among all types of credit,” said Luiz Franca,
mortgage director at Itau Unibanco. Banks always charge mortgage
clients a life-insurance premium, adding to the security of the
loans, Franca said.  Easier access to mortgages, lower unemployment and rising
incomes are pushing up home sales, and driving up values.
Brazilian  home prices  rose 12 percent, twice as fast as
 inflation , in the 12 months through July, according to an index
compiled by economics research institute FIPE and real-estate
website Zap Imoveis. Average home prices nationwide reached
6,900 reais per square meter ($268.03 per square foot), the data
show.  Prices Gain  Prices in  Rio de Janeiro ’s Leblon, Brazil’s most expensive
neighborhood, reached 22,234 reais per square meter ($863.68 per
square foot) in July, making a two-bedroom apartment of about 60
square meters (640 square foot) to cost $557,592. The average
sales price per foot in the  New York  borough of  Manhattan  was
$1,149 in the second quarter. Prices in Rio are higher than in
 Sao Paulo , Brazil’s richest city, as it has limited construction
space because it’s surrounded by hills and beaches.  Home sales in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s biggest real-estate
market, rose 46 percent in January through June from a year
earlier, while housing starts climbed 51 percent, according to
Embraesp, a property research group, and  Secovi , a real-estate
agency association. The ratio between newly built home offerings
and completed sale transactions rose to 65 percent in the 12
months through July, up from 56.7 percent in December, data
show.  IMF Concerns  The  International Monetary Fund  urged Brazil to be
“cautious” regarding the home-loan market in a  report  in June.  “This lending product is experiencing very strong growth
rates and commercial banks see in this sector a niche to gain
market share,” the IMF said, adding that mortgage growth “has
been accompanied by an asset price appreciation, indicating
there may be signs of overvaluation in this market.”  Fabio Nogueira, mortgage director at Banco Pan, said
worsening prospects for economic growth in Brazil will keep a
lid on the housing market.  “There is no risk of a bubble, no overvaluation in the
Brazilian market,” Nogueira said. “For most Brazilians, to own
their own house is still a dream.”  New  home construction  is already slowing amid concern the
 unemployment rate  will rise more, helping to stabilize housing
price increases, he said. The unemployment rate was at  6 percent 
in June, up from 5.9 percent a year earlier, according to
Brazil’s statistic bureau IBGE.  Lending Growth  Mortgage lending is expanding at twice the pace of  total 
credit in Brazil, which rose 16 percent in June from a year
earlier, according to central bank data. Outstanding home loans
reached 298.4 billion reais in June, up 35 percent from 220.3
billion reais a year earlier, central bank data show. New
housing loans rose 45 percent to 36 billion reais in the first
half of this year from the same period of 2012, according to
Abecip.  “Brazilian banks have finally woken up to the
opportunities the mortgage market brings as a type of long-term
lending that creates fidelity from clients, allowing them to
offer other profitable products,” Lazari said.  Mortgage rates are falling even as the central bank boosts
borrowing costs to control inflation. The benchmark Selic has
climbed 125 basis points since April to 8.5 percent last month.
Economists expect another 75 basis-point increase through the
end of the year, according to a central bank weekly survey.  Delinquency Focus  Itau and Bradesco are focusing on products with better
guarantees, such as mortgages, to stem losses from defaulted
loans. Last quarter, Itau reduced its default rate to 4.2
percent, the lowest since March 2011, as it cut auto loans and
focused on real-estate and payroll lending, according to its
earnings  statement .  Brazil’s mortgage delinquencies dropped to 2 percent in
June from 2.13 percent a year earlier, according to the central
bank. That compares with a consumer-loan default rate of 7.57
percent rate in June, down from 8.73 percent in the same month
of last year, the data show.  Banco Pan, owned by Grupo BTG Pactual and Caixa Economica
Federal, a federal government-controlled bank, can offer
mortgages with  interest rates  as low as 8.4 percent a year,
while Itau can go as low as 8.6 percent.  Government Subsidies  Caixa’s share of the mortgage market is about 70 percent,
with a mortgage loan book of 238.5 billion reais at the end of
June, according to its earnings  statement . The Brasilia-based
lender’s housing portfolio includes credit lines with government
subsidized funding, with interest rates as low as 6 percent on
the low-income housing program Minha Casa, Minha Vida (My Home,
My Life).  The potential for more lending remains, because mortgages
represent just 7.4 percent of gross domestic product in Brazil,
compared with 76.1 percent in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Brazil’s central bank.  “Mortgages in Brazil will continue growing gradually with
sound basis,” Abecip’s Lazari said, adding he expects real-estate loans will reach 10 percent of Brazil’s GDP by 2015,
expanding at 15 percent rate per year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  