-- Mizuho Takeover Trail Seen Leading to TMB Bank: Real M&A
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-08-19T12:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/mizuho-takeover-trail-seen-leading-to-tmb-bank-real-m-a.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc.’s (8411) 
fruitless search for profit growth in Japan is pushing the
lender on an acquisition hunt through Southeast  Asia  that may
lead to  Thailand ’s  TMB Bank Pcl (TMB)  or PT Bank Pan  Indonesia .  Burdened with the lowest  loan margins  of Japan’s three
biggest lenders, Tokyo-based Mizuho may spend as much as $5
billion on deals to help boost earnings, said BNP Paribas SA.
Japan’s decision to fight deflation with  low interest rates  has
already turned the nation into Asia’s least lucrative lending
market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As analysts  forecast  two years of profit declines at
Mizuho, a stake in Bank Pan Indonesia, known as Bank Panin,
offers access to faster economic growth and  Southeast Asia ’s
largest population, said JPMorgan Chase & Co. Mizuho also may
consider buying part of TMB to finance Japanese manufacturers in
Thailand, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said.  “In Japan, loan growth is slow and profitability is
weak,” Natsumu Tsujino, a Tokyo-based analyst at JPMorgan, said
in a phone interview. “For Mizuho to grow, it has no choice but
to go overseas.”  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, has
been less acquisitive overseas in the past five years than its
two main domestic rivals --  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Acquisition Budgets  Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest bank, in July offered to
buy as much as 75 percent of Thailand’s Bank of Ayudhya Pcl for
$5.6 billion, while  Sumitomo Mitsui  agreed to purchase 40
percent of Indonesia’s PT Bank Tabungan Pensiunan Nasional for
about $1.5 billion in May.  Mizuho may be able to spend as much as 300 billion yen ($3
billion) on deals, said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at BNP Paribas, said the bank could accrue 500
billion yen of excess capital in the next three years to spend
on acquisitions.  “There’s a high chance they will use extra capital to fund
M&A,” Sameshima said in a phone interview. “They are expecting
to accumulate more capital.”  Mizuho’s Tier 1 capital ratio -- a key measure of a bank’s
financial strength -- rose to 11.4 percent as of June 30 from 11
percent three months earlier, the company said last week.  Today, shares of Mizuho were unchanged at 206 yen.  Japan ’s
benchmark Topix Index added 0.6 percent.  Bank Panin fell 5.8 percent to 650 rupiah in Jakarta and
TMB Bank slid 4.8 percent to 2.4 baht in Bangkok.  Smallest Margins  Yet banks in every other Asian market are squeezing more
profit from loans. Japan’s biggest lenders eke out average net
interest margins of 1.09 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Indonesian margins, the highest in Asia, are six times
wider, based on companies with market values exceeding $5
billion. In Thailand, lenders are three times as profitable.
Mizuho’s margin from lending is 0.75 percent compared with 0.94
percent at Mitsubishi UFJ and 1.28 percent at Sumitomo Mitsui.  Mizuho’s  net income  will fall 2.4 percent to 547 billion
yen in the year ending March 2014, and 5.3 percent in the
following 12 months, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bangkok-based TMB, with a market value of about $3.4
billion, would appeal to Mizuho because many of the Japanese
bank’s corporate customers have manufacturing assets in
Thailand, said David Threadgold, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. in  Tokyo .  “It would be a very natural place for Mizuho to look,” he
said in a phone interview. “There aren’t some of the
geopolitical issues that can complicate relationships.”  Growth Projections  ING Groep NV, based in Amsterdam, may seek bids for its
stake in TMB as soon as this month, Thai language newspaper Kao
Hoon reported in July, without saying where it got the
information. The Thai Ministry of Finance is also a top
shareholder in TMB.  Profit at TMB is  projected  to more than triple this year to
the equivalent of $194.3 million and jump 38 percent in 2014.
TMB’s lending business is more than twice as profitable as
Mizuho’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s certainly one they will take a look at,” Brian Waterhouse, an analyst at CLSA in Tokyo, said in a phone
interview. “They’ve got the cash and capital to do it.”  In Indonesia,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  is
in talks to sell its 39 percent stake in Jakarta-based Bank
Panin to Mizuho, a person with knowledge of the matter said last
week. That holding had a market value of about $621 million on
Aug. 16. Bank Panin is Indonesia’s seventh-largest bank by
assets out of the country’s  120  commercial lenders.  Malaysian Target  Mizuho also may target  Malaysia ’s  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) ,
said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. The companies struck a provisional banking
 alliance  in 2009. Mizuho Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato 
said in February the bank even has scope to buy a U.S.
commercial bank.  Representatives for Mizuho, TMB, ANZ and Maybank declined
to comment. A Jakarta-based spokesman for Bank Panin didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s monetary and fiscal
stimulus policies have helped fuel a 50 percent jump in the
Topix Index in the past year. That makes Mizuho more able to do
deals, said Threadgold at Keefe Bruyette & Woods.  “They have a relatively high domestic equity exposure and
the rise in the stock market has significantly improved their
capital position,” he said. “It gives them more flexibility
than they had a year ago.”  Corporate Focus  Mizuho’s focus on corporate and investment banking makes it
less equipped than its larger Japanese rivals to run an overseas
retail bank, according to  David Marshall , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  Singapore . That means such companies in
Thailand and Indonesia aren’t logical targets, he said.  “It’s not so obvious what Mizuho could add to a retail
franchise,” Marshall said in a phone interview. “Mizuho
doesn’t have the same consumer-banking expertise.”  That won’t stop Mizuho from considering bids, according to
Waterhouse, the CLSA analyst.  Investing in an overseas bank provides “a ready-built
branch network, a ready-built customer base and ready-built
customer deposits,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  