-- JPMorgan Says Buy Indian Options as Stock Swings Widen
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-20T05:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/jpmorgan-says-buy-indian-options-as-stock-swings-widen.html
India ’s biggest stock-market swings
in 16 months are poised to continue, boosting options prices as
the prospect of reduced Federal Reserve stimulus spurs further
weakness in the rupee, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The CNX Nifty index has retreated 11 percent during the
past month and the gauge’s 30-day historical volatility reached
21.1 yesterday, the highest level since April 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The India VIX, which measures the
cost of Nifty index options, surged 37 percent in two days
through yesterday. The last time it jumped this much, in August
2011, the Nifty lost 8 percent in two weeks. The VIX climbed to
a 14-month high today.  Indian shares are tumbling at the fastest pace worldwide
amid concern that government efforts to support the rupee will
weigh on  Asia ’s third-biggest economy, which grew at the slowest
pace in a decade during the year ended March. Foreigners have
pulled about $12 billion from local stocks and bonds while the
rupee has plunged 14 percent since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the U.S. may reduce bond purchases this
year if the economy improves.  “Investors should be going long on volatility,”  Adrian Mowat , the Hong Kong-based chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist at JPMorgan, said in an interview on Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. “There is a global story here which is having
a negative impact on India.”  JPMorgan downgraded the nation’s equities to neutral from
overweight and said stocks will continue to underperform if the
rupee slides further, according to a report today.  Bond Purchases  The Fed will probably cut the central bank’s $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases next month, according to 65 percent of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 9-13. U.S. home sales
probably increased to a three-year high in July, according to
economist estimates before the report due on Aug. 21, the same
day minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s July meeting
are to be released.  The Nifty’s 11 percent drop since July 19 is the biggest
retreat among stock gauges in 45 emerging and developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg. India’s benchmark S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.8
percent at 10:56 a.m., extending its decline during the past
month to 10 percent. The rupee lost 1 percent to 63.7712 per
dollar after touching an unprecedented 64.12 earlier.  India VIX  The India VIX climbed as much as 6.3 percent to 27.2, the
highest level since March 2012. Puts with an exercise level 10
percent below the Nifty cost 9.4 points more than calls betting
on a 10 percent gain, according to one-month  implied volatility 
data compiled by Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew
rose to 11.47 Aug. 6, the highest level since August 2012.  Nifty August 5,300 puts were the  most owned  among the
index’s bearish contracts, followed by August 5,400 puts and
August 5,500 puts, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Open
interest for the August 5,300 contracts, which have an exercise
level 2 percent below yesterday’s close, was 130,270, or 9
percent of the total number of puts outstanding.  The  Reserve Bank  of India since mid-July has raised the
marginal standing facility and bank rates, capped injections
into the financial system and tightened banks’ daily reserve
requirements to curb  money supply , seeking to shore up the
currency’s value.  Outflows Targeted  The central bank targeted outflows on Aug. 14, cutting the
amount domestic companies can invest abroad without approval to
100 percent of their net worth from 400 percent, and saying
residents can remit $75,000 each financial year compared with a
previous limit of $200,000.  “It’s all come down to focus on one thing, which is the
currency and how do you prevent the rupee from continuing to
depreciate,” JPMorgan’s Mowat said.  The Nifty  trades  at 12.4 times 12-month projected profits,
the cheapest since July 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors with a long-term view can cherry pick stocks
even at this time,” A.K. Prabhakar, senior vice president of
equity research at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd., said by
e-mail yesterday.  The measures aimed at steadying India’s currency may delay
the economic rebound, according to Future Generali Life
Insurance. Gross domestic product may expand 5.5 percent in the
year to March 2014, according to the central bank. That lags
behind the 10-year average of about 8 percent as well as the
performance of neighbors from  Indonesia  to the  Philippines .  About 47 percent of Sensex companies that posted earnings
for the June quarter  missed  analyst estimates. That compares
with 27 percent for the March quarter, and 43 percent in the
three months ended December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The recovery in growth is likely to get postponed by a
few quarters with  interest rates  rising after the recent RBI
actions,” Nirakar Pradhan, who manages $580 million of assets
as chief investment officer at Future Generali in Mumbai, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We expect earnings growth to
slow in the current year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  