-- Kenya From Nowhere Plans East Africa’s First Oil Exports: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-08-20T15:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/kenya-from-nowhere-plans-east-africa-s-first-oil-exports-energy.html
Kenya  is headed to become the first
oil exporter in  East Africa , moving in less than five years from
being a have-not nation to the regional leader in cutting
reliance on energy suppliers such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  After  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  discovered oil last year, Kenya is set
to start shipments in 2016, overtaking neighboring  Uganda , where
Tullow found crude more than seven years ago. The U.K. explorer
plans to start pumping in Kenya as soon as next year, Chief
Operating Officer Paul McDade said in an interview. Kenya’s
deposits may top 10 billion barrels, according to the company,
more than three times the U.K.’s remaining reserves.  Exports will underpin Kenya’s shilling currency and are
being pushed by a government that wants a lead on Uganda and
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, whose East African resources in
recent years attracted explorers such as  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and
 France ’s  Total SA. (FP)  Most  oil companies  traditionally had focused
on the African powerhouses of Nigeria and Angola to the west,
and Libya and  Egypt  on the Mediterranean.  Oil will allow Kenya to “diversify export earnings and act
as a catalyst for infrastructural spending, especially on the
transport network,” Phumulele Mbiyo, regional head of
macroeconomic research at Nairobi-based CfC Stanbic Bank Ltd., a
unit of Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an interview. “The
shilling is expected to benefit from inflows of foreign exchange
and reduced spending on fuel imports.”  Viable Rate  Kenya imports all its fuel, almost 80,000 barrels of oil a
day at a daily cost of more than $8 million, according to U.S.
government  data . It relies on exports such as coffee and tea to
support the balance of trade in a $37 billion  economy , East
Africa’s largest.  Tullow estimates it has found more than 300 million barrels
of oil equivalent resources after making three discoveries in
Kenya’s South Lokichar Basin. In February, Twiga became the
first well in Kenya to produce oil at a commercially viable rate
and has the potential to produce 5,000 barrels a day.  “After 50 years of disappointments, Tullow’s results in
the Lokichar Basin have been the key breakthrough,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in an
Aug. 16 report. “Of 30 wells between 1960 and 1992, prior to
Tullow’s entry, 13 were dry, 12 encountered non-commercial gas
shows, and five encountered signs of oil staining or oil
shows.”  Vivo Energy, a Shell joint venture with Vitol Group, as
well as Total and KenolKobil Ltd. are the biggest suppliers of
crude and petroleum products to the nation. Kenya Petroleum
Refineries Ltd., the nation’s sole refinery, half-owned by  Essar
Energy Plc (ESSR) , only refined crude from  Abu Dhabi  last year.  Bullish Idea  The discoveries have been made in the remote and
underdeveloped Turkana region in the northwestern part of
Kenya’s Rift Valley. Shipments will initially be made by truck
or train for refining in Mombasa or exports. Once more fields
are discovered and developed a pipeline can be built.  Kenya oil exports are “a very bullish idea, because
Turkana is one of the least developed parts of Kenya,” Clare Allenson, an analyst at Eurasia Group, said in a phone
interview. “This is definitely worth watching to see how” it
will progress.  Tullow and partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  plan to spend at least
a year exploring for further deposits. They have two drilling
rigs in Kenya and expect to secure one more later this year.  The Kenyan government wants things to go faster.  “They are not drilling enough wells,” Kenyan Petroleum
Commissioner Martin Heya said in a phone interview from Nairobi.
“Uganda drilled a long time ago, but it’s possible that we can
produce earlier than anybody else. We shall be happy.”  Local Refinery  Tullow is facing delays in Uganda, where the government and
oil companies are negotiating the terms of production after 1.7
billion barrels of oil were discovered. Oil from landlocked
Uganda will eventually be exported through Kenya.  Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni ’s government has delayed
the $10 billion investment planned by Tullow and its partners,
Total and Cnooc, to tap the Lake Albert fields. The sides need
to agree on the size of a local refinery and an export pipeline,
which is likely to cross Kenya in 2018.  “Uganda missed the boat and Kenya will become the oil-sector hub,” John Small, chief executive officer of the  Eastern
Africa Association , said in an interview. “It only makes real
commercial sense to cooperate and have linked pipeline network”
in the region.  In Kenya, Tullow and Africa Oil still have to submit their
field development plan to the Kenyan government. Eventually, a
pipeline will be built from the fields to a terminal on the
Indian Ocean coast, McDade said.  “For the Kenyan economy it’s going to be a major step
forward,” Africa Oil CEO Keith Hill said in a phone interview.
“Once the export pipeline is completed they will have a
significant influx of capital coming in from oil export
revenues.”  Uganda’s Museveni and his Kenyan and Rwandan counterparts,
Uhuru Kenyatta and  Paul Kagame , in June discussed plans for
regional fuel and crude pipelines. Uganda needs more resources
than Kenya to make its oil export pipeline viable partly because
it’s further away from the Indian Ocean coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  