-- NAB Profit Rises on Mortgage Growth, Lower Bad Debt Cost
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-20T04:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/nab-third-quarter-profit-up-7-on-mortgages-lower-bad-debt-cost.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
best performing stock among the nation’s four-biggest lenders
this year, said third-quarter cash earnings rose 7 percent on
mortgage growth and lower bad-debt charges.  Unaudited cash earnings , which strips out one-time costs,
in the three months ended June 30 climbed to A$1.5 billion ($1.4
billion) from A$1.4 billion, the Melbourne-based lender said in
a statement today. Net income jumped 42 percent to A$1.7
billion. The bank’s shares rose 1 percent and were on course for
their highest close in three months.  NAB joins competitors  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in reporting higher
profits. NAB Chief Executive officer Cameron Clyne is increasing
the lender’s focus on Australian mortgages and shrinking its
U.K. operations where mounting bad debts triggered the lender’s
first annual profit drop since 2009.  “NAB continues to build share in domestic housing,” John Buonaccorsi, a Sydney-based analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) 
said in an emailed statement. “This will help boost the
personal bank cash earnings” while lower loan losses in the
U.K. and a recovery in the  property market  there “will increase
returns,” he said.  Bad-debt charges fell 10 percent from the quarterly average
of the first six months to A$489 million due to lower provisions
at its business bank and U.K. unit, the lender said. Revenue
climbed 1 percent on mortgage growth and improved customer
margins, while expenses rose 2 percent due in part to the costs
of implementing changes in the group’s structure.  Business Banking  Cash earnings from business banking were unchanged,
reflecting subdued demand for credit and wholesale banking was
lower. Personal banking cash earnings were higher helped by
mortgage demand, the lender said.  NAB’s mortgage market share climbed to 15.3 percent at the
end of June compared with 12.8 percent in August 2009, filings
from the bank show. NAB is the nation’s third-largest mortgage
lender after top-ranked Commonwealth Bank, which has a 25.3
percent market share, according to the Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority.  Cash earnings in the U.K., where NAB has owned  Scotland ’s
Clydesdale Bank and the Yorkshire Bank since 1987, were stable,
it said.  A recession in the U.K. forced the bank on Oct. 31 to
increase charges for bad and doubtful debts from the local unit
by 335 million pounds for the year ending September. NAB’s net
income in that period sank 22 percent to A$4.08 billion, the
first decline in annual profit since 2009.  NAB moved 5.6 billion pounds ($8.8 billion) of commercial
real estate onto its own balance sheet in October and said in
March that the remaining U.K. operations had become profitable.
The real estate portfolio has been cut to 4.4 billion pounds as
of June 30, the lender said today.  Tier 1  Core Tier 1 capital , a measure of the bank’s ability to
absorb losses, dropped due to the payment of an interim
dividend, it said. The ratio was 7.97 percent at the end of June
compared to 8.22 percent on March 31, based on Australian
Prudential Regulatory Authority standards.  Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s biggest lender, posted
higher-than-estimated second-half cash profit on Aug. 14 as
earnings from  wealth management  rose and bad-debt costs shrank.
ANZ Banking reported on Aug. 16 an 11 percent increase in nine-month cash profit.  NAB  shares  climbed to A$31.66 at 1:20 p.m in Sydney and
were heading to their highest close since May 24. That extended
 gains  this year to 27 percent, compared with a 9.4 percent
increase for the  benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index . Commonwealth Bank
has gained 14 percent, ANZ Bank has climbed 18 percent and
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  has risen 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  