-- Nasdaq Plans Expansion in Clearing of Nordic Rate Swaps
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/nasdaq-plans-expansion-in-clearing-of-nordic-rate-swaps.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which
operates seven Nordic and Baltic exchanges, plans to expand the
range of  interest-rate swaps  it clears after processing about
$15 billion of securities denominated in Swedish kronor.  The company, which is splitting its exchange and
clearinghouse in the region to comply with European regulations,
will now seek to clear interest-rate swaps denominated in Danish
kroner, Norwegian kroner and euros, Hans-Ole Jochumsen,
executive vice president for Nordic transaction services at
Nasdaq, said in an interview. It will also start processing some
products in the market for  repurchase agreements , or repos, and
plans to guarantee client trades by early next year, he said.  “After the summer break we’ve been getting more business
in every day,” Jochumsen said. “Probably within two months we
will have another clearing bank and that will boost volume too.
We have another one coming sometime in the fourth quarter. We
are building in close cooperation with the five large Nordic
banks.”  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act requires clearing for most swap
contracts, while international regulations under the Basel III
accords encourage the use of clearinghouses for the derivatives
through favorable capital treatments. The European Commission is
also working on legislation, called the European Market
Infrastructure Regulation, which would govern most aspects of
clearing. London-based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. is the world’s
biggest interest-rate swap clearinghouse.  Mandatory Clearing  “We are serving banks in four Nordic countries,”
Jochumsen said. “We have a commitment to clear whatever could
be mandatory for Nordic banks. Our systems are built to be
multicurrency. We are going to clear overnight swaps and a lot
of different swap products that will be hit by mandatory
clearing next year.”  Nasdaq  has been diversifying the business to offset a
global decline in  stock trading . In the last few months, the
exchange has bought the eSpeed platform for trading U.S.
Treasury bonds, the shareholder-relations unit of Thomson
Reuters Corp. and a 25 percent stake in The Order Machine, a
Dutch alternative trading system focused on options. Nasdaq
opened a futures exchange in London called NLX in May, offering
short-term and long-term interest-rate derivatives.  Nasdaq now has 1,000 employees in  Europe  after the
integration of the Thomson Reuters business. The company will
have staff of around 600 people in the Nordics, 160 in the U.K.,
125 in the Netherlands, 25 in  France  and 80 in  Germany ,
Jochumsen said.  Interbank Trades  The company started clearing kronor-denominated interest-rate swaps in 2012, with members submitting interbank trades
since April 22, 2013. Nasdaq OMX Clearing now processes 10
percent of interbank trades for the region and has an average
daily cleared volume of 130 billion kronor ($19.9 billion) in
Nordic interest-rate derivatives, Jochumsen said.  Nasdaq’s biggest rival,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed in December
to be bought by futures bourse IntercontinentalExchange Inc. for
$8 billion in a move that underscored the growing importance of
derivatives in the face of shrinking volume worldwide. NYSE owns
Europe’s second-largest derivatives exchange, Liffe, and will
use ICE’s European clearinghouse to process its interest rate
products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  