-- Nazi Reich Lives on in ‘Tin Drum,’ Memoirs, Diaries
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-08-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/nazi-reich-lives-on-in-tin-drum-memoirs-diaries.html
Danzig! How did I forget to include
the town of the drumming dwarf in our recent roundup devoted to
novels that take us to different cities and times so we can stay
safely and cheaply at home?  Guenter Grass was born in Danzig in 1927, but unlike little
Oskar Matzerath he didn’t stop growing until he became  West
Germany ’s greatest author.  “ The Tin Drum ” (Mariner, $15.95) -- published in 1959 and
the first in his “Danzig Trilogy” -- describes with the
blackest humor the rise of the Nazis in a town that was stuck
with the perilous status of “free city” after World War I.  On Danzig’s right was East Prussia; on the left, the so-called Polish corridor, a swathe of land that allowed Poland
access to the Baltic sea. And beyond the corridor was  Germany ,
with a lot more Nazis, who wished Danzig to become part of the
Reich.  I opened my mother’s signed copy and looked for the funny
description of opera innocent Oskar visiting Zoppot with his
mother.  In the summer, the music-loving citizens of Danzig would
repair to Zoppot (now Sopot) for Wagner performances at an open-air stage in the forest. Many divas preferred Zoppot’s brisk
weather to the tormenting humidity of Bayreuth.  Hilfe! Hilfe!  Unfortunately, Oskar became very agitated as the soprano
kept wailing away in “The Flying Dutchman.” Thinking she was
hurt, he emitted a high-pitched scream that popped the lights
and stopped the show.  The novel is Oskar’s memoir, composed in the ’50s when he
is in a nuthouse. As old Danzig flickers in his memory, the new
Gdansk haphazardly rises from the ruins -- eventually becoming
the stage for  Lech Walesa , the union man who raised his fist to
Soviet power.  As I drifted through “Tin Drum,” I recalled my mother, a
Latvian of German ancestry whose relatives roamed the port
cities of the Hanseatic League and spoke of the beauty of the
Masurian plains.  The British biographer Max Egremont opened up those
memories in his lyrical “ Forgotten Land: Journeys Among the
Ghosts of East Prussia ” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $17). In this
book, published two years ago, he takes a meandering path
through the region’s history, pondering monuments and myths and
meeting up with survivors of this chaotic frontier of the German
empire.  Prussian Ghosts  Egremont’s focus is on the region’s idiosyncratic landed
class, the Junkers, many of whom joined the resistance against
Hitler. He pays proper homage to the hardy Marion Doenhoff, a
countess who fled her ancestral lands on horseback, dismounting
in Hamburg where she became the publisher of the prestigious
weekly Die Zeit.  Forests, castles, towns all evoke complex emotions, with
the beauty of Rominten, for example, blighted by Goering who
loved to hunt here, dressed like Siegfried.  Worst for all, Hitler chose to conduct his Russian campaign
from Rastenburg in the middle of East Prussia, accelerating the
ongoing butchery of non-Aryans who got in the way.  Millions died in this area alone, buried in the rubble of
once-beautiful towns. Lovely Konigsberg, home of Kant,
philosopher of the Enlightenment, turned into ghastly
Kaliningrad. Look at the photos and have a dark day.  ‘Diary of a Man in Despair’  I ended up spending the weekend going through my assorted
memoirs of a time that might have been so different if only
Friedrich Reck-Malleczewen had pulled out his pistol, which he
always carried, in a Munich restaurant in the 1930s.  There was “the vegetarian  Genghis Khan ” chewing his cud,
all alone -- unusual for Hitler, who liked an audience for his
non sequiturs. Reck, a caustic, cultivated East Prussian writer
from those Masurian lake-lands, never forgave himself. Like so
many of his class, he thought of Hitler as a clown who would
disappear. When he didn’t Reck withdrew to a tiny town,
periodically pouring his rage into “ Diary of a Man in Despair ”
( New York  Review Books, $15.95), finishing his last entry on the
day the Gestapo picked him up in 1944. Somehow, the monsters of
efficiency missed the diary.  For macabre humor, I turned to Bella Fromm’s “Blood and
Banquets: A Berlin Social Diary” (out of print). Fromm, an
upper-class Jewish gossip columnist for a liberal newspaper, was
a very witty observer of the brutes and sycophants who sipped
champagne and kissed the hand of “Frau Bella,” as she was
known.  Frau Bella’s acid views of Hitler, especially his cultural
pretensions, are a joy to read.  “Once I watched him during a performance of ‘The Merry
Widow’ in Munich. It was amusing to see how eagerly he listened
-- and looked. The full-bosomed, and somewhat aging Valkyries of
Bayreuth never seemed to strike the same aesthetic and artistic
chords in the ascetic Fuhrer as the slender, seminude chorus
maidens of Munich.”  Joseph Roth  Fromm left for a penurious life in the U.S. in 1938. Joseph
Roth hurried to Paris after Hitler became chancellor in 1933.
There he fell apart, writing increasingly desperate letters for
handouts, while consuming toxic quantities of booze.  “ Joseph Roth: A Life in Letters ” (Norton, $39.95) is a
painful cry for help aimed often at the famous Stefan Zweig, who
surely could have folded a few banknotes into his dutiful,
“chin-up” responses.  Finally, in May 1939, Roth just keeled over, too distressed
to go on. He is remembered for the satirical novel “ The
Radetzky March ” (Everyman’s Library, $22) -- about the collapse
of the vast Austro-Hungarian Empire and its many small-brained
people.  Stefan Zweig  Zweig’s polished books have largely disappeared, except for
his autobiography, “ The World of Yesterday ” (University of
 Nebraska , $24.95), which he finished before his suicide in
 Brazil .  I read it years ago and can’t forget his aged mother. One
day she was the respected Frau Zweig, mother of one of  Europe ’s
bestselling authors. Then the Nazis arrived in  Austria  and she
was suddenly nobody, deprived even of her walks in the public
garden because Jews were not allowed to rest up a little on
benches that were reserved exclusively for fat Nazi arschen.  The list of things verboten to Jews grew ever longer until
pets ended up on the list, as wearily recorded by Victor
Klemperer, an ex-professor of the French Enlightenment.  Neither could they be adopted by an Aryan neighbor to
thwart any sneaky visiting. So on a day she never forgot, his
wife carried their cat to be euthanized by a vet. Astonishingly,
the Klemperers and his diaries survived the firebombing of
Dresden and were published in English as “ I Will Bear Witness:
1933-1941 ” and “ I Will Bear Witness: 1942-1945 ” (Modern
Library, $18 each).  “The Hare With Amber Eyes”  Finally, I entered the rarified world of the wealthy
Ephrussi banking family who once occupied one of the grandest
palais on the Ringstrasse, an immense mansion on the scale of
the opera house.  Decades after the Anschluss, Edmund de Waal, a noted
ceramist, pieced together his fractured family history, focusing
on the collection of netsuke -- miniature carvings that included
the creature of the title, “ The Hare With Amber Eyes .”  Anna, his grandmother’s maid, had carefully secreted them
in her mattress. It is a remarkable book, a magical book,
conjuring up vast worlds and unusual people from these tiny
treasures.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer of this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 