-- New Zealand Reveals Second Case of Tainted Milk Exports to China
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-19T01:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/new-zealand-reveals-second-case-of-tainted-milk-exports-to-china.html
New Zealand said it detected another
case of tainted milk protein being exported to  China , just weeks
after a botulism scare endangered trade ties with its biggest
dairy customer.  Two batches of milk protein exported to China contained
levels of nitrate that exceeded the New Zealand standard, the
 Ministry for Primary Industries  said in a statement today. It
has revoked export certificates for four consignments of
lactoferrin manufactured by Westland Milk Products that were
derived from the two batches.  “One batch was exported directly to China as an ingredient
for other dairy products by Westland, and the second batch was
supplied to Tatua Co-operative Dairy Co., and also exported to
China,” the ministry said. “Any food safety risk to Chinese
consumers is negligible because the quantities of lactoferrin
used in consumer products was very small, meaning the nitrate
levels in those products would easily be within acceptable
levels.”  China stopped importing some  New Zealand  dairy products
earlier this month after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.
identified a potentially contaminated whey protein that could
cause botulism. Russia and  Sri Lanka  have also banned some
Fonterra products as a result of the contamination.  Westland said today it appeared traces of cleaning products
were not adequately flushed at its lactoferrin plant at
Hokitika, on the South Island west coast, prior to a new run of
product. The ministry has sent a team to the site.  Nitrate Levels  A total of 390 kilograms (860 pounds) of lactoferrin showed
nitrate levels of 610 and 2198 parts per million respectively,
it said, adding all of it had been sent to China. The New
Zealand maximum limit for nitrates is 150 parts per million.  “We immediately initiated a process to find and quarantine
all of the product and it has been put on hold,” Westland Chief
Executive Officer Rod Quin said in a statement. “ Food safety  is
not the issue in this instance because lactoferrin is used as a
very minor ingredient in food products. Even if the lactoferrin
with elevated nitrates had been added to food, the retail
products would still have nitrate levels significantly below
allowed limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  