-- Nigerian Army Says Boko Haram Leader Shekau Probably Dead
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-08-19T20:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/nigerian-army-says-boko-haram-leader-shekau-probably-dead.html
Abubakar Shekau, leader of the
Nigerian Boko Haram group that’s waging a violent campaign to
establish an Islamic state in  Africa ’s largest oil producer, is
probably dead, the country’s military said.  Shekau was hurt on June 30 in a clash with security forces
in the northeast Sambisa forest, Sagir Musa, a spokesman for the
military  task force  fighting the militants, said today in an e-mailed statement, citing intelligence reports. He provided no
evidence to support his claim.  “Shekau was mortally wounded in the encounter and was
sneaked into Amitchide, a border community in Cameroon, for
treatment,” Musa said. “Shekau might have died between July 25
and Aug. 3.”  The army appealed to the Islamist fighters “to lay down
their arms and embrace the Federal Government’s offer for
dialogue.”  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language, has killed thousands in gun and bomb
attacks since 2009 in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja, most of
them Christians.  Nigeria ’s more than 160 million people are
roughly equally split between Christians, predominant in the
south, and Muslims.  On Aug. 14, Nigeria’s  Defense Ministry  said the group’s
second in command, Momodu Bama, was killed in clashes with
security forces. Bama’s death “has been confirmed by other
arrested terrorists,” ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade said
at the time. That claim has not been independently verified.  Claimed Attacks  In a video e-mailed on Aug. 12, Shekau claimed
responsibility for a series of attacks in Borno and Yobe states
and said the group’s strength hadn’t been dented by a government
campaign against it. Three months earlier, President  Goodluck
Jonathan  declared emergency rule in the northeastern states of
Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, giving the armed forces sweeping powers
to try to quell the group’s activities.  “We have killed countless soldiers and we are going to
kill more,” Shekau said in the e-mailed video.  The army said in today’s statement that the video was
faked, made “by an imposter to hoodwink sect members to
continue the terrorism and to deceive undiscerning minds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  