-- Ohio Poised for Worst Return Since 2008 on Tobacco: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/ohio-poised-for-worst-return-since-2008-on-tobacco-muni-credit.html
Ohio ’s debt is headed for its worst
annual return since 2008 because of a slump in the value of the
state’s tobacco bonds.  Municipal bonds issued in Ohio have lost  5.7 percent  since
Dec. 31, compared with a 10 percent gain in 2012, a Standard &
Poor’s Municipal Bond Index shows. The Buckeye State’s debt is
on track to lose the  most  value in five years even though an
improving economy boosted state cash reserves to a record.  Tobacco bonds  are burdening the second-biggest economy
among Midwestern states after  Illinois . Debt backed by payments
from cigarette makers is the worst-performing segment of the
$3.7 trillion muni market with a 9.3 percent loss this year,
after gaining 25 percent in 2012, S&P data show. A decline in
smoking has reduced revenue from the companies. Ohio’s Buckeye
Tobacco Settlement Financing Authority’s bonds, sold in 2007 and
rated B- by S&P, make up almost 12 percent of S&P’s Ohio index.  “I don’t think there’s anything necessarily inherent in
the state of Ohio or its issuing entities that’s a drag on the
index -- it’s all really about the Buckeye tobacco
performance,” said  Peter Hayes , head of munis at New York-based
BlackRock Inc., which manages $114 billion of local debt.  Fed Reductions  Buyers are seeking higher-rated securities as investors
have pulled cash from muni-focused mutual funds on concern that
the  Federal Reserve  may curb bond purchases. The Fed has been
buying debt to keep short-term interest rates near zero to spur
the economy.  Withdrawals have totaled $13.8 billion in the eight weeks
through Aug. 14, the most since February 2011, Lipper US Fund
Flows data show. That pushed yields on benchmark 30-year munis
to about  4.7 percent  last week, the highest since April 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About $94 billion of municipal securities are backed by
tobacco-company payments as part of a 1998 settlement with
states, generating revenue based partly on annual cigarette
shipments. The bonds have lost more than twice as much this year
as the broader S&P muni index, which  declined  about 4.4 percent
through Aug. 15. Tobacco bonds are the worst performer compared
with debt tied to segments such as hospitals, water and sewer
systems and transportation networks.  Unemployment Drop  A recovery that began after March 2010 in Ohio has  
continued , with just two quarterly declines through March,
ranking it fifth in improvement, according to the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States. Ohio’s jobless rate fell to a
post-recession low of 6.7 percent in December, and crept up to
 7.2 percent  in July, compared with a  national  average of 7.4
percent that month.  State tax revenue has exceeded the forecasts of Republican
Governor  John Kasich ’s administration, and last month, Ohio
increased its  reserve fund  to $1.5 billion. During fiscal 2009
and 2010, budget office figures show the balance was 89 cents.  “Ohio’s in reasonably good shape, but the tobacco-bond
arena, not so much,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  Smokers quitting or cutting back have led to lower
cigarette shipments by  tobacco companies , reducing payments to
some states. Consumption in 2013 may drop at least 4 percent,
following six straight years of declines, according to Schankel.  Cigarette Tax  President  Barack Obama  proposed raising the federal tax on
cigarettes by 94 cents, to $1.95 for a pack of 20, to finance a
pre-kindergarten program. His plan was included in his 2014
budget recommendation in April. A price jump of that size would
cut consumption by about 10 percent, according to Kenneth Shea,
a Bloomberg Industries senior tobacco analyst.  Investors holding tobacco bonds with longer maturities,
“better start smoking and get all your friends to start smoking
again too, because there ain’t going to be enough money,” said
Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at Fairfield,
Connecticut-based Herbert J. Sims & Co.  Buckeye tobacco bonds maturing in June 2034, rated B3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, or six steps below investment grade,
had a yield of about 8.5 percent Aug. 15, according to Bloomberg
Valuation data. That’s about 4.5 percentage points above top-rated munis and compares with a yield of 6.6 percent and a 4.1
percentage-point spread to the benchmark index in January.  Zero-Coupon Debt  Two Buckeye bonds in the Ohio S&P index are zero-coupon
securities that push all principal and interest payments out to
future years, with maturity values totaling more than $6.6
billion, said J.R. Rieger, vice president of fixed-income
indexes at S&P in New York. Ohio has zero-coupon tobacco bonds
maturing in 2047 and 2052, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Their long maturities extend the duration of the Ohio
index, producing greater volatility during the past 12 months as
 interest rates  changed and tobacco bonds fluctuated, Rieger said
by e-mail.  The S&P tobacco-bond index drop has been driven partly by
investors seeking higher-rated securities and Obama’s proposed
tax increase. The index gained last year as investors sought
higher yields and because of a payment-related side agreement to
the 1998 settlement among 17 states, the  District of Columbia 
and  Puerto Rico  also pushed values higher, said Larkin, of Sims.  It was “a fool’s rally,” he said. Investors are now
realizing that the debt remains at risk, partly because of the
effects of the decline in smoking on future payments --
especially those for high-yield securities maturing after 2040,
he said.  Highest Ratio  The  ratio  of 30-year top-rated muni yields to those for
comparable  U.S. Treasuries  is near the highest in more than a
year. The proportion fell to 121 percent Aug. 16 after reaching
125 percent Aug 9, the most since June 1, 2012. The higher the
percentage, the greater the relative value of municipal
securities compared with Treasuries.  In the municipal market this week, issuers plan to offer
$4.5 billion of long-term debt after selling about $4 billion
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest
sale this week is the New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund
Authority’s $850 million of tax-exempt bonds. It’s the slowest
two weeks of  issuance  since early January.  Following is a pending sale:  Columbus, the largest city in Ohio with a population of
809,800, plans to sell almost $321.5 million of general-obligation bonds this week. Uses of the funds raised with the
tax-exempt debt will include financing new equipment and
improvements to municipal facilities, roads and sewers. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the securities Aaa and the bonds mature
as late as August 2034. The offering is being managed by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and will leave the city with
about $2.4 billion in general-obligation debt outstanding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 