-- Oi CEO Bava Says Investment Plan Will Convert Skeptics
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-19T17:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/oi-ceo-bava-says-investment-plan-will-convert-skeptics.html
Oi SA Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava , saddled with the lowest analyst ratings in  Brazil ’s phone
industry, said he’ll win over skeptics by improving quality and
cutting investments at the same time.  The company’s surprise loss in the most recent quarter led
Bradesco BBI to drop its outperform rating, leaving the number
of analysts advising buying Oi shares at 3 out of 16, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Oi’s
debt, citing “weak operating results and higher net leverage.”  Bava, with two months on the job, is preserving cash by
reducing the industry’s best annual dividend by 75 percent, a
move that sent shares down 10 percent last week. His next step
is to cut Oi’s yearly budget for capital expenses below 6
billion reais ($2.52 billion), going against the advice of
analysts who say the company needs more network investment to
keep up with deep-pocketed competitors  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and America
Movil SAB.  “A capex of 6 billion reais alone will not solve quality
problems,” Bava, 47, said in a telephone interview. “We are
going to do more with less money, and thus capex next year will
be lower. It’s not just about how much we invest but how we
invest, where we invest and improvements from better bottom-up
processes.”  Deeper Pockets  The move to reduce spending on network investments
surprised analysts, since telecommunications companies are
capital-intensive and need to continually invest to keep up with
technology. Telefonica, based in  Madrid , is spending 5.7 billion
reais in Brazil capital expenditures this year.  Mexico  City-based America Movil, which doesn’t provide budgets for
individual countries, is spending $10 billion across  Latin
America . Brazil is its largest market after Mexico.  “Oi has to enter into this rhythm to compete with
others,” said Gustavo Serra, an analyst at Planner Corretora de
Valores SA. If it doesn’t match competitors, it will fall
further behind in terms of quality of service, network expansion
and the ability to attract clients, said the analyst, whose
rating on Oi is under review.  Since it serves 4,500 municipalities as the largest
provider of telephone landlines in Brazil, Oi’s network requires
more attention and maintenance than competitors that cover only
portions of the country with fixed connections. Its current
investment of about 3 billion reais in landlines is the same as
in 2010, “suggesting significant historical underspending,”
HSBC Holdings Plc analysts led by Richard Dineen wrote in a
report on July 17.  Spending Trails  The company is also spending about 2.4 billion reais on
mobile, less than its peers, they wrote.  Reducing investment spending, along with paying about 500
million reais in dividends a year from an earlier annual budget
of 2 billion reais, will help strengthen Oi’s balance sheet,
Bava said.  “We have a team that is committed to executing the
operational turnaround of Oi,” Bava said in the telephone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro . “Our plan is to change the cash-flow profile of the company, consolidate our business model and
improve the efficiency of operations and grow revenues.”  He told analysts on a conference call last week that Oi
could wring better terms from suppliers and better prioritize
investments, such as spending more on third-generation, or 3G,
technology and less on expanding older 2G coverage.  Inherited Problems  Oi was down 50 percent through last week since Francisco Valim was ousted as CEO in January, compared with the 16 percent
decline of the benchmark Ibovespa index. The shares fell 3.7
percent to 3.87 reais at 2:28 p.m. in Sao Paulo. Bava inherited
a company whose problems are deep and will take years to unwind,
said Andres Medina-Mora, an analyst at Corporativo GBM SAB.  “Like any major turnaround story with such a hefty debt
situation, it’s going to be difficult to get there,” said
Medina-Mora, who decreased his target price last week from 6.63
reais to 6 reais while maintaining his buy recommendation.  The company will have to slow down after indiscriminately
adding customers who now aren’t paying their bills, Medina-Mora
said. Oi’s second-quarter loss included a 97 percent increase
from a year earlier in bad-debt provisions, which cover
customers who don’t pay their bills.  ‘Enormous’ Costs  Revenue  grew  2.4 percent in the second quarter to 7.1
billion reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Costs
rose 10 percent to 5.3 billion reais because of personnel,
marketing and provisions for bad debt, which were “enormous,”
said Alex Pardellas, a Rio de Janeiro-based analyst at CGD
Securities, in a telephone interview. He has a buy
recommendation on Oi with a target price of 8 reais.  “The increase in bad debt provisions was related to a
difficult macroeconomic scenario,” Pardellas said.  While the industry as a whole saw an increase in bad debt
last quarter -- Telefonica Brasil SA’s provision for deadbeat
customers rose by 26 percent -- “the case of Oi was much more
aggressive,” Medina-Mora said.  “This is a priority for the new team and for Mr. Bava,”
Medina-Mora said. “I’m much more comfortable with the way he’s
doing things.”  Telefonica Brasil said this year’s budget is part of 24.3
billion reais of investments planned from 2011 to 2014.  “The funding is dedicated principally to the expansion and
modernization of networks and systems, continuous quality
improvement for our services and customer service, in addition
to innovative solutions,” the company said in a statement.  Long-Term Changes  While Oi has sold an undersea cable business and phone
towers to net 4 billion reais since December, those were
insufficient, one-time measures, Serra said. Bava had to make
more long-term changes to assure Oi could grow, he said.  “If you consider the policy of dividends with investments,
this was incompatible with the cash generation of the company,”
Serra said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “The impact
of the dividend cut on the stock will be negative in the short
term, but for the company it’s a measure that goes along with
more sustainable growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  