-- Brazilian Swap Rates Tumble on Tombini’s Comment; Real Rallies
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-20T21:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/tombini-says-brazil-traders-pushed-market-interest-rates-too-far.html
Brazil ’s swap rates plunged from a
19-month high after central bank president Alexandre Tombini
said yesterday that traders had taken wagers on raises in
borrowing costs too far.  Traders projected yesterday the possibility that the
central bank will step up the pace of increases to 75 basis
points at its monetary policy meeting this month and lift the
target lending rate beyond 10 percent by year-end. Tombini said
in an unusual two-paragraph statement posted on the central
bank’s website that the more than 1 percentage point increase in
swap rates this month was “excessive.”  “Tombini was forceful,” Daniel Cunha, the chief economist
at XP Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “He made it
very clear that the central bank is not discussing a change in
the pace of  interest-rate  increases.”  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 dropped 40
basis points, or 0.40 percentage point, to 10.26 percent, the
biggest decline on a closing basis since June 24. They climbed
yesterday to 10.66 percent, the highest level since January
2012. The real appreciated 0.8 percent to 2.3935 per dollar
after closing yesterday at a level weaker than 2.4 for the first
time since March 2009.  The real has fallen 15 percent in the past three months,
the biggest drop among emerging-market dollar counterparts,
undermining policy makers’ goal of keeping annual inflation
below the 6.5 percent upper limit of the central bank’s target
range while seeking to bolster economic growth.  The currency doesn’t have a bottom in the short term,
 Carlos Langoni , a former central bank president who is head of
the global economy center at the Getulio Vargas Foundation in
 Rio de Janeiro , said in a telephone interview.  Currency Intervention  The real’s decline to a four-year low last week prompted
the central bank to announce that it will roll over more than $5
billion in currency swap contracts to limit declines. It sold
$993 million worth of contracts today as well as $986 million in
a rollover, with another rollover auction planned for tomorrow.
The monetary authority held two foreign-exchange credit line
auctions with maximum rates set at 2.467399 and 2.517925 per
dollar.  The Treasury bought back 1.1 billion reais of zero-coupon
bonds and 180 million reais of fixed-rate bonds in unscheduled
auctions today.  Brazil has raised its benchmark interest rate this year
more than any major economy, increasing it by a half-percentage
point on July 10 to 8.50 percent, bringing it up 1.25 points
from a record low 7.25 percent in April.  ‘Excessive Premium’  “The recent movement seen in interest rates in the market
has incorporated excessive premium,” Tombini said in the
statement, which also cautioned investors against one-way bets
in the  currency market .  The statement came a week after the central bank’s monetary
policy director, Carlos Hamilton, said Brazil’s fiscal policy is
expansionary and the real’s depreciation is fueling inflation
that will probably accelerate.  Tombini is letting investors know they shouldn’t give too
much credit to Hamilton’s “hawkish” comments, according to
Pedro Tuesta, a Latin America economist at 4cast Ltd.  “He’s saying don’t expect me to do too much, and I think
the market is expecting too much,” Tuesta said by telephone
from  Washington . “You can’t expect Brazil’s central bank to go
way over 10 percent, which the market is pricing in, with such a
weak economy.”  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast Brazil’s
year-end target lending rate at 9.25 percent, and economic
growth of 2.21 percent in 2013, marking the third straight
annual expansion below 3 percent. Inflation will close the year
at 5.74 percent, according to the survey.  Inflation Target  Inflation slowed in July to 6.27 percent from 6.70 percent
in the prior month, its fastest since October 2011. The central
bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or minus two
percentage points.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that
traders betting against the real could lose if the  exchange rate 
swings back the other way.  “What we’re doing is allowing the exchange rate to
fluctuate in the same way as other countries, avoiding
exaggeration,” Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo. “There’s
no floor and no ceiling.”  Mantega also said Brazil will do what is necessary to curb
consumer price increases and that the government has been clear
about not tolerating inflation.  “There could be some impact on the inflation, but we
haven’t seen any yet,” Mantega said. “But there are some
remedies, like the reduction of import tariffs.”  In his statement, Tombini said the central bank will
continue to supply protection against currency swings and
liquidity if needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  