-- OMV Pays Record $2.65 Billion for Statoil North Sea Oil, Gas
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-08-19T09:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/omv-pays-record-2-65-billion-to-statoil-for-north-sea-oil-gas.html
OMV AG (OMV) , the biggest central European
energy company, paid $2.65 billion to  Statoil ASA (STL)  in its largest
deal on record for stakes in four North Sea oil and gas fields
as it seeks stable output after disruptions in Libya and Yemen.  The deal includes 24 percent of Statoil’s Gudrun and 19
percent of its Gullfaks field, and options on 11 exploration
licenses, the companies said today in separate statements.
Statoil seeks to free up cash to invest in new developments.  “This deal is positive,” said Raiffeisenbank analyst Oleg Galbur, who recommends investors hold OMV shares. “It ensures a
decent return on OMV’s accumulated cash, while clearly following
the company’s strategy of focusing on upstream and more stable
markets,” he said of its plans for exploration and production.  The deal will increase OMV’s reserves after recent setbacks
for the Vienna-based company, with output in Libya and Yemen
beset by interruptions from social unrest. Its plan to build a
natural-gas pipeline stretching to the  Caspian Sea  was also
shelved in June after Azeri authorities chose a competing offer.  OMV fell 2.2 percent to 34.30 euros by 11:03 a.m. in the
Austrian capital. Statoil climbed 0.7 percent to 129.5 krone.  “The Norwegian area is a politically stable area,” OMV
Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss said in an interview with
Bloomberg television. “The transaction will provide a huge
boost to OMV’s strategy and will be a key factor in achieving
our 2016 targets.”  The deal, set to be completed at the end of the year, will
increase OMV’s proven and probable reserves by about 320 million
barrels of oil equivalent, the company said.  Capital Expenditures  OMV produced 303,000 barrels of oil a day in 2012 and is
targeting 350,000 barrels by 2016, the company has said.  Statoil,  Norway ’s biggest energy company, will use the deal
to redeploy about $7 billion of  capital expenditures , it said.
The company is expanding abroad and moving into unconventional
resources such as shale oil and gas to meet targets.  “This is a transaction that captures the full value of the
assets we are divesting and reducing our ownership in,” CEO
Helge Lund said in a phone interview. “Particularly on Gullfaks
and Gudrun in Norway, the deal metrics demonstrate the value of
the assets we have on the Norwegian Continental Shelf.”  Statoil has been producing oil from Gullfaks since 1986,
while Gudrun is expected to begin production in 2014, according
to the company’s  website .  OMV, which had free cash flow of about 1.6 billion euros
($2.1 billion) in the first half, said the deal will be largely
funded by the sale of downstream assets such as oil processing.
The company expects to sell its 45 percent stake in Bayernoil
Raffinerie GmbH by next year.  Today’s acquisition is the biggest in OMV’s history,
surpassing the $2.01 billion it paid in April 2004 to buy
Romania’s Petrom SA, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  