-- Moody’s Ignored as Abe Tax Outlook Cuts Bond Risk: Japan Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r   a n d   C h i k a k o   M o g i
-- 2013-08-19T07:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/moody-s-ignored-as-abe-tax-outlook-cuts-bond-risk-japan-credit.html
The  bond market  is showing
confidence in Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s tax plans,
ignoring a warning from Moody’s Investors Service that a
watered-down sales levy increase could hurt the nation’s credit.  The cost to insure Japanese  government bonds  for five years
fell 18 basis points since the end of June to 59 basis points
last week, the lowest since May 15, according to data provider
CMA. Equivalent credit-default swaps for U.S. Treasuries dropped
6 to 21 during the period. Benchmark 10-year  JGB yields  were at
0.765 percent today, the lowest in the world.  Bonds held gains even as Moody’s said that lax fiscal
discipline in the world’s most indebted country could erode
market confidence in  Japan ’s finances. Abe has said he will
study economic growth data due on Sept. 9 to decide whether to
proceed with a planned 3 percentage point boost in the sales tax
in April, and his deputy, Taro Aso, said last week that gross
domestic product figures supported the case for an increase.  “The JGB market is a domestic market and reflects the
Japanese consensus, which is that the consumption tax hike won’t
be derailed,” said Shogo Fujita, the chief Japanese bond
strategist in  Tokyo  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Since
they believe the tax hike will be passed, they aren’t worried.”  Japan’s default-swaps have come down from as high as 155
basis points in October 2011, according to CMA data. JGBs have
handed investors a 0.4 percent gain since the end of June,
compared with a 1.2 percent loss for Treasuries, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Economic Output  Abe will study Japan’s revised GDP for the quarter ended
June 30 before deciding whether to increase the  sales tax  rate
to 8 percent in April and 10 percent in 2015, from 5 percent.
Preliminary data last week showed an annualized expansion of  2.6
percent (JGDPAGDP)  from the previous quarter, a slowdown from the prior
three months and trailing analyst forecasts.  The prime minister must decide whether the world’s third-largest economy can withstand the higher taxes. Japanese Economy
Minister Akira Amari said last month that a panel of experts
will analyze the issue.  Abe adviser Etsuro Honda said that the levy ought to be
increased by 1 percentage point a year instead of the current
plan. Japanese lawmakers are reluctant to reopen legislation on
the issue, he said in an interview this month.  Market Unfazed  “Things are very serious indeed when you have a government
bond market that is utterly unfazed by news that the needed
consumption tax hike might be in jeopardy,”  Ryutaro Kono , the
chief Japan economist at BNP Paribas SA wrote in a research
report earlier this month. The Bank of Japan’s “overwhelming”
purchases of government debt mean that “bond prices no longer
reflect news regarding economic fundamentals,” he wrote.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets,  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) 
registered to sell as much as 50 billion yen ($512 million) of
notes, according to a filing with the  Finance Ministry  on Aug.
16. The Tokyo-based beverage producer last offered five-year,
0.39 percent debt in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japanese corporate bonds have returned 0.3 percent since
the end of June, compared with a 0.05 percent decline for
company notes worldwide, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 97.67 per dollar as of 4:02
p.m. in Tokyo, after depreciating 1.4 percent last week. The
currency has fallen 8.9 percent this year, the worst performance
after the Australian dollar among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes.  Trade Deficit  Japan’s imports climbed 19.6 percent from a year earlier in
July, the biggest increase since 2010, the Ministry of Finance
said today. That left a trade deficit of 1.024 trillion yen.  The nation’s debt exceeded a quadrillion yen as of June 30,
according to the Finance Ministry. Liabilities will reach  248
percent  the size of economic output next year, the most in the
world, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  Moody’s, which has an Aa3 rating on Japan with a stable
outlook, said on Aug. 15 that  “delaying or watering down” the
sales tax plan would be “credit negative” because the
government has yet to unveil significant steps to reduce its
deficits.  Momentum Easing  “The growth momentum is easing at this really early stage
of Abenomics,”  Thomas Byrne , a senior vice president at
Moody’s, said last week in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
Japan might not be able to sustain the 2 percent GDP growth it
needs at minimum to stabilize its debt trajectory, he said.  Japan’s Rating & Investment Information Inc. said it plans
to cut its outlook on the nation’s AA+ grade to negative from
stable if the tax increase is delayed or the increment is
narrowed. The country’s rating may still be under pressure even
if the levy is changed as scheduled if the government doesn’t
improve its fiscal management, it said last week.  The BOJ has helped support the JGB market since April by
buying more than 7 trillion yen of notes a month, to try to fuel
2 percent inflation in two years. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
said on Aug. 8 that restoring Japan’s fiscal health is
“absolutely necessary,” and that a loosening of fiscal
measures could hurt monetary policy.  “Bond investors are buying even if they worry that yields
will eventually rise as the economy improves and consumer prices
go up,” said  Mari Iwashita , a senior market economist at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. “Everyone is aware of the risk that
volatility could explode if market stability breaks down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  