-- Oregon Rieslings Rival Europe’s Best on Taste and Price
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/oregon-rieslings-rival-europe-s-best-on-taste-and-price.html
Wine making is a romantic obsession
-- a good selling point for an agricultural product marketed as
seductive, sophisticated and highly cultured.  Truth is, most winemakers make money by following global
trends, resulting in oceans of white wines all tasting pretty
much the same.  This is not generally true of riesling, whose archetypes
lie in the valleys of Germany and Alsace. Unlike chardonnay,
pinot blanc and other white varietals, the grape itself has a
very particular flavor.  Rieslings are spicy, brisk, sometimes racy, often sweet,
always aromatic and low in alcohol. And while many different
regions make riesling, I think  Oregon  now can compete with the
world’s best -- especially when the average price is under $20 a
bottle.  A cooler climate than  California ’s is key to riesling’s
excellence in Oregon, where it has grown into a $2.7 billion
industry, with 450 wineries, mostly small and artisanal, spread
over 17 distinct American Viticultural Regions.  Average winery yield is only 5,000 cases a year, and nearly
40 percent of the state’s vineyard acreage is certified
sustainable.  Fifty wineries now make riesling with 797 acres under
cultivation, which is only about 5 percent of Oregon plantings,
down from 23 percent 30 years ago, after vines were ripped out
to make way for cabernet and chardonnay.  World’s ’Best’  Harry Peterson-Nedry, founder and winemaker of Chehalem
winery, says rieslings are the world’s “best white wine” and
insists the varietal will eventually be the most widely planted
in the state.  “New dense plantings with a full array of clones are the
future,” he says, “as we investigate sites for epiphanies and
stretch styles to palates and foods.”  Back in the 1980s and into the 1990s, Oregon rieslings were
not as elegantly knit as they are today. Some are still as
flabby as fruit punch; others lack the acidity of  New York  State
Finger Lake examples.  German rieslings, with hundreds of years of development,
are still the benchmark, including intensely sweet dessert
wines. But drier styles are now justifiably getting attention.  Bottle Labels  The  International Riesling Foundation  has produced a
Riesling Taste Profile based on sugar-to-acid ratios, info that
members may print on the label: “Dry,” “Medium Dry,”
“Medium Sweet” and “Sweet.”  Here are some of the Oregon rieslings I have been enjoying
this summer, with just about everything except a steak on the
grill.  Argyle Eola-Amity Hills 2011 ($18)  The 2011 vintage is considered one of the best of the past
decade, a cool year with low sugars but good acids. Argyle, one
of the pioneers in the Willamette Valley, is best known for its
sparkling wines. But this medium-dry riesling is full of
tropical fruit flavors and spice, which make it a good aperitif
and a delight with an appetizer of honeydew melon and slices of
prosciutto.  Penner-Ash 2012 ($20)  Bottled in March 2013, this lighter riesling, at 10.5
percent alcohol, is very drinkable right now. I’d love it to
have a bit more acid, but I easily sipped this before dinner
with nothing more than some walnuts and pistachios. It also
pairs well with shellfish.  Anne Amie Estate Dry Riesling 2011 ($20)  The Yamhill-Carlton district vineyards, dating to 1979,
show their terroir with plenty of spice and dry minerality.
Better known for their pinot noir and pinot blanc,  Anne Amie 
uses old vine riesling grapes and treats them with minimal
processing, keeping yield low to produce a superb intensity in
their riesling, along with a refreshing acidity to balance the
sugars. This is the ideal wine for trout or any lake fish.  Foris  Rogue Valley  2011 ($13.50)  If you love a good, crisp, tangy apple, you might be
forgiven for thinking this bottling was full of apple juice. It
is absolutely delicious, a very deft balance of pale sweetness
with edgy acids. Foris, which started producing under its own
label in 1986, is the southernmost winery in Oregon, and its
bottlings are clear expressions of the high elevation, cool
Pacific terroir, allowing the wine’s components to knit together
without complications from too much sun. They also sell a 2008
sweet late-harvest dessert riesling at $12 for a half-bottle.  Elk Cove Vineyards Willamette Valley Estate 2011 ($19)  Elk Cove’s pinot noirs have an outstanding reputation, but
I’m almost as impressed by their Estate riesling, which has
plenty of aroma, fruit and spices, and at 12 percent alcohol is
a wine I’d like to keep around for a couple of years to see if
it develops into something even finer. Right now, if grilled
salmon were on the plate, this riesling would be in the glass.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on books and
 James Clash  on space flight.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 