-- Lorraine Lodge, Convertibles Expert at Merrill, ING, Dies at 52
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-08-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/lorraine-lodge-convertibles-expert-at-merrill-ing-dies-at-52.html
Lorraine Lodge, who developed a
specialty in convertible bonds during a career in New York City
and London with Merrill Lynch, ING Barings and  Nomura (8604)  Holdings,
has died. She was 52.  She died on Aug. 8 at Calvary Hospital Hospice in the
Bronx, New York, according to her sister, Lydia Schinasi. The
cause was ovarian cancer, which was diagnosed three and half
year ago. With her husband, Steve, she lived in Manhattan and
Telluride,  Colorado .  In 22 years at global investment banks, Lodge became
skilled in hybrid securities such as convertible bonds, which
can be exchanged for the issuer’s common stock, and exchangeable
bonds, which can be swapped for stock in companies other than
the issuer.  In 2005, while at Nomura Holdings Inc., she began moving
from research to origination. A colleague from that time, Daniel
Oakes, said she was part of the team behind what the financial
magazine Euromoney called the “equity deal of the year” -- the
sale by KfW,  Germany ’s state-owned development bank, of 1.1
billion euros ($1.47 billion) of bonds exchangeable for shares
of Deutsche Post AG.  Euromoney called the issue “a highly successful first-of-its-kind exchangeable targeted exclusively at Japanese private
clients,” and “the first-ever privatization targeted at a
specific investor base outside of an issuer’s home market.”  ‘Natural Originator’  Oakes, now a managing director and head of international
equity capital markets at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in London, said
yesterday in an interview that Lodge was “a natural originator,
a very good technical expert, and people in Europe really valued
her long history, her high level of expertise, her extremely
high level of attention to detail and real commitment to the
product.”  Lodge was quoted often in the media on the use of
convertible bonds by companies and on their popularity among
some types of investors.  “With the investor not having to enter the market and
incur transaction costs, the convertible can become more
sensitive to the equity and more sensitive to the bond,
whichever is rising more,” she said in an interview in 1998,
when she was an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. in  London .  In 2002, when Alcatel SA, now Alcatel-Lucent SA, issued a
mandatory convertible bond -- one that must be turned into
equity -- Lodge was quoted by Dow Jones Newswires as saying that
such transactions “are usually done by companies that really
need funds, but don’t want to make it look to their equity
investors as if they are selling shares.”  Index Creator  During her 13 years at Merrill Lynch, from 1987 to 2000 in
New York and London, she helped create the Merrill Lynch Global
Convertible Bond Index and contributed to the convertibles
research team that won mention in Institutional Investor’s All-Europe Research Rankings in 2000. Merrill Lynch is now part of
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , based in  Charlotte , North Carolina.  She was the co-author of a 2001 report by the Zurich-based
 Association of Convertible Bond Management  that said sellers of
such bonds needed to simplify and clarify the language in their
prospectuses to avoid hurting investors. The report was prompted
in part by a legal skirmish over the conversion of Bank Austria
AG bonds triggered by its purchase by HypoVereinsbank AG.  Lodge “was always good in math and found it very
interesting,” her sister said yesterday in an interview. She
dual-majored in statistics and political science at Northwestern
University in Evanston,  Illinois .  Derivatives Expertise  During the last 18 months of her life she was an instructor
in New York with Alpha Development Ltd., a London-based
financial-training firm. On its website, the firm said of Lodge:  “She matches our faculty’s already strong expertise in
derivatives, but brings particular focus in the areas of credit
analysis and transaction analysis. Participants particularly
respond to her ability to bring her front-, middle- and back-office experience to life in the classroom.”  Lorraine Eve Gringer was born on Aug. 23, 1960, and raised
in West Nyack and Bedford, New York, the second of three
daughters of Don Gringer and Tosia Gringer. Her father is
chairman of Bronx-based Allway Tools Inc., which was founded by
his father.  She graduated from Northwestern in 1983, her sister said,
then entered the workforce before resuming her studies,
receiving a master’s in business administration from the
University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School.  Risk Manager  At Merrill Lynch, Lodge handled foreign-exchange risk, then
ran technology, budgets and management for the London-based
equities business before joining equity research as a
convertible-bonds analyst for Europe and Asia.  In 2000 she joined the London office of Amsterdam-based  ING
Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial services company, as head
of international convertibles research. In 2003 she and about 15
others from her team moved to Nomura International Plc, a unit
of Tokyo-based Nomura,  Japan ’s largest brokerage. She became,
with Oakes, Nomura’s co-head of convertible-bond origination for
European equity capital markets.  She married Steve Lodge in 1999. Outside work, her
interests included skiing, cooking, theater, politics, and
enjoying time with her extended family and friends, her sister
said.  In addition to her husband and sister, survivors include
her parents and another sister, Susan Efron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  