-- Oscar Pistorius Murder Trial to Start in March
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-08-19T12:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/oscar-pistorius-to-face-court-hearing-over-murder-of-girlfriend.html
Oscar Pistorius , the Paralympian
gold medalist, was indicted today for murder and possession of
ammunition after the shooting death of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp and was told his trial will start in March.  A judge in the North Gauteng High Court will hear the case
from March 3 to March 20, Gerrie Nel, the prosecutor, said in
Pretoria, the capital. There are 107 witnesses to be called
during the trial, including Steenkamp’s friends Gina and Kim
Myers. South African criminal cases are heard by judges.  The track star, dressed in a charcoal suit and light blue
shirt, was mostly composed as he prayed with family members and
discussed his case for an hour before the start of the hearing,
his first time in court since June. Steenkamp would have turned
30 today.  “Today should have been a celebration of her life, instead
we mark it with a court appearance,” Ian Levitt, a lawyer for
the Myers family, told reporters after the hearing.  Gina  is
listed as a witness for the trial.  “Always with you my Alfi @reevasteenkamp miss you
infinitely,” Myers, who sat a few feet behind Pistorius, posted
on her Twitter Inc. account.  Pistorius has been free on 1 million rand ($98,000) bail
since February after prosecutors charged him with premeditated
murder for the shooting of Steenkamp on Feb. 14, Valentine’s
Day. The runner says he thought the model and reality television
star was an intruder at his  Pretoria  home.  Toilet Cubicle  The 26-year-old athlete “did unlawfully and intentionally
kill a person” and illegally had .38 caliber ammunition without
the appropriate permit or licenses, according to the indictment
issued today in Pretoria.  Steenkamp, then 29 years old, locked herself in a toilet
cubicle and Pistorius, armed with a 9mm pistol, fired four shots
at her through the locked door, according to the indictment. The
cause of death was given as multiple gunshot wounds.  “Some of the state witnesses heard a woman scream,
followed by moments of silence, then heard gunshots and then
more screaming,” the indictment said. “The accused said to
witnesses on the scene, that he thought she was an intruder.
Even then, the accused shot with the direct intention to kill a
person.”  Travel Restrictions  The court returned Pistorius’ passport and eased travel
restrictions after his lawyers argued that he wanted to resume
training and compete. Pistorius planned to restart his training
on June 28, according to a statement posted on his website.  Known as  Blade Runner  for the prosthetics he wore to race,
Pistorius was the first amputee runner to compete in an  Olympic
Games  in 2012 in  London . Time magazine named him one of the 100
most influential people in the world and he won six Paralympic
gold medals. He was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee at 11 months old.  Since his arrest, sponsors including  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s
largest sporting-goods company, and Luxottica Group SpA’s Oakley
have ended deals with Pistorius.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  