-- Tottenham Will Top Liverpool’s Offer for Willian: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-19T08:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/tottenham-will-top-liverpool-s-offer-for-willian-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Willian’s Value  Tottenham Hotspur is willing to beat Liverpool’s 26
million-pound ($40.6 million) valuation of Anzhi Makhachkala
midfielder Willian, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Although Liverpool agreed on contract terms with Willian,
it hasn’t reached a deal with Anzhi on a transfer fee for the
Brazilian, the Mirror added.  Spurs have long been interested in signing Willian, with
chairman  Daniel Levy  having traveled to Ukraine in January to
negotiate a deal with Shakhtar Donetsk before the playmaker
instead moved to Anzhi, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Shareholder Demand  A group of shareholders called on Arsenal’s board not to
offer coach Arsene Wenger a new contract unless the Gunners show
“considerable improvement,” the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Wenger, who has held initial talks about extending his deal
that expires next year, is yet to spend any of his 70 million-pound transfer budget after targeting three “world class”
signings in the current trading period, the newspaper added.  Injury Crisis?  Arsenal forward Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain may be ruled out
for as many as six months after potentially damaging knee
ligaments in his team’s Premier League opener against Aston
Villa two days ago, the  Daily Mail reported .  Wenger may have just eight fully fit senior outfield
players available for this week’s Champions League playoff
against Fenerbahce after Bacary Sagna,  Kieran Gibbs , Tomas Rosicky and  Aaron Ramsey  all picked up injuries in the loss to
Villa, the newspaper added.  Captain’s Role  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  brokered a peace deal
between  Luis Suarez  and manager  Brendan Rodgers  that may help
keep the striker at the club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Gerrard is said to have accompanied Suarez, who’s been
seeking a transfer, when the Uruguayan went to see Rodgers to
apologize for his conduct, the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  