-- Housing Boosts SouFun as Huaneng Tumbles: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-19T21:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/housing-boosts-soufun-as-huaneng-tumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese real-estate companies
advanced in New York after the biggest increase in new home
prices since 2011 boosted the industry’s outlook.  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (HNP)  tumbled the most in four years.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. was little changed at 96.4 yesterday
as 24 companies rose and 29 fell.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s
biggest property market information website, jumped 11 percent.
Digital map provider AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. soared to a two-year
high, and  NetEase Inc. (NTES)  climbed after saying it started a new
instant messaging application. Huaneng fell the most since 2008.  Guangzhou and Shenzhen led the nation’s gains in new home
prices in July with a 17 percent jump, official data showed
yesterday. China will seek “stable and healthy” development of
the property market, policy makers said after a meeting last
month led by President Xi Jinping, who took over the helm
earlier this year. Huaneng, China’s largest electricity
producer, followed Hong Kong shares lower after the Chongqing
Times reported China may cut power prices as soon as October.  “It looks like there’s some relaxation in China’s property
price curbs, which stoked home prices and will help with
macroeconomic stabilization as well,” Tan Chiheng, an analyst
at Granite  Point Capital Inc. (PTCI) , which invests in Chinese
equities, said by phone from  Boston . “SouFun and E-House both
reported strong second-quarter financial results and gave strong
guidance for the third quarter.”  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slipped 0.3 percent to $36.06.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.6 percent as energy
shares declined and investors awaited signals this week on the
Federal Reserve’s stimulus plans.  Net Income  SouFun’s American depositary receipts climbed to $40.26,
jumping the most since Aug. 8. Brokerage  E-House China Holdings
Ltd. (EJ)  gained 3 percent to $6.25, the first rally in three days.  Beijing-based SouFun said Aug. 8 net income in the second
quarter jumped 67.5 percent and sales grew 48.6 percent, while
raising its 2013 sales forecast. Shanghai-based E-House reported
second-quarter adjusted profit on Aug. 16 that was more than
double the average projection of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prices in 69 out of a total 70 cities tracked by the
government climbed last month from a year earlier, increasing 14
percent in Beijing and  Shanghai , according to a statement of
 China ’s statistics bureau yesterday. The government is expected
to release a “long-term mechanism” for stable and healthy
development in about three months, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on Aug. 15, citing Zhu Zhongyi, the deputy head
of the China Real Estate Industry Association.  Instant Message  NetEase, owner of a news portal, rallied 5.5 percent to
$67.04 in New York, the biggest gain in three months.  The Beijing-based company said yesterday it established a
joint venture with China Telecom Corp., the nation’s third-largest mobile network carrier, and started YiChat, an instant
message application for smartphones.  AutoNavi, which provides Chinese online map content to
companies from Apple Inc. to Sina Corp., soared 8.4 percent to
$15.75, the highest since August 2011.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, bought a 28 percent stake in Beijing-based AutoNavi in
May for $294 million.  ADRs of Beijing-based Huaneng tumbled 9.7 percent to
$39.23, the first decline in four days. The ADRs, each
representing 40 underlying shares in the Beijing-based Huaneng,
traded  1.2 percent  below its Hong Kong stock, which plunged 9.4
percent to HK$7.70, or 99 cents per share.  LightInTheBox Plunges  China may cut prices of electricity to stimulate industrial
power use as coal prices continue to decline, the Chongqing
Times reported, citing unidentified people who are close to the
nation’s top planning agency.  LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB) , a Beijing-based web retailer
that sells lifestyle goods to overseas markets, tumbled 34
percent in after-hour trading after its third-quarter sales
forecast trailed the mean estimate of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a web retailer of fashion goods,
climbed 8.3 percent to $43.21, the biggest one-day gain since
May.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , operator of China’s second most-used search engine, rallied 5.8 percent to a record $73.47,
taking a two-day advance to 17 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slipped 0.2 percent
to 10,199.08 after a six-day rise. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
advanced 0.8 percent to 2,085.60, gaining the most in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  