-- How a Russian Kiss Became a Global Controversy
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-08-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/how-a-russian-kiss-became-a-global-controversy.html
Something is awry when a
congratulatory kiss between two female Russian athletes becomes
an international embarrassment for their country. For that,
Russian authorities have themselves to blame.  Runners Ksenia Ryzhova and Tatyana Firova exhibited pretty
normal Russian behavior when they kissed on the podium after
winning the 4x400-meter relay at the World Athletics
Championship in Moscow. But given that  Russia  recently outlawed
“the propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations,” making it
punishable by fines ranging from $130 for private individuals to
$33,000 for companies, the act became the subject of global
scrutiny.  Did the two athletes just brush each other’s lips or were
their mouths a little ajar? Was that a flicker of tongue? Some
media  interpreted  the kiss as a protest against the persecution
of gays and lesbians in Russia. “What will Putin say?”  wondered 
the Israeli news site mako.co.il.  The link between Russia’s anti-gay legislation and its
suitability as a venue for international sporting events can be
traced back to the British actor and author Stephen Fry, who on
Aug. 7 published an open  letter  to British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and the  International Olympic Committee , calling on them
to boycott the 2014 winter Olympics in Sochi.  In the letter, Fry likened Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
to Hitler. The Berlin Olympiad “provided a stage for a gleeful
Fuehrer and only increased his status at home and abroad,” Fry
wrote. “What he did with that confidence we all know.”  Cameron  rejected  Fry’s plea on Twitter: “I believe we can
better challenge prejudice as we attend rather than boycotting
the Winter Olympics.” The IOC, for its part, sought
clarification of the anti-gay law. Speaking in Moscow on Aug.
10, IOC head  Jacques Rogge  said he had received written
reassurances from Moscow that the legislation would “not affect
those attending or taking part in the Games.” He added, however,
that he did not “understand all the details because of probably
a difficulty in translation.”  On Aug. 12, the Russian  Interior Ministry  issued a rather
ominous  clarification : “The abovementioned law has come into
force and is enforced throughout the Russian Federation. Due to
that fact, during the  Olympic Games  and at any other time the
police will act within the framework of the Russian law in
general and the law on the protection of children against the
propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations in particular.”
The ministry went on to say police would only apply the law to
“persons who aim to persuade minors to enter into non-traditional sexual relations,” and otherwise would have no
problem with people of any sexual orientation attending the
Olympics.  FIFA, the governing body of the  Soccer World Cup , which
Russia is scheduled to host in 2018, joined the IOC on Aug. 14
in  asking  Russia to explain itself: “FIFA expects that all
guests in a FIFA  World Cup  host country, whether they are fans,
players, officials or media, experience a great FIFA World Cup
irrespective of their sexual orientation.”  Some of the athletes taking part in the World Athletics
Championship needed no further clarification to protest. Swedish
high jumper Emma Green-Tregaro performed with her fingernails
painted in the colors of the rainbow, a reference to the LGBT
banner. The world athletics federation, IAAF, later asked Green-Tregaro to remove the paint because it violated a rule about
making no political statements during competition.  One of Russia’s most fabled athletes, champion pole vaulter
Yelena Isinbayeva,  ranted  against the Swede. “We have our law
which everyone has to respect,” she said, speaking in halting
English. “If we will allow to promote and, you know, do all this
stuff on the street, we very afraid about our nations because we
consider ourself like a normal, standard people which is lives
with the boys with womans, womans with boys, you know,
everything must be fine here, it comes from the history.”  Isinbayeva’s outburst scandalized some foreign athletes
also taking part in the Moscow championship. “Guess what,
Yelena, a large portion of your citizenship are normal, standard
homosexuals,”  said  U.S. runner Nick Symmonds.  The Russian runners haven’t commented on their kiss. The
available evidence suggests it wasn’t meant as an expression of
homosexuality. Ryzhova, nee Vdovina, is newly married and says
she is in love with her husband, who dated her for eight months
before proposing to her on bended knee. “Now that I am married I
am less crazy about sports and I want a family more and more,”
she said in a recent  interview . “No medals, money or glory can
replace family happiness and the birth of a little one.”  The reaction to the kiss would be something to laugh about
if Russian officials were not so deadly serious about the
homosexuality issue. “We want to shield our children, whose
psyche is not yet fully formed, from the propaganda of drug
addiction, drunkenness and non-traditional sexual relations,”
Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko said at the closing press
conference of the World Athletics Championship. “We want them to
decide for themselves when they grow up, that is the purpose of
the law. But welcome to Sochi, and I want to say again that all
the rights and freedoms will be observed here and there will be
no infringements on them.”  The bodies that govern sports probably won’t cancel the
events scheduled to take place in Russia over the gay rights
issue. The Olympics were held in  China  despite its dismal human
rights record. Yet by passing the loosely formulated, patently
silly law against “gay propaganda,” Russia has defeated the
purpose of hosting global competitions such as the  Winter Games 
and the World Cup: to raise the nation’s international prestige.
Rather, it is succeeding in turning the media spotlight on the
bigotry and backwardness of Putin’s regime.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 