-- Toyota North America CEO Can't Avoid Testifying at Trial
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n
-- 2013-08-19T17:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/toyota-north-america-ceo-can-t-avoid-testifying-at-trial.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lost a bid to
keep its North America region’s chief executive officer from
taking the witness stand in the first trial over a fatal crash
blamed on sudden acceleration.  California  Superior Court Judge Lee Smalley Edmon in Los
Angeles today said James Lentz may be called to testify in
person over objections from company lawyers, who argued that
previously made video depositions of Lentz should suffice.  “The parties have identified certain testimony he gave in
depositions and everyone agrees is relevant and can be used in
this case,” Edmon said. She said the video recording was for
pretrial evidence-sharing “purposes only” and that “there’s
no question there is a difference ‘‘between playing a video-taped deposition and testimony in person.’’  The  jury trial  is over a crash involving Noriko Uno, 66,
who died when her Camry sped out of control and crashed into a
tree after it was hit by a car that ran a stop sign in Upland,
California.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , settled economic-loss
claims by U.S. drivers after the recall of more than 10 million
cars worldwide in 2009 and 2010. Lawyers for drivers valued the
settlement at $1.63 billion. The recall followed complaints of
sudden, unintended acceleration, including stuck accelerator
pedals and floor mats that would shift out of position and get
wedged under the gas pedal.  Floor Mats  Ono’s 2006 Camry wasn’t part of the 2009 and 2010 Toyota
recalls for floor mats and gas pedal modifications, when Toyota
also installed brake override system software and began making
it standard.  Plaintiffs have argued that Toyota should have installed an
inexpensive brake override system in Ono’s car that could have
stopped the vehicle. Toyota has argued that driver error is
responsible for that crash and others.  Anne O. Hanna, an attorney representing Toyota, argued
there was no need for Lentz to appear in court.  ‘‘It’s an enormous waste of a CEO’s time and a
disruption,” she said, arguing that “if he’s going to be
hauled into court in every case, it seems like it’s all for
naught.”  Garo Mardirossian, attorney representing the Uno family,
told Edmon that he would call Lentz sometime in the next seven
court days, when the plaintiffs expect to conclude their side of
the case.  Carly Schaffner, a spokeswoman for Toyota, declined to
immediately comment on the judge’s ruling.  The case is part of In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court,  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Valerie Reitman in Los Angeles Superior Court 
at  valeriereitman@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  