-- Panesar Joins Essex on Loan After Being Released Early by Sussex
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-19T16:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/panesar-joins-essex-on-loan-after-being-released-early-by-sussex.html
England  spin bowler  Monty Panesar 
signed on loan with Essex County Cricket Club for the rest of
the season after being released by Sussex because of his
involvement in an incident at a night club earlier this month.  The 31-year-old was released after an investigation into
his behavior Aug. 5 outside a Brighton bar. His Sussex contract
was to expire after the 2015 campaign.  “Clearly this season has been a very difficult time for
Monty,” Zac Toumazi, chief executive officer of Sussex, said
today in a statement  on its website . “Having reviewed the whole
situation, the club has agreed that Monty be released from his
contract. This will give him every opportunity to put his
personal and professional life back on track.”  Panesar, who was recently divorced, was fined by police for
urinating on bouncers at a nightclub after they’d asked him to
leave, the  Daily Mirror  said today. He hasn’t played for England
during the current Ashes series with  Australia , and said he’ll
work to get back into the national squad.  “I have endured a challenging time this year off the field
and my frustrations have sometimes got the better of me
professionally,” Panesar said today on the Sussex website. “I
apologize for letting the club, my colleagues and my fans
down.”  In a statement on  Essex’s website , coach Paul Grayson said
Panesar is a “world-class spinner” and may play in tomorrow’s
County Championship Division Two game against Northamptonshire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Priechenfried in London at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  