-- Petrobras $2.1 Billion Asset Sale Is a Small Step, BofA Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-08-19T12:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/petrobras-2-1-billion-asset-sale-is-a-small-step-bofa-says.html
The sale of $2.1 billion in assets
by Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the most indebted publicly traded
crude oil company, won’t be enough to compensate for losses from
fuel imports, Bank of America Corp. said.  “We believe the cash injection is a small step in reducing
balance sheet pressure,” analysts Frank McGann and Conrado Vegner said in a note to clients dated yesterday. “Still, we
think it does not go far enough to offset an estimated $8
billion-plus in lost annual income due to huge discounts for
gasoline/diesel to international prices, which is key reason
for” balance sheet deterioration, they said.  The assets include stakes in U.S. and Brazilian oil fields
as well as a Brazilian power plant, Petrobras said in an Aug. 16
 statement .  China ’s  Sinochem Group  is buying the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s 35 percent stake in the offshore Parque das
Conchas project for $1.54 billion. The license includes the
Ostra field that pumped 21,000 barrels a day in June, according
to the country’s oil regulator. Parque das Conchas is operated
by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Brazil ’s state-run producer also agreed to sell minority
stakes in Gulf of Mexico oil fields for $185 million, a stake in
a petrochemicals company for 870 million reais ($361 million),
and a 20 percent stake in a power company in Brazil’s  Rio Grande 
do Norte state for 38 million reais. The sales are subject to
regulatory approval.  Petrobras is selling debt and $9.9 billion in assets to
help finance about $47 billion a year of investments through
2017. It is scaling back its operations abroad and curbing cost
growth in Brazil as it develops the largest group of crude
discoveries in the past decade and builds refineries. Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said Aug. 12 it would
accelerate asset sales during the second half of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  