-- Philippines Shuts Financial Markets, Offices Amid Floods
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-08-19T09:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/philippines-shuts-financial-markets-offices-as-capital-flooded.html
Three people were killed and three
are missing after heavy rains flooded the Philippine capital and
nearby provinces, shutting financial markets, schools and
government offices.  Tropical storm Trami, locally known as Maring, was almost
stationary east of Batanes province for the past six hours,
maintaining its maximum winds of 75 kilometers per hour and
gusts reaching 90 kilometers per hour. “Heavy to intense”
rainfall at as much as 25 millimeters per hour is enhancing the
monsoon rains and thunderstorms over the main island of  Luzon ,
the  weather bureau  said in an 11 a.m. advisory on its website.  Two people died after a dike collapsed in Cavite province
this morning, while a motor accident in Apayao killed one and
injured nine yesterday, authorities said. Two men are missing
after attempting to cross rivers in Mt. Province and Abra, while
a woman who was among 31 tourists trapped in a cave in Mt.
Province yesterday is still unaccounted for. There were at least
six landslides in Abra province.  Evacuations were reported in the provinces of Batangas,
Cavite, Ilocos and Laguna and in the cities of Makati and
Marikina in the capital. Some local flights were canceled.  The Philippine Stock Exchange halted equity trading and
settlement at its Securities Clearing Corp. of the  Philippines .
There was no trading of currency and government securities,
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla
said. Markets were last shut because of floods a year ago.  Yellow Warning  The  weather bureau  lowered its rainfall warning to yellow,
the lowest in a three-color scale, in  Manila  and nearby
provinces at 12:15 p.m., where it remained as of 3:15 p.m. The
alert level was raised to red, the highest warning, late
yesterday until this morning.  Gates at the Binga and Ambuklao dams in northern
Philippines were opened as waters were near critical levels, the
disaster agency said. Forced evacuations are taking place in
Ilocos Norte province as flooding reached as high as 15 feet (5
meters), it said.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) ’s malls are open, with some
accommodating stranded customers and offering free parking
overnight, Corazon Guidote, senior vice president at parent SM
Investment Corp. said in a mobile-phone message.  “We provided them with coffee and crackers,” Guidote
said, adding the customers were also allowed to charge their
mobile phones.  Recurring Floods  At least 15 people were killed and thousands fled their
homes a year ago when torrential rains flooded about 50 percent
of the Manila region. The monsoon last year was comparable to
the flooding caused by  Typhoon Ketsana , which killed more than
400 people when it swamped Manila and parts of Luzon in 2009.  The southeast Asian nation is regularly battered by
cyclones that form over the Pacific Ocean, causing devastation
that often prompts criticism of the government’s disaster-response efforts. Storm Washi killed more than 1,200 people,
mostly in Mindanao, in December 2011.  Large parts of the capital pummeled by rain since yesterday
are flooded, according to GMA News. Some roads in Makati City
near the central business district are not passable, while
portions of Quezon City and Manila are waist-deep, according to
the report.  Rains of 30 millimeters to 65 millimeters per hour are
expected under a red warning, compared with 15 millimeters to 30
millimeters under an orange warning, according to the weather
bureau website.  Storm Bopha , which triggered landslides and damaged
thousands of homes in coastal and mining towns in Mindanao in
December, killed 1,067 and left 834 missing, according to the
state disaster monitoring agency. Bopha damaged almost 37
billion pesos ($846 million) of infrastructure and farm output.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  