-- Phone Taps Considered in Malaysia’s War on Graft: Southeast Asia
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-08-20T07:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/phone-taps-considered-in-malaysia-s-war-on-graft-southeast-asia.html
Malaysia  may allow phone tapping and
Internet monitoring as it steps up the war on corporate and
government graft, which costs the country as much as $9 billion
a year, a minister said.  It also plans legislation to make company directors liable
for corruption involving staff and will appoint chief integrity
officers in government ministries, Paul Low, the minister in the
Prime Minister’s Department in charge of fighting graft, said in
an interview. He said talks on electronic monitoring are in
early stages and didn’t provide specifics on how sweeping powers
might be or how they might be used.  “Does Malaysia want to be a failed state or does it want
to rise up?” the 67-year-old former country president of
Transparency International said in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday.
“Malaysia has lots of potential but hasn’t lived up to it.”  Malaysia’s move comes amid a global debate over the merits
of state-sanctioned snooping after computer security contractor
Edward Snowden exposed a secret U.S. government electronic-surveillance program designed to foil terrorism. President
 Barack Obama  responded by saying he’ll ask Congress to amend
legislation to increase transparency and oversight.  Bribe-taking was found to be the most rampant in Malaysia
among 30 countries surveyed last year by Transparency
International, even as it improved to 54th from 60th place among
176 nations in the institution’s  Corruption Perceptions Index .
Prime Minister Najib Razak responded by appointing Low to his
cabinet to lead the war on graft, after his government was
returned to power in a May election.  ‘Ample Laws’  Almost half of Malaysians surveyed in a Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research poll published in February said fighting graft
was a more urgent issue for the government than taming inflation
or boosting foreign investment.  Merdeka Center political analyst  Ibrahim Suffian  doubted
that electronic monitoring would help the government tackle
graft. “The laws as they currently exist are quite ample,” he
said yesterday by phone. “They don’t need to engage in
additional surveillance. What the public is expecting them to do
is to go after the major perpetrators that are generally
publicly known but protected due to politics or so on.”  Najib has experimented with public humiliation, with an
online  gallery  of more than 1,000 convicted graft offenders,
including former Selangor state Chief Minister Mohd Khir Toyo,
who was sentenced to a year in jail in 2011.  He’s also introduced specialist corruption courts, passed a
Whistleblower Protection Act, and published tenders for state
contracts online to boost transparency, according to the
government’s  Performance Management and Delivery Unit .  Directors’ Onus  The Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act may be amended
to put the onus on company directors to show they have anti-bribery policies in their organizations, Low said.  “Not many Malaysian companies take fighting corruption
seriously,” said Low, a former vice president of the Federation
of Malaysian Manufacturers. “They still believe that corruption
is part of a strategic weapon for competition.”  National energy company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. said in a
July 5 statement that two employees were charged with
corruption. State-linked  Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)  said it boosted
its internal processes two years ago after Alcatel-Lucent SA
said its staff paid bribes.  The authorities must ensure that any laws to allow phone
tapping and Internet monitoring are clear to prevent abuse of
power, Loi Kheng Min, secretary-general of  Transparency
International  Malaysia, said by phone today.  Government ministries will hire chief integrity officers
and ensure clean and transparent procurement processes, said
Low. A plan is also being deliberated to ban relatives of
ministers and top civil servants from doing business with
relevant ministries, he said.  Money Politics  Police and political parties are perceived as Malaysia’s
most corrupt institutions, according to a survey by Transparency
International between September and March. Donations to
political parties should be made transparent, said Low.  “Dealing with grand corruption is my biggest priority
because of the financial implications as well as the impact on
the creditworthiness of the institutions and the economy,” said
the minister, who also oversees human rights.  Shahrizat Abdul Jalil stood down as minister for women,
family and community development at the end of her term as
senator last year after her husband was charged with corruption.
Two former transport ministers in a ruling coalition party were
separately charged over financial irregularities at an
industrial zone. All three have said they have not committed any
wrongdoing.  Najib wants to eradicate corruption to attract investments
and create jobs as part of a plan to turn Malaysia into  a high-income nation  by 2020. The country has drawn commitments from
companies such as German chip maker  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  and
International Business Machines Corp. under its $444 billion
development blueprint.  “If you want to move beyond the middle-income level, you
must have  economic  decisions that are based on sound
decisions,” Low said. A corporate liability law is the missing
piece of the jigsaw needed “to get the private sector to buck
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  