-- Preschool for 57,000 Poor Children Cut in U.S. Budget Reductions
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-08-19T17:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/preschool-for-57-000-poor-children-cut-in-u-s-budget-reductions.html
About 57,000 poor children will lose
access to federally-subsidized preschool because of across-the-board U.S. spending cuts this year, a smaller number than the
Obama administration previously said might be affected.  The figures released today by the U.S. Health and Human
Services Department are based on estimates from organizations
that run the Head Start programs. The Obama administration
warned earlier this year that automatic spending reductions that
started in March might affect as many as 70,000 children.  The federal cutbacks this year eliminated about $400
million from Head Start, the deepest spending reduction since
the program was created in 1965 under President Lyndon Johnson’s
War on Poverty to prepare impoverished children for school.  Head Start is one of dozens of programs affected by the
spending cuts that were implemented this year after President
 Barack Obama  and Congress failed to agree on how to reduce the
deficit. The reductions were part of a 2011 agreement to raise
the debt limit and were intended to be so unpalatable to both
Republicans and Democrats that they would come up with a way to
avoid it.  Kenneth Wolfe, a spokesman for the Health and Human
Services Department, didn’t return a phone message or e-mail
requests for comment on the cuts.  Budget Reduced  The federal government in 2012 spent $8 billion on Head
Start, providing funding for 956,000 children five years old and
younger. Because of the mandatory budget cuts, the human
services department said it would reduce spending on Head Start
by 5 percent, to about $7.6 billion.  The cuts applied equally to the funding of all Head Start
programs, run by school districts, community groups and for-profit preschools that receive grants to administer it. Some
localities used their own funds to make up for the diminished
federal spending for the free programs.  The impact was spread across the country, according to the
data released today. The most-populous U.S. state,  California ,
had the most children estimated to lose access to the program,
5,611. It was followed by  Texas , where 4,410 slots were
eliminated, and New York, which lost 3,847.  At least 18,000 employees were affected by pay or job cuts,
and schools reduced the number of days and hours that they
operate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  