-- Raising Kids? Your Taxes Are Far Too High
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-08-19T16:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/raising-kids-your-taxes-are-far-too-high.html
Would-be tax reformers on  Capitol
Hill  are taking a “blank slate” approach to the issue.  Dave Camp  and  Max Baucus , the House Republican and Senate Democrat in
charge of the tax-law committees, say that every tax break is on
death row unless a strong case can be made for it.  This method rightly recognizes that not all tax breaks are
the same: Some of them have better justifications than others.
What the blank-slate approach misses, though, is that not all
supposed tax breaks are even tax breaks.  The tax-reforming duo counts the deferral of taxation on
contributions to 401(k)  retirement plans  as a tax preference,
for example, and thus something that is presumed to be a bad
idea until proved otherwise. But plenty of economists would
argue that this provision of the  tax code  isn’t a break at all.
In their view, we should tax income when it is consumed. Taxing
savings instead creates a bias in favor of consumption today
over saving for consumption tomorrow, and even more over saving
for consumption the day after tomorrow. So the alleged tax
preference for 401(k) plans isn’t a “break” in the sense of a
departure from the ideal tax base. It’s a partial corrective for
a tax code that doesn’t define the base properly to begin with.  A Corrective  Fewer economists would defend the tax credit for children,
which reformers also sometimes put on the chopping block. Yet it
too should be seen not as a break but as another partial
corrective to a bias in federal policy -- a bias against the
investment we call parenting.  This bias is a side effect of something that most people
consider a blessing of modern life: government programs to take
care of the elderly. Before such programs, provisions for the
elderly usually took the form of a generational bargain within
families -- parents took care of their children before they grew
old enough to work, and they were in turn taken care of when
they grew too old to work.  Entitlements -- in the U.S.,  Social Security  and Medicare -
- socialized this bargain but didn’t erase it. We depend on the
next generation, collectively, to take care of us in our old
age. But we don’t all contribute to the same degree in raising
the next generation.  Hence the bias. Making financial sacrifices to raise
children is a substantial contribution to the health of
entitlement programs. But raising children doesn’t reduce the
taxes that parents must pay for the programs or increase the
benefits they receive from them. The more kids a taxpaying
family raises, the more others are free-riding off its
investments.  It isn’t surprising, then, that some social scientists have
found that the creation and expansion of programs for the
elderly tend to reduce family size. One  study  looked at the
decline in birthrates  in the U.S.  and in Western Europe after
World War II and found that roughly half of it could be
explained by the growth of these programs. Generous entitlements
and overtaxed parents mean that fewer people have any children
and fewer people have more than one child. (It also means that
fewer people get married early in life, or at all.)  The tax credit for children offsets a small portion of this
bias against parenting.  Tax reform  shouldn’t scale back the
child credit. It should expand it. The economist  Robert Stein 
 has suggested  that for the government to be neutral with respect
to the decision to have children -- neither discouraging nor
encouraging it -- the child credit, now $1,000 a child, would
have to be expanded fourfold or more.  The point of the child credit isn’t to get people to have
kids they don’t want. It isn’t even primarily to make it easier
for them to start families and raise larger families if they
want. It’s to reduce the unfair tax burden they face. Even if
expanding the credit did nothing to raise the birthrate, it
would be the right thing to do. The strong federal bias against
having children is something of an accident: We would never have
adopted it as an explicit policy. It’s also something we can
rectify.  Tax reform should move us in the direction of taxing
consumption rather than saving and investment. It’s important to
remember, though, that investments don’t just include stocks and
bonds and factories. Tax reformers should pay at least as much
attention to the most important investments in the future that
most people ever make.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at the National Review.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 