-- Rand Unlikely to Return to Previous Levels Soon: Davies
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-19T11:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/rand-unlikely-to-return-to-previous-levels-soon-davies.html
The rand is unlikely to rebound
“anytime soon” to the stronger levels seen a few years ago,
South African Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said.  The currency has lost 17 percent of its value against the
dollar this year, the worst performer among 16 major ones
tracked by Bloomberg, after reaching 6.5686 in April 2011. The
rand slumped to a six-week low of 10.1717 per dollar today and
was trading at 10.1677 as of 12:44 p.m. in Johannesburg.  While the currency’s depreciation may add to rising costs,
it may boost the competitiveness of manufactured exports, Davies
said.  Factory output , which makes up about 15 percent of
 Africa ’s largest economy, grew at the slowest pace in three
months in June, expanding 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics office said on Aug. 8.  “The depreciation of the rand, in our estimation, presents
a number of opportunities, both for exporters as well as for
manufacturers that are competing against a surge of imports,”
Davies told reporters in Johannesburg before the start of a two-day meeting of business executives from  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,
 China  and South Africa.  The Department of Trade and Industry wants manufacturers
and exporters to “seize the opportunities and try to take
advantage of the new climate that is now being created”, Davies
said. “The rand is now more competitively priced, albeit in a
context of volatility.”  The central bank cites the rand’s depreciation as one of
the biggest risks to  inflation , which it forecasts will exceed
the 3 percent to 6 percent target band this quarter. Data
released by the statistics office on Aug. 21 may show the
inflation rate reached 6.2 percent in July, according to the
 median estimate  of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The concern, of course, is that we still face volatility
in the currency, and volatility coming also at a time when there
are rising oil prices,” Davies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  