-- TransGlobe Energy Sees Egypt Growth as Shorts Swirl
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-08-19T20:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/transglobe-energy-sees-egypt-growth-as-shorts-swirl.html
TransGlobe Energy Corp. (TGL) , the most-shorted energy stock in  Canada , said a plan to double oil output
within three years won’t be derailed by unrest in Egypt, its
largest source of revenue.  “Our production and drilling is carrying on as normal” at
desert facilities hundreds of miles from clashes between the
military-backed government’s forces and Islamist protesters in
Cairo, Ross Clarkson, chief executive officer of the Calgary-based company, said in an Aug. 14 interview. Approval from
Egypt’s interim government to expand drilling operations is
expected by the end of the year, he said.  TransGlobe is trading at about half its net asset  value 
because of the turmoil in Egypt, Vancouver-based investment
adviser Salman Partners Inc. said. The stock has dropped 28
percent this year amid protests that led to the July 3 ouster of
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi. A crackdown on Mursi
supporters has spurred the government to declare a state of
emergency and the U.S. to cancel planned joint military
exercises next month.  Egypt is the largest non-OPEC oil producer in  Africa .
Output fell 0.7 percent last year to average 720,000 barrels a
day, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
Mursi was the first president elected after  Hosni Mubarak  was
ousted in 2011 amid protests.  Seeing Opportunity  TransGlobe, which boosted  production  sixfold from 2003,
 plans  to more than double output to 40,000 barrels a day in
2016. As much as 38 percent of that will come from lands in
Egypt’s western and eastern deserts that the company won rights
to develop last year, according to TransGlobe’s website. Egypt’s
interim Oil Minister Ismail Sherif said the four licenses may be
approved by the end of September, Clarkson said.  Efforts to reach the Egyptian Ministry of Petroleum by
phone and e-mail outside of normal business hours on Aug. 16
were unsuccessful.  The company, which also has operations in Yemen, got 93
percent of $318 million of sales from  Egypt  last year.
TransGlobe stock, which has eight buy, three hold and no sell
 recommendations  from analysts, is trading at about a third of
its December 2010 high of C$19.45 in Toronto. The shares fell
0.9 percent to C$6.75 at the close, giving it a market value of
C$498.8 million ($482.3 million).  The company reported adjusted per-share earnings of 16
cents in the second quarter, down 2 cents from the year-earlier
period and 2 cents more than the average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Twice as Big’  “You have a company twice as big trading for half what it
was a few years ago,” Gordon Currie, an analyst at Salman
Partners in Calgary who rates TransGlobe a buy, said in an Aug.
14 phone interview. “That feels like opportunity to me.”  A military government in Egypt may provide the best outcome
for TransGlobe because it creates stability, Currie said.  TransGlobe was the energy company with the largest
proportion, 25 percent, of shares available to the public
shorted by investors as of July 31, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Short sellers profit from price declines by
selling borrowed securities and repurchasing them at cheaper
levels.  “TransGlobe is picked on because it’s so focused on
Egypt,”  Christopher Brown , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Corp. in Calgary who rates the stock a buy, said in an Aug. 14
phone interview. “It is a target of those that want to short
the situation in Egypt.”  Supply Disruptions  While TransGlobe’s field operations haven’t been hit,
medium-term growth may be slower, David Dudlyke, an analyst at
Dundee Securities Corp. in  London , said in an Aug. 14 note after
reducing his recommendation to the equivalent of a hold. The
company may face supply-chain disruptions and delays receiving
government approvals and payments from the state-controlled
Egyptian General Petroleum Corp., he wrote.  Dudlyke didn’t return a message seeking additional comment.  The current period of “extraordinary political change”
and macroeconomic challenges in Egypt may affect the
predictability of TransGlobe’s business, the company said in an
Aug. 12 statement. Growth in 2013 is slower than originally
planned due to approval delays, it said.  The company has 100 employees in Egypt and provides work
for another 600 people at field operations for joint-venture
projects.  “We’re part of the solution for the government,” Clarkson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  