-- Treasury Faces Coupon Conundrum With 5-Year Sale, Wrightson Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-08-19T14:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/treasury-faces-coupon-conundrum-with-5-year-sale-wrightson-says.html
The  Treasury (BUSY)  Department may adjust
the coupon of the five-year note auction scheduled for Aug. 28
if it wants to avoid an “accidental reopening” of a previous
seven-year security, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC.  With the  five-year  Treasury yielding 1.60 percent, selling
the new security with a 1.5 percent coupon would be a strong
possibility under typical circumstances. Should the government
sell the note with that coupon, it would produce an overlap with
the  seven-year note  sold by the department in August 2011 at a
matching level with the same date of maturity, creating an
unscheduled reopening, Wrightson chief economist  Lou Crandall 
wrote in a research note published today.  As borrowing costs rise from the historic lows they reached
in the wake of the financial crisis that began in 2007, the
Treasury is likely to again face the possibility of new shorter-maturity securities with coupons and maturity dates matching
those of already issued securities in coming years, Crandall
wrote.  “The Treasury has an interesting technical decision to
make this week,” Crandall wrote.  Should the yield at auction fall between 1.5 percent and
1.624 percent, the Treasury may either announce the issue will
serve as a reopening of the old security or it may adjust the
coupon up to 1.625 percent, Crandall said.  ‘Theoretical Possibility’  The Fed holds 47.3 percent, or $14 billion of $29 billion
outstanding of the old seven-year security, which would ensure
no lack of supply of the security for investors seeking to
borrow the security to sell it in a short transaction, Crandall
said. A short position is a bet a security’s price will fall.  While reopening the security is the most straightforward
approach in the short-term, the Treasury may want to develop a
policy, such as switching to coupons denominated in decimals
rather than fractions of one-eighth, that reduces the likelihood
of this event reoccurring, Crandall said.  “This month’s five-year note may be the first of many in
the coming years that might overlap with existing securities,”
Crandall wrote. “The number of actual reopenings resulting from
coupon overlaps may turn out to be small, but there may be a
number of instances in which investors have to take the
theoretical possibility into account.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  