-- Repo Market Decline Raises Alarm as Regulation Strains Debt
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-08-19T18:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/repo-market-decline-raises-alarm-as-regulation-strains-debt-1-.html
Regulations aimed at reducing the
risk of another financial crisis are starting to upend a key
part of the bond market that expedites  trading  in everything
from Treasuries to  junk bonds .  The U.S. repurchase, or repo, market where banks and
investors borrow and lend Treasuries and other fixed-income
securities shrunk to $4.6 trillion daily outstanding last month,
down 35 percent from a peak of $7.02 trillion in the first
quarter of 2008, based on Federal Reserve data compiled from its
21 primary dealers.  From fewer repos to lower  inventories  of bonds, financial
institutions are responding to more stringent capital standards
imposed by regulators around the world. Already, the group of
dealers and investors that advise the  U.S. Treasury  say that
they see declines in liquidity in times of market stress,
including wider gaps between bid and offer prices and the speed
of completing trades. The potential consequences are higher
borrowing costs for governments, companies and consumers.  “During the market selloff over the past few months, those
rules, a lot of which are just proposed or not yet taken effect,
already impacted dealers’ willingness to take on inventory of
Treasuries, investment grade corporates to emerging market
debt,” Gregory Whiteley, who manages government debt
investments at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which
oversees $57 billion, said in an Aug. 14 telephone interview.
“That exacerbated the intensity of the selloff.”  Bond Losses  Dealers are cutting back at the same time  volatility  is
rising amid speculation an improving economy will cause the Fed
to reduce the $85 billion it’s spending every month to buy bonds
in an effort to boost the economy.  Bonds lost of 2.9 percent over May and June, the worst two-month stretch since the $42 trillion Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Index began in 1997.  That was worse than even the 1.9 percent decline in the
height of the financial crisis in September and October 2008,
when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, mortgage finance
companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  were placed into government
conservatorship, insurer American International Group Inc.
agreed to a U.S. takeover to avert collapse and Merrill Lynch &
Co. was compelled to sell itself to Bank of America Corp.  Losses Resume  After a respite in July, bond losses have resumed this
month. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes reached 2.9 percent
today, the highest since July 2011, and were at 2.89 percent as
of 2:19 p.m.  New York  time. The price of the benchmark 2.5
percent note due August 2023 was at 96 20/32.  Repos are part of the non-bank, or “shadow banking,”
sector. Banks use repos to help finance investments in
Treasuries, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities.
Money-market funds such as those used by individuals to park
cash and savings, are a major provider of repo financing.  “The repo markets are really the grease in many financial
market systems,” Josh Galper, the managing principal of
securities-finance consultant Finadium LLC in Concord,
 Massachusetts , said in an Aug. 14 telephone interview. “Any
increased friction in fixed-income markets, such as decreased
repo or increased taxation, and the outcome usually is much less
liquidity in government-bond markets, higher costs to borrow,
more volatility and less security.”  Fed Plan  In one example of a repo agreement, a money market fund may
lend cash to a dealer overnight, with government securities
serving as collateral for the loan.  Obtaining cash by lending securities in repos is a method
dealers use to boost leverage, amplifying returns, while money
funds and other lenders earn interest on the cash they provide.
The  average overnight repo rate  for Treasuries fell as low as
0.016 percent this year, from 0.29 percent on Dec. 31, according
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. GCF repo index.  The Fed plans to use the repo market to eventually drain
reserves and guide rates higher. The central bank has conducted
what’s called reverse repos with dealers and an expanded list of
counterparties, including hedge and money market funds, since
2009 to test its ability to one day tighten policy.  “There will be a problem when the Fed begins their exit
strategy, through using reserve draining in an attempt to put
pressure and torque under the fed funds rate, if the repo market
isn’t big and deep for them in Treasuries and mortgages,” Joe Abate, a money-market strategist in New York at Barclays Plc,
said in a telephone interview on Aug. 8.  Price Changes  Even though Fed data show primary dealers  trade  almost $600
billion of Treasuries each day on average, making the market the
deepest, most liquid in the world, prices suggest constraints on
bank balance sheets are having an impact on trading.  The difference between the prices at which dealers buy and
sell Treasury futures contracts is about 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face amount, or double what it was in the five years
before the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Recent regulatory changes will cause dealers to reduce
risk and to make markets less aggressively,” Bruce Tuckman,
senior fellow of financial markets research at the non-profit
Center for Financial Stability and a finance professor at New
York University’s Stern School of Business, said in an Aug. 14
telephone interview. “End users will lose some liquidity as
dealers adjust to higher risk capital mandates, lower leverage
limits, and increased margin requirements.”  Yield Discrepancies  The difference in yields between the newest Treasuries
auctioned by the government and older bonds show investors are
increasingly concerned about getting stuck with less liquid
bonds, forgoing some yield in the process.  While debt markets have  grown  since the financial crisis,
annual turnover in Treasuries as a multiple of total outstanding
debt has declined to about 12 times from about 20 in 2008,
according to the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee’s report
to the Treasury last month.  Regulations from the Volcker rule ban on proprietary
trading as part of the Dodd-Frank Act to risk-weighted asset
requirements under Basel III guidelines and new supplementary
leverage ratios have “reduced risk -- but also reduced
liquidity,” the TBAC wrote in its report to the Treasury
published on July 31.  “Leverage ratios will leave dealers less willing to
provide repo financing and to hold U.S. Treasuries,” according
to the TBAC, which is made up of bond dealers and investors
ranging from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York to  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which
manages $2 trillion, including the world’s largest bond fund.  Still ‘Deep’  TBAC members, including Chairman Dana Emery, who is the
chief executive officer of Dodge & Cox Inc., and Vice Chairman
Curtis Arledge of Bank of New York Mellon Corp., didn’t respond
to telephone requests or weren’t available for comment.  Concerns that the  bond market  is less efficient given
regulations and fewer repos are overblown, according to Vanguard
Group Inc., the biggest U.S. mutual-fund firm.  “From a liquidity perspective, the depth and breadth of
the market is just as deep as it has ever been,” David Glocke,
who manages $65 billion of Treasuries at Vanguard in  Valley
Forge ,  Pennsylvania , said in an Aug. 14 telephone interview.
“The people who are going to be impacted the most by the
regulations’ effects on the marketplace are doing their very
best to make regulators aware of their concerns.”  The Fed’s primary dealers had an average $2.6 trillion last
month in outstanding daily repurchase agreements, central bank
data shows. When that is combined with reverse  repurchase
agreements , where dealers take in collateral and lend cash, the
total outstanding reached $4.6 trillion.  Fed Purchases  The repo market is also shrinking as the Fed scoops up
Treasuries through its monthly  bond purchases . The central bank
owns about 17 percent of the market.  U.S. regulators proposed last month that bank holding
companies have capital equal to 5 percent of their assets, and
that their federally insured banking units hold capital equal to
6 percent of assets. The proposals go beyond those approved in
2010 by the 27-nation  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  to
prevent a replay of the 2008 financial crisis.  Global regulators also proposed an enhanced leverage ratio
to measure equity to total assets, rather than formulas that let
banks hold less capital for assets deemed less risky.  Barclays estimates that the repo market can shrink another
10 percent if the new regulations are implemented. Banks are
already reducing repo positions at the end of each quarter to
present more attractive balance sheets, with money funds seeing
their balances with dealers falling about 15 percent in the
final days of recent quarters, according to Barclays.  Europe’s Pain  In  Europe , heightened regulations are also affecting the
ability of financial institutions to facilitate bond trades. The
region’s biggest banks must cut 661 billion euros ($883 billion)
of assets and generate 47 billion euros of capital to comply
with new regulatory  capital requirements , according to an
analysis by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “Before the crisis, we were able to execute clips of 20
million euros worth of corporate or covered bonds in just one or
two minutes,” Stefan Kreuzkamp, the co-head of fixed income for
Europe at Frankfurt-based Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management
said in an Aug. 15 telephone interview. “These days, it could
take a couple of hours,” said Kreuzkamp, whose firm has about 1
trillion euros in assets.  At the same time, 11 European Union states have agreed to a
financial transaction tax, known as the FTT, that the European
Commission estimates may raise as much as 35 billion euros a
year. Stock and bond trades would be taxed at a rate of 0.1
percent and derivatives at 0.01 percent. The levy on bond
transactions would include overnight transactions.  ‘Too Far’  If the FTT is imposed in the current form, it will end the
repo market in Europe, said Richard Comotto, a senior visiting
fellow at the University of Reading’s International Capital
Market Association Center in southern  England  who has published
reports on the implications of new  bank regulations . The ICMA
estimates that to cover the tax, a repo market maker would have
to charge a spread on an overnight repurchase agreement of 72.05
percentage points.  “While a lot of regulation is worthwhile and long overdue,
it is coming too far and too much in a short space of time,”
Comotto said in an interview. “Most of them are not well
thought out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  