-- Rocca’s Techint Plans $1 Billion Mexico Power Plant Amid Reform
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-19T18:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/rocca-s-techint-plans-1-billion-mexico-power-plant-amid-reform.html
Techint Group, the steel and energy
conglomerate controlled by billionaire Paolo Rocca, plans to
invest $1 billion to build a natural gas-fired power plant in
 Mexico  as the country seeks to end a monopoly on electricity
sales.  Techint’s steel unit  Ternium SA (TX) , steel-pipes supplier
 Tenaris SA (TEN)  and energy company Tecpetrol International SA agreed
to jointly build the plant in northern Mexico’s Nuevo Leon
state, the companies said in a statement distributed by
Marketwired. The venture, which will generate between 850 and
900 megawatts to supply electricity to the group’s plants in the
country, will be owned 48 percent by Ternium, 30 percent by
Tecpetrol and 22 percent by Tenaris.  The project seeks to take advantage of Mexico’s efforts to
open up its energy sector, Rocca, who serves as chairman at
Ternium and Tenaris, said in the statement. Under current law,
energy generated by the plant would have to be sold exclusively
through state-owned utility CFE. Under President Enrique Pena
Nieto’s proposal, Techint’s plant will be able to sell its
electricity directly to buyers.  Tenaris is the biggest manufacturer of seamless steel tubes
for the oil industry and Ternium is Latin America’s largest
steel producer after Gerdau SA.  The plant’s construction “contributes to the long-term
competitive position” of Ternium’s industrial activities and
will strengthen Mexico’s electricity system, Rocca said.  Ternium rose 0.1 percent to $24.55 at 2:55 p.m. in  New
York , while Tenaris fell 1.4 percent to $46.69.  The power plant will be partially funded by debt and is
expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2016, the
companies said. Construction of the plant will not begin until
approved by Mexico’s energy and environmental regulatory
authorities, they added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  