-- Rodriguez Belts Home Run After Being Hit as Yankees Beat Red Sox
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-19T05:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/rodriguez-belts-home-run-after-being-hit-as-yankees-beat-red-sox.html
Alex Rodriguez  was hit by a pitch in
his first at-bat and later belted a home run as the  New York
Yankees  beat the  Red Sox  9-6 in the finale of a three-game
series at Fenway Park in Boston.  Rodriguez, who continues to play while appealing a 211-game
drug suspension from  Major League Baseball , barely avoided being
struck in the leg by the first pitch he faced last night from
Red Sox starter Ryan Dempster.  As the Fenway crowd chanted “You’re a cheater,” Rodriguez
was thrown two more inside pitches before getting hit in the
left side by a fastball. The home plate umpire issued warnings
to both teams while Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  ran out of the
dugout and was ejected after a heated argument. He later said
Dempster should have been thrown out of the game.  “Everyone knows it was intentional,” Girardi said. “And
then to give us a warning? That was wrong. I thought it was
handled very poorly.”  Rodriguez went to first base without incident, though some
players from both teams came onto the field, with the Yankees’
Brett Gardner among those who had to be restrained. It was the
17th time Rodriguez has been hit by a Red Sox pitcher since
joining the Yankees in 2004, five more times than any other
player in the majors, according to ESPN.  “It was a little bit odd, obviously a weird situation
there,” Rodriguez said in a televised interview. “But the game
has a way of policing itself. Our guys were fired up and every
single one of those guys came up to me and said, ‘Hit a bomb and
walk it off.’”  Home Run  Rodriguez, 38, struck a solo homer in the sixth inning off
Dempster over the centerfield fence, cutting the Yankees’
deficit to 6-4. Rodriguez pointed both fingers to the sky and
yelled as he stepped on home plate.  Brett Gardner  then added a three-run triple to put the
Yankees ahead for good.  The Yankees improved to 64-59 and are 7 1/2 games behind
the first-place Red Sox in the  American League East . Boston’s
lead over the second-place Tampa Bay Rays was cut to one game,
while the  Baltimore Orioles  are 4 1/2 games back.  Rodriguez’s lawyers contacted the MLB Players Association
within the past two weeks in a potential first step for filing a
grievance into claims the Yankees mishandled his medical
treatment, ESPN  reported  before the game.  Rodriguez returned to the Yankees’ lineup earlier this
month after missing 110 games while rehabilitating from
offseason hip surgery and then what was diagnosed by the
Yankees’ doctor as a mild quadriceps strain. The Yankees have
repeatedly disputed claims from Rodriguez’s lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  