-- Rudd’s Refugee-Policy Shift Fails to Woo Australian Voters
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-08-20T10:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/rudd-s-refugee-policy-shift-fails-to-win-australia-voter-backing.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s efforts to ease voter concern at a jump in asylum seekers
under the governing  Labor party  has failed to help overcome a
deficit with the opposition ahead of a Sept. 7 election.  Rudd’s administration today got a chance to highlight its
stepped-up attempts to cut the arrival of boats carrying would-be immigrants. Thirteen countries agreed at a meeting in Jakarta
to review visa policies to stem the smuggling of people from
countries including Iran, a practice that’s led to the deaths of
at least 800 people trying to enter  Australia  since October
2009.  While Rudd toughened Labor’s stance after retaking office
in June by pledging to send undocumented asylum seekers to camps
in developing nations such as  Papua New Guinea , voters prefer
opposition chief  Tony Abbott ’s plan to put a military commander
in charge of executing his “stop the boats” edict. A Newspoll
survey last week showed 52 percent of respondents view the issue
as “very important,” and 42 percent see the Liberal-National
coalition as best able to tackle it, against 27 percent for
Labor.  “It’s a major hurdle” for Rudd’s prospects, said Stephen
Stockwell, a political analyst and professor of journalism and
communications at Griffith University in Brisbane. “He has to
make gains in marginal, working-class seats to win and the
asylum-seeker surge has been his party’s biggest policy failure
in those regions.”  Asylum Summit  Australia’s navy today rescued another boatload of asylum
seekers, Immigration Minister Tony Burke told reporters in
Jakarta. The vessel capsized north of the Australian territory
of  Christmas Island , with 106 people pulled from the sea, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported, citing the Australian
Maritime Safety Authority. The AMSA didn’t respond to calls to
its media phone number.  Officials at the Jakarta meeting agreed to hold exercises
to improve search and rescue operations, Indonesian Foreign
Minister Marty Natalegawa told reporters today.  Afghanistan ,
Papua New Guinea and  New Zealand  were among the countries
represented at the meeting called by Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono after a state visit by Rudd in July.  The countries agreed to review visa policies periodically
or when there is evidence of abuse, Natalegawa said.  Indonesia 
revoked a visa-on-arrival policy for Iran last month after a
request from Rudd, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported
July 19.  Labor Heartlands  Labor is battling to retain its working-class heartlands in
Sydney,  Melbourne  and Brisbane, in an election in which it
already starts off with a minority of seats. After winning in
2007 under Rudd, 55, it formed a government with the support of
independent and Greens party lawmakers in 2010 under  Julia Gillard , who ousted Rudd and then was replaced by him in June.  The Newspoll on the asylum-seeker issue was conducted Aug.
9-11 by surveying 1,134 voters and had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  A subsequent Newspoll conducted Aug. 16-18 and published in
The Australian yesterday showed Abbott’s coalition had doubled
its lead in the two-party preferred measure over Labor to an
eight-point margin. The poll surveyed 1,692 voters and had a
margin of error of 2.4 percentage points.  Popular Discontent  Labor voter Youhorn Chea, a current representative of the
Greater Dandenong City Council in the state of Victoria,
embodies popular discontent even among immigrant communities
with asylum seekers who don’t file paperwork for admission to
the country before attempting to enter it.  “We all need to respect Australian law,” said Chea, 67,
who fled his native Cambodia three decades ago with his wife and
four children as the Khmer Rouge regime oversaw the deaths of
millions. While Chea, a resident of Melbourne suburb Springvale,
wants the government to increase its humanitarian intake,
applicants must go “through the right channels and not cheat
the system,” he said.  The arrivals, who can pay their life savings to people-smugglers in Indonesia to ferry them in unsafe vessels, are
derided on some radio shows as “queue-jumpers” who soak up
welfare payments or are linked to terrorism.  Penal Colony  The rhetoric risks tarnishing Australia’s image as a nation
with a history of accepting immigrants. The former penal colony
established by Britain in the late 1700s ranks as the  third-biggest resettler  of refugees, after the U.S. and  Canada .  “Australia’s political debate about refugees and asylum
seekers is negative, divisive and destructive,” said Paul
Power, chief executive of the Refugee Council of Australia,
which supports immigrants fleeing homelands abroad.  Voter angst over the issue rose as the number of boats
increased -- to 260 vessels bearing 18,187 people making the
attempted entry so far this year, compared with three boats
carrying  69 refugees  between 2002 and 2004, according to figures
from the Department of Immigration.  The influx remains a fraction of the 15.4 million people
globally classified as refugees last year. Australia received
29,610 asylum applications and recognized 8,367 people as
refugees in 2012, according to the Refugee Council.  ‘Economic Migrants’  Foreign Minister Bob Carr says many asylum seekers are
“economic migrants” from nations such as  Iran . The government
put a A$200,000 ($183,000) bounty on people smugglers, targeting
gangs stretching from Australia to nations such as Indonesia,
Malaysia, Pakistan and Iran. Along with Papua New Guinea, the
Pacific island state of Nauru has been designated to house
asylum seekers.  Abbott, 55, has called Rudd’s changes a “pre-election
fix.” He’s vowed to tow boats back to Indonesian waters, a move
Rudd says could risk military conflict. The opposition leader
plans to appoint a three-star military commander to oversee
“Operation Sovereign Borders,” streamlining decisions into a
single structure as opposed to the current system, which
involves 12 separate government agencies.  Abbott on Aug. 16 announced that 32,000 asylum seekers who
had arrived in Australia by boat would never get permanent
settlement. If elected, he also said he’d strip them of the
right to appeal to the courts.  “For this to become one of the paramount election issues
is mystifying to people abroad,” said Deborah Zion, a senior
lecturer on ethics and human rights at Melbourne’s  Monash
University . “Countries much poorer than us just get on with the
job of dealing with asylum seekers in a humane way, not by
trying to score political points from it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  