-- Russian Consumer Demand Strengthens in Sign of Resilience
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-08-19T15:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/russian-july-consumer-demand-strengthened-in-sign-of-resilience.html
Russian  consumer spending 
accelerated in July as unemployment unexpectedly fell and
inflation eased to the slowest pace in eight months, boosting
household purchasing power.  Retail sales accelerated for a second month, growing 4.3
percent from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent increase in
June, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said today in an
e-mailed statement. The median  estimate  of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 3.7 percent gain. Unemployment fell
to 5.3 percent from 5.4 percent, surprising analysts who
projected an increase to 5.5 percent.  The slowest inflation since November has bolstered
household finances, improving confidence and consumer spending,
which accounts for about half of the $1.9 trillion economy. The
gains in consumption are offsetting weaker global demand for
commodities as the world’s biggest energy exporter is struggling
to emerge from the steepest economic slowdown since 2009.  “The retail sales acceleration we expected is the result
of slower inflation,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for
 Russia  at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by e-mail before the data
release.  Consumer-price growth decelerated in July to 6.5 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 6.9 percent in June and this
year’s high of 7.4 percent in May. Inflation is seen as a bigger
concern to most Russians than corruption and unemployment, a
poll by Sberbank Investment Research showed last week.  Magnit, X5  The central bank held its main lending rates unchanged for
an 11th month on Aug. 9 as policy makers try to hold price
growth to this year’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent.  The improved outlook is extending to retailers including
OAO Magnit and  X5 Retail Group (FIVE) , the country’s largest grocery
chains. Consumer-oriented companies have outperformed Russia’s
broader stock index, with Magnit advancing 66 percent this year
and smaller rival  Dixy Group (DIXY)  climbing 14 percent. The Micex
Index of 50 stocks is down 6.3 percent in 2013.  Real disposable incomes advanced 4.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, exceeding the median estimate of eight economists
for a 3.6 percent gain. Fixed-capital investment unexpectedly
rose 2.5 percent after shrinking 3.7 percent in June. Analysts
polled by Bloomberg forecast a 1.4 percent decrease last month.  The economy unexpectedly slowed in the second quarter, with
gross domestic product gaining 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
the weakest expansion since growth resumed after a 2009
contraction.  “Good macroeconomic data for July should downplay
recession worries,”  Alexander Morozov , Moscow-based chief
economist for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report. The
figures leave room for policy makers to ease monetary policy
next month, he said.  GDP will grow “significantly better” in the second half,
Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters Aug. 12, adding
that he saw no reason to revise the 2.4 percent official
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  