-- Salzburg Survivor Rabl-Stadler Outserves Six Directors
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-08-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/salzburg-survivor-rabl-stadler-outserves-six-directors.html
Helga Rabl-Stadler, the president of
the Salzburg Festival, has survived five artistic directors in
19 years on the job.  She’s resigned herself to working with two more.  “Then I am finally off,” she said in an interview in her
Salzburg office. “My contract ends in 2014 and I wanted to
leave in 2014, but I think it would be irresponsible to go when
the artistic director is also leaving.”  Alexander Pereira, who squabbled with the supervisory board
over the budget, will leave in 2014, two years before his
contract ends, for  La Scala  in Milan. Rabl-Stadler and Sven-Eric
Bechtolf, Salzburg’s director of theater, will lead the festival
in the interim until a new artistic director starts in 2017.  At the supervisory board’s request, Rabl-Stadler has
reapplied for her post and agreed to stay through 2017.
Describing herself as “an island in the storm,” she said she
is expending much energy reassuring sponsors, the public and
artists that the  Salzburg Festival  will overcome its current
difficulties. Adding to the uncertainty, the Vienna Philharmonic
has publicly questioned renewing its contract in 2016.  In an interview with the Salzburger Nachrichten on Aug. 15,
Dieter Flury, one of the orchestra’s leaders, said other musical
centers are making tempting offers for the summer and that
nowhere is it set in stone that the orchestra has to renew its
contract with the Salzburg Festival after 2016.  Lose-Lose  Rabl-Stadler said parting ways would be a “lose-lose
situation” for the Vienna Philharmonic and the festival.  “The orchestra would lose an international platform that
doesn’t exist elsewhere, and we would lose our artistic heart,”
she said. “Without the Vienna Philharmonic, there would be a
festival in Salzburg but it wouldn’t be the Salzburg Festival. I
don’t want to speculate about it.”  The supervisory board of the Salzburg Festival meets on
Sept. 25 to discuss applications for Pereira’s post. Rabl-Stadler, in a neat black trouser suit, big loopy black-and-brown
earrings and multi-colored strappy sandals, paused for thought
when asked whether it’s time for a female artistic director.  “It’s interesting,” she said. “There seem to be very few
eligible candidates for the post at all. It’s always the same
old names that come up time and again. I am surprised and I
think there should at least be one new name in discussion.”  Among the names that re-emerge are Gerard Mortier, now of
the Teatro Real in  Madrid ; Nikolaus Bachler at the Bavarian
State Opera; Bernd Loebe at the Frankfurt Opera; and Michael
Haefliger of the Lucerne Festival, Rabl-Stadler said.  “It is a difficult job that is often underestimated,” she
said. “People think it is a job where you have to be here for
six weeks a year in the summer, and the rest of the year you
just organize. In fact it’s a crazy amount of work.”  Smaller Budget  Rabl-Stadler said she and Bechtolf will try to stick with
many of Pereira’s plans.  “It should not be a disruption,” she said. “In 2015 and
2016 Pereira wanted to feature in concerts all the music that
the Vienna Philharmonic has premiered -- that is a super idea.
We will try to implement this as far as possible.”  The budget next year will be smaller than this year’s 64
million euros ($85.6 million), Rabl-Stadler said. The festival
may run a deficit this year, she said. Yet for the first time,
income from ticket sales and private sources outstripped
subsidies in 2013 because of increased sponsorship, she said.  Festival subsidies have remained unchanged since 1998 while
costs have escalated, Rabl-Stadler said.  “It cannot go on like this,” she said. “We need more
money from public funds. We are the artistic and economic motor
of a region. It will be difficult, and it won’t be as much as we
want, but I am optimistic there will be something.”  Joan of Arc  Rabl-Stadler, 65, has run her family’s department store,
worked as a columnist for the Vienna daily Kurier, served as a
member of parliament and presided over the Salzburg Chamber of
Commerce, her  biography  shows. At a recent award ceremony, she
was described as being as fearless and strong as Joan of Arc. Is
that what it takes to survive in her current job?  “What is very un-Austrian about me is that I see no danger
in change, but the chance to make improvements,” she said.
“The Austrian prefers to keep hold of what he has, because if
anything changes, it could get worse. I always see a chance in a
new artistic director.”  Will she go back into politics once her term at the
festival is over?  “No way,” she said, with feeling. “This position is
political enough for me. There is only one party for me and that
is the Festival Party.”  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on food,  Catherine
Hickley  on European art,  James Russell  on architecture and
 Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Salzburg,  Austria , at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 