-- Samsung, Sony Said to Plan Device Debuts Ahead of IPhone
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e ,   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-08-19T20:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/samsung-sony-readying-new-devices-ahead-of-apple-s-next-iphone.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758)  are said to be unveiling new devices next month as two of
Asia’s biggest technology companies try to showcase their
products before  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  releases new iPhones and iPads.  Samsung’s Galaxy Gear, a wristwatch-like device with
features of a smartphone, and Note 3 will be introduced Sept. 4,
according to people familiar with the matter. Sony’s latest
Xperia handset, featuring imaging sensors used in its TVs and
cameras, will be unveiled the same day, two other people said.  Samsung and Sony are introducing their devices for the
holiday shopping season as they try to steal a march on Apple,
which has promised “several more game changers” in the product
pipeline. Apple, which hasn’t released a new handset this year,
plans to introduce new versions of its iPhone and iPad at a
Sept. 10 event, according to a person familiar with the matter.  “It is meaningful for Samsung to launch the product first
ahead of Apple,” said James Song, a Seoul-based analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co. “Putting new devices out there ahead of
Apple will at least have some positive leapfrogging impact on
both companies.”  The Samsung and Sony announcements are both scheduled two
days before the start of the IFA  consumer electronics show  in
Berlin. Samsung  fell  0.7 percent to 1,286,000 won in Seoul
trading, extending this year’s decline to 16 percent. Sony
gained 0.6 percent to 1,975 yen in  Tokyo  and has doubled this
year.  Apple’s Playbook  Apple, the world’s most-valuable technology company, set
the standard for product announcements under founder Steve Jobs,
and that has continued under Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook .
The company’s releases of devices including the iPod, iPhone and
iPad gained global media attention. Apple gained 1.1 percent to
$507.74 at the close in New York, leaving the shares down 4.6
percent this year.  When Samsung introduced its flagship Galaxy S4 handset in
March, the company took a page from Apple’s book with a glitzy
launch at Radio City Music Hall in New York that was also
streamed live to video screens in Times Square. The South Korean
company also plans at least two other high-end handsets this
year, including a device using the Tizen operating system.  Samsung, which overtook Apple as the world’s largest
smartphone maker last year, next month will introduce a
wristwatch-like device that can make phone calls, surf the Web
and handle e-mails, according to people familiar with the matter
who asked not to identified before a formal announcement.  Wearable Devices  The device will be powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system and go on sale this year to beat a potentially
competing product from Apple, the people said. The Galaxy Gear
being released next month won’t have a flexible display, though
the company is continuing to work on developing a bendable
screen, one person said.  Samsung, Asia’s biggest technology company, is racing Sony
and other competitors to create a new industry of wearable
devices as the market for top-end handsets nears saturation. The
global watch industry will generate more than $60 billion in
sales this year.  “If Samsung’s new watch is stylish with a lot of cool and
‘wow’ factors, and also is well-tethered with smartphones, it
could create new demand,” said Lee Do Hoon, an analyst at  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB)  in Seoul. “If the watch sells well, the
upside potential for its earnings will be quite big.”  Apple had a team of about 100 people working on a watch-like device, two people familiar with the matter said in
February. The Cupertino, California-based company is seeking a
trademark for “iWatch” in  Japan .  Hirai’s Plan  Sony’s new flagship Xperia smartphone, developed under the
codename Honami, will feature imaging technology developed for
its cameras and ultra-high definition TVs, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Xperia handsets are part of CEO Kazuo Hirai’s plan to
revive Sony with smartphones, TVs and game consoles that connect
with the company’s entertainment content. To lure customers from
Apple and Samsung, the Tokyo-based company is using “X-Reality” picture-enhancement chips developed for TVs and
sensors for Cyber-shot cameras, the people said.  Yu Tominaga, a Tokyo-based spokesman, declined to comment
on whether a new Xperia model will be introduced before the IFA
show.  Billionaire Daniel Loeb, whose Third Point LLC controls
funds that own about 6.9 percent of Sony, cited Honami and other
products as ways for Sony to gain market share, according to a
July 29 letter to investors.  Sony this month rejected Loeb’s push for a partial sale of
its entertainment assets, with Hirai citing growing Xperia sales
for the company’s decision. The company expects to sell 42
million smartphones this year, it said.  IFA runs  Sept. 6-11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  