-- Schaeuble Says Merkel Delivered on Economy as Third Term Teeters
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-08-19T22:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/schaeuble-says-merkel-delivered-on-economy-as-third-term-teeters.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said his government has delivered on the economy as he
cited a balanced budget and record-low joblessness among the
reasons for voters to give the coalition four more years.  Schaeuble, addressing his first election campaign rally
since returning from vacation, sprinkled a message of hope and
economic achievement with warnings that voters can’t take a
rerun of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government for granted. The
coalition only has a 50-50 chance of being re-elected on Sept.
22, he told a crowd of about 300 people in the western town of
Guetersloh yesterday.  “Over these past four years, the situation for people has
improved,” Schaeuble said. All the same, “it’s going to be
close,” he said. “It’s going to come down to every vote.”  Schaeuble pitched into the campaign that will determine who
runs  Europe ’s biggest economy as Merkel maintains a poll lead
over her Social Democratic challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , who
served as finance minister in her first term. Merkel will
campaign in Bavaria today, while Steinbrueck is due to appear At
a rally with former SPD Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder .  Schaeuble, who served as Merkel’s finance minister all
through the debt crisis that emerged in  Greece  in 2009 at the
start of her second term, stressed the uncertainty that would
come with a change of government in  Germany  just as officials
are “on the right path” to resolving the euro area’s woes.  Euro ‘Stable’  Addressing the first of more than 30 campaign rallies he
plans to hold in the run-up to the ballot, he cited the lower
yields on Italian and Spanish bonds as evidence that financial
markets “believe the euro will remain stable.”  “I’m not saying that the problems are resolved,” he said.
“Only that we have to stay on this path,” ensuring that Europe
becomes more competitive. “We don’t want a German Europe, but
rather a strong Europe.”  Support for Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and its
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , dropped one
percentage point to 40 percent in a weekly Emnid poll for Bild
am Sonntag on Aug. 18. Her Free Democratic coalition partner
gained a point to 6 percent, a result that would probably allow
a repeat of the government if replicated on Election Day.  Steinbrueck’s SPD lost a point to 24 percent and its Green
party ally was also down a point at 12 percent. The Left Party
was unchanged at 8 percent. Emnid polled 1,883 voters on Aug. 8-14. No margin of error was given.  ‘Valued Predecessor’  Schaeuble, who is due to hold four rallies today alone,
urged Germans “to remember to see the wood beyond the trees,”
saying the Merkel administration has kept its word on reducing
 unemployment  and bringing down long-term joblessness in
particular. “Rather than unemployment, our biggest problem is
finding qualified workers,” he said.  He contrasted the government’s action on financial-market
regulation with the election pledges of Steinbrueck, saying that
“my valued predecessor -- a not-so valued candidate for
chancellor -- promises things that are not so easy to implement
in reality.”  Schaeuble, who will turn 71 on Sept. 18, four days before
the election, said that he counts himself “among the young,
hopeful CDU politicians.” He cited the recent increase in
private consumption as evidence “the people have trust” and
that “people say the end of the world is a way off ye.”  Neither has the euro collapsed, he told the audience.
“Catastrophes will always be forecast,” he said. “But that’s
not always quite true.”  Back at the start of Merkel’s second term, the opposition
asked her where she wanted to be at the end of the legislative
period, Schaeuble said. “The chancellor said if we’re where we
were before the crisis, then that would be good,” he said.
“And if we’re stronger, then that’d be really good. Ladies and
gentlemen, we have reached our goal. We have kept our word.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Guetersloh via 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  