-- Secret Evidence Kept From Defendants Debate in 9/11 Case
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-19T19:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/secret-evidence-kept-from-defendants-debate-in-9-11-case.html
 Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
other men accused of plotting the 2001 terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon returned to a military
courtroom in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, today for pre-trial hearings
that immediately became mired in a debate over how to handle
secret evidence.  As a week of hearings began, defense lawyers said they
weren’t willing to sign a memorandum of understanding on the
handling of classified material because they said a judge’s
order would prohibit them from sharing relevant evidence with
their clients.  “It’s not fair to execute a man when you have not given
him everything in the government’s possession that bears” on
his case, said David Nevin, who represents Mohammed, the alleged
mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks.  The military judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, criticized
lawyers for objecting now to signing the memorandum of
understanding for a protective order that he approved in
January.  “Simply to ignore it is not acceptable,” Pohl said.  Only the lawyers for defendant Ali Abdul Aziz Ali,
Mohammed’s nephew, signed the memorandum of understanding.
Attorney James Connell said he did so with the assumption that
provisions of the protective order could be challenged and
amended.  Mohammed and the four others are accused of plotting the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes
to kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in
 Manhattan  and the Pentagon in  Virginia , as well as aboard a
plane that crashed in a field in rural  Pennsylvania .  Terrorism Charges  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the four planes, as
well as terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy, murder in
violation of the laws of war and attacking civilians. A trial is
at least a year away.  Reporters not attending the court session in Cuba watched a
closed-circuit video feed of the hearing at Fort Meade in
Maryland, near  Washington .  The procedural wrangle over the handling of classified
information was only the latest delay in the biggest U.S.
terrorism case, which has proceeded slowly since Mohammed and
his alleged co-conspirators were arraigned in May 2012 for the
second time. Initial charges were withdrawn after President
 Barack Obama  sought to move the case to federal court in  New
York . The case was returned to the military system in 2011 after
a political outcry against a New York trial.  In the current case, entire weeks of pre-trial hearings
have been lost because of weather or technical issues, while
other logistical concerns and related legal matters have slowed
days of testimony.  Camouflage Jacket  Mohammed appeared today in his camouflage jacket and red-dyed beard. All five defendants sat quietly and answered
occasional questions from the judge with a simple “yes.”  Two defendants were ill, their lawyers said. Mustafa al
Hawsawi, who wore a neck brace, was granted permission to skip
the afternoon session so he could return to his prison cell and
take medication. Defendant Walid bin Attash asked the judge
through his lawyer at least twice for a recess. The lawyer,
Cheryl Bormann, said her client suffers from a gastrointestinal
disease and has an unidentified mass beneath his sternum.  The hearings this week may focus on how much information
the government must disclose about the defendants’ years of
captivity in secret prisons.  Defense lawyers are asking Pohl to require the government
to produce any documents and information concerning the
buildings where the defendants or potential witnesses have been
held.  Secret Prisons  “The treatment of the defendants at the hands of the
United States government is a key issue in the pretrial, trial
and potential sentencing phases of this case,” the lawyers
wrote in a motion that may be considered this week. The
defendants say they were tortured at secret prisons run by the
Central Intelligence Agency in a number of countries that have
since been closed.  Prosecutors oppose the motion as overly broad. While the
government will produce information about the conditions of
confinement of the accused, “certainly not all materials are
relevant,” prosecutors said in a written response.  The CIA has acknowledged that Mohammed, who was captured in
a 2003 raid in  Pakistan , was one of three al-Qaeda operatives
who were subjected to waterboarding, which simulates the
sensation of drowning.  Mohammed was waterboarded 183 times before being
transferred to Guantanamo Bay in 2006.  ‘Black-Site Evidence’  The defense is also asking Pohl to preserve evidence from
the secret prisons, known as black sites, where some of the
defendants were allegedly tortured.  “Failure to preserve black-site evidence risks the
government’s entire case against the accused,” the defense
lawyers wrote in a joint motion.  Prosecutors said in a reply that the request to preserve
such evidence is “moot” and unnecessary because they agreed in
earlier proceedings to preserve any facilities that existed as
of April 2009 and would provide notice to the defense of any
change in that plan.  They also said they don’t intend to introduce any
statements by the accused that were obtained while the
defendants were under the CIA’s detention and interrogation
program.  Hunger Strike  Today’s session marks the first appearance in court of the
five men since June, when testimony focused on whether the
defendants had a right to attend pretrial hearings when
classified information is disclosed. Pohl ruled in July that
they will be excluded, and defense lawyers say that means the
accused won’t be able to hear testimony about their treatment in
custody.  The prison camp at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station holds
166 inmates, known as detainees. There were 48 prisoners on a
hunger strike as of Aug. 15, with 35 being force-fed, according
to Army Major Gordon Campbell, a prison spokesman, by e-mail.  Mohammed and the four others are considered “high-value
detainees” who are held at a secret site on the naval base that
is separate from most other prisoners.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Fort Meade,  Maryland , at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  