-- Serbia’s Government Testing Waters for Possible Telekom Sale
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-19T14:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/serbia-s-government-testing-waters-for-possible-telekom-sale.html
Serbia is testing investor interest
for its dominant telecommunications provider  Telekom Srbija  AD
before potentially offering it up for sale.  The government has made no decision to call a tender to
sell the company, Serbian government spokesman Milivoje
Mihajlovic said by phone today, after the Ministry of Trade and
Telecommunications said  Turkey ’s Dogus Group and Sabanci Group
are interested.  As part of its plans to trim the budget gap and help the
Balkan state recover from two recessions in three years, Prime
Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s government plans to sell or close 179
state-owned enterprises for savings of 750 million euros ($1
billion) a year. A potential Telekom sale -- the cabinet has
said it would accept no less than 2.5 billion euros for the
entire company -- would be in addition to that.  “There are talks on possible strategic partnership deals,
but it’s all about feeling the pulse of investors,” Mihajlovic
said by phone today. “The government has not yet adopted any
decision to sell Telekom Srbija.”  In April, Belgrade newspaper Blic wrote that Moscow-based
 AFK Sistema (AFKS)  JSFC is also interested, as is Abu Dhabi-based
Emirates Telecommunications Corp., or Etisalat.  Serbia consolidated ownership of Telekom Srbija in 2012,
buying back a 20 percent stake from  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA. (HTO)  An attempt to sell a majority stake in the
state phone company in 2011 failed, when  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) 
offered 1.1 billion euros, less than the minimum price of 1.4
billion euros set by the government.  The previous cabinet set the market value of Telekom Srbija
at 2.27 billion euros, promised to give away 22 percent of the
equity to company workers and Serbian nationals and list Telekom
on the Belgrade stock exchange. Since that cabinet’s collapse
last year, the plan has failed to materialize. Telekom’s 2012
net income almost halved to 11.25 billion dinars ($131.7
million) from 22.27 billion dinars in 2011, as assets shrank and
long-term liabilities and spending expanded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  