-- Shale Protesters Invade Cuadrilla Offices as U.K. Action Spreads
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-08-19T15:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/shale-protesters-invade-cuadrilla-offices-as-u-k-action-spreads.html
Anti-shale protesters chained
themselves to filing cabinets at the head office of U.K.
explorer Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. as they widened their campaign
against drilling.  Demonstrators broke into Cuadrilla’s head office at
Lichfield in central  England , the company said in a statement,
while another group reportedly superglued themselves to the
office block housing the company’s public relations advisers.
Arrests were made at Balcombe, the village in Southern England
where Cuadrilla has an exploratory well.  “Shale gas is essential to improve our  energy security ,
heat our homes, and create jobs and growth,” Cuadrilla said.
“What we are doing is legal, approved, and safe.”  Protests forced Cuadrilla to suspend drilling work at
Balcombe last week on the advice of police. Campaigners are
concerned that exploring for shale will cause noise pollution,
water contamination and increased road traffic.  “This is seen as the frontline fight for the environmental
movement,” Andrew Tobert, a protester, said by phone from
 London . “Acting now will have more of an impact than say
protesting when fracking comes to your area in six months
time.”  “There’s definitely an escalation” in the protests, said
the 29-year old who was arrested more than a week ago for
blocking access to Cuadrilla’s site in Balcombe.  A camp organized by the group No Dash for Gas began Aug. 16
and will last until Aug. 21.  “Police are managing and monitoring” the protests,
Christian Cubitt, a spokesman for Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
told reporters in London. “People have a right to protest but
that must be within the law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  