-- Soybean Mogul’s Bets Swell China’s Imports: Commodities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-20T15:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/soybean-mogul-s-bets-swell-china-s-imports-commodities.html
When Shao Guorui makes money trading
soybeans in China, he buys rosewood from tropical forests and
carving stones from Fujian province that were once used to make
imperial seals.  “These things hold their value,” said Shao, sitting in
his Beijing office stroking a pile of scented yellow wooden
beads from Hainan Island in the country’s south. In front of the
45-year-old chairman of Shandong Sunrise Grain and Oil Trading
Ltd., two laptop computers on a six-meter Brazilian red rosewood
table flicker with prices from the Chicago Board of Trade.
“That kind of money comes and goes,” he said.  Shao, who accounted for 10 percent of soybean shipments to
China in 2012, more than global traders  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL)  and Cargill Inc., may double transactions next year. He’s
increased volume 10-fold since entering the business in 2006,
making him the biggest  importer  in the No. 1 consuming nation at
a time the U.S. Department of Agriculture projects China’s
purchases will surge to an all-time high.  Prices in Chicago, which fell 23 percent the past year on
expectations that bigger U.S. harvests would bolster global
inventories, are set to rise 2.5 percent from current levels to
$13.30 a bushel this quarter, according to the median forecast
of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. They’ve advanced 5.9
percent since Aug. 12, when the USDA trimmed its domestic crop
estimate.  Shipment Forecasts  Shao imported more than 6 million metric tons of  soybeans 
in 2012 and projects 8 million tons this year, he said, dressed
in white sports shirts, casual trousers and wearing a watch by
A. Lange & Sohne during visits to his office by Bloomberg News.
Independent agriculture researchers at Shanghai JC Intelligence
Co. and China Cereals and Oils Business Net, who said they
couldn’t track every deal, had tallies showing shipments
exceeding 5 million tons.  His purchases help farmers in the U.S. and  Brazil , the
biggest growers, and are a mixed blessing for China’s soybean
crushers. Processors benefit from him bearing the risk on
cargoes that are priced at the point of origin months before
arriving at Chinese ports, and struggle with narrowing  margins 
when his imports swell supply.  “Some blame Shao for dumping imports and contributing to
the industry’s losses last year,” said Li Qiang, the chairman
of Shanghai JC, who has analyzed agriculture in China for more
than 30 years. “Others see opportunities working with him and
his clout is destined to increase as long as banks back him and
he keeps providing crushers with immediate access to beans.”  Right Vibe  A native of Rizhao in eastern Shandong province, Shao quit
junior high school to sell livestock feed before buying out a
bankrupt soybean crusher with help from his brother.  Now he lives in a high-rise apartment in Beijing’s central
business district and commutes to a three-room office at a
suburban shopping mall that specializes in arts and crafts.  “If you put me in a large company, I wouldn’t survive a
day,” he says in Mandarin with the thick tones of Shandong. “I
like it here, the vibe is good, and you’ve got to create the
right psychology to trade well.”  Shao, who declined to disclose his wealth, says he’s ahead
as much as $82 million on a series of cargoes for October
delivery that took advantage of restricted supply from South
America before U.S. crops made it to market. Bloomberg News
couldn’t independently verify the details of these trades.  Futures Spreads  Many transactions have gone wrong, including earlier this
year when he paid about $8 million to customers after failing to
deliver shipments on time because of congestion at Brazilian
ports. Spreads between July and November contracts in  Chicago 
started moving against him at the time, forcing Shao to
renegotiate with suppliers to limit losses.  His brother Shao Zhongyi, the chairman of closely held
Shandong Chenxi Group Co., was ranked by Forbes as the 357th
richest person in China last year with wealth of 3.2 billion
yuan ($520 million). Shandong Sunrise is part of the group,
which has businesses ranging from petrochemicals to financial
services, according to its website.  The brothers are part of a generation of entrepreneurs that
is being forced to adjust some of its business strategies as the
government addresses imbalances created by decades of surging
growth.  Premier Li Keqiang and President Xi Jinping are seeking to
reel in overcapacity in industries ranging from steel to cement
and are cracking down on commodities trades that double as
financing deals to remove excessive lending.  Crush Margins  As much as 51 percent of  China ’s 120 million tons of annual
soybean crushing capacity is idle because of too much expansion
in the industry, Singapore-based Wilmar said in its annual
report.  Pretax profit at the oilseeds and grains division of the
company, which is the largest crusher in China, dropped 97
percent in 2012 amid overcapacity and “dumping of soybean
products by speculative players,” according to the report.  Officials at Wilmar declined to respond to e-mailed
questions about trading by Shao and the impact of his shipments
on supply.  Shao said buying cargoes to use as collateral to get credit
for other investments helped drive growth when he started
importing soybeans seven years ago. It’s shrunk to be “just one
aspect” of the business, he said, without being more specific.  China’s benchmark seven-day repurchase rate, which measures
interbank funding availability, reached a record 12.45 percent
on June 20 as the government sought to squeeze excess  liquidity 
out of the financial system. It was at 4.51 percent today after
the People’s Bank of China injected some money back into the
economy.  USDA Estimates  The USDA, which projects Chinese imports to reach a record
69 million tons in 2014, forecasts that 67.7 million tons of
soybeans will be crushed.  Processing soybeans into meal and oil was unprofitable for
six of the past 12 months in China, according to data from
Shanghai JC. Margins averaged a negative 169  yuan  and swung
between losses of 783 yuan and gains of 404 yuan, the data show.  Mixing commodities trading with financing transactions
makes it difficult to predict the volume and timing of Shao’s
imports by looking at supply and demand, and means he can
sometimes profit when the crushing industry doesn’t, said Li at
Shanghai JC.  “Opportunities come up a couple of times a year and I
seize them.” said Shao. “I’ve done it so long now that I do it
by instinct.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  