-- Spy Limits Gain Momentum as NSA Violations Spur Congress
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-08-19T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/spy-limits-gain-momentum-as-nsa-violations-spur-congress.html
Disclosure that the U.S. National
Security Agency broke privacy rules thousands of times in a year
is adding momentum to efforts in Congress to curb the top-secret
surveillance programs made public by Edward Snowden.  “People are feeling the heat, and I think there will be
meaningful change,” Bruce Schneier, a fellow at the Berkman
Center for Internet & Society at  Harvard University , said in an
interview after the latest disclosure. Schneier, a critic of the
NSA, said it’s become a “rogue agency” that’s ripe for
legislative restrictions.  An internal audit by the NSA found 2,776 cases of
violations in the preceding year in collecting voice and data
communications of both Americans and foreigners. The violations
were reported last week by the Washington Post, which cited the
May 2012 audit and other documents provided to it earlier this
year by Snowden, the former NSA contractor who faces U.S.
espionage charges and was granted temporary asylum in  Russia .  Even before the latest leak, Congress was preparing for its
most extensive review of surveillance programs since the
aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Lawmakers
have filed at least 10 bills on the issue, including measures to
increase the openness of the NSA’s data-collection programs,
change the makeup of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
that oversees them and expand congressional oversight of the
intelligence operations.  Last month, the Republican-controlled House rejected by
seven votes a measure by Republican Representative Justin Amash
of  Michigan  that would have denied the NSA funding to collect
telephone records on millions of Americans.  “This is not falling on normal party lines,” Schneier
said.  Demanding Answers  Responding to last week’s disclosure, Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who heads the Senate Judiciary
Committee, said in a statement that the panel will hold a
hearing “to demand honest and forthright answers from the
intelligence community” that he said it has failed to provide.  “I’m all for surveillance of spies,” Senator  Rand Paul  of
 Kentucky , a potential 2016 Republican presidential contender,
said yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “I’m just
not for this gross bulk gathering of data on all Americans.”  John DeLong, a spokesman for the NSA, told reporters on
Aug. 16 that the agency’s rule violations were unintentional and
amounted to “parts per million” in light of all the data
collected. “We have a zero-tolerance policy for intentional
mistakes,” he said.  More Trips  The need for closer oversight already had been acknowledged
by the NSA’s strongest defenders in Congress, such as Senator
 Dianne Feinstein , who say the surveillance programs are needed
to combat terrorism.  Feinstein, a California Democrat who heads the Senate
intelligence committee, said in a statement on Aug. 16 that
“the committee can and should do more to independently verify
that the NSA’s operations are appropriate,” including more
hearings and more “routine trips” to the agency by the
committee and its staff.  President  Barack Obama  urged lawmakers on Aug. 9 to make
changes to a section of the Patriot Act authorizing the
collection of telephone records to increase the oversight and
transparency of government surveillance. Obama also proposed
creating a civil-liberties advocate to act as an adversary at
the surveillance court, which one of the filed bills would
authorize.  “It’s not enough for me, as president, to have confidence
in these programs,” Obama said at a White House press
conference. “The American people need to have confidence in
them as well.”  The Bills  Of the 10 pending bills that specifically mention the NSA
or the oversight court and are designed to restrict or overhaul
them, only one was introduced before the disclosure in June of
surveillance and bulk data-collection programs leaked by
Snowden, according to legislative records compiled by Bloomberg
Government.  More measures may be introduced after lawmakers return next
month from a five-week break.  The workings of the secret court may gain greater attention
after its chief judge said that it isn’t able to verify
independently what it’s told by the government when it seeks
approval for surveillance initiatives.  The surveillance court “is forced to rely upon the
accuracy of the information that is provided to the court,”
U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton said in a written statement
reported last week by the Washington Post.  Special Advocate  Changes need to be made in the court “so it can better
uncover and scrutinize and oversee potential abuses,”
Democratic Senator  Richard Blumenthal  of  Connecticut  said
yesterday on the Fox News program.  “I would establish a special advocate who would be
responsible, in effect, for representing the Constitution,”
said Blumenthal, who has introduced a bill, S. 1467, to do so.  A second bill by Blumenthal, S. 1460, would change how the
judges are appointed. They’re currently selected by U.S. Chief
Justice  John Roberts . The bill would require the chief judge of
each federal appeals court to nominate three candidates, and
Roberts would then pick one from each circuit to fill out the
court.  Court Appointees  In the House, one measure, H.R. 2586, by Tennessee Democrat
 Steve Cohen , would direct that the court be comprised of 11
district court judges, three appointed by the chief justice and
two each by the party leaders in the House and Senate.  Another bill, H.R. 2761 from California Democrat Adam Schiff, would give the appointment power instead to the
president, with advice and consent of the Senate. That measure’s
four original cosponsors include Democrat  Steny Hoyer , the House
minority whip from  Maryland .  In the Senate, Paul filed a bill, S. 1121, that would
restrict the NSA’s data-mining operations. It says simply: ‘The
 Fourth Amendment  to the Constitution shall not be construed to
allow any agency of the United States Government to search the
phone records of Americans without a warrant based on probable
cause.’’  Other measures include a proposal by Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Texas Democrat, that would generally deem the
oversight court’s decisions, orders and opinions to be
unclassified. Such reports that include “significant legal
interpretation” of the act that governs surveillance would be
declassified within 45 days of issuance under H.R. 2440,
“unless such disclosure is not in the national security
interest of the U.S.”  Patriot Act  Democratic Representative Rush Holt of  New Jersey  has filed
a bill, H.R. 2818, that would repeal the Patriot Act, which
authorizes the surveillance programs.  California Democratic Representative Zoe Lofgren has
introduced H.R. 983, which would block the bulk collection of
geolocation and electronic communications data unless a warrant
was issued, with exceptions for emergencies and foreign
intelligence surveillance, or if the person individually
consented.  Lofgren told Bloomberg BNA on July 29 that lawmakers are
working on additional legislation including a measure that would
allow Internet companies to publish data on surveillance
requests they have received from the intelligence community.  For all of the calls for change, measures intended to place
limits on the surveillance programs will face opposition from
lawmakers who say there’s no evidence of real abuse by the NSA
and a great need for its data-mining to find and track
terrorists.  ‘Misinformation, Distortion’  Representative  Peter King  of  New York , who serves on the
House intelligence committee, yesterday hit back at Paul,
calling his fellow Republican’s portrayal of NSA abuses “a grab
bag of misinformation and distortion.”  King, who said Obama has failed to defend the NSA
vigorously enough, said “whatever mistakes were made were
inadvertent” and the agency has a “99.99 percent batting
average.”  “This whole tone of snooping and spying that we use, I
think it’s horrible,” King, who also appeared on the Fox News
program, said. “It is really a distortion and a smear and a
slander of good, patriotic Americans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  