-- St. Jude to Buy Switzerland’s Endosense for $171 Million
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-08-19T13:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/st-jude-to-buy-switzerland-s-endosense-for-171-million.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , a maker of
defibrillators and pacemakers, said it would buy closely held
Endosense SA for at least $171 million (159 million Swiss
francs) to gain technology that helps doctors fight irregular
heart rhythms.  The all-cash deal for the Swiss company may include
additional payments of as much as $161 million if Endosense’s
TactiCath ablation catheter meets regulatory targets,  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based St. Jude said in a statement today.  Endosense’s device, which still needs regulatory approval
in the U.S., lets doctors more easily treat atrial fibrillation,
a condition in which the heart’s chambers contract too fast or
erratically. St. Jude has been trying to grow its market for
such treatments as  demand  for defibrillators and pacemakers ebb
amid concern that the devices have been overused.  “The acquisition of Endosense further strengthens our
industry-leading portfolio of products to treat patients with
cardiac arrhythmias, and provides an opportunity to accelerate
our market share capture in the $900 million global cardiac
ablation catheter market,” Frank J. Callaghan, president of St.
Jude’s Cardiovascular and Ablation Technologies unit, said in
the statement.  Endosense just completed a U.S. trial of the device and
plans to submit an application to the  Food and Drug
Administration  to treat atrial fibrillation before the end of
2013, St. Jude said in the statement. The company said the
purchase wouldn’t affect St. Jude’s forecast for 2013 earnings
per share, “except for acquisition-related expenses.”  St. Jude fell 1.3 percent to $51.47 at the close of  New
York  trading on Aug. 16. Through last week, its shares had
gained  42 percent  so far this year  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  