-- Statoil May Scale Back Castberg Field Plan to Cut Costs
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-08-19T13:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/statoil-may-scale-back-castberg-field-plan-to-cut-costs.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , the Norwegian oil
producer exploring in the Barents Sea, is studying a scaled-back
development plan for its Johan Castberg field to reduce costs.  The company is “looking at cheaper solutions,” Margareth
Oevrum, executive vice president for technology, projects and
drilling, said today in Stavanger. If Statoil makes no further
finds in the area, “we may choose a much simpler solution.”  The company, which decided in June to delay its  investment
decision  at Castberg after the government unexpectedly imposed
higher taxes on oil, is drilling three more exploration wells in
the area this year. Statoil, expanding off northern  Norway  to
counter dwindling output in the  North Sea , is among explorers
reassessing development plans after crude prices declined.  Tax and cost increases and uncertain resource estimates at
Castberg have forced Statoil to reconsider plans to build a 280-kilometer (170-mile) pipeline to bring oil to a new terminal in
the North Cape, Oevrum said in an interview. The link, part of a
development plan estimated at 80 billion kroner ($13.5 billion)
in February, would also take volumes from any new nearby finds.  “Is it right to invest in that capacity now?” said Ola Anders Skauby, a spokesman for the Stavanger-based company. “Or
is it more right to choose a simpler solution that only focuses
on the resources we know of?”  Statoil, Norway’s largest oil producer, made a gas
discovery at the  Barents Sea ’s Nunatak well in June that wasn’t
commercially viable. The four wells around Johan Castberg, which
may hold 600 million barrels of oil, are part of the biggest
Norwegian Arctic exploration campaign in the company’s history.  Statoil, 67 percent owned by the state, has a goal to raise
production by a quarter to 2.5 million barrels of oil equivalent
a day by the end of the decade.  Brent crude  is trading at about
$110.40 a barrel, 12 percent below its 2012 high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  