-- Swiss Lawyer, Sheppard Mullin, DLA Piper: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-19T12:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/swiss-lawyer-sheppard-mullin-dla-piper-business-of-law.html
A Swiss lawyer pleaded guilty in a
U.S. probe of offshore tax evasion and has been telling
prosecutors how he helped American clients use secret accounts
to hide assets from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Edgar Paltzer, 57, admitted Aug. 16 in federal court in New
York that he conspired from 2000 to 2012 to commit  tax fraud  by
helping U.S. clients hide millions of dollars from the IRS. He
was indicted on April 16 with a Swiss banker, Stefan Buck.  Paltzer’s lawyer, Thomas Ostrander, a partner at Duane
Morris LLP, said his client is cooperating with U.S. authorities
in their broader investigation of how foreign banks and advisers
helped American clients evade taxes. Paltzer’s cooperation
offers U.S. investigators a rare inside look at how Swiss
bankers and advisers used sham trusts and corporations and moved
cash and jewelry across borders to hide their assets from the
IRS.  “His cooperation is complete and without any limitation,”
Ostrander said outside of court. “He very quickly made a
decision to face these charges and come to the U.S.”  Since 2008, the U.S. government has charged at least 90
people in a crackdown on offshore  tax evasion , including two
dozen bankers, lawyers and advisers. Paltzer admitted that from
2000 to 2012 he acted as a financial intermediary and helped
U.S. taxpayers avoid their duty to pay taxes on worldwide
income.  At the Aug. 16 hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason
Cowley said Paltzer had control of bank vaults in Zurich where
U.S. taxpayers put assets. Prosecutors got a court order that
prevents Paltzer or anyone else from accessing those vaults.  Cowley said Paltzer helped dozens of U.S. taxpayers
maintain undeclared Swiss accounts with “millions and millions
of dollars in undeclared assets.”  When some Swiss banks decided to close accounts amid the
U.S. crackdown, he helped American taxpayers move accounts to
other Swiss banks, the prosecutor said.  Paltzer, who holds dual U.S. and Swiss citizenship and is
licensed to practice law in New York, is returning to
Switzerland, Ostrander said.  Paltzer agreed to pay restitution and forfeit fees he
earned from his crime, which carries a potential five-year
prison term. As a cooperator, he would probably get less time.
Prosecutors have agreed to submit a letter to the sentencing
judge outlining his assistance to the U.S.  The case is U.S. v Paltzer, 13-cr-00282, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Porsche Faces New Hedge Fund Cartel Claims in Legal Battle  Porsche SE faces a new legal maneuver from  hedge funds 
seeking to recoup billions of euros they say they lost amid the
former sports-car maker’s aborted bid to buy  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The funds, which include Elliott International LP and Perry
Partners LP, are suing Porsche for 1.81 billion euros ($2.4
billion) over claims it manipulated Volkswagen shares by denying
interest in a deal before it made a bid. After other investors
lost two similar claims at a German tribunal last year, the
funds added antitrust claims against Porsche to their suit,
forcing a move to a court that specializes in cartel suits.  “It’s a litigation tactic sometimes used to get rid of a
particular court,”  Albrecht Bach , an antitrust lawyer at
Oppenlaender Rechtsanwaelte in Stuttgart who isn’t involved in
the dispute, said in an interview. “It can be part of a
lawyer’s tactic to add arguments that shift jurisdiction to
another court at which you might expect better results.”  Even if the new court, in Hanover, rejects the antitrust
claims, it will take its own look at the market manipulation
allegations, giving the funds a new chance with the argument.  Porsche, hounded for years by investor suits, has so far
been successful in defending against allegations it manipulated
Volkswagen shares. The company ended most related U.S.
litigation by winning their bid to have the cases moved to
 Germany . Last month, it won a ruling in an effort to block a new
legal claim in the U.K.  The investor suits argue that Porsche lied when it denied
through much of 2008 that it wanted to buy Volkswagen, only to
shift direction on Oct. 26 that year when it disclosed that it
controlled 74.1 percent of Volkswagen, partly through options,
and was seeking a takeover. The shares surged while short
sellers ran to close their positions.  Volkswagen now owns the Porsche auto-making business. The
defendant in the case is a holding company whose only asset is
Volkswagen shares.  The case is LG Hannover, 18 O 159/13.  For more, click here.  Ryanair Files Dublin Suit Against Channel 4 Over Safety Claims  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  has initiated defamation proceedings
against Channel 4/Blakeway Productions and others in the wake of
a television documentary that questioned its stance on safety,
the carrier’s lawyer said.  “We have been instructed to vigorously prosecute these
libel proceedings,” Paul Tweed, senior partner at  law firm 
Johnsons, said in an e-mailed statement Aug. 14. The action is
being brought in the  High Court  in Dublin.  The legal move comes a day after Ryanair dismissed Captain
John Goss, who appeared in the Channel 4 “ Dispatches ” program
that last week broadcast the safety concerns. The report relied
on a survey conducted by the Ryanair Pilots Group, which claims
to represent more than half of the carrier’s air crew.  Tweed said the program’s claims were “totally unfounded.”
Proceedings have also been issued against Associated Newspapers,
which publishes the  Daily Mail , and Mirror Group, whose titles
include the  Daily Mirror , as well as the Belfast Telegraph in
Northern Ireland. More cases are pending, he said.  The Channel 4 program said Ryanair pilots are encouraged to
carry as little fuel as possible, causing three jets to declare
emergencies before touching down in Valencia, Spain, after
diversions from Madrid last year. Fuel emergencies are triggered
when pilots come close to having 30 minutes of fuel left.  Ryanair encourages crews to fly with additional kerosene if
the captain wishes to do so and the majority of its pilots carry
more than the required amount daily, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael O’Leary  said in an Aug. 13 interview.  Europe’s biggest low-cost airline also has no policy of
deleting cockpit voice recordings, O’Leary said in response to
assertions in the TV program, adding that pilots need to save
so-called black-box information themselves. The documentary said
crew members are also wary of raising concerns with the company.  Law Firm News  Howrey Settles Claims with Baker & Hostetler and Citibank  The trustee for Howrey LLP reached settlements resolving
the largest secured claim and nailing down the largest asset for
the law firm that liquidated in June 2011.  Just after Howrey partners voted to disband, a group moved
to Baker & Hostetler LLP and took several cases with them,
including two large contingent-fee lawsuits. At the time of
their departure, the lawyers made an agreement with Howrey to
split up the contingent fees when they were paid.  In a settlement announced Aug. 16, Howrey trustee Allan B. Diamond explained how he negotiated to receive $41 million
immediately from Baker & Hostetler, or $3.3 million more than
the formula under the pre-bankruptcy fee-sharing agreement. The
total the firm will receive from the two contingency cases is
about $92 million.  Diamond also settled the $41.4 million secured claim by
lender  Citibank NA , which has a lien on all assets.  Howrey partners lost control of the liquidation when the
 bankruptcy court  authorized appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee
in September 2011. Once known for expertise in antitrust and
intellectual property law, the firm filed under Chapter 11 in
June 2011 following an involuntary filing in April 2011. At one
time, the firm had more than 700 lawyers.  The case is In re Howrey LLP, 11-31376,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Sheppard Mullin Partners Begin New Orleans Police Monitoring  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP began monitoring the
 New Orleans Police Department , as part of a consent decree
approved by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Louisiana , the firm said in a statement.  Sheppard Mullin’s team includes government contract and
internal investigations partners Jonathan Aronie, who will be
the primary monitor and David Douglass, who is a deputy monitor.  The consent decree followed Justice Department Civil Rights
Division investigation into New Orleans’s police department that
ended in March 2011, according to the firm.  The Sheppard Mullin lawyers will monitor police practices,
review policies, reports, and data and meet with officers,
officials, and members of the public as required by the consent
decree.  Former Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North Carolina police chief
Dennis Nowicki, also a member of the team, is a deputy monitor.  Moves  Former Texas Medicaid Lawyer Karen Nelson Joins DLA Piper  DLA Piper LLP announced that Karen Nelson has joined the
firm’s national health-care enforcement and compliance practice
as of counsel in the Austin office. Previously, Nelson served as
deputy inspector general and chief counsel for the Texas Health
and Human Services Commission’s Office of Inspector General.  Nelson will focus her practice on advising providers and
suppliers on compliance with, and enforcement of, Medicaid and
Medicare laws and regulations, the firm said in a statement.  “Karen is an informed and experienced strategist, having
been a key member of what many consider to be the most robust
and effective Medicaid regulatory and enforcement agency in the
country,” Frank Sheeder, chairman of DLA Piper’s health-care
enforcement and compliance practice said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries in
the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East.  Hirschler Fleischer Adds Investment and Private Funds Partner  Hirschler Fleischer announced that partner James W. Van
Horn Jr. joined the  investment management  and private funds
practice in the Richmond office. He was previously at Carrell
Blanton Garrett & Van Horn Plc.  Van Horn’s background is in advising middle-market
businesses and private investment funds. He has experience
representing clients in business formations, acquisitions and
dispositions, as well as private securities offerings,  venture
capital  and debt financings, contract negotiations and general
corporate matters.  “Institutional investors need help identifying areas of
contractual, tax and fiduciary risk associated with potential
investments. As part of our team, Jim Van Horn will address
these risks and help clients find new ways to meet their
emerging obligations,” S. Brian Farmer, managing partner of the
firm’s business section, said in a statement.  Hirschler Fleischer has lawyers at two Virginia offices.
Arnstein & Lehr Adds Litigation Partner John Gekas  The Chicago law firm of Arnstein & Lehr LLP added partner
John Gekas to the firm’s litigation practice. Prior to joining
the firm, Gekas founded his own litigation firm, Gekas Law LLP.  Gekas has experience representing publicly traded and
emerging businesses in contract disputes, securities and
investment fraud, class actions, and  construction and real
estate litigation, the firm said.  Arnstein & Lehr has offices in Illinois, Florida and
Wisconsin.  Video  Peabody Sees JPMorgan’s Legal Costs at $5 Billion This Year  Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, talks
about the legal expenses JPMorgan Chase & Co. faces amid the
“London Whale” trading loss along with attorney Douglas Burns.
Burns, a former federal prosecutor, says charges against SAC
Capital Advisors LP will not taint the rest of the hedge fund
industry.  They speaks with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.”  For more, click here and here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 