-- U.K. Pay Gap for Women Widens on Bonus Payouts
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-08-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/u-k-pay-gap-for-women-widens-on-bonus-payouts.html
Male U.K. company managers earned
average bonuses over the past year that were more than twice as
big as their female counterparts, according to the  Chartered
Management Institute .  The average bonus for men of 6,442 pounds ($10,100)
compared with 3,029 pounds for women, the institute and XpertHR
said in a report published in London today. That’s on top of
salaries that are 25 percent higher for men, according to the
CMI. The pay gap is also a factor at director level, with the
average 63,700-pound bonus for men exceeding the 36,270 pounds
paid to women.  Data earlier this year showed the number of directorships
held by women at the 100 largest U.K. companies is 17.3 percent,
short of a target of 25 percent by 2015 recommended in a
government-commissioned report. The issue of gender inequality
has also hit the  Bank of England , with Governor  Mark Carney 
saying this month it’s “striking” that the central bank has no
female policy makers.  “Too many organizations still need to get their act
together and stop undervaluing women’s talent,”  Yvette Cooper ,
equalities spokeswoman for the opposition Labour party, said in
an e-mailed statement. “It’s disgraceful that the corporate
gender pay gap seems to be getting wider rather than
narrowing.”  The CMI also said that at both management and director
levels, men are more likely than women to receive a bonus. For
directors, 52 percent of men took home a bonus in the past year,
compared with 42 percent of women.  According to the institute, there is a “steep drop-off”
in female executives from middle-management level onward. While
64.3 percent of entry-level executive staff are women, they make
up 44.3 percent of middle managers and 24.1 percent of board
directors.  “The playing field is far from equal,” Culture Secretary
Maria Miller, whose remit includes responsibility for equality,
said in a statement. “These figures are yet another damaging
example highlighting that, in the world of work, women still
lose out to their male counterparts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  