-- U.S. 10-Year Yields to Rise Above 3%, BlackRock’s Rieder Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-19T12:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/u-s-10-year-yields-to-rise-above-3-blackrock-s-rieder-says.html
Yields on 10-year Treasury notes
will rise above 3 percent as the Federal Reserve scales back its
debt purchases, according to Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed-income at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The Fed’s quantitative easing “is too big,” Rieder said
in an interview with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television. “You have got to taper down QE. It has created this
tremendous distortion in interest rates. We think fair value on
the 10-year is close to 3-to-3.25 percent. You are getting very
close to there.”  Yields on the benchmark security rose today as high as 2.87
percent, the most since July 2011, which is also when they last
last reached 3 percent. A survey of forecasters by Bloomberg
projects that the yield on the note will end the second quarter
of 2014 at 3.02 percent.  The U.S. central bank has been buying $85 billion of
Treasuries and mortgage securities a month since January to keep
borrowing rates low and spur economic growth. The Fed’s first
step may be tapering monthly debt purchases in September by $10
billion, according to the median estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey concluded this month.  ‘Moderately Negative’  “Most of the losses have come because the distortion is
coming out,” Rieder said. “We think you are going to have
moderately negative returns in bond funds, certainly this year
into next.”  Treasuries have lost 3.6 percent this year through Aug. 16,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  “People are going more to unconstrained bond funds,”
which can more aggressively manage interest-rate risk, Rieder
said. Investors want bond funds that “can actually go short
duration. They want income so you are seeing the money shift.”  BlackRock, the world’s largest manager of assets, is
joining companies including Legg Mason Inc.’s Western Asset Co.
in betting that bond funds that aren’t constrained by duration,
strategy or region will attract money as  interest rates  start to
rise and investors shift assets from traditional fixed-income
offerings, which are limited in how they can react to falling
bond markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  