-- UBS Sees Rupee at 70 as Rajan Lacking Magic Wand: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-08-19T18:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/ubs-sees-rupee-at-70-as-rajan-lacking-magic-wand-india-credit.html
Pictet Asset Management SA sees no
immediate policy fix as demand collapses for Indian rupee bonds,
prompting UBS AG to predict a further 10.5 percent slump in the
nation’s currency.  Yields on 10-year  government securities  surged 130 basis
points in the past month to a five-year high of 9.24 percent as
global funds cut  holdings  of local debt to a 19-month low of
$28.7 billion on Aug. 13. The rate on similar Chinese notes rose
24 basis points to 3.93 percent. The rupee has tumbled almost 14
percent since March and touched an all-time low of 63.23 per
dollar yesterday after the  Reserve Bank  of  India  slashed the
amount companies and individuals can invest abroad.  Raghuram Rajan , who replaces Duvvuri Subbarao as central
bank governor next month, said Aug. 6 there’s no “magic wand”
to solve India’s economic dilemmas immediately. UBS says a drop
in the currency to 70 per dollar is possible and Credit Suisse
Group AG sees a decline to 65, as slow growth and a record
 current-account  deficit leave  Asia ’s No. 3 economy vulnerable to
a pullout of funds as the U.S. prepares to pare stimulus.  “We are not anticipating that India will take strategic
steps that bring sustainable flows in the immediate term,”
Philippe Petit, a Singapore-based senior investment manager at
Pictet, which manages $30 billion of emerging-market debt, said
in an interview on Aug. 16. “The aim should be to accelerate
inflows rather than curb outflows. The measures won’t
significantly ease the current account situation.”  Failing Efforts  The RBI cut the amount firms can invest overseas without
prior approval to 100 percent of net worth, from 400 percent,
according to an Aug. 14 statement. Residents can now remit only
$75,000 a year versus the previous limit of $200,000. On Aug.
13, India raised tariffs on gold imports and banned inward
shipments in the form of coins and medallions to narrow the
trade deficit.  The government will allow state financial institutions to
issue “quasi-sovereign” bonds abroad to boost capital inflows,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said Aug. 12.  The rupee slid 2.4 percent yesterday to 63.13 per dollar,
signaling the latest policy changes failed to shore up investor
confidence. The yield on the 7.16 percent government notes due
May 2023 jumped 34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, to
9.23 percent. Foreign investors  cut  ownership of Indian bonds in
each of the last 12 weeks as the U.S. signaled plans to scale
back stimulus that spurred fund flows into  emerging markets .  Not Convincing  “India has not been able to anticipate the difficulties it
has faced, be it growth or inflation or the external sector and
so the policy responses have not been effective,” Raj Kothari,
a fixed-income trader at Sun Global Investment Ltd. in  London ,
said in an interview on Aug. 16. “The current situation is no
different now. It gives no reason for investors to believe the
rupee’s slide will be curbed now. The past record is far from
convincing to put your weight behind the rupee.”  Sun Global, which cut holdings of Indian assets by 3
percent in August, predicts the local currency to fall to 65 by
Sept. 30. Pictet is refraining from adding to investments in the
country, according to Petit.  Credit risk in India has surged as the currency declined.
Five-year credit-default swap contracts insuring the debt of
government-controlled  State Bank of India (SBIN) , considered a proxy
for the sovereign, have risen to 300 from this year’s low of 174
on May 17, according to data provider CMA.  ‘Fear of Crisis’  A jump in the cost of hedging against rupee swings is also
damping demand for local-currency assets. The price of onshore
contracts that fix the conversion rate for buying dollars with
rupees in a year’s time has increased to an annualized 8.67
percent from 5.77 percent at the end of June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. UBS Global Asset Management and DSP BlackRock
Investment Managers Pvt. said last month higher hedging costs
for rupee debt would deter foreigners even as yields increase.  “More and more offshore investors have indicated their
fear of an external funding crisis in India, with measures
designed to limit capital outflows not helping calm frayed
nerves in the markets,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist
at Credit Suisse in  Singapore , wrote in a note yesterday.  The RBI could support the rupee through more aggressive
currency-market intervention and measures that drain cash from
markets such as increases in banks’ cash reserve ratio and the
proportion of deposits lenders must invest in  government bonds ,
according to Credit Suisse. Increasing the benchmark repurchase
rate, currently at 7.25 percent, would be the “strongest signal
of all,” according to the bank.  Current Account  India’s current-account deficit widened to an unprecedented
4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ended
March 31, while the pace of economic  growth  dropped to a decade-low 5 percent, according to official figures.  “Since the macro-economic analysis of India isn’t
encouraging, the measures taken recently won’t discourage
outflows,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage the equivalent of
$15 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment, said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 16. “The measures don’t substantially address
the fundamental issues India faces of slowing growth and
increasing current-account gap.”  Options signal currency swings in India will widen further,
adding to foreign investors’ risk. One-month implied volatility
in the currency surged 234 basis points in the past month to
14.13 percent, signaling a greater potential for losses. Traders
quote the gauge, a measure of expected swings in exchange rates,
as part of options prices.  India’s efforts aimed at buoying the rupee and winning
investors back have been disappointing so far, according to
Standard Chartered Plc.  “The market is questioning the effectiveness of policy
makers’ moves and the options available to them,” said Priyanka Kishore, a strategist at  Standard Chartered  in London.
“Earlier, the government said it had a grand plan. This is what
the market expected, but the final measures disappointed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  