-- UPP Chairman Says Not Takeover Target as Volumes Surge Third Day
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-08-19T13:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/union-properties-isn-t-takeover-target-chairman-bin-kalban-says.html
Union Properties PJSC (UPP)  chairman said
the Dubai real-estate company isn’t a takeover target after
trading volumes crossed 100 million shares for a third day.  Almost 106 million  shares  traded, or 2.7 times the three-month daily average and comprising about 20 percent of the total
volume on Dubai’s stock market. The shares fell 0.4 percent to
45.8 fils at the close in the emirate, after surging 11 percent
yesterday, when 424 million shares traded.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , which holds a 31.4 percent stake in the
company according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said last month
it sold about a 16 percent stake in Union Properties. The real-estate company’s shares have gained 16 percent this year,
lagging a rally of 64 percent for Dubai’s benchmark.  “There is no one or two companies or individuals buying
and building up positions,” Chairman Khalid bin Kalban said by
phone today. “It’s possible that Emirates NBD is selling.”  A spokesman for the bank couldn’t be reached for comment
today.  Union Properties’ stock is “undervalued” and with the
renewed interest in real estate, people are optimistic about
future earnings and prospects, bin Kalban said.  Dubai’s property prices, which tumbled more than 65 percent
from a peak in 2008, are recovering as the economy rebounds amid
an acceleration in tourism and trade. Union Properties trades at
0.6 times book value, compared with a multiple of 1.2 for  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest tower.  Union Properties reported a 36 percent increase in second-quarter profit to 113.3 million dirhams ($31 million). One
analyst rates the stock a hold and another a sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  