-- Hurricane Task Force Recommends Resilient Power for Wireless
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-19T15:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/hurricane-task-force-recommends-resilient-power-for-wireless.html
U.S. wireless communications
networks should be made more resilient in extreme weather
emergencies, according to a government  task force  studying the
effects of  Hurricane Sandy .  The Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force recommended
improving the communications networks so cellular towers and
data centers can keep working “regardless of the status of the
electrical grid.” In a report released today, the group -- led
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development -- made
69 recommendations for mitigating harm from future emergencies.  The $50 billion federal relief package following the
October storm has included $5.4 billion in rebuilding funding
from HUD and $3.8 billion in small-business aid and survivor
distributions through the  Small Business Administration  and the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency , the report said. The
Department of Transportation has tallied $6.8 billion in
infrastructure recovery.  “We are working hand-in-hand with communities to help them
rebuild smarter and better by providing the best data about the
risks they face, setting clear resilience standards to help
protect against those risks, and bringing a wide range of
stakeholders together to foster innovative ideas,” HUD
Secretary  Shaun Donovan  wrote in an introductory letter. Many of
the recommendations in today’s report have already been adopted.  The government already met a recommendation to create more
“nationally consistent mortgage policies” to keep responsible
homeowners from being forced out because of temporary financial
hardships, the report said. After more than 650,000 homes were
damaged or destroyed by Sandy, the task force also recommended
making a sea-level projection tool more widely available, and
encouraged homeowners and businesses to elevate buildings above
flood levels.  The government has also focused on making the electrical
grid more flexible and protecting the supply chain for fuel -- a
particular problem after Sandy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 