-- Usiminas, CSN Extend Gains on Steel Price Boost: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-08-19T21:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/usiminas-csn-extend-gains-on-steel-price-boost-sao-paulo-mover.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA  and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, the largest Brazilian
producers of steel used in the  auto industry , rose to the
highest in more than four months after boosting steel prices.  Preferred shares of Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil-based company is known,  rose  6.2 percent to 10.96 reais
at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, the highest since April
12. The stock, which had trading volume two times three-month
daily average today, extended gains in the past four trading
days to 17 percent. Sao Paulo-based CSN gained 6.3 percent to
8.88 reais.  Usiminas informed clients in Brazil it’s increasing
domestic prices for flat steel by as much as 7.6 percent as of
today, a person with knowledge of the decision said, declining
to be named because the change isn’t public yet. That follows
moves by  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, and CSN,
which were seeking to boost prices in Brazil this week for a
second time in 2013 to strengthen profit margins, a person with
knowledge of the plan told  Bloomberg News  on Aug. 14.  Usiminas’s press office in Belo Horizonte said the company
doesn’t comment on pricing policy.  “This price increase gives investors some hope steelmakers
will be able to improve their results after performing poorly
this year,”  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a phone interview today.  Gerdau SA, Latin America’s biggest steelmaker,  advanced  5.8
percent in Sao Paulo to 17.20 reais, its highest in six months,
after HSBC Holdings Plc. raised its recommendation on the stock
to the equivalent of buy from neutral.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  