-- Vedanta’s Bauxite Plan Snubbed by Last of 12 Niyamgiri Villages
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-19T12:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/vedanta-s-bauxite-plan-snubbed-by-last-of-12-niyamgiri-villages.html
Vedanta Resources Plc’s (VED)  bid to win
the consent of tribes inhabiting a hill range holding bauxite
earmarked for an $7.9 billion aluminum complex in Odisha state
was unanimously rebuffed, a government official said.  The last of the 12 villages on the Niyamgiri tracts in the
eastern state today rejected the incentives offered in exchange
for mining approval, said Sashi Bhusan Padhi, the revenue head
of Rayagada district, where the meeting was held. All the
villages rejected the plan, Santosh Sarangi, secretary for
Odisha’s scheduled tribe and scheduled caste development
department, said today. Sarangi will submit a report to the
 environment ministry  in the first week of next month, he said.  “The meetings in all the villages took more than a month
to complete because of the difficult terrain and the lack of
road and phone connectivity,” Padhi said by phone. “To reach
some of these villages needed many miles of trekking.”  The decision of the Dongaria and Kutia tribes, who believe
their god lives in the Niyamgiri hills, is the latest in a
series of setbacks for billionaire  Anil Agarwal ’s metal
operations in  India . The denial will probably prompt the
environment ministry to reject clearance, further impeding raw
material access for London-listed Vedanta, which has 1.25
million metric tons of new aluminum refining capacity lying idle
for want of bauxite.  Village Decision  The Niyamgiri villagers were asked to decide the fate of
the project on April 18 by the nation’s top court, which
intervened in the case after Vedanta’s partner Orissa Mining
Corp. contested the environment ministry’s August 2010 view that
granting a mining permit would damage the environment and
displace the tribes and wildlife in the area. Tribal right over
land is recognized and the local authority of the tribes must
clear the proposal, a three-judge panel headed by Aftab Alam of
the  Supreme Court  had said in its April 18 ruling.  Vedanta, which has invested 500 billion rupees ($7.9
billion) to build a smelter, refinery and power plant near
Niyamgiri, currently operates a 1 million ton refinery, a
500,000 tons smelter unit and a power unit. The refinery that
had stopped output in December following bauxite shortage,
restarted last month after raw material availability improved.  Vedanta had to shut the refinery after permits held by
bauxite miners in the neighboring states of Jharkhand and
Chhattisgarh expired. The environment ministry said March 13 the
mines don’t need fresh approvals to renew their licenses, paving
the way for replenishments of the ore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  