-- Vietnam Sends Plan for Relaxing Foreign Ownership Limits to Dung
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-19T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/vietnam-sends-plan-for-relaxing-foreign-ownership-limits-to-dung.html
Vietnam  moved closer to relaxing
restrictions on foreign investors as the  Finance Ministry 
submitted a plan to Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung for raising
the cap on overseas ownership at some companies.  The proposal would allow foreigners to increase holdings of
voting  shares  in “non-conditional” industries to a maximum 60
percent from the current cap of 49 percent, Nguyen Son, the head
of market development at the State Securities Commission, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. For restricted industries,
overseas investors would be able to buy an additional 10 percent
of non-voting shares, on top of the 49 percent limit for voting
stock, Son said, without providing details on which companies
are restricted.  Vietnamese regulators see foreign investment as a key to
growth in the nation’s $45 billion stock market. The benchmark
VN Index has climbed 24 percent this year, versus a 3.1 percent
gain in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, as international money
managers bought $162 million of Vietnamese shares. The market
has attracted net inflows every year since Bloomberg began
compiling the annual exchange data in 2007.  “This is great news to the market and expected by some
traders, as the recent improving sentiment showed,”  Attila Vajda , a Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities Co.,
said by phone.  Merger Plan  The market regulator also will submit a proposal in the
fourth quarter to establish the Vietnam Stock Exchange through a
merger of the Ho Chi Minh City bourse and the Hanoi Stock
Exchange, Son said in the statement.  Even after this year’s gains, the VN index is down 67
percent from its March 2007 peak. Gross domestic product
expanded 5.25 percent last year, the slowest pace since at least
2005, according to the General Statistics Office.  Vietnamese shares have advanced this year as the central
bank cut  interest rates  for the eighth time since the start of
2012 and the government approved the formation of an  asset
management company  to buy bad loans from banks. The VN gauge is
valued at 10.9 times estimated earnings for the next 12 months,
versus 10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  