-- W&G Investments to Offer $2.4 Billion for RBS Branches
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-08-20T15:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/w-g-investments-to-offer-2-4-billion-for-rbs-branches.html
W&G Investments Plc, the investment
vehicle led by former  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Finance Director Andrew Higginson, plans to make a bid of as much as 1.5 billion pounds
($2.4 billion) for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  branches.  W&G will offer about 1.1 billion pounds in cash plus 400
million pounds depending on the performance of the business,
according to company filings. The company today asked  London ’s
Alternative Investment Market to immediately suspend its shares,
pending the acquisition of the 316 RBS branches.  “This is the type of bank our investors would like to
own” but haven’t been able to in the past, Higginson said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a very simple straightforward bank
that takes in deposits from its customers, lends them to other
customers and makes its margin in the middle.”  RBS has been told by the European Union to sell the outlets
by 2014 to comply with state-aid rules after receiving a 45.5
billion-pound taxpayer bailout in 2008 and 2009. Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Hester , who steps down in September, said this
month that while the lender would prefer to sell the branches in
an initial public offering, it was open to private offers.  The Edinburgh-based bank’s  shares  dropped 0.4 percent to
338.60 pence in London. They have increased 4.4 percent this
year, while the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index has gained about 10 percent.  Minority Stake  W&G is one of three bids RBS has received for the branches.
Centerbridge Partners and Corsair Capita are heading up a rival
consortium, while AnaCap Financial Partners LLP and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  have teamed up to lead a third offer.  The bidders are looking to take a minority stake in  RBS (RBS) ’s
branch business after a public listing through a 600 million-pound to 800 million-pound investment in a so-called pre-IPO
convertible bond, according to three people with knowledge of
the details who asked not to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Officials at the firms declined to comment on the structure
of their bids. A spokesman at RBS declined to comment.  “We’re the only actual bidder,” said Higginson, 56. “The
others involve an IPO two years down the tracks whereas ours is
a proper bid that will buy the business outright this year.
Waiting another two years in the hope of an IPO is not the right
thing to do in terms of building up a challenger bank.”  ‘Compelling Proposal’  RBS could make a decision on how it will proceed with the
sale, known as Project Rainbow, before the end of the month,
though it’s more likely to come in September, said one of the
people. The bank is being advised by UBS AG.  “AnaCap and Blackstone have submitted a compelling
proposal for Project Rainbow which delivers execution certainty
and optimizes value for RBS and its key stakeholders,”
Blackstone spokesman  Andrew Dowler  said in a statement.  The branches on sale have about 21.5 billion pounds in
customer deposits and serve about 2 million small businesses and
consumers. They generated 305 million pounds in operating profit
in 2012, about 10 percent of RBS’s annual total.  “Our structure creates the best value and long-term
potential for the taxpayer and RBS,” said John Maltby, who
heads the Corsair, Centerbridge bid. “We have completed full
due diligence, we have raised the money and we are ready to
go.”  W&G raised an initial 15 million pounds through a share
sale to finance the due diligence examination of the business,
according to a statement. If the company fails to buy the
branches, the shares will be canceled, it said.  After  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, abandoned
its 1.7 billion-pound planned purchase of the branches in
October, RBS signaled to the European Commission that it may
seek an extension to the branch-sale deadline, though it hasn’t
formally asked for one yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  