-- Warsaw Bourse Buys 30% Stake in Aquis in London Expansion
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-19T12:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/warsaw-stock-exchange-agrees-to-buy-30-stake-in-aquis.html
The  Warsaw Stock Exchange  agreed to
buy a 30 percent stake in Aquis Exchange Ltd., the London-based
trading system, as central  Europe ’s largest bourse operator
expands outside its home market.  The Polish exchange will pay 5 million pounds ($7.8
million) in cash for the holding and will be able to nominate
two non-executive directors to Aquis’s board, the companies said
in a joint statement today. The transaction, which values
London-based Aquis at 16.7 million pounds, is subject to U.K.
regulatory approval.  The state-controlled bourse, founded two years after
 Poland ’s communist government collapsed in 1989, is expanding
overseas as Chief Executive Officer Adam Maciejewski seeks
growth. Aquis plans to begin operations in October, offering
trading of stocks listed on Europe’s 15 biggest markets.  “In a competitive and highly challenging environment,
business diversification at an international level is a must for
our company,” Maciejewski said in the statement. “We are
looking for new opportunities.”  The exchange’s shares dropped 0.1 percent to 37.89 zloty at
2:18 p.m. in Warsaw, valuing the Warsaw-based company at 1.59
billion zloty ($500 million).  Diamond Talks  Alasdair Haynes, the former chief executive officer of
alternative trading venue Chi-X Europe Ltd., founded Aquis last
year. Aquis is selling a further 45 percent stake to private
investors, leaving it 25 percent owned by employees.  Robert
Diamond , the former chief executive officer of Barclays Plc,
held talks with Aquis about about investing in the company,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  “We want to get significant, meaningful market share in
three to four years,” Haynes, who led Chi-X Europe until Bats
Global Markets Inc. bought the company in 2011, said today at a
press conference in Warsaw. “We want to have the platform live
in the fourth quarter. Much depends on regulatory approval,
which we hope to get within weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  