-- Two in Three U.K. Financial Services Raise Salaries, Survey Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-08-19T09:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/two-in-three-u-k-financial-services-raise-salaries-survey-says.html
Almost two-thirds of U.K. financial
services firms have boosted salaries to retain employees before
the introduction of European Union limits on bonuses, according
to a survey.  Companies increased salaries by an average of 20 percent,
according to the report, published by recruitment firm  Robert
Half (RHI)  today. More than half the survey participants expressed
concern the limits will create an “unstable” cost structure.  The EU brokered a deal in February to ban banker bonuses
that are more than twice fixed pay, a move lawmakers said would
prevent excessive payouts and curb risk-taking that sparked the
financial crisis. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  opposed the curbs, saying they would harm the
competitiveness of the nation’s finance industry.  “With the U.K. competing with other international centers
for the world’s top financial-services talent, firms will need
to strike the balance between risk and reward, with additional
employee remuneration potentially creating an unstable cost
structure,” Neil Owen, global practice director at Robert Half
Financial Services, said in the statement.  Thirty-eight percent of participants said they were “very
concerned” about losing staff because of the bonus caps, while
55 percent were “somewhat concerned.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , a London-based bank that makes most of
its profit in  Asia , said this month it would consider raising
salaries to ensure its remuneration remains competitive.  Robert Half  said it surveyed 100 U.K. chief financial
officers and chief operations officers in June and July.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ambereen Choudhury at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  