-- WTI Crude Falls First Time in Seven Days as Storm Concern
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-19T19:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/wti-crude-falls-first-time-in-seven-days-as-storm-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
dropped for the first time in seven days as the threat of a
storm in the  Gulf of Mexico  dissipated, removing a risk to oil
and gas production in the area.  Futures fell 0.3 percent after the  National Hurricane
Center  in Miami said there was no tropical cyclone activity in
the Atlantic basin. Some offshore energy rigs and platforms
evacuated personnel last week as a storm precaution. Oil also
slid because demand from U.S. refineries is declining as the
peak gasoline-use period comes to an end. WTI capped the longest
rising streak since April on Aug. 16 on unrest in Egypt.  “Worries about a storm in the Gulf, which helped boost
prices late last week, have gone,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “We’ve already seen a downtick in refinery utilization
and should see further declines in the weeks ahead and we enter
the fall maintenance season.”  WTI crude for September delivery decreased 36 cents to
settle at $107.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The September WTI contract expires tomorrow. The more-active
October futures dropped 43 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $106.86.
The volume of all futures traded was about 20 percent below the
100-day average at 3:31 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement fell 50 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $109.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading of futures was 13
percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark closed
at a $3.04 premium to WTI.  Redeploying Workers  BP Plc (BP/)  said it may start redeploying workers to platforms
in the Gulf of Mexico.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said non-essential workers
will return to Manta Ray natural gas platforms off the coast of
 Louisiana  today.  Dry air and wind shear are expected to limit tropical storm
development in the Atlantic this week, forecasters said. None of
the tropical waves moving west across the ocean will find
conditions conducive to growth, said Kyle Tapley, a
meteorologist at MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  U.S. refinery utilization rates dropped 1.5 percentage
point to 89.4 percent of capacity in the seven days ended Aug.
9, the Energy Information Administration said Aug. 14. Plants
have slowed output in the third quarter of each year since 1999
as they implemented maintenance programs after the end of the
peak-demand summer driving season.  August Doldrums  “We’re in the midst of the summer August doldrums with
nothing to move us strongly in either direction,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., an energy-advisory
company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Here in the U.S., we have
plenty of supply because the driving season is coming to an end.
At the same time, we have an upsurge in violence in Egypt, which
should support Brent.”  About 900 civilians and 100 police officers have died in
Egypt since the military-backed government moved last week to
dismantle sit-ins held by supporters of the deposed President
Mohamed Mursi in Cairo and Giza.  WTI surged 8.8 percent in July as Mursi was overthrown. The
country controls the  Suez Canal  and the Suez-Mediterranean
Pipeline, through which a combined 4.51 million barrels a day of
crude and refined products were shipped last year, according to
the EIA.  “Brent remains stronger than WTI, and that is a reflection
of geopolitical risk,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Anything
occurring in the  Middle East  has a bigger impact on Europe.”  Libyan Disruptions  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its price forecasts for
Brent, citing supply disruptions in Libya and  Iraq . Prices may
climb to about $115 a barrel in the “very near term,” Goldman
Sachs said in the report today.  “The disruptions in Libyan oil supplies have lasted far
longer than we initially thought, with no near-term resolution
in sight, which was further complicated by the involvement of
the military,” said  Jeffrey Currie , a Goldman analyst in New
York. “Combined with the ongoing problems in Iraq, which we see
extending into the autumn, OPEC outages since the beginning of
the summer have taken 33 million barrels off the market.”  Libya’s National Oil Corp. declared force majeure on
loadings from Zuetina, Ras Lanuf,  Es Sider  and El Brega ports,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter and a
document obtained by Bloomberg. Force majeure is a legal step
that protects a company from liability when it can’t fulfill a
contract for reasons beyond its control.  Libyan crude output  tumbled 330,000 barrels to 800,000
barrels a day in July, the least since December 2011, a
Bloomberg survey showed. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries member holds Africa’s largest proved reserves.  Speculator Bets  Money managers  cut WTI net-long positions, or wagers on
price gains, by 2,041 futures and options combined, or 0.7
percent, to 308,786 in the seven days ended Aug. 13, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission said Aug. 16. For Brent,
money managers raised  bullish bets  2.5 percent to 193,527, the
most in data from January 2011, ICE Futures Europe data showed.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 21.2 percent, down from 21.4 percent Aug. 16, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 450,843
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. It totaled 603,709 contracts Aug. 16,
6.9 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was
1.89 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  