-- My Ticket Into Space Looks Cheap, Price Soars to $250,000
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2013-08-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-19/my-ticket-into-space-looks-cheap-price-soars-to-250-000.html
Three years ago I bought a $200,000
ticket to fly into space aboard Richard Branson’s Virgin
Galactic.  I chose the “poor man’s” option, which requires only a 10
percent deposit. Three months before I fly, I will raid my
401(k) for the remaining $180,000 balance.  So I won’t be among the first bunch of 500 fliers including
Justin Bieber and Formula One legend Michael Schumacher who,
according to reports, paid for their tickets up front.  Virgin Group chairman Branson and his family will board the
very first commercial flight. He has suggested that could happen
as early as Christmas. As passenger number 610, I’ll probably
get my turn in 2015.  A milestone was reached in April when for the first time in
flight, Virgin Galactic lit the rocket motor on SpaceShipTwo,
sending the craft supersonic.  Capitalizing quickly, Branson raised the price of a
suborbital space ticket by $50,000 to $250,000 (we early
purchasers still get the original price).  The new development has potential space tourists’ hearts
ticking faster. It’s been a long wait -- nearly nine years --
since the smaller craft, SpaceShipOne, went on its history-making voyages. Yet rockets are unpredictable. In 2007, three
workers were killed by an explosion on the ground while testing
an early version of the SS2 engine.  Mid-Air Jettison  Whereas SS1 could carry three people, SS2 can manage eight:
two pilots and six passengers. Like SS1, it will fly aloft on
the underside of a mother-ship,  WhiteKnightTwo . At 50,000 feet
the craft will be jettisoned, then fire its rocket engine.  Boarding SS2 doesn’t require special training. All you need
are money and guts. That said, to get the most out of the flight
you might want to familiarize yourself with the disorienting
effects of high altitude beforehand, especially when your time
in space is costing thousands of dollars per minute.  “You’re riding a rocket motor,” cautions astronaut Brian Binnie, who piloted SS1 to win the Ansari X Prize in 2004.
“There’s a lot of noise, vibration, G-forces -- and you are
saturated by that.”  Other than a three-day orientation program in New Mexico 
just before your flight, VG doesn’t have its own official space 
prep program but does recommend a flight simulator/centrifuge 
experience at the National AeroSpace Training and Research or 
 NASTAR  center, in Southampton,  Pennsylvania .  I wanted real space-flight experience, too -- or at least
something as close as I could get to the real deal.  Cold War  First up was a MiG flight. Since Concorde’s operations
ceased in 2003, the highest folks can fly commercially is in old
fighter jets. I headed to a Cold War-era air base near Moscow
for my adventure.  Once I was strapped in, the MiG-25 quickly took my pilot
and me to 30,000 feet. As we accelerated through the speed of
sound (about 750 mph) there was a slight disturbance, then the
ride became spookily smooth. I began to feel the G-forces. A
tiny tape recorder I was holding felt like it weighed 10 pounds.  At 84,000 feet, the sky overhead was black, and a diffused
blue hue covered the Earth’s curvature. The world stopped as we
hung in the heavens. Just as suddenly, we were in a disorienting
dive, stabilizing again at 30,000 feet for aerobatic maneuvers.  Back on terra firma, the ground crew said we’d climbed 16
miles and hit Mach 2.6 -- all in a half an hour. In SS2, I will
go even faster -- exceeding Mach 3 and travel four times as
high.  Zero Gravity  As intense as the MiG flight was, I did not experience
weightlessness. For that, I needed a separate venue.  Russia uses cargo planes to simulate the experience. An
Ilyushin Il-76 climbs to 35,000 feet, then goes into a
controlled dive for 30 seconds. In that half-minute, fliers are
weightless. The plane pulls up at 25,000 feet and climbs again.
Passengers alternate between the weightlessness and ascent
phases.  Convinced I had to use force, I pushed off as we went into
our first dive. A few moments later my head banged the ceiling.
When weightless, one learns immediately that brute strength is
not needed -- and there’s no way to correct mid-air.  I pulled a bottle from my pocket and opened it. The water
dispersed in ball-bearing-sized blobs. It was good fun, but by
the last of a dozen parabolas everyone was feeling nauseous.  Centrifugal Force  Having done my training, I’m nearly ready for the rigors of
SS2. I still plan to experience the NASTAR centrifuge before the
year is out.  Could an early accident derail later excursions like mine?
In discussions with Branson and SS2 builder Burt Rutan, the
feeling was that if it’s something identifiable and can be
prevented with a logical fix, it won’t have a big impact. But if
the problem is more systemic, it could be much more challenging.  An analogy is the early airline industry where mishaps were
part of progress. Look at the business today. In fact, many say
VG’s ultimate suborbital space model is a Concorde on steroids
where a flight between, say Sydney and Los Angeles, would take
just a few hours compared with current 18-hour commercial
flights.  This fall, VG has a ticket-holder event scheduled at Mojave 
Airport. The company is cagey about what’s planned, though this 
writer is hoping for a test flight of SS2 all the way to space. 
If that occurs, you can be sure the line of would-be astronauts 
will suddenly grow. Glad I have my ticket.  To purchase a VG ticket:  virgingalactic.com . Zero Gravity
Corp.  (gozerog.com ) runs weightlessness flights ($5,000). MiG
flights ($20,000-up) are offered via Incredible Adventures
( incredible-adventures.com ). For centrifuge/flight simulation
($3,000), try NASTAR ( nastarcenter.com ).  (James M. Clash is the author of “The Right Stuff:
Interviews with Icons of the 1960s” (AskMen, 2012). He writes
on adventure for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,
 Catherine Hickley  on German art,  James Clash  on adventure,  James
Russell  on architecture and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
James M. Clash at  Jamesmclash@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 