-- Ackman Won’t Realize Bet on Hong Kong’s Peg, K.C. Chan Says
-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-01-14T07:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ackman-won-t-realize-bet-on-hong-kong-dollar-peg-k-c-chan-says.html
Hedge-fund investor  William Ackman 
won’t realize his bet that Hong Kong will amend its 29-year-old
peg to the dollar, said K.C. Chan, the city’s secretary for
financial services and the treasury.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has injected almost $14
billion since Oct. 19 as the local currency’s move to HK$7.75
obliged it to buy U.S. dollars in the foreign-exchange market.
Ackman, the founder of New York-based Pershing Square Capital
Management LP said Oct. 20 he was keeping his call contracts on
the city’s currency and suggested Hong Kong revalue its dollar
30 percent higher versus the greenback to curb inflation.  “There is no question about the peg at all,” Chan said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today at the Asian Financial
Forum in Hong Kong. “He will be disappointed. I don’t expect
him to realize his bet.”  The Hong Kong dollar traded at HK$7.7526 per dollar as of
3:30 p.m. in the city, little changed from HK$7.7521 at the end
of last week. It touched HK$7.7532, matching a Jan. 11 level
that was the weakest in three months. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  has risen 8.5 percent since Hong Kong made it first
intervention in three years on Oct. 19.  “The fund flows coming in, as I understand, are mainly for
investment into the equity market,” Chan said. “Some of the
fund flows are there because the local corporates are borrowing
in the U.S. dollar space and China corporates in Hong Kong
dollars. What we are seeing is so far quite normal for portfolio
allocation and fund-raising activities.”  Peg Outlook  Hong Kong linked its exchange rate to the U.S. dollar in
1983, when negotiations between China and the U.K. over the
city’s return to Chinese rule spurred capital outflows. In 2005,
policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline to
HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  All but one of the 20 analysts polled by Bloomberg in
November, including Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said they expect Hong Kong’s fixed exchange-rate system to last
for at least five more years. There is no better alternative to
the existing peg as the  yuan  is not yet fully convertible, John
Greenwood, the London-based chief economist at Invesco Asset
Management who was credited with designing the exchange-rate
system, said at a Jan. 11 briefing in Hong Kong.  December’s 14.1 percent jump in Chinese exports was the
biggest positive surprise since March 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, The unexpected surge renewed concern from
analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. that statistics from the nation can
be unreliable.  China Recovery  “I believe the data we have seen in the past months do
suggest a recovery,” Chan said. “China’s economic performance
is improving. But we should know that  China  is not going to go
back to very high growth, without regard for the quality of that
kind of growth.”  China has started preparations for a trial of its qualified
domestic individual investor program, which would allow
individuals to invest in overseas capital markets. The central
bank lists the so-called QDII2 initiative as one of its major
goals for 2013.  “I don’t expect a major relaxation in terms of giving
individual investors access to the worldwide markets without
some kind of quotas or some kind of control arrangement,” Chan
said. There will be more exchange-traded funds sold in Shenzhen
and  Shanghai  that allow Chinese investors to buy Hong Kong
shares, he said.  Hong Kong won’t set up a government-owned investment
company that’s similar to  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte.,
Chan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Li  in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  