-- ACWA-Led Group Wins Bid to Build $2.6 Billion Saudi Power Plant
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-14T15:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/acwa-led-group-wins-bid-to-build-2-6-billion-saudi-power-plant.html
ACWA Power International and
partners including  Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  won bidding to build a $2.6
billion power plant on  Saudi Arabia ’s Red Sea coast, the state
news agency reported.  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO) , the government-controlled
distributor, awarded the contract to the ACWA-led group to build
and operate the Rabigh II IPP, or independent power plant, Saudi
Press Agency said today.  The facility will have capacity to produce 1,813 megawatts
and is to start operating in the summer of 2016, SPA cited Saudi
Electricity Chief Executive Officer Ali al-Barrak as saying.
Financing arrangements for the deal are to be complete by the
end of March, SPA reported.  Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf oil producers are
boosting power production to meet growing demand from domestic
industries and expanding populations. They mainly seek private
investors to build and run plants under long-term agreements to
sell electricity to state-run utilities.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  and partners Samsung
Engineering Co. and  Qatar Electricity & Water Co. (QEWS)  also bid for
the project. The group’s initial offer in October included the
lowest rate at which potential builders pledged to sell power to
Saudi Electricity.  Taqa, as the Abu Dhabi utility is known, said today it lost
out in the bidding after Saudi Electricity sought revised offers
for a power station with less generating capacity than the Taqa-
led group originally planned. Taqa said it would seek to help
meet Saudi Arabia’s power needs in the future.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  