-- Mad Vincent’s Masterpieces Skewed by Japanese Dreams
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-01-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mad-vincent-s-masterpieces-skewed-by-japanese-dreams.html
Marc Restellini, founder and
director of the Pinacotheque de Paris, is notorious for his
unorthodox views and controversial shows.  In past exhibitions, he associated  Jackson Pollock  with
shamanism and mixed sculptures by  Alberto Giacometti  with
Etruscan art.  “Van Gogh, Dreaming of  Japan ,” his latest sleight of hand,
confronts the Dutch painter’s landscapes with color prints by
Ando Hiroshige (1797-1858), the last master of the ukiyo-e
(pictures of “the floating world” in a literal translation,
meaning images that capture transience or impermanence.)  Japanese prints became popular throughout  Europe  after the
1867 World Exhibition in Paris where the Japanese government
presented more than 10,000 art objects. Edouard Manet,  Claude Monet ,  Edgar Degas  and other artists started collecting the
prints and used them in their own work.  Gilbert and Sullivan’s operetta “The Mikado” and Giacomo
Puccini’s opera “Madama Butterfly” are proof that the Japan
craze wasn’t limited to  France .  Vincent van Gogh, too, was fascinated by the prints and,
with the help of his brother Theo, an  art dealer , eventually
amassed hundreds of them. A few he copied, including two by
Hiroshige.  Japanese Model  In other works, the Japanese model shines through more
indirectly: “The Langlois Bridge” and “The Dance Hall” are
obviously influenced by the simplified, decorative ukiyo-e
style. In his portrait of Pere Tanguy, another art dealer,  Van
Gogh  used the prints that were sold at Tanguy’s shop as
backdrop.  None of these canvases is on view at the Pinacotheque.
Instead we’re told: “The majority of Van Gogh’s landscapes from
1887 onwards were constructed around a referential system in the
center of which is found Hiroshige’s oeuvre.”  That’s balderdash.  It’s true that Vincent, in a letter to Theo, wrote: “All my
work is based to some extent on Japanese art.” In another
letter, however, he talks about the “French Japanese, the
Impressionists” and makes it clear that they, not the real
Japanese, are “the essence and the main thing.”  No wonder the 31 landscapes, all on loan from the  Kroller-
Muller Museum  in Otterlo, Holland, fail to support the
outlandish thesis. Van Gogh’s nervous, deeply emotional
paintings and Hiroshige’s poetic fairytale images are worlds
apart.  Vincent Masterpieces  So forget about the show’s pretension and enjoy its two
parts as separate events.  Not every work is top-drawer Van Gogh, yet there is enough
to admire. A few are masterpieces: “The Sower” or “Road with
Cypress and Star.”  For the Parisians, the show, misguided as it is, offers a
rare opportunity to make amends for old sins: Although Van Gogh
spent his most productive years in France, you find only a few
of his canvases in French museums.  Still, the second part of the exhibition, the one devoted
to Hiroshige, is the more original. The 200 images of his
travels through an imaginary, poetic Japan, all on loan from the
 Museum Volkenkunde  in Leiden, Holland, are a treasure trove from
an enchanted, lost universe.  “Van Gogh: Reves de Japon” and “Hiroshige: L’Art du Voyage”
are on view through March 17.  Information:  http://www.pinacotheque.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 