-- Adidas’s New Trekking Shoe Provides More Grip for Mountaineers
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-14T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/adidas-s-new-trekking-shoe-provides-more-grip-for-mountaineers.html
A mountaineering and trekking shoe
that gives wearers a stronger grip will become the first product
to go on sale as a result of  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s 2011 acquisition of the
Five Ten performance footwear brand.  The Terrex Solo Stealth will be available from July after
being presented at a show in  Salt Lake City  later this month,
Rolf Reinschmidt, the head of Adidas’ outdoor business, said in
an interview. A high-friction rubber compound gives the shoe
“unbeatable grip” and provides “a perfect bond with the
ground,” according to Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas.  The shoe, which will be priced at $120, “is the first
visible product collaboration” between Adidas and Five Ten
since the $25 million  acquisition  of the California-based
company, Reinschmidt said. The rubber compound was developed by
Five Ten founder Charles Cole in 1985.  Adidas, the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker
behind  Nike Inc. (NKE) , plans to boost sales of its outdoor unit to
500 million euros ($668 million), or 2.9 percent of the 17
billion euros of group revenue it forecasts by 2015. Outdoor
products accounted for 300 million euros, or 2.3 percent, of
revenue in 2011, spokeswoman Katja Schreiber said by phone.  “We expect that the importance of the outdoor segment will
further grow globally,” Reinschmidt said, citing Korea and
 Japan  as “very technical outdoor markets that love innovative
products.” He also identified China,  Russia ,  Germany  and the
U.S. as key markets. Activities such as rock climbing, indoor
climbing and bouldering are growing “considerably,” he said.  High-Tech Apparel  Reinschmidt has led the outdoor-sports unit since 2007 and
has a team of 60 employees developing high-tech apparel and
boots. Adidas’s outdoor apparel includes the 360-gram Terrex
Gore-Tex Active Shell jacket, which is designed to protect
trekkers at heights of up to 6,000 meters (19,686 feet). The
brand’s outdoor footwear includes the Terrex Fast R.  “Our clear focus is the Terrex collection,” Reinschmidt
said. Terrex products are developed for activities including
mountaineering, climbing, alpinism and ski-touring, he said.  Adidas shares  gained  1.7 percent to 68.23 euros at 4:50
p.m. in  Frankfurt  today. The company is schedule to release
full-year earnings on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  