-- Aflac Hires Evangel to Risk Post as Kirsch Builds Team
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-14T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/aflac-hires-metlife-s-evangel-as-kirsch-builds-investing-team.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health insurance, hired Lori Evangel to be chief
risk officer in the investment division as the company reshapes
its portfolio after suffering losses tied to European banks.  Evangel, 50, who worked most recently at  MetLife Inc. (MET) , will
be based in New York and report to Chief Investment Officer Eric Kirsch, the insurer said today in a statement.  Kirsch was hired in 2011 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
after the insurer was burned by privately negotiated investments
in European banks that issued debt in yen. Columbus, Georgia-
based Aflac, which sells most of its  coverage in Japan , has been
adding U.S. corporate debt as Kirsch builds his staff with hires
including Brad Dyslin, a former colleague at Deutsche Bank AG,
and Timothy “Chip” Stevens from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Evangel’s job involves “risk mitigation and prudent risk-
taking through market cycles,” according to the statement.  She began today in the newly created post, according to the
insurer. Evangel was senior vice president and enterprise risk
officer at MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer. She
previously worked for  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   Evangel received her bachelor’s degree from Middlebury
College in  Vermont  and a master’s in business administration
from the  State University of New York  at Albany.  MetLife said Frank Cassandra oversees corporate risk
management and Howie Kurpit has international risk management,
duties previously handled by Evangel. Both report to Global
Chief Risk Officer Stan Talbi, according to an e-mail today from
Chris Breslin, a MetLife spokesman.  Spain, Greece  Aflac in July reported second-quarter realized investment
losses of $272 million as the insurer recorded impairments on
Spanish holdings including Bankia SA. That was an improvement
from a year earlier when the company posted losses tied to
 Portugal ’s Banco BPI SA and National Bank of Greece SA.  Aflac gained 2 cents to $52.95 at 4 p.m. in New York
trading. The company has rallied about 23 percent in the past
year, beating the 19 percent advance of the 22-company Standard
and Poor’s 500 Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 Ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  