-- Airbus May Invest in Spanish Supplier Alestis to Secure Work
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-14T18:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/airbus-may-invest-in-spanish-supplier-alestis-to-secure-work.html
Airbus SAS may invest in one of its
key suppliers in Spain, Alestis Aerospace Manufacturing SL, to
protect the delivery of parts and ensure Alestis can pay its own
subcontractors.  Airbus has been supporting Alestis for more than a year,
since the Spanish company struggled to receive credit, and the
Toulouse-based planemaker is now considering an outright
investment, said Airbus spokesman Jaime Perez-Guerra.  Both Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are turning out record levels of
aircraft, with combined production set to rise 10 percent this
year. Suppliers including Alestis, which makes parts for all
Airbus aircraft including the new A350 wide-body jet, have
struggled to keep pace. Airbus purchased PFW in 2011 after the
German supplier lost access to credit.  “At this point our main aim is to guarantee that Alestis
will deliver on its obligations to us, and for that we need a
solution for the long term,” Perez-Guerra said.  Airbus has sent in managers to help Alestis in areas such
as engineering. The manufacturer may invest 21 million euros
($28 million) for a controlling 56.5 percent stake, Spanish
paper El Pais reported Jan. 9.  The amount of workload for Alestis coming from Airbus is
about worth about 2.3 billion euros over the next 10 years,
Perez-Guerra said. The company’s two main work packages for the
A350 are the belly fairing and the tail cone. The belly fairing
is a streamlined cover that protects the belly of a plane, used
to reduce drag.  Alestis didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.
Its shareholders include Alcor SL,  Caixabank (CABK)  and Junta de
Andalucia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  