-- Alamos Gold Makes Unsolicited Bid to Buy Aurizon Mines
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-01-14T18:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/alamos-gold-to-buy-aurizon-for-792-million.html
Alamos Gold Inc. (AGI) , a producer of the
metal in  Mexico , made an unsolicited takeover bid for  Canada ’s
 Aurizon Mines Ltd. (ARZ)  for about C$780 million ($792 million) to add
projects in the Abitibi region of northwestern  Quebec .  Investors in Aurizon would get either C$4.65 or 0.2801 of
an Alamos share for each share they own, Toronto-based Alamos
said today in a statement. The cash offer is 36 percent more
than Aurizon’s closing price in Toronto on Jan. 11. Alamos said
it holds a 16 percent  stake  in Aurizon.  Aurizon is considering the proposal, Jennifer North, a
spokeswoman for the Vancouver-based company, said during a phone
interview. Aurizon rose 34 percent to C$4.57 at 12:55 p.m. in
Toronto after earlier rising as much as 36 percent, the most
intraday since May 23, 2006. Alamos fell 9.9 percent to C$15.25,
the most intraday since June 28.  Aurizon has eight projects in Abitibi including the
operating Casa Berardi mine, according to the company’s website.
The bid is “opportunistic” given the decline in Aurizon’s
shares, said Steven Green, an analyst at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto. The stock dropped 37 percent in the 12 months through
Jan. 11 while the S&P/TSX Materials Index declined 13 percent.  “At surface it looks to be off-strategy,” Green, who has
a buy recommendation on Alamos, said in a note. “Alamos is a
low-cost, open-pit heap leach producer in Mexico and  Turkey ,
while Aurizon is a high-cost underground producer in Quebec.”  Alamos, which operates the Mulatos mine in Mexico and
develops projects in Turkey, said it first approached Aurizon in
2008, according to an Alamos filing today.  Multiple Approaches  “We have made multiple approaches to Aurizon over the
years,” Alamos Chief Executive Officer  John McCluskey  said on a
conference call today. “There’s never been any interest on
Aurizon’s side.”  The offer values Aurizon at 5.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the same multiple as the
median of five comparable gold-mining takeover bids in the past
12 months, the data also show.  Alamos won’t require its investors to vote on the deal,
which is based on a maximum cash payout of C$305 million and as
many 23.5 million shares being issued. The offer is dependent on
Aurizon not adopting a shareholder-rights plan. Such a plan,
also known as a poison pill, typically allows a company to issue
new shares to block a takeover in the event of an unsolicited
bid.  Dundee  Capital Markets  was Alamos’s financial adviser and
Torys LLP was its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  