-- Alaska Sells Triple Top-Rated Bonds for Schools: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-14T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/alaska-sells-triple-top-rated-bonds-for-schools-muni-deals.html
Alaska , flush with oil-related
revenue, is selling about $166 million of general-obligation
debt this week in its first issue with top grades from the three
major ratings companies.  The deal is Alaska’s inaugural transaction since  Fitch
Ratings  raised its grade one step to AAA on Jan. 7. The state
has never had the top rating from Fitch, said Elizabeth Fogerty,
a spokeswoman for the New York-based company. Fitch cited
Alaska’s “substantial and growing reserve balances,” with
three funds expected to total $23 billion in fiscal 2019.  “We’re thrilled,” Angela Rodell, Alaska’s deputy
commissioner of revenue, said from Juneau. “It reflects the
strong financial position of Alaska.”  There are now eight states with the highest general-
obligation grades from all three rating companies -- Fitch,
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service -- data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Ten-year tax-exempt debt of  Virginia , a member of that
group, has a yield-to-maturity of about 1.87 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors demand a spread of about
0.13 percentage point over  benchmark debt  for the bonds, little
changed from when they were issued in February, the data show.  Alaska, which has no income levy, is selling the bulk of
the debt as federally tax-exempt securities, with about $12
million coming as taxable qualified school-construction bonds.
The sale will fund projects such as a high-school aquatic
facility and the state library, bond documents show.  Funding most capital needs through current revenue, the
49th state rarely issues debt, said Fitch, which rates $576
million of Alaska general obligations. About 92 percent of
general-fund revenue for fiscal 2013 comes from petroleum-
related activity. North Slope West Coast oil prices averaged
$112.65 a barrel in fiscal 2012, compared with the state’s
budget forecast of $94.70, according to Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  