-- Malaysian Rally Ends Peacefully After Opposition Moves Indoors
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-01-14T01:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/malaysian-rally-ends-peacefully-after-opposition-moves-indoors.html
Malaysian police allowed tens of
thousands of opposition supporters to rally inside a stadium in
Kuala Lumpur over the weekend, avoiding a repeat of earlier
street demonstrations when officers clashed with marchers.  Anwar Ibrahim ’s three-party People’s Alliance secured
permission for the “People’s Uprising Rally” to be held in
Merdeka Stadium near the center of the capital, abiding by a ban
on street protests introduced by Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
government last year. About 50,000 people attended the event
which concluded without any arrests, Zainuddin Ahmad, Dang Wangi
district police chief, told reporters.  “It was good that they managed to have a peaceful
protest,” Wan Saiful Wan Jan, chief executive of the Kuala
Lumpur-based Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs, said
by phone today. “The police played a non-partisan and
professional role in allowing the opposition to express itself.
This should set the tone for the upcoming election campaign.”  Police fired tear gas and arrested 512 people when a non-
governmental organization campaigning for fair elections staged
an illegal outdoor demonstration last year. Attendance at last
weekend’s rally fell short of target of the 1 million people set
by Mohamad Sabu, deputy president of the opposition Pan-
Malaysian Islamic Party, before the event. Najib must dissolve
parliament by April 28 for polls.  “We want a free and fair election,” Anwar said in a
statement released to coincide with the rally. “You have a vote
and I have a vote. No one should steal our votes.”  Voter Fraud  The government is pleased that the opposition rally passed
off peacefully, an unidentified government spokesman said in an
e-mailed statement from the Prime Minister’s Office on Jan. 12.
The event underlines the government’s commitment to freedom of
assembly and the strength of Malaysia’s democracy, the spokesman
said, according to the statement.  Indelible ink will be used for the first time to help
prevent voter fraud and Malaysians overseas will be allowed to
cast postal votes. Even so, some other demands by the Coalition
for Clean and Fair Elections lobby group, which staged last 
year’s rally, have yet to be met.  The  People’s Alliance  comprises Anwar’s multiracial
People’s Justice Party, the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party and the
Democratic Action Party. Some Pan-Malaysian members support the
implementation of Islamic law, while the Democratic Action Party
has primarily ethnic Chinese members.  The U.S. Embassy, located 5 kilometers (3 miles) from the
stadium, issued an e-mailed circular on Jan. 11 urging U.S.
citizens to exercise caution and avoid the area.  Economic Strength  Najib saw his approval rating fall to 63 percent in
December from 65 percent in November, the lowest since he
received 59 percent support in August 2011, the Merdeka Center
for Opinion Research said Jan. 10. The survey showed those happy
with the government at 45 percent compared with 48 percent in
October.  The 59-year-old is entering the election season at a time
of comparative  economic  strength. While many developed countries
have faltered,  Malaysia ’s gross domestic product growth has
exceeded 5 percent for five quarters with domestic demand
countering a slowdown in  exports .  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index closed at a
record on Jan. 7, having risen more than 11 percent over the
past year. The gauge was 0.1 percent higher at 9.15 a.m. today.
Najib cut income taxes and extended handouts for the poor in his
2013 budget announced in September.  His National Front coalition is fighting to hold on to
power after governing Malaysia since independence in 1957. In
the last election in 2008, the ruling parties lost the two-
thirds majority in parliament they had held for four decades.
Anwar’s People’s Alliance today controls four out of the
country’s 13 states, including Selangor and Penang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  