-- Altona Seeks Partner After Xstrata Exits Copper Venture
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-01-14T05:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/altona-seeks-partner-after-xstrata-pulls-out-of-copper-venture.html
Altona Mining Ltd. (AOH) , developer of a
A$320 million ($338 million) copper venture in the Australian
state of Queensland, aims to find a new partner or sell the
project in the next six months after  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  withdrew.  Altona, which also owns the  Outokumpu  mine in  Finland , has
started a process to target investors in  Asia  and  Europe  after
Xstrata chose not to exercise an option to acquire a 51 percent
stake in the Roseby development, Alistair Cowden, managing
director of Perth-based Altona, said today in a phone interview.
Credit Suisse AG is the financial adviser.  “Our preferences are either a traditional strategic party
to come in for a share of the project and provide financing, or
maybe a sale of the project,” or merging it with other mines to
share the cashflow, Cowden said. “Target investors are not just
 China  and we’re active in Europe in Finland so we get exposed to
a lot of investors more than other Australian companies. We
would like this resolved within six months.”  Profit margins for Australian producers will remain healthy
at prices around $3 to $4 a pound, even as costs are higher,
said Cowden. Copper gained 6.3 percent last year in  New York ,
its third annual gain in four years, as manufacturing expanded
in China, the world’s largest user of the metal. The Roseby
development is located near Mt Isa in northwest Queensland and
has 1.54 million tons of contained copper and 384,000 ounces of
contained gold.  Altona Shares  “Xstrata pulling out just means it doesn’t suit their
strategy today or they’re not prepared to pay the price,” said
Cowden. “It’s a trivial transaction for them.”  Altona shares fell 11 percent to 25 cents at the close in
Sydney, their biggest drop in more than two years and bringing
the company’s market value to A$132 million. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent.  Xstrata’s decision to pull out is “a commercial decision”
following an independent valuation of the project in December,
the Zug, Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  