-- Marchionne Sees Fiat Narrowing 2013 Loss at European Unit
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-01-14T15:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/marchionne-sees-fiat-narrowing-2013-loss-at-european-unit.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, plans to narrow losses in Europe
this year as sales may recover in the second half.  “We are dragging the bottom, but it’s the bottom” for
industry sales in the region, Sergio Marchionne, chief executive
officer of both Fiat and Chrysler, said today in an interview at
the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. At the
same time, “pricing is not great, and that continues to be the
most troublesome part of the European market.” A revival in
demand in the second six months of 2013 is “possible.”  Marchionne is relying on Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
Chrysler to offset losses at Fiat’s mass-market brands in  Europe 
as he works to make those operations profitable before merging
the two manufacturers. The Turin-based carmaker has forecast a
700 million-euro ($935 million) loss in the region in 2012, and
the CEO has said Fiat will break even there in 2015 at earliest.  “The small-cars segment is going to be challenging, so
life is going to remain tough for Fiat in 2013,” said Mike Tyndall, a London-based analyst at Barclays Plc. It will be “a
year of transition, and in theory a year of spending,” for Fiat
in Europe.  Fiat  rose  as much as 6.6 percent and was trading up 3.6
percent at 4.28 euros at 3:54 a.m. in Milan, the highest since
Oct. 18, based on closing prices.  Shrinking Market  The European car market is set to contract for a sixth
consecutive year in 2013 after reaching the lowest in almost two
decades last year, according to industry estimates. Marchionne
told reporters at the  Detroit  show today that volume auto
producers in Europe probably lost 5 billion euros in 2012.  Marchionne reiterated today that Fiat and Chrysler should
combine into one company, in response to a question about buying
the remaining 41.5 percent stake in the U.S. carmaker owned by
the United Auto Workers Retiree Medical Benefits Trust.  Chrysler is complying with a demand by the trust last week
to begin registration of its holdings in a step toward a
possible initial public offering, Marchionne said. The fourth
quarter is the earliest that an IPO could occur, he said. The
trust is seeking to register 16.6 percent of Chrysler’s stock,
the carmaker said on Jan. 9.  “I understand their objective,” Marchionne said today.
“They need to see the position monetized. If they want to do it
through an IPO, we’ll do an IPO.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Detroit via 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit via 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  