-- Saint-Gobain Sells U.S. Jar Unit to Ardagh for $1.7 Billion
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-14T13:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ardagh-buys-saint-gobain-s-glass-container-unit-for-1-7-billion.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA  agreed to
sell the U.S. business of its Verallia glass bottle-and-jar unit
to Ardagh Group SA for $1.7 billion in a deal that tops the
valuation placed on it in an earlier spinoff attempt.  “It puts a high value on our North American containers
business, above the multiples contemplated at the time of the
planned IPO,” said Saint-Gobain Chief Executive Officer Pierre- Andre de Chalendar. In 2011, the French company sought to raise
as much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) by selling 40
percent of Verallia in an initial public offering, only to be
prevented by a market slump amid the sovereign debt crisis.  Saint-Gobain is exiting packaging to focus on homebuilding
and renovation products, glass used in cars and construction,
and high-performance materials such as refractories. Closely-
held Ardagh, a Luxembourg-based glass and metal packaging
company with clients such as brewer  Heineken NV (HEIA)  and cosmetics
maker  L’Oreal SA (OR) , said the deal will increase its glass business
globally by almost 60 percent and help winning new clients in
the U.S. wine industry.  Saint-Gobain shares  climbed as much as 4.4 percent to 33.10
euros in Paris trading and were up 2.3 percent as of 1:25 p.m.,
giving the company a market value of 17.4 billion euros.  “This transaction is positive news, especially at this
current multiple,” said Sven Edelfelt, an analyst at Bryan,
Garnier & Co in Paris.  Wine Business  Ardagh plans to raise $1.45 billion in debt, denominated in
both euro and dollar senior secured notes and senior notes, to
finance the purchase.  “VNA is a very innovative business that would allow us to
expand our glass operations into the very important wine sector
in the U.S. for the first time,” Ardagh CEO Niall Wall said.  The offer is binding and irrevocable, Ardagh said. After
completion of this transaction, it would operate 113 facilities
in 26 countries, employ some 22,000 people and have global sales
exceeding 5.4 billion euros, it said.  In July 2012, Ardagh agreed to buy U.S.-based peer Anchor
Glass Container Corp. from Wayzata Investment Partners LLC for
$880 million to boost its American business. In 2011, Ardagh
said it will buy Impress Cooperatieve U.A. for 1.7 billion euros
from private-equity firm Doughty Hanson & Co.  ‘High Value’  The Verallia  North America  deal “would increase the size
of our glass business globally by almost 60 percent and be a
very significant step in developing our operations in the
U.S.,” said Ardagh Chairman Paul Coulson. “It would result in
approximately 40 percent of Ardagh Group’s total sales and
Ebitda being generated in the U.S.”  The transaction values Verallia North America, the second-
largest glass container maker in the U.S., at 6.5 times 2012
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to  Saint-Gobain (SGO) , which is based in Courbevoie near
Paris.  The 2011 IPO would have valued Verallia between 5.8 times
and 6.4 times Ebitda, and transactions in the industry have been
made at between 5.5 times and six times earnings, the CEO said.  The agreement with Ardagh is a “new milestone” in Saint-
Gobain’s strategic refocusing and proceeds will be used to
primarily strengthen the balance sheet and pursue small or
medium-sized targets, de Chalendar said. Saint-Gobain is
pursuing targets in  Asia  and other  emerging markets , and wants
to grow in energy-efficiency products, as well as consolidate
its positions in distribution, he said.  Strategic Revamp  The results of Verallia North America, which had estimated
revenue of $1.62 billion in 2012, are at their “highest
historical level,” de Chalendar said.  The rest of Verallia, which mostly has operations in
 Europe , and some plants in  Algeria  and  South America , had annual
sales of more than 2.5 billion euros and Ebitda of more than 500
million euros, the CEO said. It will be sold when conditions are
“attractive” for Saint-Gobain and its shareholders, de
Chalendar said.  All options are open, including an IPO at some point,
though European markets don’t allow for a share sale “today,”
he said.  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s largest maker of glass
bottles and jars ahead of Verallia, is unlikely to be interested
in Verallia’s European assets, de Chalendar said.  Saint-Gobain is discussing the planned disposal of the
Verallia North American business with unions ahead of a planned
completion date later this year.  U.S. Recovery  The purchase is timed with signs of recovery in retail
spending in the U.S. A housing-market rebound, higher stock
prices and an improving job market are helping sustain  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  U.S. retail sales probably rose in December as Americans
wrapped up their holiday shopping and auto dealers closed out
the best two months since 2008, economists said before a report
this week. The 0.2 percent increase would follow a 0.3 percent
gain in November, according to the median forecast of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Commerce
Department’s figures on Jan. 15.  Other reports are projected to show homebuilding picked up,
manufacturing expanded and the cost of living remained
contained.  Citigroup Inc. advised Ardagh and committed financing for
the deal, supported by legal firms Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP and Shearman and Sterling LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  