-- Armstrong to Acknowledge Doping in TV Interview, USA Today Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/armstrong-to-acknowledge-doping-in-tv-interview-usa-today-says.html
Lance Armstrong  will acknowledge
using performance-enhancing drugs during his cycling career
today in a television interview as part of a plan to
rehabilitate his image,  USA Today  reported, citing two
unidentified people with knowledge of the situation.  The interview with  Oprah Winfrey  will be taped today at
Armstrong’s home in Austin,  Texas , and  broadcast  in a 90-minute
episode Jan. 17 on the Oprah Winfrey Network.  Armstrong, 41, plans to say he used performance-enhancing
drugs without giving any detail on specific cases and events,
USA Today said. Armstrong has repeatedly denied using drugs to
further his cycling career. USA Today said Armstrong hopes his
confession is the start of a multiyear healing process that may
help him be judged more favorably because of his work fighting
cancer and due to his domination of the sport in an era in which
doping was the norm.  “I’m calm, I’m at ease, and I’m ready to speak candidly,”
Armstrong was quoted by the  Associated Press  as saying yesterday
while jogging near his home.  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment.  Armstrong was banned from competing for life by the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency in August and stripped of his seven Tour de
France victories after declining to take the case to
arbitration.  He lost the titles for what the USADA later said was a
“career fueled start to finish by doping.” He forced teammates
to dope or be fired from his team, and himself transfused blood
and used testosterone and erythropoietin, or EPO, the agency
said.  Public Perception  Armstrong faces a potentially unchangeable public
perception as a cheater and his best course of action would be a
confession, not an apology, though even that wouldn’t be a cure-
all, said Jane Jordan-Meier, founder and chief executive officer
of the Media Skills Academy in Fairfield,  California .  “Apologies have become an art form and most of us don’t
believe them anymore,” Jordan-Meier said in a phone interview
last week. “A confession, which is something that’s highly
elevated, more spiritual, must absolutely come from the heart.
It must be believable, it must be visceral in its very being,
because that’s how we react to people in a crisis.”  Armstrong, who survived testicular cancer before conquering
the sport of cycling, created Livestrong, the largest athlete-
founded charity, which has raised more than $470 million since
1997, according to its website. Following USADA’s report, he
severed ties with the foundation after years as perhaps the most
well-known public figure in the fight against cancer.  In addition to stepping down from Livestrong, Armstrong was
also dropped by several sponsors.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  pulled its support
for him one week after the USADA report.  A week later, Oakley Inc. severed its “long-standing
relationship” with Armstrong to become the last big company to
fall in the cyclist’s sponsor lineup.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,
Trek Bicycle Corp., and energy supplement makers FRS and Honey
Stinger also dropped the athlete.  For Armstrong, the interview may at least be a first step
in the right direction.  “It’s never too late,” Jordan-Meier said. “People
confess on their death beds and it gives them peace of mind,
because there’s some dignity restored. It would bring back some
integrity to the sport, to the fans, to themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  