-- Harper Details Plans for Canadian Venture Capital Funding
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-01-14T19:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/harper-details-c-400-million-canada-venture-capital-fund-plans.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his government will create new national venture-
capital funds and recapitalize existing pools as part of efforts
to increase availability of cash to startups.  Harper, speaking today in Montreal, released details of his
plans to inject C$400 million ($407 million) in venture capital
funding, initially announced in the government’s March  budget ,
including the creation of “funds of funds” that will be open
to the private-sector and provinces. The federal money will be
allocated over a period of as many as 10 years.  “The purpose is not for this to be solely a federal
government-led effort,” Harper told reporters today. “The
government’s role here really is to kick-start this, to provide
a framework, but ultimately to build a very robust and complete
private sector network.”  Canada ’s government has sought to revamp funding for
innovation, putting more focus on direct investments in
companies and paring back tax credits. Investment by Canadian
businesses in research and development was about 1 percent of
 gross domestic product  in 2009, less than half the U.S. level,
according to the 2012 budget.  The government will allocate C$250 million to create two
major funds that will be jointly financed by non-government
investors. The money will be used primarily to finance other
venture capital funds. The government is asking private
investors to signal their interest by Feb. 8.  As much as C$100 million will go to recapitalize existing
“large” private-sector funds, and as much as C$50 million will
go into three to five “high-performing” venture capital funds,
Harper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  