-- Marriott Sued Over Alleged Conspiracy With Workers’ Union
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-14T23:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/marriott-sued-over-alleged-conspiracy-with-hotel-workers-union.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  was sued
for $500 million and accused of conspiring with a hotel workers’
union to keep two of its  New York City  properties union-free
while helping the union organize at others.  Madison 92nd Street Associates LLC, which owned the Upper
East Side Courtyard by Marriott, sued the hotel operator today
in Manhattan federal court, claiming Marriott and the union
secretly agreed to keep the Marriott Marquis and the Marriott
Financial Center from unionizing.  “In the fall of 2002, defendants abandoned the traditional
arms-length labor-management relationship and joined forces in a
secret agreement in which Marriott agreed to grease the skids
for the union’s organizing campaign at certain Marriott-branded
hotels,” Madison said in its complaint.  Madison claims it was forced into bankruptcy by the
increased costs of doing business under what it called “the
forced unionization of its workers” by Marriott and the union.
It is seeking $50 million in damages, which may be tripled under
U.S. antitrust and racketeering laws, plus disgorgement of $350
million in alleged unjust proceeds to Marriott.  Jeff Flaherty, a spokesman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Marriott, declined to comment on the suit. The  New York  Hotel &
Motel Trades Council couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Madison has separately sued Courtyard Management Corp. in a
related suit in New York State court.  ‘Backdoor Agreement’  “Marriott and Courtyard have fraudulently enriched
themselves at the expense of hotel owners and workers throughout
New York City for over a decade now,” Nicholas Gravante Jr. of
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP said in a statement today.
“Through a secret, backdoor agreement with the New York Hotel
Workers union negotiated in 2002, Marriott agreed to unionize
the workers at certain hotels managed by Marriott -- including
Madison -- in exchange for keeping Marriott’s most prestigious
properties union-free.”  The case is Madison 92nd Street Associates LLC v. Marriott
International Inc., 1:13-cv-00291, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  