-- Harry Winston CEO Interested in Buying Rio’s Diavik Stake
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-14T21:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/harry-winston-ceo-interested-in-buying-rio-s-diavik-stake.html
Harry Winston  Diamond Corp., selling
its luxury retail unit to  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , is interested in
buying Rio Tinto Group’s 60 percent stake in the Diavik mine in
 Canada ’s  Northwest Territories .  Harry Winston’s sale of its watch and jewelry unit,
announced today, gives the company “headroom in our credit
facility to do another transaction,” Harry Winston Chief
Executive Officer Robert A. Gannicott said today in a telephone
interview. The Toronto-based company “will be looking for other
things to do,” he said.  “We are aware that Rio Tinto wants to sell its 60 percent
interest in the Diavik mine where we already own the 40 percent,
that’s an obvious one for us to look at as long as the price is
right,” Gannicott said. He declined to comment on how much
Harry Winston would be willing to pay or whether the two
companies had discussed a deal.  Rio Tinto  said March 26 it was considering selling its
diamond assets, which include its Diavik stake, the Argyle mine
in Australia and 78 percent of Murowa in  Zimbabwe , because the
mines no longer fit its strategy. Harry Winston, which has a
right of first refusal on Rio’s interest in Diavik, also agreed
in November to buy  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Ekati mine in Canada and
its marketing operations for the stones for $500 million.  Selling Retail  The company said today it will sell its luxury retail unit
to Swatch for $750 million and as much as $250 million in
assumed debt. Harry Winston, which renamed itself from Aber
Diamond Corp. in 2007 after acquiring the luxury jewelry brand,
said it will now be known as Dominion Diamond Corp.  Harry Winston rose 4.4 percent to C$14.90 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have increased 38 percent in the past 12
months.  “The acquisition of Rio’s diamond division could represent
a fascinating opportunity for Harry Winston at the right
price,” said Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets
in  London . Still, “taking on a number of mining projects for a
company which has not historically operated mines could increase
the risk profile of the stock pending personnel announcements,”
he said in a note today.  A London-based spokesman for Rio Tinto declined to comment
on Gannicott’s statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  