-- Asian Dollar Bond Sales Pause After Surging to Four-Month High
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-14T04:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/asian-dollar-bond-sales-pause-after-surging-to-four-month-high.html
Companies in  Asia  took a breather
from marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds after offerings
surged last week to a four-month high. At least three issuers
are planning deals in coming days.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. led $6 billion of debt sales
from Asia excluding  Japan  last week, the most since September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd. priced $300 million of notes, ranked Caa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, to yield 9.875 percent after
marketing the securities at as much as 10.5 percent, according
to a person familiar with the offering.  “Investors are stepping away from the market to digest the
deals as pricing has been quite expensive,” said Brayan Lai, an
analyst in emerging-market credit trading at Jefferies Group
Inc. in  Singapore . “Yields on deals have been really low but
that’s not going to last.”  Average premiums on U.S. currency bonds in Asia rose to  250
basis points more than Treasuries  on Jan. 11 after touching a
20-month low of 245 basis points on Jan. 7, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Yuexiu Property Co., Thai Oil Pcl
and PT Indika Energy Tbk are considering offerings, people
familiar with the deals said last week.  In the broader Asia-Pacific region, National Australia Bank
Ltd. is marketing U.S. dollar notes in three maturities,
including 10-year bonds at a yield of about 120 basis points
more than Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter said.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 106 basis points
as of 8:50 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The measure has declined 7.4 basis points this
year, after falling 93 basis points in 2012, according to data
provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 0.5 of a basis point
to 113.5 as of 11:34 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. prices. The gauge has fallen 14 basis points since
Dec. 31, extending a 53 basis-point drop in 2012, CMA data show.  Markets in Japan are closed today for a public holiday.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  