-- Tata Consultancy Profit Beats Estimates on Outsourcing
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-01-15T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/tata-consultancy-profit-beats-estimates-on-outsourcing.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software exporter, reported third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates helped by outsourcing orders from
clients in  emerging markets  and the U.S.  Net income  surged 23 percent to 35.5 billion rupees ($651
million) in the three months ended December, from 28.9 billion
rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in a
 statement  yesterday. That compares with the 34 billion-rupee
median of 38  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose
22 percent to 160.7 billion rupees.  Tata Consultancy said it won orders from an Asian financial
institution and the Mexican government, while Latin America and
India led growth among emerging markets. A strong deal pipeline
and signs of demand momentum recovering in  Europe , makes for a
“very confident” outlook for the new financial year starting
April 1, Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran told
reporters yesterday.  “TCS is clearly doing better than its competitors, largely
because they’ve gone aggressively into developing markets,”
Atul Thakkar, analyst with Mumbai-based Anand Rathi Financial
Services. “If the developed world continues to produce like we
saw this quarter, that would be a game changer,” said Thakkar,
who recommends investors  hold  the stock.  Tata Consultancy, whose  customers  include Citigroup Inc.
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , added two $100 million-plus clients during
the quarter, boosting the tally to 16. Total active customers
reached 1,051 at the end of December, it said.  Shares Outperform  The  software developer  and call-center operator rose 2.2
percent to 1,334.50 rupees, the highest since Nov. 12, in Mumbai
trading before the earnings announcement yesterday. The BSE
India Sensitive Index added 1.2 percent. Tata Consultancy has
climbed 23 percent in the past year, outperforming an 8.6
percent gain for its nearest competitor  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)   Infosys, based in Bangalore, surged a record 17 percent on
Jan. 11 after  raising its sales forecast  and reporting higher-
than-expected profit. The sector could trade at “historic
highs” over the next two quarters, Thakkar said.  Major order wins in the last quarter included a large
service management deal with a global financial services company
in the U.S. and a multimillion-dollar contract from a North
American health-care provider, Tata Consultancy said.  Tata Consultancy proposed an interim dividend of 3 rupees,
the same as a year earlier.  The company added net 9,561 employees in the quarter and a
total of almost 50,000 this fiscal year, Ajoy Mukherjee, head of
human resources, said in the statement.  “We expect the good momentum to continue,” Chandrasekaran
said. “From our point of view, the environment is good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  