-- Australia REITs Price Gain to Be Subdued After 25% Jump in 2012
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-14T04:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/australia-reits-price-gain-to-be-subdued-after-25-jump-in-2012.html
Australian real estate investment
trusts , which last year had the biggest price increase since
2006, will see more subdued growth in 2013, said Morgan Stanley.  “The sector’s defensive earnings, attractive yield,
ability and willingness to restructure and consolidation have
driven 12.7 percent out-performance versus the Australian
market,” analysts, led by Lou Pirenc, wrote in an e-mailed note.
In 2013, “in the absence of a major downwards correction, we
expect REITs to perform more or less in line with the market.”  The S&P/ASX 200 REIT  Index (AS51PROP)  climbed 25 percent last year,
compared with a 15 percent advance in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index. The REIT index had a total return of 33 percent, compared
with a gain of 20 percent for the benchmark.  Charter Hall Group (CHC)  led the advance with a 64 percent
increase, followed by  Goodman Group (GMG) , which rose 52 percent and
 Australand Property Group (ALZ) , which climbed 42 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial property groups fared the best, driven by
Goodman, while retail, led by  Westfield Group (WDC)  and  Centro Retail
Australia (CRF) , also outperformed, Pirenc wrote. Office REITs
underperformed, pulled down by  Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA) ,
he said.  Price, Yields  Property trusts are now trading at a 6 percent premium to
their long-term average and the broader index, which will keep
price growth in 2013 in check, he said. Still, dividend yields,
at 220 basis points above the benchmark, are “very attractive”
and earnings are “relatively resilient,” Pirenc wrote. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Rental growth, which began to wane in 2012, will continue
to slow this year and affect asset values, Morgan Stanley said.
Still, this will be offset by lower debt costs, “limiting the
absolute downside risk to valuation,” Pirenc said.  Some property groups will also boost net tangible assets
and earnings through acquisitions, despite a shortage of high-
quality buildings and cautious tenants, he wrote.  Demand for office space, in particular, remains under
pressure and, with several developments in progress, vacancies
could rise, according to the bank. Morgan Stanley prefers  Dexus
Property Group (DXS) , which is exiting the U.S. and reinvesting the
capital in Australian office properties.  Retail rents too are expected to fall as tenant margins
shrink, although the decline will be checked by existing long-
term contracts, Pirenc said. The bank prefers Westfield and
Centro Retail, he said.  Industrial property groups that own or build modern
distribution and storage facilities will fare well, with Goodman
expected to see “superior earnings growth” in 2013, he said.  Home prices will rise as much as 4 percent on a nominal,
annualized basis in 2013, and be capped by continued lack of
affordability, Pirenc said.  The REIT index has risen 2.2 percent this year, compared
with a 1.6 percent increase in the benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  