-- Australian Nov. Home-Loan Approvals Show First Drop Since July
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-14T00:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/australian-nov-home-loan-approvals-show-first-drop-since-july.html
Australian home-loan approvals
unexpectedly fell in November for the first time in four months
as central bank interest-rate cuts failed to boost demand from
first-time buyers.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments declined 0.5 percent from October, when they rose 0.1
percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 20 economists was for
approvals to increase 0.5 percent.  The nation’s central bank reduced the overnight cash rate
target six times since Nov. 1, 2011, to 3 percent in order to
spur hiring and revive the housing market. Policy makers are
aiming to rebalance  Australia ’s two-speed economy, where mining
regions in the north and west thrive and manufacturers,
retailers and builders in the south and east struggle.  “Developer and home-buyer sentiment remains weighed down
by a soft economic outlook,” David Cannington, an economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , wrote in a research
report before today’s release.  The Australian dollar weakened after the data, buying
$1.0531 at 11:36 a.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0541 before the
report.  Today’s report showed the total value of loans fell 0.8
percent to A$21.5 billion ($22.6 billion) in November.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers gained 0.6 percent,
the report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to
rent or resell homes dropped 3.3 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 15.8 percent of dwellings
that were financed in November, down from 18.7 percent in
October and lower than 20.2 percent a year earlier, the report
showed today.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board last month cut the benchmark rate to 3 percent, matching
the half-century low set during the 2009 global recession.  Government data last week showed retail sales unexpectedly
declined for the first time in four months in November as
consumers spent less on household goods and clothing in an
economy with a weaker employment outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  