-- Australian Firefighters Get Relief as Cooler Weather Arrives
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-01-14T06:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/australian-firefighters-get-relief-as-cooler-weather-arrives-2-.html
Australian firefighters are getting
relief from cooler weather and cloud cover in eastern states
after a weekend when temperatures climbed and lightning strikes
ignited new bushfires.  A southerly wind change eased the fire risk in the south of
New South Wales yesterday, and was forecast to provide further
relief in the rest of the state and into southern Queensland
today, according to the Bureau of Meteorology. In Bourke, about
760 kilometers (475 miles) northwest of Sydney, temperatures
that reached as high as 48 degrees Celsius (118 degrees
Fahrenheit) yesterday dropped to 36 degrees today.  Emergency services yesterday were forced to let several
fires in isolated areas burn out of control as they focused on
containing blazes that had the potential to damage property.
Firefighters are using the cooler weather today and tomorrow to
bring more fires under control because there is a risk of
deteriorating conditions later in the week.  “We’re going to have some fairly favorable conditions over
coming days but the forecast is, as we move toward the end of
the week, for more hot air,” New South Wales Rural Fire Service
Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said in an Australian
Broadcasting Corp. interview today. “We’re still in the middle
of the fire season and we’ve got a long way to go.”  Homes Destroyed  There were still 120 fires burning in New South Wales,
according to the fire service. In Coonabarabran, a town 450
kilometers northwest of Sydney, 28 homes were destroyed
overnight and parts of the Siding Spring Observatory damaged,
the fire service said.  Temperatures in Sydney, which reached 42.3 degrees last
week, peaked at 24 degrees today and is forecast at 25 degrees
tomorrow. Queensland’s state capital, Brisbane, reached 32
degrees.  Yesterday, more than 1,000 firefighters were in the field
battling blazes mainly in northern New South Wales. Police had
to evacuate some homes near the Warrumbungle National Park when
one fire broke out. Fire bans were in place in a number of
regions around the north and west of the state where the winds,
temperature and low humidity created extreme conditions.  “The fires are running very, very hard once they take
hold,” New South Wales Deputy Fire Commissioner Rob Rogers told
 Sky News  yesterday. “It’s only going to take one fire in the
wrong spot that could cause a lot of problems.”  Lightning Strikes  Queensland firefighters faced 40 blazes yesterday as
lightning strikes and soaring temperature created severe
conditions.  Fire danger ratings in most parts of Victoria state have
declined to moderate, according to the Country Fire Authority.  In Tasmania, where more than 3,000 people were forced from
their homes last week, strong winds fanned a blaze at Fawcett
and residents were urged to stay vigilant, according to the
island state’s fire service.  Australia ’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major risk
in the southern hemisphere’s summer. The continent registered a
national average of 40.33 degrees Celsius on Jan. 7, the hottest
day in more than 100 years of records.  The worst fires in the nation’s history, the so-called
Black Saturday blazes, killed 173 people as they swept through
rural areas of Victoria state in February 2009.  In Western Australia, forecasters are watching Severe
Tropical  Cyclone Narelle  as it tracks off the coast of the
resource-rich state. The storm last week triggered the
evacuation of off-shore natural-gas workers for  Apache Corp. (APA)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and saw Rio Tinto Group suspend iron-ore loading
onto ships because of port closures. Ports have since reopened.  Narelle was downgraded today to category 2 on a scale of 1
to 5, where 5 is the strongest. It was moving south and wasn’t
expected to make landfall, while the speed of winds at the storm
center had declined, the Bureau of Meteorology said on its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  