-- Australia Commercial Property Sales Slump on Economy, CBRE Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-14T03:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/australia-commercial-property-sales-slump-on-economy-cbre-says.html
Australian commercial property sales
plunged by 33 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012, as
uncertainty about the nation’s economy kept a lid on
transactions, according to CBRE Group Inc.  The value of retail, office and industrial property sales
slid to less than A$2.9 billion ($3.1 billion) in the three
months to Dec. 31, from A$4.3 billion a year earlier, the Los
Angeles-based broker said in an e-mailed release.  Australia ’s  services  and  manufacturing  industries
contracted in December, as a strong local currency, consumer
caution and poor sentiment weighed on households. The
uncertainty also led to an unexpected decline in  retail sales  in
November for the first time in four months and a drop in  home
loan  approvals in November even after 1.75 percentage points of
 interest rate  cuts since November 2011 by the central bank.  “The underlying level of transactions softened in the
second half of 2012,” Stephen McNabb, Sydney-based head of
Australian research at CBRE, said in the release. “Mixed and
sub-trend economic growth evidence, combined with subdued levels
of consumer and business confidence, have held back growth
assumptions and hence valuations.”  Sales of office buildings fared the worst in 2012, dropping
by 12 percent, while retail property transactions jumped 24
percent and industrial 13 percent according to the figures.
Total deals in 2012 rose to A$13.5 billion from A$13.2 billion
the previous year, driven by “relatively strong activity”
early in the year, CBRE said.  More Active  Australian investors also became more active during the
year, with transactions involving domestic groups climbing 11.5
percent to A$11.2 billion, compared with a 29.2 percent decline
in deals with overseas participants, CBRE said. Activity by both
domestic and foreign investors dropped during the fourth
quarter, by 72.1 percent and 16.6 percent respectively, the
broker said.  “Rather than transacting to grow portfolios, some domestic
investors have been reassessing strategies and portfolio mixes,
which is the rationale for some sales noted in the period,”
CBRE said in the release. “The decline in sales activity in the
quarter was partly driven by the fall in activity by foreign
investors.”  Commercial property yields remain stable and wide relative
to government bond yields, with the lack of confidence keeping
the gap from shrinking substantially, McNabb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  