-- Azeris Say Armenians Fleeing Syria Resettled in Separatist Area
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-01-14T14:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/azeris-say-armenians-fleeing-syria-resettled-in-separatist-area.html
Azerbaijan  accused neighboring
 Armenia  of resettling some of the ethnic Armenians fleeing the
Syrian civil war in its breakaway Nagorno-Karabakh region.  “This is an act of provocation by Armenia,” Elman
Abdullayev, a spokesman for Azerbaijan’s  Foreign Ministry , said
today by phone from the capital, Baku. “Armenia is seeking to
change the demographic situation in the region.”  The predominantly ethnic Armenian region broke free of
Azeri control in a war that followed the disintegration of the
former Soviet Union in 1991. Some 30,000 people were killed and
more than a million displaced during the conflict, which left
Nagorno-Karabakh and seven surrounding Azeri districts under
Armenian control.  Syrians are seeking refuge across the  Middle East  from the
conflict engulfing their country. More than 600,000 Syrians have
escaped the country since the conflict began in March 2011, the
United Nations estimates. Another 200,000 are awaiting
registration or are unaccounted for, according to the
International Rescue Commission.  “Syrian Armenians are refugees first of all, and it is an
obligation of any civilized country to give them a home and help
them,” Davit Babayan, a spokesman for Nagorno-Karabakh’s
president, said by phone from the regional capital, Stepanakert.  Armenia, landlocked between Turkey, Iran, Azerbaijan and
 Georgia , doesn’t share a border with Syria.  About 6,000 Syrians have sought refuge in Armenia, the  New
York  Times reported last month, adding that an estimated 80,000
of  Syria ’s 120,000 Armenians live in Aleppo, where rebels have
been battling government forces after pushing into the
commercial hub in July.  Energy-rich Azerbaijan has repeatedly threatened to use
force to regain control of the territory if peace talks mediated
by the U.S., Russia and France fail to produce results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  