-- Bard Wins Round as High Court Rejects Gore Patent Appeal
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-14T22:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bard-wins-round-as-high-court-rejects-gore-patent-appeal.html
C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , a maker of
catheters, moved closer to collecting hundreds of millions of
dollars as the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal by
W.L. Gore & Associates Inc. in a patent lawsuit over vascular
grafts.  The justices today left intact a $185 million jury verdict
against Gore, the company behind the waterproof Gore-Tex
fabrics. The court gave no explanation, rejecting Gore’s appeal
as part of a list of orders released today in  Washington .  The potential award has risen with interest, royalties and
fees. Gore owed more than $900 million as of September, Bard
said in a regulatory filing last year. A trial judge in Arizona
is revisiting part of the award -- $185 million assessed for
acting intentionally, along with related legal fees.  Bard  rose  as much as 1.5 percent after the Supreme Court
issued the order, before falling later in the day. For the day,
shares dropped 45 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $102.68 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York.  The case began in 2003 and involves a dispute dating back
to 1974. At issue is a tube that helps retain the shape of non-
coronary blood vessels using a substance similar to DuPont Co.’s
Teflon, according to the patent.  At the Supreme Court, Gore argued unsuccessfully that one
of its employees was a co-inventor of the grafts. Closely held
Gore, a Newark, Delaware-based maker of surgical products and
fibers, says it uses the substance for its Gore-Tex fabrics.  The two sides are still battling over the award at the
trial court in  Arizona . Gore is seeking a new trial while Bard
is asking a judge to let the company collect more than $740
million. Bard is based in Murray Hill, New Jersey.  The Supreme Court case is W.L. Gore v. C.R. Bard, 12-458.
The district court case is Bard Peripheral Vascular v. W.L. Gore
& Associates, 03cv597, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  