-- Bastardo Grapes, Old Vines Spice Sonoma Wine: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bastardo-grapes-old-vines-spice-sonoma-wine-elin-mccoy.html
In Sonoma’s Bedrock Vineyard, I’m
surrounded by 124-year-old twisted vines with the arthritic look
of stumpy bonsai trees.  The mad mix includes a couple of dozen varieties. Bedrock
winemaker Morgan Twain-Peterson points out familiar zinfandel,
little-known bastardo, nearly extinct castets and some grapes no
one’s yet identified.  He makes a pretty delicious red that contains almost all of
them.  “Old vine field blends are the only California wines that
aren’t ersatz,” says the 32-year-old. “They’re unique. What’s
magical is the sum of the parts.”  His dozen or so red and white cuvees from historic
vineyards are among the state’s most fascinating wines, high on
bold personality, with warmth, intensity, perfumed aromas and
layers of flavor. Tasting them, I’m drinking California wine
history.  While Sonoma has the largest concentration of old vineyards
in the state, they’re in danger of disappearing.  Twain-Peterson is one of the people on a mission to save
them.  In old tan shorts, grey shirt, and a three-day beard, he
tours me around this  vineyard  he owns with his family, filling
me in on its backstory. The founders, in 1854, were “Fightin’
Joe” Hooker and two-time shipwreck survivor and banker William
“Tecumseh” Sherman, who later became famous Civil War
generals.  Hearst’s Cash  After root-louse phylloxera wiped out the vines in the
1880s, mining magnate Senator George Hearst, father of
newspaperman William Randolph Hearst, splashed out part of his
fortune from the Comstock Lode on the property. He replanted in
1888 and the vines are still going strong.  Back in the day, every grower’s vineyard mix was different.
Harvested together, diverse red grapes were sold under the
catchall phrase, “mixed blacks.”  Blending grapes, says Twain-Peterson, helped vintners make
balanced, all-purpose wines: petite sirah had tannin and body;
carignane added aroma and bright acidity; alicante bouschet, an
intense red color. Zinfandel was usually the predominant one, as
it is in Twain-Peterson’s fragrant, spicy, savory 2011 Bedrock
Heritage red blend ($40) from 22 varieties in his vineyard.  Unlike most winemakers, who ferment and age each variety
separately and blend later, he gestalts a picking date for all
and ferments and presses them together.  Sweet Kick  I’ll admit I’m not usually a zin fan. Most are too sweet,
alcoholic and jammy, with a cough-syrup kick.  But the top ones made from old vines, like Ridge Lytton
Springs, Carlisle Monte Rosso, Ravenswood Old Hill Ranch and
Bedrock Sonoma Valley, are deeper and more balanced.  “Old vine mixed blacks are my favorite wines to drink;
they’re the most soul-satisfying,” says Twain-Peterson. His
stunning 2011 Bedrock Papa’s All-Blacks ($30) has deep red fruit
aromas laced with allspice and powerful, rich, peppery flavors.  He makes this last wine with his dad, pioneer zinfandel
producer Joel Peterson, who founded  Ravenswood Winery  in 1976
and was one of the first to make old vine zin.  As we head up Highway 12 in Twain-Peterson’s messy truck to
see other famous old vines, he tells me how he rode along when
his father scouted vineyards, picked grapes at age three and
made his first wine, “Vina Bambino” pinot noir, at five.  After studying at Vassar and Columbia, he ditched his plan
to become a history professor, founding his tiny Bedrock Wine
Company in 2007.  Deep Roots  The appeal of old vines, roughly defined as 50 or more
years old, isn’t just history. The vines’ deep roots withstand
droughts, grapes ripen more evenly and the juice has more
intense, concentrated, complex flavors -- all of which explains
why so many of the world’s top winemakers in  Australia ,  Chile ,
 France  and elsewhere suffer from old-vine adoration.  Being Joel Peterson’s son got Twain-Peterson in the door
when it came to cajoling grapes from owners of historic
vineyards. He was also a beneficiary of the economic downturn.
Mid-size wineries were already hurting in 2007 and dropping
contracts. He snapped up whatever grapes he could get, from
famous spots like Pagani Ranch.  For growers the downside to old vineyards is economics.
Twain-Peterson calls them “victims of pinot madness,”
recounting how the Silverado Group bought Barbieri vineyard in
2007 and pulled out its hundred year old vines to plant more
lucrative and fashionable pinot noir.  Historic Vineyards  In 2010, hoping to stem this tide, Mike Officer of  Carlisle
Winery , who’d bought fruit from Barbieri, joined with Twain-
Peterson, and other producers to found the non-profit Historic
Vineyard Society. Their goal: to register (and verify) all
 California ’s vineyards planted before 1960. So far the inventory
lists 219.  In July, Burgundy’s grand Cote d’Or vineyards may be added
to Unesco’s World Heritage sites. When will California recognize
its own legendary old vines carry the state’s viticultural
history and bestow historical landmark status on them?  Next week, the  Rare Wine Co.  will offer some hard-to-get
old vine bottlings, with profits going to the Historic Vineyard
Society.  Most of these thrilling, unique wines, like Bedrock’s, can
be had for under $50.  (Elin McCoy writes about wine and spirits for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 