-- Bats Highlights Hazards as Flows to Funds Hit Record
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   L u   W a n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-01-14T17:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bats-violations-highlight-hazards-as-flows-to-funds-hit-record.html
 Bats Global Markets Inc.’s
disclosure that computer errors that permitted almost 450,000
bad trades comes just as investors start to regain confidence in
stock markets.  The announcement that the Lenexa, Kansas-based stock
exchange had mishandled orders since 2008 marked the fourth
breakdown by one of America’s biggest  bourses  or trading firms
in the past year. The mishap underscores why investors withdrew
$375 billion from equity mutual funds since the financial crisis
began in 2007, according to data compiled by research firm EPFR
Global.  Individuals have just started to change behavior. A record
$3.1 billion flowed into U.S.  stock funds  in the first week of
2013. Customers won’t keep sending money unless regulators fix
the structure of markets that led to malfunctions last year from
Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering to the near-collapse of
Knight Capital Group Inc., according to Walter Todd, who
oversees about $940 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital Associates LLC in Greenwood, South Carolina.  “From a sentiment standpoint, it gives people another
reason to think the markets aren’t working,” Todd said in a
telephone interview on Jan. 10. “Our markets are based on
confidence, our business is based on confidence, so I think this
is detrimental.”  Equity Exchanges  Machines that match orders for two Bats equity exchanges
and an options venue allowed trades to occur at prices inferior
to the best available bid or offer and enabled others to violate
rules for short sales, or bearish bets, the company said in a
notice to clients on Jan. 9. Customers lost $420,360 because of
the rule violations, according to Bats.  Bats’s error hasn’t affected its relationship with
customers, Randy Williams, a spokesman for the company, wrote in
a Jan. 11 e-mail. Its share of U.S. equity trading has averaged
12.2 percent in the previous two days, compared with 11.9
percent in the first six days of this month.  Exchange operators have called for an overhaul of rules
that boosted high-speed trading and the fragmented equity
markets. Trading that was dominated by three main markets in the
1990s has been broken up among 13 stock exchanges and about 50
private broker-run dark pools where institutions can trade
anonymously. The SEC is investigating Bats and officials are
concerned about similar order types at other  exchanges , a person
familiar with the situation said Jan. 10.  Interlocking Computers  The errors don’t suggest the industry is incapable of
overseeing itself, said Joseph Ratterman, Bats chief executive
officer. Instead, regulations that have been established to
oversee the thousands of interlocking computers that make up the
American equity market are too complex, he said in a Jan. 10
interview.  “You could do away with a significant amount of complexity
by simplifying some of the regulatory guidelines,” Ratterman
said. “If the regulatory environment were to simplify, then the
functionality customers demand to reflect their trading interest
would simplify as well.”  Advocates of today’s markets dismiss suggestions that
infrastructure breakdowns prompt individuals to avoid equities.
Investors are adding cash to mutual funds as valuations remain
below their historical average and reports show the economy is
gaining momentum, according to John Carey, who helps oversee
about $200 billion at Pioneer Investments in  Boston .  “People are coming back to equities probably because of
more fundamental interests in stocks and the market and a news
event like that I don’t think would throw them off track and
discourage them from investing,” Carey said in a phone
interview on Jan. 11.  Equity Flows  About $3.1 billion flowed into U.S. equity funds during the
week ended Jan. 9, according to EPFR Global. That’s the most
since the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm began
tracking the industry in 2000. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reached a five-year high last week as companies reported better-
than-estimated earnings.  Analysts predict profits for companies in the S&P 500 will
rise 8.6 percent this year to a record $110.40 a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. equity gauge
trades at 14.8 times reported earnings, about 9.8 percent below
the six-decade average of 16.4, the data show.  The mutual fund flows mark a turnaround for investors.
About $69.1 billion was withdrawn from funds that invest in
American stocks in 2012, according to data from EPFR.  Haywire Trading  Bats’s mistake followed other examples of computerized
trading errors that hurt investor confidence. An equity rout
temporarily sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down almost
1,000 points on May 6, 2010, causing investors to question the
stability of market mechanics and the effectiveness of
regulators.  The Dow average fell as much as 9.2 percent that day, most
of it between 2:30 p.m. and 3 p.m., after aggressive selling of
so-called E-mini S&P 500 futures by a mutual fund company caused
a flight of liquidity. As equity market makers and other
providers of bids and offers withdrew, trades in individual
stocks took place at prices including fractions of 1 cent and
$99,999.99.  Nasdaq Stock Market mishandled Facebook’s IPO on May 18
when an auction to set the first traded price for the shares
failed. The exchange’s systems were overwhelmed by order updates
and cancellations before the stock began trading, causing the
exchange to make technology changes that prevented confirmations
of orders and trades from being disseminated for hours, and
leading to confusion among investors, brokers and market makers.  Bats IPO  Bats canceled its IPO in March after the company couldn’t
get its stock to start trading on its own exchange. Knight
almost went out of business in August after it bombarded U.S.
equity exchanges with erroneous orders in the wake of improperly
installed software that malfunctioned.  Share volume  for companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges
has declined to an average 6.2 billion shares a day since the
 Facebook IPO , 17 percent less than the previous 12 months, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors withdrew $202.7 billion
from equity mutual funds since the May 2010 flash crash,
according to EPFR data.  “With lots of complexity, the concern I have is that
people won’t trust the markets,” Barry James, who helps oversee
$3.5 billion as president of James Investment Research in Xenia,
 Ohio , said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York. “I think that already exists. It’s why people have been
taking money out of the markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  