-- Battersea Developer Says Buyers Reserved 600 New Homes in 5 Days
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-01-14T12:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/battersea-developer-says-buyers-reserved-600-new-homes-in-5-days.html
Buyers reserved three-quarters of
the apartments and townhouses to be built at the Battersea Power
Station site in  London  in the five days since they were put on
the market, according to the developer.  About 600 properties have been reserved in the Circus West
part of the project since Jan. 9, the Battersea Power Station
Development Company said today in a statement. They are the
first homes to be offered as part of the station’s
redevelopment.  A dwindling supply of homes for sale in areas such as
Kensington & Chelsea is driving foreign and domestic buyers to
look outside of neighborhoods traditionally considered prime.
That’s prompting luxury-home developers to expand east toward
the City of London and south of the  River Thames , where major
projects are under way in Battersea, Vauxhall and Nine Elms.  “Battersea isn’t prime central London and prices are
already in excess of 1,000 pounds ($1,600) per square foot,”
Camilla Dell, founder of broker Black Brick Property Solutions
LLP, said by e-mail. “So investors are betting on prices
reaching similar levels to prime, which is a gamble.”  Battersea Power Station, featured on the cover of  Pink
Floyd ’s 1977 album “Animals,” has frustrated a series of
developers since it closed more than 29 years ago. Malaysia’s  SP
Setia Bhd. (SPSB)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  bought the site for 400 million
pounds in July after its previous owner was put into
administration.  The reservation fees were around 2,500 pounds for the
apartments, which cost as much as 3.3 million pounds for a 2,383
square-foot (221 square-meter) property including outdoor space,
according to Jo Eccles, managing director of broker Sourcing
Property.  Nine Elms  The Battersea development is part of the Vauxhall Nine Elms
Battersea Opportunity Area south of the River Thames and across
from the Kensington & Chelsea and Westminster boroughs. It is
London’s largest redevelopment area and includes a new U.S.
embassy and an extension of the London underground.  Less than a mile from the Battersea station, Ballymore
Group Ltd. is developing Embassy Gardens, where a three-bedroom
apartment is being marketed for 2 million pounds, according to
the developer’s website. Around 90 percent of the apartments
offered so far have been sold, the developer said by e-mail
today.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the U.K.’s second largest
homebuilder by value, is marketing penthouse apartments through
its St. George’s unit, which is about 5-minute drive from the
derelict power station.  “We are warning clients to be extremely cautious not to
get swept up in the hype with the huge amount of development in
the Battersea and Nine Elms area,” Eccles said by e-mail. “A
lot of the prices per square foot being paid in a number of
these developments -- for example St. George’s ‘The Tower’ in
next door Vauxhall -- in our opinion just don’t stack up.”  Dell of Black Brick said she expects to see some
“flipping,” of the properties, where early investors try to
sell on their sales contracts at higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  