-- Belize Rejecting Argentine Default Model Spurs Bond Rally
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-01-14T21:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/belize-rejecting-argentine-default-model-spurs-region-best-rally.html
Belize’s dollar bonds are rallying
the most in  emerging markets  after the Central American nation
improved a restructuring offer that was worse than what
 Argentina  gave creditors following its 2001 default.  The debt has returned 18.6 percent this month, the most
among 55 emerging-market countries tracked by JPMorgan Chase &
Co’s EMBIG index. Prices for bonds due in 2029 rose 7.84 cents
last week to 49.95 cents, up from a low of 30.11 cents on Aug.
23 following the government’s decision to skip a $23 million
coupon payment, its second default in six years.  Prime Minister Dean Barrow said Dec. 31 that a
restructuring agreement to be announced this month would save
the country formerly known as British Honduras “hundreds of
millions of dollars.” The comments suggest the government may
sweeten the proposal again after improving its offer to 34 cents
on the dollar in November, up from the 20 cents it initially
presented, according to Exotix Ltd.  “The market action implies that not only there’s a deal,
it is a further improvement,”  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist at Exotix, an investment bank focusing on frontier
markets, said in a phone interview from  London . “I cannot tell
you if the market is justified, but clearly there’s no smoke
without fire.”  Better-Than-Argentina  The so-called superbond rose 0.15 cents to 50.1 cents on
the dollar, yielding 21.47 percent as of 3:47 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bonds have erased all the losses since Aug. 8 when the
government first proposed to restructure the $544 million of
securities, calling for a 45 percent reduction in principal. The
proposal, valued at 20 cents on the dollar, would impose the
biggest losses on creditors among 16 sovereign debt
restructurings in the world since 1998, according to  Bank of
Nova Scotia. (BNS)   An improved restructuring proposal would provide creditors
more favorable terms than those put forward by Argentina, which
offered bondholders securities valued at about 30 cents on the
dollar in a debt exchange in 2005 following a record $95 billion
default four years earlier, according to estimates by Scotia
based on data from Moody’s Investors Service.  Greece ’s 200-
billion-euro ($267 billion) debt swap last year, the world’s
biggest restructuring, valued its bonds at 29 cents based on
future cash flow, Scotia said.  Argentina’s Litigation  Argentina, blocked from global credit markets for over a
decade, remains immersed in legal battles around the world as
holders of defaulted debt fight for compensation. Since Belize
missed its coupon payment in August, Argentine creditors
convinced a court in  Ghana  to impound a naval ship for 11 weeks
and a U.S. court ruling spurred concern that South America’s
second-biggest economy could default on its restructured bonds.  The threat of bondholder lawsuits also persuaded Argentine
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to rent a jet for
$880,000 to take her to Cuba and Asia last week instead of
risking seizure of her official aircraft.  “They probably looked at what’s going on in Argentina and
said ‘Look, a long litigation is not in our best interests,’”
said Carl Ross, a managing director of investments at brokerage
Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta. Oppenheimer doesn’t own Belizean
or Argentine debt.  Superbond Terms  According to the terms of Belize’s bonds, the government
needs to win support for its proposal from 75 percent of
creditors to force other bondholders into the accord. The
superbond accounts for almost half of Belize’s $1.2 billion in
debt.  Greylock Capital Management is leading a group of investors
holding about $350 million in Belize’s bonds in negotiating with
the government. The two are finalizing the deal and an official
agreement is likely early next week, said AJ Mediratta, a
partner at Greylock in New York, in a telephone interview.  Creditors balked last year at the government’s
restructuring proposals as economic growth surged in the country
of 313,000 people, which borders Mexico and  Guatemala . In
November the government reported gross domestic product
increased 7.4 percent in the first half of the year, more than
double the rate from a year earlier, as agricultural output and
tourism compensated for declining oil production. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 2.5 percent this
year.  Negotiators continue to work out details on a final debt
accord after a broader agreement was reached “in principle,”
Mark Espat, the government’s chief negotiator in the debt talks,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The settlement we have reached with our bondholders is on
terms very favorable to us,” Barrow said in a Dec. 31 speech
posted on the government’s website. “For a physically and
economically tiny country, for an administration and a people
unfairly saddled with a monstrosity not of our making, this is
an accomplishment of historic proportions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  