-- Berlusconi Denied Delay of Sex-With-Minor Trial as Verdict Nears
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-14T15:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/berlusconi-seeks-delay-in-sex-with-minor-trial-until-after-vote.html
Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, campaigning for  Italy ’s general election next month,
was denied a request for a delay of his criminal trial on
charges of paying for sex with a minor until after the vote.  The judges announced the decision after four hours of
deliberations in Milan. Berlusconi’s lawyer Niccolo Ghedini made
the request today, saying the trial could interfere with the
campaign for the Feb. 24-25 parliamentary elections, and
criticized the judges’ decision.  “The verdict is certainly going to come before the
election,” Ghedini said. “This is the clear intention of the
judges and this is going to disrupt the election campaign.”  The trial, which also includes charges of abuse of power,
will have at least three more hearings, with the final one
scheduled for Feb. 4. Berlusconi, 76, has denied ever paying for
sex and said he thought Karima El Mahroug, the woman at the
center of the case, was 24 in February 2010 when she says she
attended at least one of the billionaire’s parties. El Mahroug
was 17 at the time.  El Mahroug, who danced in nightclubs under the stage name
Ruby Heart Stealer, was due to testify today as a witness for
the defense. She left the courtroom without answering questions
after Berlusconi’s lawyers dropped their request for her
testimony.  El Mahroug “was ready to take questions from the defense,
from the prosecutors, and from the judges,” the woman’s lawyer
Paola Boccardi said. “She was surprised not to be heard.”  Appeal Process  Berlusconi probably won’t face immediate incarceration if
he’s convicted, said Andrea Castaldo, a professor and lawyer who
isn’t working on the case. Italian law allows people convicted
of criminal offenses to remain free pending appeal and softens
penalties on those aged 70 or older.  “We’re talking about sexual acts with a minor and
diversion of institutional powers,” said Castaldo, who teaches
criminal law at the University of Salerno. “It’s clear that
we’re talking about serious things. But as far as practical
effects, I think it will take some time.”  Berlusconi is seeking to overcome a deficit in public-
opinion polls in his bid to propel his coalition to victory in
elections on Feb. 24-25. Berlusconi resigned as premier in
November 2011 after failing to protect Italy from  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis. In October, he was convicted of tax fraud
and sentenced to four years in prison.  Abuse of Power  Berlusconi, appealing the tax verdict, has denied the
charges in the pending criminal case. In addition to the
allegation of paying for sex with an underage woman, Berlusconi
is accused of abusing his power as premier when he called Milan
police on her behalf after her arrest. The call was a request
for information, Berlusconi has testified.  After the call, El Mahroug was released into the custody of
a politician of Berlusconi’s party in Milan.  El Mahroug has denied having sex with the former premier,
while acknowledging that he gave her money. She said in an
interview with television network Sky TG24 last year that
Berlusconi had given her 7,000 euros ($9,135) to help her
through a difficult situation. Berlusconi told journalists last
year that he gave her 57,000 euros to help her set up a business
and avoid prostituting herself.  Berlusconi said in his Oct. 19 testimony that he never had
“intimate relations of any kind” with El Mahroug.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 