-- Berlusconi Gains in Polls as Italians Swayed by Media Blitz
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-15T12:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/berlusconi-gains-in-polls-as-italians-swayed-by-media-blitz.html
Silvio Berlusconi , fighting criminal
charges that he paid a minor for sex, gained in opinion polls as
a series of television interviews placed the three-time premier
once again at the center of the Italian political debate.  Public support for Berlusconi’s coalition rose to 27.9
percent from 25.3 percent a month ago, according to an EMG poll
release by television station La 7 late yesterday. Front-runner
Pier Luigi Bersani’s coalition slipped to 37.4 percent from 40.3
percent, while Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s group gained to 14.8
percent. Monti polled at 9.9 percent a month ago, prior to
declaring his candidacy.  Berlusconi, 76, is promising tax cuts and has taken to
television to display the combativeness that helped make him the
dominant politician of his generation. He has won public support
by blaming Monti for  Italy ’s recession, while in the courtroom,
his lawyers are struggling to delay a verdict on the sex
allegations until after parliamentary elections Feb. 24-25. His
comeback has drawn brickbats from opponents.  Berlusconi is “someone who misled Italians three times,”
Monti said yesterday in an interview on state broadcaster RAI.
“That Italians could once again believe the reliability of
promises of this kind from that mouth makes me think of just one
thing, the fable of the  Pied Piper  of Hamelin and the good
mice.”  Pied Piper  The Pied Piper, according to Robert Browning’s 1888  version 
of the fable, saved a rat-infested town by bewitching the vermin
with his music and drowning them in a river. When the Piper was
denied his compensation, in Browning’s tale, he took revenge by
entrancing the town’s children and leading them away.  Berlusconi, a billionaire media magnate, has blanketed
national and local TV by agreeing to interviews with
journalists, both friendly and adversarial. He drew an audience
of almost 9 million last week when he appeared for nearly three
hours on a program hosted by Michele Santoro, a journalist
Berlusconi had fired from state-owned RAI a decade ago.  Draghi for President  Berlusconi made headlines today by saying in an interview
on La 7’s Omnibus show that his vote for Italian president would
go to European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , if his name
were proposed to parliament. In Italy, the prime minister is
head of government and the president, who serves as head of
state, is chosen by lawmakers. A spokeswoman for Draghi said in
an e-mail that the ECB president planned to serve out his term,
which ends in 2019.  Berlusconi suffered a setback yesterday in court when
judges rejected the billionaire’s request for a delay due to the
election campaign. The trial, which also includes charges of
abuse of power, which Berlusconi denies, will have at least
three more hearings. The final one is scheduled for Feb. 4.  “The verdict is certainly going to come before the
election,” said Berlusconi’s lawyer,  Niccolo Ghedini . “This is
the clear intention of the judges and this is going to disrupt
the election campaign.”  Berlusconi has denied ever paying for sex and said he
thought Karima El Mahroug, the woman at the center of the case,
was 24 in February 2010 when she says she attended at least one
of the billionaire’s parties. El Mahroug, who was 17 at the
time, denied having sex with the former premier.  Renouncing Premiership  Berlusconi’s gain in the polls came even after the
billionaire renounced his bid to become prime minister again in
a concession to an allied party. The  Northern League , a member
of all three Berlusconi governments, agreed to join the
coalition on the condition that Berlusconi wasn’t the prime
minister candidate.  Angelino Alfano, secretary general of Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party, will be the candidate and Berlusconi will seek
the post of finance minister, Berlusconi said in an interview
yesterday on Sky TG24’s “Lo Spoglio” program.  The advance by Berlusconi, who has advocated a tougher
stance negotiating with  Germany  about  Europe ’s focus on
austerity, hasn’t noticeably hurt Italy in bond markets. The
yield on the country’s 10-year bond has dropped to 4.16 percent
from 4.6 percent a month ago as analysts including Douglas
Renwick, managing director at  Fitch Ratings , predict budget
rigor will be maintained after the vote.  Monti Agenda  “The most likely outcome is a continuation of the Monti
policy agenda,” Renwick said today at a Fitch seminar in
 London . “Whatever government is in place in Italy there is
going to be a lot of external pressure coming from the rest of
the euro zone to stay on this path of fiscal prudence and
further reform. The reform drive in Italy might slow a little
bit over the next year.”  Berlusconi is making gains in the north that could deny the
Bersani’s coalition a majority in the Senate, where seats are
awarded on a regional basis, even if it carries the national
vote by the current margin. Berlusconi’s group leads with 35.7
percent in Lombardy to 32.3 percent, according to an ISPO poll
published by  Corriere della Sera  on Jan. 13.  The EMG poll was more favorable to Berlusconi than others
released in recent days. In a poll yesterday by Tecne for Sky
TG24, Bersani’s  Democratic Party  and its allies had 37.8 to
Berlusconi’s 26 percent. SWG Institute released a poll on Jan.
11 giving the center-left alliance 40.4 percent to 25.3 percent
for Berlusconi and his partners. Both those polls showed gains
for Berlusconi’s coalition.  Berlusconi said on “Lo Spoglio” that his own poll
conducted by Euromedia has his coalition trailing by less than 5
percentage points, with his bloc winning support from 34.2
percent to 38.3 percent for the Democratic Party and its
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 