-- Berlusconi Gains in Opinion Poll, Narrowing Gap With Democrats
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-01-14T21:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/berlusconi-gains-in-opinion-poll-narrowing-gap-with-democrats.html
Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s coalition picked up support in a new opinion poll,
narrowing the gap with the Democratic Party and its partners to
less than 10 percentage points.  Support for Berlusconi and his allies rose to 27.9 percent
in a poll by EMG for La7 television network, from 25.3 percent
in a previous survey a month ago. Berlusconi gained support at
the expense of the coalition led by the Democratic Party, which
slipped to 37.4 percent from 40.3 percent.  The shift narrowed the gap between the two leading
coalitions to 9.5 percentage points from 15 percentage points.  Berlusconi’s poll advance comes amid a media blitz, with
the three-time premier blanketing national and local TV with
interviews. The EMG poll came after he appeared last week on a
program hosted by Michele Santoro, a journalist Berlusconi had
fired from state-owned RAI a decade ago. That nearly three-hour
showdown was watched by almost 9 million Italians.  The gain in support came after Berlusconi renounced his bid
to become prime minister again to secure an election alliance
with the  Northern League . The League, a member of all three
Berlusconi governments, agreed to join the coalition on the
condition that Berlusconi wasn’t the prime minister candidate.
Angelino Alfano, secretary general of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party, will be the candidate and Berlusconi will seek
the post of finance minister, Berlusconi said in an interview
today on Sky TG24’s “Lo Spoglio” program.  Monti Gains  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  also picked up support in the
EMG poll, with his coalition gaining to 14.8 percent, from 9.9
percent a month ago, which was before Monti officially declared
his candidacy to lead the parties backing his pro-European
economic platform.  The EMG poll was more favorable to Berlusconi than others
released in recent days. In a poll yesterday by Tecne for Sky
TG24 the Democratic Party and its allies had 37.8 percent to
Berlusconi’s 26 percent. SWG Institute released its weekly poll
on Jan. 11 giving the center-left alliance 40.4 percent to 25.3
percent for Berlusconi and his partners. Both those polls showed
gains for Berlusconi’s coalition.  Berlusconi said on “Lo Spoglio” that his own poll
conducted by Euromedia has his coalition trailing by less than 5
percentage points, with his bloc winning support from 34.2
percent to 38.3 percent for the  Democratic Party  and its
partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  