-- BlackRock Seen Posting Biggest Profit Since 2011 on ETFs
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-01-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/blackrock-seen-posting-biggest-profit-since-2011-on-etfs.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, may show its biggest earnings gain in six
quarters as its sales of U.S. exchange-traded funds set a record
last year.  Net income  in the fourth quarter probably rose 15 percent
to $641 million, or $3.67 a share, according to the average
estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. IShares, the ETF
unit BlackRock acquired as part of Barclays Global Investors in
2009, won $35.7 billion in new money in the period, making it
No. 1 by deposits among all exchange-traded fund managers in
2012.  “IShares is a very profitable business and is one of their
key growth drivers,” Robert Lee, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette
& Woods Inc. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “It’s
a big chunk of their  revenue , but its contribution to
profitability is probably even higher.”  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, 60, in August
reorganized BlackRock’s senior  leadership  and product
distribution, and in October created a series of lower-fee ETFs
in a bid to reverse a decline in its U.S. market share. The
moves, and decision by Vanguard Group Inc. to change the index
provider for its funds, helped boost the New York-based
company’s ETF deposits 42 percent from the previous quarter.  BlackRock  gained  16 percent in the three months ended Dec.
31, the third-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s 20-member
index of asset managers and custody banks. The stock increased
11 percent in the past month, hitting $221.01 on Jan. 11, the
 highest  since March 2010.  Fastest Growth  The consensus estimate for growth in net income would be
the fastest since the second quarter of 2011, when it increased
43 percent. The company, which is scheduled to report results on
Jan. 17, may post record adjusted operating income of $3.70,
helped in part by a decline in shares outstanding, according to
the average of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The measure,
which doesn’t conform to generally accepted accounting
principles, excludes some costs.  ETFs have been the fastest-growing segment of the asset-
management business, benefiting money managers such as
BlackRock, Vanguard and  State Street Corp. (STT)  In the 12 months
ended Nov. 30, ETF assets in the U.S. increased 24 percent to
$1.3 trillion, compared with 11 percent for mutual funds, which
hold $12.9 trillion, according to data from the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute .  BlackRock will be the first publicly traded asset manager
to announce fourth-quarter results. BlackRock and  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) ,
which sells stock and bond mutual funds, ETFs and alternative
investments such as private equity, are among managers that are
best positioned for growth, wrote Morgan Stanley analysts led by
Matthew Kelley in a Jan. 4 research note.  Growth ‘Runway’  “With ETFs still representing less than 7 percent the
total global pool of mutual funds and ETFs, we see significant
runway for future growth,” the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote.  Invesco’s  profit  increased 2.3 percent to $207 million,
according to the average of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Net income at  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , manager of the Franklin
and Templeton mutual funds, rose 3.6 percent to $494.6 million,
according to the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  is expected to report a 23 percent
profit increase to $231.3 million, the average of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg shows. The company hasn’t had a quarterly
loss since going public in 1986. Legg Mason Inc., the money
manager searching for a new CEO, is expected to post a net loss
of $109.5 million, the data show.  Performance Fees  BlackRock, which manages about $3.7 trillion, is unique
among money managers in having equally big businesses devoted to
passive and active strategies. BlackRock’s iShares manages about
$759 billion in ETPs and offers about 600 funds. The firm had
about $942 billion in active stock and bond strategies, and $113
billion in alternatives as of Sept. 30.  Performance fees, earned by funds for beating certain
benchmarks, may also boost BlackRock’s earnings in the fourth
quarter, said Luke Montgomery, an analyst who covers asset
managers at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. Montgomery
is expecting fees of $198 million compared with $147 million a
year earlier, which would be a 35 percent jump.  Investors pulled $12.7 billion from BlackRock’s active
stock funds while depositing $1.3 billion into its active bond
funds in the nine months ended Sept. 30, the firm’s third-
quarter earnings  statement  shows. BlackRock has tried to woo
investors back into its active equity funds by replacing the
group that oversees investment products with five specialized
units in August, in the most sweeping overhaul since its 2009
takeover of  Barclays Global Investors .  Equity Managers  Fink has brought in managers including OppenheimerFunds
Inc.’s Chris Leavy, who joined in October 2010, Bartlett Geer
from  Putnam Investments , and UBS AG’s Lawrence Kemp to improve
equity-fund performance.  The company also started a five-year branding campaign last
year as it seeks to get investors back into higher-yielding
assets such as stocks and expand its retail business.  BlackRock’s move into passive strategies came with the
December 2009 purchase of Barclays Plc’s San Francisco-based
investment unit, which owned iShares, the world’s biggest
provider of ETFs. Last week, BlackRock agreed to buy Credit
Suisse Group AG’s ETF unit, which has $17.6 billion of client
assets under management and 58 funds.  In 2012, BlackRock made changes to its ETF unit after
losing market share to Vanguard, which has boosted assets in
ETFs with lower-cost products. BlackRock saw its U.S. ETF market
share fall 1 percentage point in 2012 to 41.8 percent, compared
with an increase of 2.1 percentage points for Vanguard to 18.3
percent, according to  State Street Global Advisors .  Vanguard’s Decision  BlackRock in October created the iShares Core Series, which
is made up of six ETFs with lowered fees and four new ones, to
attract individual and institutional clients looking to invest
over the long term. It had earlier combined the sales teams for
iShares and BlackRock’s retail funds to increase market share.  BlackRock’s dominance in the fourth quarter was also helped
by Vanguard’s decision to drop  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  as the benchmark
provider for 22  index funds , which was announced Oct. 2. The
firm’s $60 billion  Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets ETF (VWO)  had $886
million in withdrawals for the three months ended Dec. 31,
compared with the $8.9 billion of deposits into BlackRock’s $52
billion  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  Fund, according to
data from research firm IndexUniverse LLC.  “People became much more focused on which index to use for
their portfolios,” Daniel Gamba, head of iShares Americas’
institutional business at BlackRock, said in an interview. “Our
flows were due in part to having the right benchmark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  