-- BMW Targets Third Consecutive Sales Record on U.S., China
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-14T16:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bmw-targets-third-consecutive-sales-record-on-u-s-china.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
biggest maker of luxury cars, is targeting another year of
record sales in 2013 as the U.S. and  China  offset slumping
demand in  Europe .  “The real challenge is in the European area,” Ian Robertson, BMW sales chief, told journalists at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit. The Chinese market
will grow about 5 percent to 6 percent this year, while the
European market will be “at best flat,” Robertson said.  Rising demand in China and the U.S. has largely shielded
BMW from the impact of the sovereign-debt crisis on the European
car market, with 2012 new vehicle registrations likely at the
lowest in almost two decades.  BMW is aiming to top record sales at all three brands, the
namesake BMW marque, Mini and Rolls-Royce, Robertson said. BMW
this year is introducing the 4-Series, a coupe based on the 3-
Series line. The company is also debuting the Mini Paceman
crossover coupe and preparing to roll out the BMW i3, the
carmaker’s first electric vehicle, at the end of the year.  BMW’s leading position is challenged by Daimler AG’s
Mercedes brand and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit. Both competitors
have vowed to take the top spot by the end of the decade.
Robertson reiterated a target of selling 2 million cars annually
in 2016.  The Munich-based automaker expanded its lead last year by
selling 1.54 million BMW-brand vehicles, an increase of 12
percent from a year earlier. Audi’s deliveries rose 12 percent
to 1.46 million cars and sport-utility vehicles, while
Mercedes’s sales were up 4.7 percent to 1.32 million cars.  BMW’s third-quarter  profit  was weighed down by higher
incentive spending as a result of the weakening European market.
The automotive unit’s operating margin fell to 9.6 percent from
11.9 percent a year earlier. Audi, the No. 2 luxury-car brand,
reported a margin of 10.5 percent, out-pacing the 6.4 percent at
Mercedes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in  Detroit  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  