-- BMW’s Rolls-Royce to Unveil New Car in Couple of Weeks, CEO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bmw-s-rolls-royce-to-unveil-new-car-in-couple-of-weeks-ceo-says.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-
Royce plans to unveil a new car in the next couple of weeks to
help extend record sales, the ultra-luxury automobile brand’s
chief executive officer said.  The “stunning” vehicle will also be shown at the
automotive show in  Shanghai  this year, Rolls-Royce CEO Torsten Mueller-Oetvoes said in a telephone interview out of Dubai
yesterday. He declined to provide details of the car.  The maker of the $246,500 Ghost sedan is counting on the
new car to help build on the record number of vehicles Rolls-
Royce sold in 2012. Mueller-Oetvoes said he’s “cautiously
optimistic” about the 108-year-old company, which competes
against  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley, in 2013 as demand in the U.S.
and  China  help make up for the slump in southern Europe.  Though the U.S. became Rolls-Royce’s biggest market last
year, Mueller-Oetvoes said China may regain the lead in 2013.
The company opened its 15th dealership in  Asia ’s biggest economy
on Jan. 11 and is discussing further expansion of the sales
network in the country, which accounts for about a third of its
global sales, he said.  Mueller-Oetvoes said Rolls-Royce’s expansion will focus
more on the western regions of China, where car ownership levels
trail those of coastal areas such as Beijing and Shanghai.  “I think the potential in China is yet explored,” said
Mueller-Oetvoes. “ I will not be surprised for China to be back
to No. 1 this year.”  On  Europe , Mueller-Oetvoes said he’s concerned the region
will extend its slump this year, though demand in markets such
as China and the U.S. will probably compensate for the
shortfall, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  