-- BOE Proposes Power to Target Risks in Mortgages, Derivatives
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-14T11:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/boe-proposes-power-to-target-risks-in-mortgages-derivatives-1-.html
The  Bank of England ’s Financial
Policy Committee proposed powers to alter the amount of capital
banks hold against real-estate assets as well as derivatives and
bonds as it seeks to strengthen the financial system.  While the FPC will seek to act at the “highest level,” it
also sees a potential need to target capital at a “more
granular level,” it said a draft paper published in London
today. “Such an approach might help to tackle threats to
stability before they spread, particularly by leaning against
exuberance in specific subsectors,” it said, noting high loan-
to-value mortgages as an example.  The FPC has sought powers over so-called sectoral capital
requirements -- along with countercyclical capital buffers and
leverage ratios -- from the government as the Bank of  England 
prepares to take over the role of ensuring financial stability.
The committee, led by BOE Governor  Mervyn King , is currently
operating on an interim basis as legislation passes through
Parliament.  The FPC said the use of the countercyclical capital buffer
and the sectoral capital requirements “will improve the ability
of the financial system to withstand shocks.” King is due to
appear at a Parliament hearing in London tomorrow to answer
lawmakers’ questions on the BOE’s semi-annual Financial
Stability Report. FPC members  Andrew Haldane  and Michael Cohrs
will also attend the hearing.  Enhanced Powers  The CCB tool allows the FPC to change capital requirements
“above normal microprudential standards in relation to all
loans and exposures.” The SCR tool is “more targeted” and
allows the FPC to change requirements for specific types of
assets. In the paper, the committee said that banks that fail to
meet CCB requirements “will be subject to automatic
restrictions on the dividends and discretionary bonuses that
they can pay out.”  In a sign of the enhanced powers it is seeking, the
committee said its application of SCRs on mortgages will apply
not just to loan books but also to “exposures held in the form
of a securitization, a purchased portfolio, a fund or for
trading.”  The FPC also said the powers will apply to loans made by
U.K. banks in other countries. It said that had  capital
requirements  been increased on U.K. lenders’ U.S. sub-prime
mortgage lending before the financial crisis, “this would have
left banks better able to absorb subsequent losses.”  The FPC said “no single set of indicators” can provide a
perfect guide to systemic risks. “Judgment will therefore play
a material role in all FPC decisions and policy will not
mechanically tied to and specific set of indicators,” it said.  King said in November that banks may need to build up the
capital they hold against potential losses, and asked regulators
to report back by March on how lenders will comply. Banks may
need to make bigger provisions for future loan losses and the
cost of regulatory fines and customer redress. He said that
risk-weightings may also be inappropriate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  