-- Boeing’s 30,000-Pound Bunker-Buster Improved, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-14T18:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/boeing-s-30-000-pound-bunker-buster-improved-u-s-says.html
Efforts to improve the performance
of the U.S.’s heaviest “bunker-buster” bomb have succeeded,
according to the Pentagon’s testing chief.  Tests of the 30,000-pound (13,600-kilogram) Massive Ordnance
Penetrator made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  demonstrated the redesigned weapon
“is capable of effectively prosecuting selected hardened, deeply
buried targets,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s director of
operational testing, said in a report to Congress.  Pentagon officials have said the bomb could be used if the
U.S. decides to attack  Iran’s nuclear program , with its deeply
buried and hardened Fordo  uranium enrichment  facility that holds
a stockpile of enriched uranium.  While Gilmore didn’t mention any specific uses for the
bomb, he said it is intended to hit targets “requiring
significant penetration” that are located in “well-protected
facilities.”  The testing assessment is the first public discussion of
the bomb’s capabilities since early last year, when the Pentagon
disclosed a need to improve it.  Testing of modifications involved five bomb drops from B-2
stealth bombers at White Sands Missile Range in  New Mexico  from
June to October and two ground tests, according to Gilmore’s
annual report on Pentagon testing, which he sent to Congress on
Jan. 11.  The bomb is six times bigger than the 5,000-pound bunker-
buster that the U.S.  Air Force  and the Israeli Air Force have in
their arsenals to attack deeply buried nuclear, biological or
chemical sites.  Israel’s Intentions  Israel  has said it may launch an attack on its own, raising
questions about whether it could effectively halt  Iran ’s nuclear
program unless the U.S. joined in with the bigger bomb.  Iran, which is under pressure from economic sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and the European Union, has said its nuclear
program is for civilian purposes.  U.S. Air Force Lieutenant General Herbert Carlisle cited
the 30,000-pound bomb at an industry conference in March as
among U.S. capabilities in a potential attack on Iran.  The bomb made by Chicago-based Boeing has “great
capability and we are continuing to make it better,” he said.
“It is part of our arsenal if it is needed in that kind of
scenario.”  ‘Hard Target’  The move to improve the bomb was made shortly after the Air
Force took the first delivery in September 2011. The action may
have been a response to Iran’s announcement on Jan. 9, 2012,
that it would begin uranium enrichment at the Fordo facility
near Qom that’s tunneled into mountains, said  Kenneth Katzman , a
Middle East military analyst for the nonpartisan  Congressional
Research Service  in Washington.  “This is a very hard target, and the international
community believes that if Iran were to attempt a nuclear
breakout, it would be conducted at this site,” Katzman said
last year.  The Pentagon won congressional approval in February 2012 to
shift $81.6 million in funds to improve the bunker-buster.  The Pentagon request to upgrade the bomb was submitted 11
days after the  International Atomic Energy Agency  confirmed the
enrichment activity. The location at Qom is 90 meters (295 feet)
under rock, according to  David Albright , founder and president
of the Institute for Science and International Security in
 Washington .  Northrop Grumman Corp.’s B-2 stealth bomber is the only
aircraft capable of carrying the weapon.  Tail-Fin, Fuse  Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale said in a Jan. 20, 2012,
request to Congress that the money was needed to “fix issues
identified in testing, including tail-fin modifications and
integrating a second fuse, enhance weapon capabilities, build
test targets and conduct live weapon testing. The request funds
the immediate requirement to support the desired upgrade
schedule.”  The 20.5-foot-long bomb carries more than 5,300 pounds of
explosives and is guided by Global Positioning System
satellites, according to a description on the website of the
Pentagon’s Defense Threat Reduction Agency.  The bomb has a hardened-steel casing and can reach targets
as far as 200 feet underground before exploding, according to a
December 2007 statement by the Air Force News Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  