-- Bovespa Stock Index Advances as Stimulus Speculation Lifts OGX
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-14T20:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bovespa-index-futures-gain-as-u-s-stimulus-bets-lift-petrobras.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose to a one-week
high as Brazilian producers advanced amid a rally in commodities
on speculation central bankers in the U.S. and  Japan  will take
more steps to spur growth.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , contributed the most to
the gauge’s advance. Banco do Brasil SA climbed as an executive
said the bank is in talks that may lead to acquisitions in
 Florida  and New Jersey.  The Bovespa rose 0.9 percent to 62,080.79 at close of
trading in Sao Paulo, extending this month’s gain to 1.9
percent. Fifty stocks gained on the measure while 19 fell today.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
said in  Hong Kong  that monetary policy has “an important
contribution to make” as U.S. lawmakers reduce  government
spending  to tame the deficit. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
said he wants a “bold policy leader” as the next governor of
the  Bank of Japan .  “We see more willingness to take on risk, which is good
for equities,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at brokerage Clear
Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. “The
external outlook seems more favorable, so I think the optimism
we’re seeing for the Bovespa in this start of the year can last
for a while.”  The real gained 0.1 percent to 2.0313 per dollar. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials climbed 0.9
percent for the highest closing level in almost three months.
Commodities producers account for about 43 percent of the
Bovespa’s weighting.  OGX, Vale  OGX added 3.7 percent to 5.36 reais. Vale SA, the heaviest-
weighted stock on the benchmark  index , climbed 0.6 percent to
39.77 reais.  Banco do Brasil rose 3.7 percent to 26.93 reais as Paulo
Rogerio Caffarelli, the state-controlled lender’s vice president
for international business, said in an interview last week in
 Sao Paulo  that negotiations are under way with potential
acquisition targets. He declined to name the companies involved.  Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest plane builder,
gained 2.7 percent to 14.27 reais. The company said in a
regulatory filing today that it delivered 106 commercial jets
and 99 executive jets in 2012, which compares with deliveries of
105 commercial jets and 99 executive jets in 2011.  Homebuilder Tecnisa SA tumbled 3.9 percent to 7.72 reais
after saying contracted sales dropped 43 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier. Results were “very
disappointing,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including
Guilherme Rocha wrote in a research note.  Economic View  Some companies that sell locally dropped after a central
bank survey showed analysts covering Brazil lowered their
forecasts for this year’s economic growth for a second week.  Retailer Cia. Hering lost 2.3 percent to 38.25 reais. The
MSCI Brazil/Consumer Discretionary Index dropped 0.2 percent,
the only decline among 10 industry groups.  Gross domestic product will expand 3.2 percent this year,
according to the median forecast in a Jan. 11 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today. They had
forecast expansion of 3.26 percent a week earlier  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain
to 18 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index trades at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 11 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.3 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012, according to
data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  