-- Brazil Analysts See Faster Inflation, Slower Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-01-16T19:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/brazil-analysts-lift-cpi-cut-gdp-forecasts-for-second-week-1-.html
(Corrects central bank growth forecast in last paragraph
of story originally published Jan. 14.)  Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
cut their forecast for 2013 growth while boosting their
inflation prediction for the second week in a row, as government
stimulus struggles to lift the economy out of a slowdown.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3.2 percent
this year, while inflation will reach 5.53 percent, according to
the median estimate in a central bank survey of about 100
analysts published today. Analysts had forecast 3.26 percent GDP
growth and 5.49 percent inflation the previous week.  In 2014, inflation will slow to 5.50 percent, while growth
will speed up to 3.6 percent, the survey showed.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has sought to
spur flagging growth as Brazil’s $2.5 trillion economy expanded
by 1 percent last year, according to central bank estimates.
Rousseff on Dec. 22 called on businesses to increase investments
after policy makers reduced benchmark interest rates to a record
low, slashed reserve requirements to help spur investment and
cut taxes on payrolls and consumer goods last year.  Government action has so far yielded mixed results.
Industrial production in the world’s second-largest emerging
market fell in November for the second time in three months on
declining capital goods production. Still, October retail sales
grew at the fastest pace in three months, with consumer demand
driven by stimulus and near record-low unemployment.  Flagging growth has not slowed inflation, which  accelerated 
faster than economists’ estimates in December for the sixth
straight month, on higher personal expenses.  Consumer price increases will decline throughout this year,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in a Jan. 10
statement. Government officials have also enacted measures to
cut electricity costs by 20 percent, which may help ease
inflationary pressure.  Brazil’s gross domestic product will expand 3 percent to 4
percent this year, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on Dec.
27. The central bank forecasts growth of 3.3 percent in the four
quarters through the third quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  