-- Brocade Taps Carney as CEO After Earlier Search for Buyer
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/brocade-taps-carney-as-ceo-after-previously-trying-to-find-buyer.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) 
named Lloyd Carney as chief executive officer, adding an
executive with experience selling companies in a possible
prelude to a search for a buyer.  Carney, 50, was most recently the CEO of Xsigo Systems
Inc., a company specializing in data center virtualization that
was  bought  by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  last year. Previously, he was CEO of
Micromuse Inc., which made network-management software and was
 sold  to  IBM Corp. (IBM)  in 2006. Carney’s appointment is effective
immediately, Brocade said in a statement yesterday.  Brocade said last August that Michael Klayko, CEO since
2005, would resign. The San Jose, California-based company had
been seeking a buyer, and Klayko’s resignation was seen as a
step by the board to expedite a sale of the company.  “Carney’s two previous companies were eventually
acquired,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group, wrote in a
research note.  Brocade’s board probably took Carney’s experience “into
consideration,” Marshall said, adding that finding a buyer
would be difficult given the “competitive challenges” Brocade
faces.  Brocade’s strong cash flow and prominent position in
switches for data-storage networks have made it an attractive
takeover candidate. Brocade has worked with Frank Quattrone’s
Qatalyst Partners to help auction the company, though efforts so
far have been unsuccessful, people with knowledge of the matter
have said.  “I believe Brocade is poised to leverage its heritage of
strong innovation and significantly disrupt the status quo in
the data-networking industry,” Carney said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  