-- Tan, Bakries to Fight for Bumi as Rothschild Boosts Stake
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-14T22:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/bumi-chairman-tan-says-has-support-to-block-rothschild-board-bid.html
Bumi Plc Chairman Samin Tan and the
Bakrie Group, the largest shareholders of the Indonesian coal
venture, stepped up plans to fight a proposal by founder
 Nathaniel Rothschild  to return to the board.  Tan has enough support to stop Rothschild’s bid, announced
last week, to remove him and 11 of the 14 other board members,
he said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday. Rothschild has
acquired more stock to increase his stake ahead of next month’s
shareholder vote, he said yesterday.  The Bakries said in a separate statement they have the
right to nominate Bumi’s chairman, chief executive officer and
chief financial officer under the terms of the original $3
billion deal with Rothschild that created Bumi. They also
threatened to withdraw support for a plan to exit their
investment in the group.  The battle for control of the $1.2 billion London-listed
group intensified last week when Bumi agreed to hold a February
shareholder meeting to vote on Rothschild’s motion to oust
directors including Tan and CEO Nick von Schirnding. Rothschild
is seeking to take control of the company after boardroom
infighting and financial probes prompted moves by both groups to
unwind their collaboration.  “We are talking to the key shareholders about supporting
our program, our initiative and our strategy,” Tan said. “I
truly believe we have enough support to stop Nat from
reshuffling the board.”  Increased Stake  The scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty, Rothschild
yesterday said he increased his share of the  voting rights  to
14.8 percent, or 18.2 percent of the votes for next month’s
meeting. Bumi’s board has failed minority shareholders, he said
last week.  He has proposed to nominate former  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) 
head Wallace King as chairman, Brock Gill as CEO and himself as
an  executive director . He refuted a claim by the Bakries that
they have the right to nominate senior appointments including
the CEO, CFO and chairman.  “The Bakries’ threat to remain in occupation of the Bumi
Plc register if they do not get their way is juvenile in the
extreme,” Rothschild said in a statement. “Threatening
minority shareholders is not the right way to win their
support.”  All Means  The Bakries “will challenge using all legal means, any
attempt not to honor the terms of this agreement which was the
basis upon which” they agreed to the deal that created  Bumi
Plc (BUMI) , according to the statement.  Bumi Plc was founded by Rothschild and the Bakries -- a
family owned empire with investments in  palm oil  to property --
in a deal that grouped stakes in two Indonesian coal producers.
Bumi’s assets include a 29 percent stake in PT Bumi Resources
and an 85 percent holding in PT Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi Plc last month rejected a five-step plan from
Rothschild regarding its coal assets. Rothschild made his
proposal after the Bakrie Group in October offered $1.2 billion
to buy all of Bumi’s producing assets.  The coal company is instead proposing a $430 million plan
that would see it sever ties with the Bakrie family and exit its
investment in  Bumi Resources. (BUMI)   Tan has no intention “to stay any day longer” than needed
and the board has agreed for him to remain until at least “this
critical period is over,” he said. He will wait until “all the
noises are gone” before leaving his position, Tan said, without
giving a time frame.  Tan-Bakrie Venture  PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal, one of Bumi Plc’s
majority shareholders and controlled by Tan, said Dec. 18 that
it rejected a proposal from Rothschild to sell its stake in Bumi
Plc and isn’t in any talks with the financier or his advisers
regarding the proposal.  Tan said in November that Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal and
the Bakries were close to an agreement to end their joint
venture that holds shares in Bumi Plc, freeing the Bakries to
trade their stake in the coal company and exit.  “It is well under way,” Tan said yesterday referring to
the separation deal. “We need to reassess the implication of
the extraordinary general meeting in this possible
transaction.”  Bumi dropped 0.2 percent to close at 314.5 pence in  London 
yesterday. The stock has fallen 63 percent in the past 12
months. Jakarta-listed PT Bumi advanced 3.1 percent to close at
670 rupiah.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  