-- Business Sales Optimism Rebounds in Canada Bank Survey
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-14T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/business-sales-optimism-rebounds-in-canada-bank-survey.html
Canadian businesses reported a
rebound in optimism about future sales at the end of last year,
a quarterly central bank survey showed.  The  balance  of opinion for sales over the next 12 months
rose to 16 percentage points in the Bank of Canada’s survey of
about 100 executives, after falling to zero in the prior report.
The balance of opinion on sales over the past 12 months was
negative 2, the first reading below zero in more than two years.  “Uncertainty continued to temper expectations for business
activity,” the Ottawa-based bank said today in its survey,
which was taken Nov. 19 to Dec. 13.  The bank will probably keep its key  interest rate  at 1
percent at its Jan. 23 decision, where it’s been since September
2010, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Senior
Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said in a speech last week that
while economic momentum has slowed, it will accelerate later
this year.  The percentage of companies reporting they would have
“some” difficulty meeting an unexpected increase in demand
dropped to 28 percent in the latest survey from 44 percent three
months ago.  The balance of opinion on new investment over the next 12
months rose to 20 percent from 8 percent, with the central bank
finding that “few firms cited spending plans related to major
new projects.” On employment, the balance of opinion increased
to 28 percent from 26 percent.  The central bank’s main goal is to keep inflation in the
middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent range, and 96 percent of
those surveyed said the  consumer-price index  will be in that
range over the next two years. Inflation fell below the target
range in December, advancing 0.8 percent from a year earlier,
 Statistics Canada  said Dec. 21.  Executives said that credit conditions eased in the fourth
quarter, with a balance of opinion of negative 7 percentage
points.  A separate survey of  lending officers  had a balance of
opinion of negative 3.4 percentage points, also suggesting
easier credit conditions. That measure has shown easing in each
quarter since the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  