-- California Orange Groves May See Mandarin Damage From Cold Snap
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-01-14T21:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/california-orange-groves-may-see-mandarin-damage-from-cold-snap.html
Orange growers in California, the
largest U.S. producer after  Florida , may see some fruit damage
from a five-day cold spell that is forecast to end tomorrow,
according to a farmer group.  Temperatures dropped as much as 10 degrees Fahrenheit below
average in growing areas including the San Joaquin Valley, where
it reached the mid-20s, said Joel Widenor, the director of
agriculture services at Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda,
 Maryland . Less than a quarter of the state’s citrus belt had
weather cold enough to threaten crops, he said. The fruit can
freeze and become useless if temperatures drop below 28 degrees
(minus 2 Celsius) for three to four hours.  “There’s going to be some damage,” Shirley Batchman, the
director of government affairs at  California  Citrus Mutual, an
association of the state’s citrus growers, said today by
telephone from Exeter. “Just by virtue of how cold it got and
the duration, there will be some damage to the mandarins,”
which are smaller than navel oranges and more easily hurt by a
freeze, she said. Mandarins account for about 24 percent of
state output, she said.  The cold snap had little impact on orange-juice futures in
New York because California produces table fruit. Much of the
U.S. supply used by beverage companies including Coca Cola Co.’s
Minute Maid and PepsiCo Inc.’s Tropicana comes from Florida.
Orange juice for March delivery slid 1.2 percent to settle at
$1.115 a pound today on ICE Futures U.S., the biggest drop in a
week. Prices are down 40 percent in the past year.  ‘Not Severe’  “The temperatures were not severe enough to cause
widespread damage,” Craig Kallsen, a citrus adviser at
University of California’s Department of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, said by telephone from Bakersfield. “This is nothing
out of the ordinary, so we’re able to handle this.”  About 63 percent of the California crop is navel oranges,
with the rest made up of mandarin and valencia varieties, Citrus
Mutual’s Batchman said. Harvests start in October and last
through June for navels and March for mandarins. On Jan. 11, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture left its forecast for
California’s 2012-2013 crop  unchanged  at 59.5 million boxes,
each weighing 80 pounds (36 kilograms). That’s up from 59
million a year earlier.  Farmers can keep orchard temperatures a few degrees warmer
by running warm water through the soil and using wind machines
that mix high warm air with lower cold air, according to
Batchman.  “We are not anticipating any damage in the navels, maybe
very limited damage on the outer row away from the wind
protection,” she said. “Certainly nothing that’s going to
affect the orange production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  