-- California Budget Is ‘Significant’ Improvement, LAO Says
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/california-budget-has-significant-improvement-lao-says.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed
budget is “commendable” for its emphasis on fiscal discipline,
yet California still faces “daunting” choices, according to
the state legislature’s nonpartisan fiscal analyst.  The economic recovery, earlier budgetary restraint and
voter approval of temporary tax increases have bolstered state
finances, the Legislative Analyst’s Office said yesterday in a
 report . Yet volatile  tax revenue  and the uncharted path of
federal spending presents “risks,” it said.  “The governor’s emphasis on fiscal discipline and paying
off the state’s accumulated budgetary debts is commendable,
especially in light of the risks and pressures that the state
still faces,” according to the report.  The governor, a 74-year-old Democrat, said last week that
California is poised to end its next fiscal year with the first
surplus in more than a decade as he released a spending plan
that reflects the higher sales and income taxes that voters
passed in November. The analyst’s office previously projected a
$1.9 billion deficit, even after the levy increases. Brown’s
fiscal 2014 budget estimates $851 million will be left over.  Brown’s proposal assumes more revenue from the elimination
of local redevelopment agencies than the analyst’s office
projected in November. It also reflects slower repayment of
money taken from special state funds.  Revenue Pressures  “Uncertainty surrounding federal fiscal policy and the
volatility inherent in our revenue system” may put pressure on
funding, according to the report. It cited continuing debates in
 Washington  over raising the nation’s debt limit and on dealing
with automatic spending cuts.  Brown’s proposal and his estimates for future years won’t
provide a sizable reserve by the end of fiscal 2017 and don’t
address “huge” unfunded liabilities for the state teacher
pension system and for the health benefits of retired public
employees, according to the analyst’s report.  “As such, the state faces daunting budget choices even in
a much-improved fiscal environment,” the analyst’s office said.  Californians in November granted Brown some of the highest
tax rates in the U.S., at 7.5 percent on retail sales, and at
13.3 percent on incomes of $1 million or more.  Right Choices  “Living within our means, paying down debt, and
strengthening education are the right policy choices for
 California ,” H.D. Palmer, Brown’s finance spokesman, said
yesterday by e-mail in response to the analyst’s report. “Given
the potential risks to our forecast -- both from Washington and
overseas -- fiscal restraint is a prudent insurance policy.”  The governor won the office in 2010 on a pledge to repair
the crippled finances that plagued the most-populous U.S. state,
after lawmakers papered over $200 billion of deficits.  The projected surplus contrasts with a $15.7 billion
deficit that Brown and lawmakers had to fill in the current
fiscal year and a record $42 billion in 2009. A political battle
over how to erase that gap forced the state to issue $2.6
billion of IOUs to pay bills during the impasse.  California, with a gross state product of almost $1.96
trillion, has an economy bigger than  Russia ’s and  Canada ’s, as
measured by each nation’s annual gross domestic product, or GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  