-- Cameron Chooses Netherlands to Set Out EU Referendum Plans
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-15T08:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/cameron-to-set-out-eu-referendum-plan-in-speech-in-netherlands.html
Prime Minister David Cameron will
set out how he plans to renegotiate Britain’s membership of the
European Union, and then persuade voters to back his position in
a referendum, in a speech in the Netherlands on Jan. 18.  Cameron wants Britain to reclaim unspecified powers from
the EU, and he signaled his support yesterday for putting the
result to a plebiscite after the 2015 general election, with the
government arguing to stay in the EU. He dismissed as a “false
choice” calls from members of his Conservative Party for an
early vote on leaving the 27-nation bloc.  The prime minister chose the Netherlands because it is a
“founding member of the EU” that is not “dissimilar” to the
U.K., with “a strong global-trading, outward-looking history,”
his spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in London.
The Sun newspaper reported last week that the speech will be
made in The Hague.  “The beating heart of Britain is, we know we need to be in
 Europe , because we are a trading nation,” Cameron told ITV.
“But we’re not happy with every aspect at the moment -- there’s
too much interference. People want that to be fixed, they want
more of a say. We shouldn’t be frightened to involve the British
people in that.”  Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, whose Liberal Democrats
have traditionally supported the EU, said a referendum should be
held if the EU re-writes its rulebook to accommodate closer
integration among the 17 countries that use the euro.  Clegg’s View  “If there is a new treaty and that involves significant
transfer of power then, of course, people should have a say,”
Clegg told BBC Radio 4 in  London  today. “We do not know yet
whether that will manifest itself in a new treaty. We do not
know if that new treaty will ask new things of the United
Kingdom.”  There is a tradition of British prime ministers going to
the continent to make speeches on Europe. Tony Blair went to
Warsaw in 2000 to make the case for an expanded EU. Winston Churchill called for a United States of Europe in Zurich in 1946
to rebuild the continent in the aftermath of World War II.  Margaret Thatcher set out her European position in a speech
in Bruges,  Belgium , in 1988. That address is so idolized by
Conservatives that one of the pressure groups against further EU
integration is named after it -- The Bruges Group.  Cameron has promises his speech for months. On Dec. 10, he
joked to journalists that it was a “tantric approach to policy
making -- it’ll be even better when it does eventually come.”  Cameron’s Pressure  The prime minister is under pressure from two sides. Many
in his party argue that a more hostile approach to Europe would
be popular with voters and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne last week raised the stakes by warning that the EU had
to change if Britain is to remain a member. The Tories’ Liberal
Democrat coalition allies and foreign politicians say Cameron
risks damaging the economy and Britain’s global influence.  Philip Gordon, assistant secretary of state for European
Affairs in President  Barack Obama ’s administration, last week
warned Britain against a referendum, saying the U.K. staying in
the EU is important to U.S. interests.  Gunther Krichbaum, an ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel and
the head of  Germany ’s European Affairs committee, weighed in to
suggest it was a bad approach to negotiations.  “You cannot
create a political future if you are blackmailing other
states,” he told the Guardian newspaper.  ‘Massive Disruption’  Meanwhile, Business Secretary Vince Cable, a Liberal
Democrat, described talk of a referendum as “a massive
disruption and deeply unhelpful” at a time when the government
is trying to persuade companies to invest in the U.K.  Cameron yesterday defended his decision to raise the
question of Britain’s membership.  “This debate is happening anyway,” he told the  BBC . “We
have a choice as politicians: do we get out there, lead the
debate, make a choice that I think will be right for Britain and
right for Europe, or hide your head in the sand?”  His hand is being forced by pressure within his own party
amid growing support from 2010 Tory voters for the U.K.
Independence Party, which advocates withdrawal from the EU.
Recent polls put UKIP on about 10 percent support.  Britain’s relationship with Europe has been the subject of
two record-breaking Conservative rebellions since Cameron took
office in 2010. On Oct. 31, the premier suffered his first House
of Commons defeat after 53 of his lawmakers defied him to vote
for a real cut in the EU budget, rather than the freeze he’d
said he was seeking. A year earlier, 81 Conservative lawmakers
voted for a referendum on pulling out of the EU.  Polls suggest voters wouldn’t support withdrawal from the
EU in the referendum Cameron proposed. A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey of
1,995 adults conducted Jan. 10-11 found more people saying life
outside the EU would be worse than better. And while they
initially said they would vote for Britain to leave by 42
percent to 36 percent, asked how they would vote if he had
conducted a renegotiation and was advocating staying in, they
said they would support membership by 50 percent to 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  