-- Canada Dollar Weakens as China Flows May Boost Others
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-14T22:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/canada-dollar-weakens-as-china-flows-may-boost-others.html
The Canadian dollar fell against its
Australian and New Zealand counterparts as comments from the
Chinese securities regulator indicated the possibility of more
foreign investment in Chinese firms.  The Canadian currency declined versus a majority of its 16
most-traded peers as Chinese stocks rose the most in a month
after  Guo Shuqing , Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, said China can raise quotas to allow foreigners as
well as offshore  yuan  holders in Hong Kong to buy stocks and
bonds in the mainland.  “You’d look at  Canada  as a bystander in terms of the flow
that leads Asia over  North America  at the moment,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , by phone from Toronto.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to
98.37 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It declined
0.3 percent to C$1.0394 per Australian dollar and dropped 0.7
percent to 82.93 cents per  New Zealand dollar . One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0166.  Benchmark 10-year Canadian government bonds were little
changed with a yield of 1.94 percent. The price of the 2.75
percent note maturing in June 2022 added one cent to C$106.93.  The  Bank of Canada  will sell C$3.3 billion ($3.4 billion)
of notes maturing in May 2015 on Jan. 16.  China Flows  China is able to boost by 10 times the size of two
investment programs that allow foreign investors, as well as
offshore yuan holders in Hong Kong, to buy equities and bonds in
the mainland, Shuqing said at a conference in Hong Kong.  “With the market less concerned about risk in the first
few weeks of the year, and the Aussie and the kiwi picking up
more interest, more carry than the Canadian dollar, I think
these other two currencies have been a bit more popular,” said
Ken Dickson, a director of currencies in Edinburgh at Standard
Life Investments, which manages about $264 billion.  “The interest-rate carry is just a little bit better. It’s
slightly more favored in the near term,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Australian government notes due in two years yield 2.8
percent, which is 161 basis points more than similar-maturity
Canadian debt and compares with a spread of 150 basis points at
the end of 2012. Treasuries due in two years yield 0.24 percent.  Fed View  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he isn’t
aware of any new stimulus tool for the central bank to use to
try to boost economic growth.  “As far as I’m aware, there’s no completely new method
that we haven’t” already tapped, Bernanke said today in Ann
Arbor, Michigan.  The Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate to almost zero
in December 2008. Since doing so, its two main approaches for
further easing have been communications about the outlook for
 interest rates  and asset-purchase programs, both of which the
central bank has used, Bernanke said.  The Canadian dollar will strengthen 1 percent to 98 cents
versus its U.S. counterpart by Dec. 31, according to the median
estimate of 40 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The
forecasts show the loonie is one of just two currencies poised
for gains among countries with at least one AAA rating and a
stable outlook from the three largest credit-ratings companies.  “Interest-rate spread has been more of play out there in
the marketplace for any astute investor,”  Dean Popplewell , head
analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said by phone from Toronto. “Everyone certainly is
looking toward grabbing some sort of yield advantage. Aussie
currently certainly has that at the moment with Canada on hold
for quite some time.”  Economists also see the Bank of Canada raising its 1
percent benchmark rate this year, the only predicted increase in
the top-rated club of seven nations including Australia,
Switzerland and Singapore.  The loonie fell 0.2 percent during the past month versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped about 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  