-- Carlyle Said to Boost Euro Parts of DuPont Unit LBO Financing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2013-01-14T12:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/carlyle-said-to-boost-euro-parts-of-dupont-unit-lbo-financing.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, is re-balancing the $4.3 billion
buyout financing for DuPont’s auto-paint unit in favor of
secured debt in euros at the expense of unsecured dollar debt,
according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The deal will be the largest buyout financing raised in the
U.S. since Kinetic Concepts Inc. obtained a $2.45 billion loan
in November 2011 for its purchase by Apax Partners Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The seven-year term loan B for Dupont Performance Coatings
has increased to 390 million euros ($520 million) from 150
million euros while the secured notes will total 250 million
euros, up from 230 million euros, said the people, who declined
to be named because the transaction is private. A planned $1.1
billion unsecured high-yield bond is now $750 million in size,
said the people.  Leverage, measuring debt to earnings before income, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, on a senior secured basis is set
to rise to 4.5 times from 4 times, the people said. The size of
the dollar-denominated term loan is unchanged at $2.3 billion,
they said.  Catherine Armstrong, a spokeswoman in  London  for Carlyle,
declined to comment on the financing.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, Jefferies Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. are arranging the debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Carlyle Group  is acquiring the business from Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont for $4.9 billion and the transaction is
expected to close during the first quarter, according to an Aug.
30 company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  