-- Caro’s Johnson, Coll’s ExxonMobil Compete for Book Awards
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-01-14T15:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/caro-s-johnson-coll-s-exxonmobil-compete-for-book-awards.html
“The Passage of Power,” the fourth
volume of Robert Caro’s acclaimed life of Lyndon Johnson, is
among the finalists for the 2012 National Book Critics Circle
Awards. Two of the earlier volumes have won the award.  Steve Coll’s “Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American
Power” will compete for the general nonfiction prize, having
already won the Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book
of the Year Award.  Other nonfiction finalists include “Behind the Beautiful
Forevers” by Katherine Boo, a look at life in a Mumbai slum;
“Far From the Tree,” in which Andrew Solomon interviews
hundreds of parents who have children very different from
themselves; and David Quammen’s “Spillover,” a study of the
viral diseases that jump from animals to humans.  The finalists for the fiction award span the globe, from
Ben Fountain’s “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk,” set in
 Texas , to Zadie Smith’s “NW,” set in  London , and Adam
Johnson’s “The Orphan Master’s Son,” set in North Korea.  The National Book Critics Circle, or NBCC, is an
organization of almost 600 book reviewers and editors. Founded
in 1974, the group gave out its first awards the following year.  Selecting Judges  Nominees and winners are chosen by the group’s 24-member
board of directors, which includes Bloomberg book editor Laurie Muchnick, staffers from the Los Angeles Times, the Chicago
Tribune and other newspapers, and a number of freelance critics.
Though not accompanied by a monetary prize, the NBCC awards are
well-respected in the literary world.  The winners will be announced on Feb. 28 at the New School
in New York City, when two additional awards will be given. The
Ivan Sandrof Award for lifetime achievement will go to
pioneering feminist writers Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar.
William Deresiewicz will claim the Nona Balakian Citation for
Excellence in Reviewing, which for the first time will come with
$1,000.  Here is a complete list of the finalists:  Autobiography:  Reyna Grande, “The Distance Between Us” (Atria); Maureen N.
McLane, “My Poets” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Anthony Shadid,
“House of Stone: A Memoir of Home, Family and a Lost Middle
East” (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt); Leanne Shapton, “Swimming
Studies” (Blue Rider Press); Ngugi wa Thiong’o, “In the House
of the Interpreter” (Pantheon)  Biography:  Robert A. Caro, “The Passage of Power: The Years of Lyndon
Johnson” (Knopf); Lisa Cohen, “All We Know: Three Lives”
(Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Michael Gorra, “Portrait of a Novel:
Henry James and the Making of an American Masterpiece”
(Liveright/Norton); Lisa Jarnot, “Robert Duncan, the Ambassador
From Venus: A Biography” (University of California); Tom Reiss,
“The Black Count: Glory, Revolution, Betrayal and the Real
Count of Monte Cristo” (Crown)  Criticism:  Paul Elie, “Reinventing Bach” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux);
Daniel Mendelsohn, “Waiting for the Barbarians: Essays from the
Classics to Pop Culture” (New York Review Books); Mary Ruefle,
“Madness, Rack, and Honey” (Wave Books); Marina Warner,
“Stranger Magic: Charmed States and the Arabian Nights”
(Belknap/Harvard); Kevin Young, “The Grey Album: On the
Blackness of Blackness” (Graywolf)  Fiction:  Laurent Binet, “HHhH” (translated from French by Sam Taylor;
Farrar, Straus & Giroux); Ben Fountain, “Billy Lynn’s Long
Halftime Walk” (Ecco); Adam Johnson, “The Orphan Master’s
Son” (Random House); Lydia Millet, “Magnificence” (Norton);
Zadie Smith, “NW” (Penguin Press)  Nonfiction:  Katherine Boo, “Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death, and
Hope in a Mumbai Undercity” (Random House); Steve Coll,
“Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power” (Penguin
Press); Jim Holt, “Why Does the World Exist? An Existential
Detective Story” (Liveright/Norton); David Quammen,
“Spillover: Animal Infections and the Next Human Pandemic”
(Norton); Andrew Solomon, “Far From the Tree: Parents, Children
and the Search for Identity” (Scribner)  Poetry:  David Ferry, “Bewilderment: New Poems and Translations”
(University of Chicago Press); Lucia Perillo, “On the Spectrum
of Possible Deaths” (Copper Canyon Press); Allan Peterson,
“Fragile Acts” (McSweeney’s); D.A. Powell, “Useless
Landscape, or A Guide for Boys” (Graywolf); A.E. Stallings,
“Olives” (Triquarterly/Northwestern)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 