-- Castro Travel Rule Changes Face Test as Cubans Seek to Leave
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-01-14T16:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/castro-travel-rule-changes-face-test-as-cubans-seek-to-go-abroad.html
Cuban architect Felix Borges, who
last left the Caribbean island in 1989 to visit  Angola , is among
a wave of prospective tourists seeking to go abroad as President
 Raul Castro  begins easing travel rules on the communist island.  Starting today, Borges and other Cuban citizens will no
longer need exit visas or invitations from a resident of a
foreign country in order to travel, a rule that kept many from
leaving the island for decades. The policy shift comes as Castro
takes more steps to open up the economy as part of the biggest
overhaul since the 1959 revolution led by his brother Fidel.  “They’ll have normal rules where people can leave and come
back,” said Philip Peters, a Cuba analyst at the Lexington
Institute in Arlington, Virginia. “People can go abroad to get
a degree and come back, or work and send money back. It’s going
to have an economic benefit because it will connect people to
the outside world.”  While lifting travel restrictions may cause more Cubans to
flee the island for good, Castro is betting that most will
return and help rebuild the nation’s economy, Peters said. Yet
in a country where the average monthly salary is $19, according
to  Cuba’s statistics agency , even buying an airplane ticket will
be beyond the reach of most of the island’s 11 million
residents.  ‘Too Expensive’  “Tickets are too expensive even for professionals who just
scrape by day to day on their salaries,” Borges, 55, said in e-
mailed comments from  Havana .  In addition, not everyone will be allowed to take advantage
of the new rules, which also enable Cubans to stay abroad for
two years, up from 11 months previously. The Castro government,
in announcing the changes last October, said that it can prevent
Cubans from leaving the island for national security reasons and
“to preserve the human capital created by the revolution.”  Yoani Sanchez, a dissident who frequently writes about her
failed efforts to leave Cuba, said migration authorities told
her today that she would be free to travel once a passport is
ready next month.  “Fingers crossed,” she wrote on her  Twitter account .
“I’ll believe it when I’m on the plane.”  Most countries, including the U.S., also require Cubans to
apply for travel visas. Ecuador is the only Latin American
nation that doesn’t, provoking concern that some Cubans will
first travel there and attempt to migrate to the U.S., Peters
said.  Wet Foot  Those who flee the island are allowed to stay in the U.S.
through the so-called wet foot, dry foot policy, which has given
refuge to Cubans who manage to cross the Florida Straits and
step foot on U.S. soil. Cubans intercepted at sea by U.S.
officials are returned to the island.  While Castro officials have denounced the U.S. policy for
encouraging illegal immigration, the rule changes will allow
Cubans living in places like Miami to return. Among those
permitted to come back are doctors and sports stars who left the
island after 1990, according to a  statement  today on the
government-run website Cubadebate.  Cubans are most likely to visit places where they have
family, namely in the U.S. and  Spain , said Tomas Bilbao, who
heads the Cuba Study Group, a Washington-based organization that
seeks to change U.S. policy toward Cuba and encourage a market-
based economy on the island.  “ Mexico  may be a destination as it’s close and flights are
less expensive,” though it’s doubtful the government will allow
enough visas to meet demand in an effort to stem illegal
immigration, Bilbao said.  Visa Requests  The U.S. is also preparing for a surge in visa requests.  “The  United States  is working to ensure that mechanisms
are in place to address any increase in visa applications or
undocumented migration, and urges Cuban families to use legal
family reunification and other immigration mechanisms already in
place,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in an
e-mailed statement on Jan. 11.  Miriam Leiva, a founder of the Cuban dissident group Ladies
in White, said Castro’s government is opening up additional
offices to handle extra travel requests, which will include
opposition leaders wishing to test their luck.  “The main ambition for many, many Cubans is to leave the
country,” Leiva said in a phone interview from Havana. “This
is a way for the government to tell all Cubans abroad that,
listen, you don’t have to defect, you can stay there, you can
work and then come back or go elsewhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 