-- Cayman Islands Too Far Away? Just Build Your Own
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-14T22:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/cayman-islands-too-far-away-just-build-your-own.html
Fifteen years ago, China was
ecstatic to regain control of Hong Kong and all it represented:
freshly minted billionaires, a culture in which corporate
chieftains outshine movie stars, and splashy initial public
offerings that rival New York and  London .  Just before the handover, though, executives and investors
fretted over what China would do with the place. Would the
Communist Party tie a noose around the city? Or meddle with the
transparency and pro-business policies that made Hong Kong
unique? As 2013 begins, such fears are returning in ways that
should unsettle capitalists everywhere.  An economy that is supposedly the freest anywhere is taking
a giant leap backward with a proposal to block access to
personal data on company directors. It would conceal residential
addresses and full identification numbers that journalists and
analysts use to discern who owns or runs what. If implemented,
the proposal ensures that the Cayman Islands, and other
secretive jurisdictions used to evade taxes, will soon have a
powerful competitor in Asia.  Why is this happening now?  China  is livid over increased
media scrutiny of the obscene wealth being amassed by top party
officials and has resorted to blocking news websites. This
change in law would further cloud an opaque  paper trail  of ill-
gotten gains that find their way into Hong Kong’s first-world
financial system. It isn’t mainland peasants, after all, who are
speculating on Hong Kong property, but political heavies trying
to hide their assets.  Extended Families  Were these policies in place in 2012, Bloomberg News and
the New York Times probably couldn’t have tracked the vast
wealth accrued by the extended families of incoming Chinese
President Xi Jinping and departing Premier Wen Jiabao. It hardly
falls into the realm of conspiracy theories to connect the dots.
The Communist Party wants to contain the embarrassment of riches
and wealth inequality that threaten its legitimacy.  Wall Street’s crisis did immeasurable damage to the Anglo-
American consensus on free markets, transparency and liberal
democracy. That has left a huge opening for a Chinese model
based on mercantilist trade policies, autocratic government,
limited press freedom and hazy corporate disclosure. Yet is this
really in Hong Kong’s best interest? Or China’s?  If China wants to get short sellers, such as  Carson Block 
of Muddy Waters LLC, off its back, the answer is greater
openness and accountability. If companies want steadier, less
fickle sources of foreign demand for stocks and bonds, they
should give investors full access to their books.  Hong Kong needs to tread carefully on provisions that first
appeared in November, largely under the radar screen (they were
jammed in the middle of a blizzard of other proposals and re-
emerged last week). The city’s 7 million people long reveled in
its designation as a business mecca by the Heritage Foundation
and the Wall Street Journal’s joint annual  Index of Economic
Freedom . Hong Kong’s No. 1 ranking must be reconsidered as the
city facilitates a bull market in corruption.  Identifying who holds the corporate reins will be much
harder in Chinese-speaking jurisdictions, where many people
share the same names, with variant English spellings. Consider
how difficult it was amid the Bo Xilai scandal to discern where
the extended family -- which capitalized on the Chongqing
politician’s power -- began and ended. Following the money is
about to get much more difficult.  Last year, tens of thousands took to the streets to protest
China’s campaign to force-feed “patriotic education” to Hong
Kong’s students. A curriculum devised to stifle independent
thinking in an economy that thrives on it is bad enough. The
latest steps run “counter to the principles of freedom of
speech, freedom of the media and transparency,” says David Webb, the founder of corporate-governance website webb-site.com.
They will boomerang and hurt the city’s pocketbook.  Mainland Masters  There is an argument to be made that restricting
residential addresses is fair enough, given privacy and security
concerns, Webb says. Still, Bloomberg journalists last year
found that directors already routinely use business addresses or
the homes of associates in their filings. Imagine now.  Tension between Hong Kong’s people and their political
masters in Beijing is rising. Pro-democracy lawmakers staged a
symbolic effort to impeach Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun- ying after less than six months in office. It came just days
after thousands of residents protested anew to demand his
resignation amid accusations that he had been or was a member of
China’s Communist Party. It’s quite a feat to earn lower
popularity ratings than Donald Tsang, his hapless predecessor,
but Leung has done just that. The blurring of the lines between
China and Hong Kong is a major reason why.  China’s financial system needs to become more like Hong
Kong’s, not the other way around. The only way to flush out the
corruption and conflicts of interest infecting China’s
leadership is greater openness. If regulators get their way, an
economy that was supposed to be the world’s gold standard will
lose its luster.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  