-- McConnell Says 10,000 Troops Should Stay in Afghanistan
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-14T18:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mcconnell-says-10-000-troops-should-stay-in-afghanistan.html
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said at least 10,000 U.S. troops should remain in
 Afghanistan  after 2014, when President  Barack Obama  has pledged
to bring most forces home from an 11-year war.  “We’re going to need a minimum of about 10,000 troops here
to provide adequate training and counterterrorism in the
post-2014 period, and we anticipate forces from other countries
who will remain here beyond 2014 as well,” McConnell of
 Kentucky  said today on a conference call with reporters.  McConnell had just completed a visit to Afghanistan to meet
with U.S. military commanders led by General John Allen,
commander of U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan.  Obama and White House advisers said last week, during a
Washington visit by Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , that the
administration was still weighing options and wouldn’t rule out
bringing all troops home.  Obama said at a Jan. 11 press conference with Karzai that
Afghan forces will take over the lead security role for their
country within a few months, sooner than planned. Coalition
forces will take a “support role” in the spring. There were
102,000 international coalition troops under U.S. command as of
last month.  McConnell, who said his trip to the war-torn nation was his
seventh to Afghanistan in 10 years, told reporters he has become
confident that the Afghan army and police can engage effectively
in combat with al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups as more U.S.
troops are withdrawn.  New Optimism  “This is the first time I have left there with a sense of
genuine optimism,” McConnell said.  Also today, Afghanistan’s Ambassador to the U.S., Eklil Hakimi, told reporters in  Washington  he is confident some U.S.
troops will remain in his country even as White House officials
have floated the possibility of keeping none.  “Both presidents already committed, beyond 2014, U.S.
forces’ presence will be there,” he said.  Hakimi, who is the lead Afghan negotiator for a security
agreement that would grant immunity from local prosecution for
any U.S. soldiers that remain, said “the whole purpose” of
such an agreement is to protect the rights of American troops
that would remain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  