-- Chardonnay Flood Buoys Australian Wine Exports as Prices Decline
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-14T02:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/chardonnay-flood-buoys-australian-wine-exports-as-prices-decline.html
Rising demand for cheaper chardonnay
lifted export volumes of Australian wine even as the value of
overseas sales declined for a sixth year running.  Exports of chardonnay in so-called bulk containers climbed
37 percent to 117 million liters in 2012, Louisa Aherne, a
spokeswoman for government-backed industry body Wine  Australia ,
said in an e-mail today. Total export volume rose 3 percent.  Australia, the  fourth-largest wine exporter , is using
cheaper modes of transport and attempting to build higher-value
brands in new markets such as China as it struggles with a
stronger currency that’s made it harder to compete with U.S. and
European vintages. Dry weather in the southern spring means the
2013 vintage should be a good one, Bernard Hickin, chief wine-
maker for  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) ’s Jacob’s Creek brand, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We’ll see some great wines from this year across a number
of varietals and regions,” he said. While recent hot weather,
which hit 42 Celsius (108 Fahrenheit) in the wine-producing town
of Mildura on Jan. 11, presented challenges, a dry winter and
spring “will make wines from 2013 show tremendous concentration
of flavors and silky textures,” Hickin said.  The company will start crushing chardonnay grapes from
Mildura in Victoria state and the Riverland region in  South
Australia  today, according to the statement.  Bulk Exports  Bulk wine, in which the beverage is packed in giant
bladders inside shipping containers and bottled in its end-
market rather than at the vineyard, overtook bottled exports
last year,  Wine Australia  said.  The growth of lower-priced bulk wine meant the value of
Australian wine exports fell 2 percent last year to A$1.85
billion ($1.95 billion) even as total volume rose 3 percent to
721 million liters, according to Wine Australia data.  Growing Chinese demand for higher-end Australian wines made
it the biggest destination for bottles valued at more than
A$7.50 a liter, the body said, putting it ahead of  Canada  and
the U.S. in the segment. The average value of bottled Australian
wine exports to  China  came ahead of those from  France .  The Australian dollar has advanced 13 percent against its
U.S. counterpart in the past three years, the strongest
performer among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  