-- Chavez’s Health Called Favorable, Infection Controlled
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-01-14T19:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/chavez-s-recent-health-is-favorable-infection-controlled.html
Ailing Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez’s health has been favorable in the past days and the
respiratory infection he suffered following cancer surgery in
Cuba last month is under control, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said.  While Chavez is conscious, he continues to receive
“specific measures” to aid with breathing problems caused by
the lung infection, Villegas said yesterday on state television
while reading from a  statement .  “In spite of his delicate state of health following a
complex operation Dec. 11, in the last few days his general
clinical evolution has been favorable,” Villegas said. “The
president is conscious, in communication with his family, with
his political team and his medical team treating him and has
remained on top of information of interest.”  Tens of thousands of Venezuelans took a symbolic oath in
Caracas Jan. 10 in place of Chavez, whose 18-month battle with
cancer prevented him from attending his own inauguration to a
third six-year term. The self-declared socialist hasn’t been
seen or heard from since alighting from a plane in Havana Dec.
10 to undergo his fourth surgery since June 2011. His older
brother Adan has denied he’s in a coma as speculation mounts
that his health is deteriorating.  Venezuelan government bonds returned 47 percent in the past
year, the most in  emerging markets  after Ivory Coast, as
investors bet that Chavez’s health will force elections and a
new government that could introduce more market-friendly
policies.  Swearing In  Yields on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar-
denominated bonds due in 2027 rose 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 9.39 percent at 3:08 p.m. in Caracas,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.63
cents to 98.88 cents on the dollar.  The Supreme Court Jan. 9 endorsed the government line that
Chavez’s swearing-in can be delayed until he recovers, saying
that any such ceremony is a mere formality. The ruling means
Chavez’s handpicked successor, Vice President Nicolas Maduro,
will continue to run affairs on his behalf in South America’s
biggest oil exporter for the foreseeable future.  Constitutional Dispute  The opposition has described the supreme court ruling as a
violation of the constitution. They argue that Chavez should be
declared temporarily absent and that National Assembly President
Diosdado Cabello should become caretaker president while the
former tank commander recovers.  Maduro, Cabello, Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez, and Attorney
General Cilia Flores, who are currently in Cuba to evaluate
Chavez’s health, today met with Cuban President Raul Castro and
his brother Fidel, state newspaper Granma reported.  Maduro thanked the Castros and the Cuban medical team for
the “sterling attention” they’ve given Chavez while he
recovers in Cuba, according to Granma.  Adan Chavez, who is also governor of Barinas state, denied
that the president was in a coma and that his family was
considering disconnecting life-support machines, according to a
statement published on the Barinas state government’s website.  “We know this is part of a dirty war by the necrophiliac
opposition in this country,” Adan said, according to the
statement dated Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 