-- China to Use Forex Reserves to Finance Overseas Investment Deals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T09:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/china-to-use-forex-reserves-to-finance-overseas-investment-deals.html
China ’s foreign-exchange regulator
said a new unit will use the nation’s $3.3 trillion in reserves
to support Chinese companies expanding abroad, signaling fresh
outlets for the world’s largest currency stockpile.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a
statement on its website today that its Co-Financing office has
been seeking “innovative use” of the  reserves  and “supporting
financial institutions in serving China’s economic growth and
going-out strategy.”  The increased support may further boost Chinese non-
financial investment overseas that rose 25 percent in the first
11 months of 2012 to $62.5 billion amid slower  growth  at home.
The Chinese government has been encouraging companies to buy
assets overseas through a “going out” strategy to secure energy
and commodity resources, buy technology and build
internationally competitive businesses.  “A larger portion of China’s reserves is expected to be
used to finance overseas investment deals,” said Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong .
“Given the large size of China’s reserves, a small percentage
change will mean a big amount.”  Zhang said only a small part of China’s reserves are
expected to be used in the new office.  The office will respect “market choice and willingness”
and promote “fair play,” SAFE said. The operations have
“promoted China’s economic and social development, expanded
investment scope and fields of foreign exchange reserves and
promoted a diversified management approach,” said the Beijing-
based agency, which is part of the central bank.  Annual Report  SAFE’s 2011 annual report, published June 2012, listed the
office in an organization chart, without giving details on its
role.  Separately, SAFE’s head said the nation must seek to avoid
failed overseas investments and needs more justification to use
the reserves than assertions that deals boost the nation’s
resources or security.  Domestic companies have asked the government for
inexpensive foreign currency, “claiming their deals are buying
resources for the country or improving national strategic
security,”  Yi Gang  wrote in an article in the Jan. 14 edition
of Chinese magazine Century Weekly, published by Caixin Media.
“Cheap funding” only encourages blind overseas purchases and
leads to investment failures, Yi said.  SAFE had already started “co-financing” operations before
the unit was created, mainly with  China Development Bank , Caixin
reported. About two-thirds of the bank’s $250 billion in
foreign-exchange loans are sourced from SAFE, Caixin said.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  