-- China, Mexico Leading Fight on Climate Change With New CO2 Laws
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/china-mexico-leading-fight-on-climate-change-with-new-co2-laws.html
China ,  Mexico  and other emerging
economies are leading the fight against  climate change  by
passing laws to cut carbon and raise  energy efficiency , the
Globe International alliance of lawmakers said today.  A study of energy and climate laws in 33 economies showed
18 made “significant” progress in 2012, Globe said today in an
e-mailed statement. The alliance, which brings together
lawmakers from 70 nations, is meeting in  London  today and
tomorrow to discuss ways in which governments can contribute to
the international effort to contain global warming.  “This is a game-changing development, driven by emerging
economies,” said John Gummer, president of the group and a
member of the U.K. upper chamber known as the House of Lords.
“The tide is beginning to turn decisively on tackling climate
change.”  The alliance is seeking to leverage domestic laws to spur
progress in United Nations treaty talks leading to a new deal to
lower carbon dioxide emissions by 2015. National legislation can
put in place the necessary mechanisms to report and verify
emissions, a prerequisite for a “credible” treaty, it said.  “The clean revolution we need is being carried forward by
legislation,”  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat who
spearheads the talks, said in the Globe statement. “Domestic
legislation is critical because it is the linchpin between
action on the ground and the international agreement.”  Talks that ended in Doha in December failed to close the
gap between emissions pledges and the scale of reduction the UN
says is needed to avert dangerous levels of warming. They kicked
off discussions leading to a 2015 deal that will enter force in
2020, and at the same time extended targets under the existing
 Kyoto Protocol  treaty for another eight years.  Canada’s Regression  Globe said progress was made in 2012 in Australia,
Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, El Salvador, the 27-
nation European Union,  India , Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Mexico,
Pakistan,  South Africa , South Korea, the U.S. and Vietnam.  Canada’s withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol made it the
first country deemed to have regressed in the three times Globe
has produced its report since 2010. Countries including Germany,
the U.K., France and Italy -- the EU’s four biggest economies --
were deemed to have made no substantive change last year.  Mexico’s passing of a  climate law  targeting an emissions-
cut of 30 percent from a business-as-usual trajectory by 2020
made it last year’s “standout country,” the alliance said.
South Korea passed a law to start an emissions trading program
by 2015, China began to draft a climate change law, and India
incorporated low-carbon options in its five-year plan, according
to Globe.  Globe said it’s starting a program to provide political,
analytical and administrative support to lawmakers from the 33
nations represented in London over the next three years, to help
create the conditions needed for success in the UN discussions.  Globe’s report on climate and energy legislation was
produced with the Grantham Research Institute at the  London
School  of Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  