-- China Lodging Rally to Wane After Jump, Oppenheimer Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-14T21:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/china-lodging-rally-to-wane-after-jump-oppenheimer-says.html
China  Lodging Group Ltd., the hotel
operator that posted the second-biggest advance among Chinese
stocks traded in the U.S. today, won’t sustain its rally as the
nation’s economic rebound is yet to flow through to the
hospitality sector, according to Oppenheimer & Co.  The budget hotel chain company has climbed 11 percent over
the past four trading days as data last week showing exports
rose more than economists anticipated in December bolstered
Chinese assets. China Lodging jumped 4.9 percent to $18.80 in
 New York , the highest price since July 2011 amid volumes more
than eight times the daily average over the past three months.
It was the second-best performer on the  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.  Investors should “take profits” on China Lodging stock at
these levels, said Ella Ji, an Oppenheimer equity research
analyst in New York who has rated China Lodging the equivalent
of buy since 2011. While signs Chinese trade is picking up after
the nation’s seven-quarter slowdown are positive for growth in
business-related hotel guests, near-term results for China
Lodging may not reflect that, Ji said.  “We haven’t noticed a surge in these customers’ activities
yet in our channel checks, and in reality if you look at the
numbers probably you wouldn’t see those happening in the first
quarter,” Ji said by phone today. “Given that the stock has
really jumped quite significantly, we would suggest taking
profits at this level.”  Cold Weather  China Lodging, which runs the nation’s fourth-largest
economy hotel chain, said in a Jan. 11  statement  that
preliminary fourth quarter results showed a 2 percent increase
in revenue per available room in hotels in operation for at
least 18 months. Total revenue per available room declined 3
percent over the period a year earlier.  The Shanghai-based company’s earnings may also be affected
by China’s coldest winter in 28 years, should power costs rise,
Ji said. Sales rose to 3.2 billion  yuan  ($514 million) in 2012,
according to the median of nine analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg, from 2.25 billion yuan in 2011.  “We will maintain our outperform rating because we are
optimistic for 2013 overall,” she said. “In the near-term,
there could be some downside surprises to the margins. Wait for
a pullback to build your positions again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  