-- Chinese Vase Resold for Less Than Half $83 Million Record
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-01-15T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/chinese-vase-resold-for-less-than-half-83-million-record.html
A Chinese vase for which a bidder
offered a record 51.6 million pounds ($83 million) at auction
more than two years ago has been sold for less than half the
price the original purchaser failed to pay.  The elaborately decorated 18th-century porcelain vase,
described as being made for the Qianlong Emperor, was auctioned
by Bainbridges in Ruislip, west  London , on Nov. 11, 2010.  The winning bid was more than 50 times the presale
estimate. The price, including auction house fees, was a record
for any Asian work of art offered at auction. The bid was made
by an agent in the room on behalf of the Beijing-based
collector, Wang Yaohui, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  The owners, a retired solicitor called Tony Johnson and his
mother Gene, waited two years for a resolution. They have now
sold the vase to another buyer for an undisclosed price between
20 million pounds and 25 million pounds, said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The private transaction was brokered by the London-based
auction house Bonhams. The vase has now been exported. The new
owner has been identified by dealers as an Asian collector.  “Bonhams is pleased to confirm the sale of the vase for an
undisclosed sum, in a private treaty deal,” according to an
email from Julian Roup, Bonhams’s director of press and
marketing.  House Clearance  “It’s the right price,” the London-based dealer  Roger
Keverne  said in an interview. “That was the figure at which most
people were interested when the vase was originally offered.
It’s settled to its true value.”  Keverne said dealers would be relieved the two-year non-
payment saga had been resolved. “It’s good news,” he said. “This
was an itch that needed dealing with. It was at least so far out
of the reach of normal trading that it didn’t affect overall
levels of confidence. That 51.6 million was a casino price.”  The Qing-dynasty rarity, featuring a pierced “reticulated”
body painted in a pastel-colored “famille rose” palette, was
discovered during a routine house clearance in the London suburb
of Pinner.  In perfect condition, the vase had been owned by William
and Pat Newman, who died in 2006 and 2010 respectively. It then
passed to Pat Newman’s sister, Gene. It isn’t known how William
Newman acquired the piece.  The record bid for the so-called “Ruislip Vase” was the
highest of a series of big-ticket prices for imperial Chinese
porcelain that were pledged, if not always paid, by Asian
bidders at auctions in 2010.  Sale Value  Auction sales of art and antiques in  China  in 2010 were
valued at 6 billion euros ($8.6 billion), a 177 percent increase
on 2009, according to a European Fine Art Foundation report
published in March 2011.  Further auctions and dealer transactions in the West turned
the trade in Chinese artifacts into a business worth more than
$10 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Demand for Chinese antiques has since declined as growth in
the Chinese economy contracted and western auction houses
introduced deposits to deter non-payers.  Though  Bainbridges’s  original bill for the imperial vase
was never met in full, the auction house had received an interim
payment, said persons with knowledge of the matter.  Peter Bainbridge, the company’s director, has consistently
declined to comment on the non-payment of the vase, citing a
confidentiality clause.  Website Video  A video of the record-breaking auction still features on
Bainbridges’s website and the vase is used in place of an “i”
on the company logo.  Wang Yaohui, the Beijing-based chairman of Zhonghui Guohua
Industrial Group Co., Ltd., has been named in connection with
the 2010 bid by the China-based art news website  en.artron.net 
and other Asian media sources.  He was unavailable for comment by telephone and did not
respond to emails when Zhonghui Guohua was contacted by
Bloomberg News yesterday.  Zhonghui Guohua is a conglomerate with interests that
include real estate, hi-tech industry, construction and
minerals.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Robert Heller  on rock music,  Elin
McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 