-- China Regulator Says Foreign Investor Allotment Can Rise 10 Fold
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T05:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/china-regulator-says-foreign-investor-allotment-can-rise-10-fold.html
China  can increase by 10 times the
size of two investment programs that allow foreign investors to
buy securities on domestic markets, the nation’s securities
regulator said.  The Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors and
the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors programs together
account for 1.5 percent to 1.6 percent of funds invested in
Chinese stocks,  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, said at a conference in Hong Kong today.  Guo’s comments sparked a more than 2 percent jump in
China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , the biggest gain
this year. Stocks surged on the prospects that foreign funds
allowed to invest in local markets will increase, said Bank of
Communications Ltd. strategist Hao Hong.  “The possibility that foreign investors can buy shares,
even if it’s a possibility, is very bullish for stocks,” Hong
said in a telephone interview. “Guo’s comments are very
significant as it shows the government is trying to get bullish
on stocks and it’s a policy signal as well.”  Chinese authorities may also let individual investors
participate in the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional
Investors, or RQFII, program in its next phase of expansion, Guo
said today. The program, which is now open only to Hong Kong
units of Chinese financial companies, allows investors to
channel offshore  yuan  back to the mainland.  K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s treasury secretary, said today talks
between the city and the CSRC on the plan to let retail
investors join the program were at an early stage.  Guo said in November that authorities had agreed to
increase the RQFII program’s 70 billion yuan ($11 billion) quota
by 200 billion yuan. In April, China increased the size of the
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors, or QFII, program to
$80 billion.  Regulators would “definitely” expand the foreign-currency
quota under the QFII program once the current allotments of $80
billion are filled, Guo said Dec. 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  