-- Jennifer Lawrence Wins Best Actress Globe for Comedy
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-14T02:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/christoph-waltz-wins-supporting-actor-globe-for-django-1-.html
Jennifer Lawrence  won the Golden
Globe for best actress, musical or comedy, for her role in
“Silver Linings Playbook” at the 70th annual awards show.  Lawrence beat rivals including Meryl Streep for the award,
presented in a telecast by NBC. Actresses Amy Poehler and  Tina Fey  hosted the ceremony tonight from Beverly Hills, California.
“Lincoln” leads the nominations with seven, including best
picture and best director.  The Globes, chosen by the Hollywood Foreign Press
Association, provide an imperfect gauge of which films are most
likely to win Academy Awards, the industry’s highest honor. The
voters agreed last year, when “The Artist” won the best
picture Oscar and the Globe for best musical or comedy. For 2008
movies, “ Slumdog Millionaire ” won the Academy Award for Best
Picture and the Golden Globes equivalent for a drama.  “The two groups are different and it’s important to
remember there is zero overlap in voters,” said Dave Karger,
chief correspondent for Fandango.com. “The Golden Globes go a
little more for the star-driven films. They often go more for
spectacle, larger scale films.”  Christoph Waltz won the Globe for best supporting actor for
his role in Weinstein Co.’s “Django Unchained.”  Anne Hathaway 
received the supporting-actress statuette for “Les
Miserables,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures.  The singer Adele was honored for her song “Skyfall,”
written for the James Bond movie. Former President  Bill Clinton 
and former spy Tony Mendez made surprise appearances.  ‘Lincoln,’ Poehler  Globe winners are chosen by HFPA membership of about 90
journalists who write for publications based outside the U.S.
The academy has more than 6,000 members, primarily artists,
craftsmen, executives and publicists.  Nominations for “Lincoln,” about the 16th president’s
campaign to abolish slavery, included best motion picture,
drama; best actor in a drama for Daniel Day-Lewis’s portrayal of
Lincoln; and best director for  Steven Spielberg . The film was
produced by Spielberg’s DreamWorks Studios and distributed by
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Poehler and Fey replaced three-time host  Ricky Gervais ,
whose performances were noted for caustic humor sometimes aimed
at members of the audience and the Hollywood Press Association
itself. They didn’t let up.  “As Ricky found out, when you go after the Hollywood
foreign press they make you host the show two more times,”
Poehler quipped during their opening routine.  ‘Argo,’ ‘Zero’  “Argo,” director Ben Affleck’s drama about the Iranian
hostage crisis, was second in nominations with five, including
best picture -- drama and best director. The film is from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “Zero Dark Thirty” director Kathryn Bigelow and Affleck,
both snubbed for a best-director Oscar nomination, were among
those competing in the category at tonight’s presentation.  Both films were thought by critics and fans to be among the
most likely Oscar contenders, according to GoldDerby.com, a
website that aggregates predictions by entertainment
journalists, website editors and readers. “ Les Miserables ”
director  Tom Hooper , another favorite, also was left out.  Bin Laden  “Kathryn Bigelow was robbed,” producer Megan Ellison,
whose Annapurna Pictures made and financed the movie, said in a
post on Twitter after Oscar nominations were announced on Jan.
10.  “Zero Dark Thirty,” about the hunt for  Osama Bin Laden ,
has been criticized by politicians, including Senate
Intelligence Committee Chairwoman  Dianne Feinstein . They object
to the movie’s suggestion that harsh interrogation techniques
such as waterboarding helped to track down the al-Qaeda leader.  The film, which led the box office this weekend, its first
in wide release, continues to stoke controversy. Actor Ed Asner
condemned the movie for suggesting that torture was effective,
the New York Times reported. Amy Pascal, co-chairman of Sony
Pictures Entertainment, said the effort to limit the artistic
expression was “abhorrent,” the newspaper said.  Joked Poehler: “When it comes to torture, I trust the lady
who spent three years married to  James Cameron ,” a reference to
Bigelow’s ex-husband, “Avatar” director Cameron.  With awards favorites taking on serious subjects like
slavery, hostage-taking and terrorism, the Globes offered some
surprises onstage. Mendez, the real-life ex-CIA agent whose
story inspired “Argo,” helped introduce the film, while
Clinton made an appearance to promote “Lincoln,” lauding the
efforts portrayed in the film, some unsavory, to force political
enemies to compromise.  “This brilliant film shows us how he did it and gives us
hope that we can do it again,” Clinton said.  Front Runners  With a win tonight, “Lincoln” would cement its status as
frontrunner for the Academy Awards on Feb. 24. It received 12
Oscar nominations, while “Life of Pi” received 11.  For “Argo” and “Zero Dark Thirty,” wins at the Globes
may help restore momentum for a possible best-picture Oscar
after their directos were left out.  Because Oscars ballots are secret, it is impossible to know
how close Bigelow and Affleck were. Nominees for the category
are picked by the 400-member directors branch, Karger said. All
of the academy’s members vote to choose the winner.  “Often the directors branch doesn’t go for the larger
scale movies, but those that speak to them and have a real point
of view, like ‘‘Beasts of the Southern Wild’’ and ‘‘Amour,’’
Karger said. ‘‘Whereas the Golden Globes go for the big names.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  