-- Chrysler’s Jeep Chief Expects China Output Accord Soon
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-14T22:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/chrysler-s-jeep-chief-expects-china-output-accord-soon.html
Chrysler Group LLC expects to
complete a preliminary agreement this quarter to make Jeep brand
sport-utility vehicles in  China  for sale in that market, Mike Manley, Jeep’s chief, said today in an interview.  The agreement would require Chinese national and regional
government review, and then Jeep would target to begin sales
within two years of approval, he said. Fiat’s joint-venture
partner in China is  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238)   “It’s a lot closer, by the way, than the end of the first
quarter,” Manley, president of Jeep brand and head of
international operations for Chrysler Group, said at the  Detroit
auto show . The approval process “is not super complicated but
there are things outside of your control. We don’t anticipate
any problems getting government approval.”  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne, who also leads
Chrysler’s majority owner  Fiat SpA (F) , is positioning Jeep as one
of the main global brands for both automakers. Marchionne, 60,
plans to expand Jeep’s global presence by adding production of
its SUVs in China,  Russia  and  Italy .  Jeep is Chrysler’s top-selling worldwide brand. The company
is updating three models this year to build on 2012’s global
sales record. The 2014 Grand Cherokee, Patriot and Compass
sport-utility vehicles will add newly available transmissions
that help boost fuel economy for all three models to as much as
30 miles (48 kilometers) per gallon in highway driving, the
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company said on its website.  Jeep’s worldwide sales last year climbed 19 percent to
701,626 sport-utility vehicles, Chrysler said last week. The
brand topped its previous record of 675,494 set in 1999. Jeep
U.S. deliveries totaled 474,131 in 2012, accounting for 68
percent of total brand sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  