-- Chrysler U.S. Sales Chief Sees Growth Slowing in 2013
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-14T19:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/chrysler-u-s-sales-chief-sees-growth-slowing-in-2013.html
The U.S. auto industry’s three-year
streak of at least 10 percent growth probably will end this
year, said  Reid Bigland , head of sales in the market for
Chrysler Group LLC.  “I don’t see it increasing by double digits into 2013,”
Bigland said of the U.S. light-vehicle market today at the North
American International Auto Show in  Detroit . Credit
availability, pent-up demand and an improving U.S. economy are
reasons “still in place” to drive a sales increase this year,
he said.  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Chrysler last year
led U.S. vehicle sales to their highest annual total in half a
decade as the two Japan-based automakers restored production
that was disrupted a year earlier by  Japan ’s tsunami. Deliveries
of cars and light trucks rose 13 percent, the biggest increase
since 1984, to 14.5 million.  U.S. auto sales may climb to 15.1 million this year, the
average of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts this
month. The industry is benefiting from consumers replacing cars
and trucks that are the oldest ever on U.S. roads, at almost 11
years on average, according to researchers R.L. Polk & Co. and
Experian Automotive.  “The average age of the fleet on U.S. roads of a car is
right around 11 years -- they don’t last forever,” said
Bigland, 45, who declined to give a specific forecast for 2013
U.S. industry sales. The  Federal Reserve ’s quantitative easing
program has led to “very competitive  interest rates ,” he said.  Vanity, Sanity  Growth this year probably will be led by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Honda and Nissan Motor Co., according to five analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg about market share this month. The analysts’
average estimates are for little change to market share for
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)   Of the six largest automakers by sales in the U.S.,
Chrysler was the only company to surprise industry analysts last
year, gaining 0.7 percentage point to 11.4 percent market share.
Analysts last year projected on average that the automaker’s
share would slip 0.2 percentage point. Chrysler is majority
owned by Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA. (F)   Chrysler won’t “chase” market share this year with
incentives or by boosting deliveries to fleet customers, said
Bigland, who declined to predict the company’s market share this
year.  “Market share is vanity and profitability is sanity,” he
said. “We’ve learned from our past and going out and chasing
sales at all cost and market share at all cost. We very much
want to run and operate in balanced, disciplined and methodical
approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  