-- Citigroup, Blackrock Join U.K. in Talks on Climate Aid
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-14T13:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/citigroup-blackrock-join-u-k-in-talks-on-climate-aid.html
U.K. Energy Minister  Greg Barker  met
with executives from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  to
discuss ways to boost international climate aid to the $100
billion developed nations have pledged to provide by 2020.  “This was a free-flowing discussion among investment
professionals at the sharp end of the clean energy revolution
who were discussing the barriers challenges in deploying clean
energy globally, especially in developing economies,” Barker
said today in a phone interview from  Abu Dhabi  after presiding
over the talks alongside an envoy from the United Arab Emirates.  The informal discussions intend to help policymakers put in
place the measures needed to encourage investors to plow money
into carbon reductions in developing nations. The $100 billion
aid pledge includes government and private money. It’s a
cornerstone of international efforts to fight  climate change .  Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, the chief executive of the Masdar
low-carbon city and the U.A.E.’s special envoy for energy and
climate change, joined the talks.  Barker said one of the barriers identified is the need to
bundle small projects together into a package sizable enough --
typically hundreds of millions of dollars -- to attract capital
from the biggest investors. Another was the need for insurance
products, possibly backed by governments, to protect against the
political risk of investing in developing nations.  Barker said more informal meetings that bring in the
insurance industry will be held sometime in the future. The goal
is to broaden the U.K.’s Capital Markets Climate Initiative into
a global discussion between banks, investors and government
officials in the U.K. that aims to mobilize large-scale finance
for low-carbon development, he said.  The Abu Dhabi meeting also was attended by representatives
of Masdar, the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation,  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the European Investment Bank and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  