-- Citigroup Emerging Markets Head Biglari to Leave the Bank
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-01-14T22:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/citigroup-s-biglari-to-leave-after-leading-emerging-markets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said Hamid Biglari,
head of the  emerging-markets  business, is leaving as Chief
Executive Officer Michael Corbat overhauls management and cuts
thousands of jobs.  Biglari, 54, decided to leave Citigroup “to explore other
professional opportunities,” Corbat said in an internal
memorandum sent to employees, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the New York-
based lender, confirmed the contents of the memo.  Corbat is changing Citigroup’s operations as he seeks to
cut costs after replacing  Vikram Pandit  as CEO in October.
Biglari, who previously was chief operating officer of the
lender’s institutional-clients group, is among the most senior
executives to leave since Pandit’s departure. His exit follows
the retirements of Vice-Chairman Lewis “Lew” Kaden and
consumer operations boss Richard Garside and a reduction of
duties for operations and technology head Don Callahan.  “We will miss Hamid’s strategic counsel,” Corbat said in
the memo. “His efforts helped to refocus our firm on our core
banking businesses, develop our emerging markets growth
strategy, strengthen our client relationships globally and
ensure we remained at the forefront of thought leadership in the
industry.”  12 Years  Biglari has been at Citigroup for 12 years, according to
the memo. He’s responsible for “prioritization,  resource
allocation  and portfolio optimization” across the bank’s
operations in emerging markets, according to a  profile  on
Citigroup’s website.  He is chairman of the business-development committee, which
oversees the bank’s institutional-client activities, and head of
content, including the research departments, according to the
profile.  Biglari gained his emerging-markets post in 2011 from
Pandit, who was hiring thousands of workers and investing
billions of dollars in countries such as India, Brazil, China
and Singapore. Citigroup relies on emerging markets for more
than half of its profit, the bank has said.  Costiglio, the spokesman, didn’t immediately comment on who
will replace Biglari in his different roles, including his
directorship with  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the Turkish bank part-owned by
Citigroup. The Istanbul-based lender appointed Biglari to the
board in September, according to a regulatory filing.  Biglari was previously a partner at McKinsey & Co. and
holds a doctorate in astrophysical sciences from  Princeton
University , according to the Citigroup profile. He worked at
Princeton’s  Plasma Physics Laboratory , which focuses on
controlled thermonuclear fusion research, according to the
profile.  He didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  