-- Colombia Studying Measures to Stem Peso Rally, Cardenas Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-14T23:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/colombia-studying-measures-to-stem-peso-rally-cardenas-says.html
Colombia  is worried about the strong
peso and is evaluating further measures to ease the local
currency’s rally, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said.  “We will be studying formulas, options in the next few
weeks to address this situation,” Cardenas told reporters in
Bogota after meeting with President  Juan Manuel Santos  today.
“The government is aware that this is a problem. It’s a
reflection of the economy’s strength.”  The Treasury will boost dollar purchases this month using
excess cash and it will also buy the greenback for the nation’s
petroleum stability fund, Cardenas said. Policy makers will
discuss ways to stem the rally when the central bank next meets
on Jan. 28, said Cardenas, who is also president of the bank’s
board.  Cardenas’ comments come after Agriculture MinisterJuan Camilo Restrepo urged Banco de la Republica last week to
increase dollar purchases to slow the currency’s appreciation,
which is making the nation’s coffee, flower and banana exporters
less competitive. Central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said
Jan. 2 that the peso’s strength is a concern and reiterated that
the bank will buy a minimum of $20 million a day through at
least the first quarter to curb its advance. Last year, the bank
printed pesos to buy a record $4.8 billion.  The government will buy around $1 billion this year for its
petroleum stability fund, Cardenas said today.  A  tax cut  on overseas investors’ bond profits is also
leading to increased appetite for Colombia, Cardenas said.
Colombia reduced the levy on domestic securities to 14 percent
from 33 percent as of Jan. 1 to help increase demand for local
bonds and lower the nation’s borrowing costs.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,759 per  U.S. dollar 
today. It touched 1,750.50 on Jan. 2, the strongest intraday
level since July 2011, and has gained 2.1 percent in the last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 