-- Congress Can Resolve the Debt-Limit Crisis. Really.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-14T23:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/congress-can-resolve-the-debt-limit-crisis-really-.html
In the final  news conference  of his
first term, President  Barack Obama  called the increasingly real
specter of a U.S. default “irresponsible” and “absurd.” Yet the
absurd has become sadly commonplace in  Washington .  Consider Obama’s news conference itself: At the same time
he was comparing Congress to a bunch of deadbeat diners who
refuse to the pay their bill, the president was careful to say
this was a crisis Congress would have to solve. It is not
exactly a confidence-inspiring message.  It is true that it is up to Congress to raise the nation’s
$16.4 trillion  debt limit  so the U.S. can avoid default. It is
also true that there is a precedent for Congress doing so with a
minimum of hassle. Then the legislative and executive branches
can get on with the more pressing budgetary concerns they both
say they want to debate.  Perennial fights over the debt ceiling are more than a
distraction -- they are hugely damaging to the  U.S. economy ,
preventing a more robust recovery and driving up the nation’s
long-term deficit as nervous lenders  demand  higher interest
payments. Yet these battles show no sign of abating, as
Republican lawmakers continue to  view  the debt ceiling as a
bargaining chip with which to elicit deep spending cuts.  Tiresome Disputes  Obama got it right when he said, “We’ve got to stop
lurching from crisis to crisis to crisis.” One way to avoid
these tiresome disputes would be for Congress to  give  the White
House power over the debt ceiling, so the U.S. can avoid a
sideshow that threatens the “full faith and credit” pledge made
to those who buy  U.S. debt . Republicans, however,  reject  this as
a power grab by the White House.  So here’s another way to end the fight: Tie spending
decisions to automatic increases in the debt limit. The premise
is simple -- when Congress passes a budget resolution or
spending bill, it should also authorize a concurrent increase in
the statutory debt limit to pay for what it’s authorizing. This
would have the added benefit of fostering fiscal restraint by
linking spending decisions to the Congress that authorizes the
money. If that local airport runway (or, as the case may be,
“ Bridge to Nowhere ”) is in the budget, then the Treasury
Department can raise the debt limit to pay for it. No additional
congressional action would be necessary.  It sounds absurdly unrealistic -- no Congress, especially
this one, would ever agree to such a plan. Except that it has:
Such a rule has been in place since 1979. The  Gephardt rule 
(named for its chief proponent, former Democratic House Majority
Leader  Richard Gephardt ) was intended to avoid the exact
scenario that’s occurring today, and it has worked: Of the 20
joint budget resolutions originated by the House under the
Gephardt rule, 15 were enacted into law,  according  to the
 Congressional Research Service .  Unfortunately, the rule is not mandatory; each Congress can
decide whether to follow it. And  House Republicans  have
repeatedly decided not to, including in 2011, forcing a separate
vote to raise the debt limit. That vote, once viewed as routine,
has now repeatedly paralyzed the U.S. and threatened to  derail 
the economy.  The Treasury  reached  its statutory borrowing limit on Dec.
31 and is now using extraordinary measures to pay for the
government -- essentially shifting money among accounts and
suspending some payments. The U.S. could exhaust those measures
as early as Feb. 15 and would be  unable  to meet $175 billion of
its obligations in the following month.  ‘Great Hardships’  Although some think Treasury could prioritize interest
payments to forestall default, a 2012  report  by its inspector
general shows how hard it would be. Treasury makes more than 80
million payments a month, largely through an automated system
that pays bills as they come due.  What Treasury would probably do is delay all federal
payments until it had enough cash on hand and pay its bills on a
day-by-day basis. The U.S. wouldn’t send a single Social
Security check, Medicare payment or military paycheck until
taxes and other receipts freed up enough cash to do so. And this
is the course of action deemed least harmful by Treasury, which
acknowledged it was likely to cause “great hardships to millions
of Americans and harm to the economy.”  There are important reasons to reduce how much money the
U.S. borrows. The place to do that, however, is through regular
budget negotiations -- as spending decisions are being made.
Linking spending bills with an automatic borrowing increase
would also put an end to the debt-ceiling theater. As Obama
said, the way the U.S. is operating now is akin to ordering a
huge meal in a restaurant and then refusing to pay. The U.S. is
not a dine-and-dash nation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 