-- Continental AG Sees Slower 2013 Growth on Carmaking Woes
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-01-14T13:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/continental-ag-profitability-rises-in-gain-outside-europe.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-
largest maker of auto parts, said sales and profitability growth
may slow in 2013 as the region’s market contraction causes
unpredictability for the global car industry.  Continental forecast sales will rise about 5 percent this
year, compared with an increase of about 7 percent in 2012.
Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes will “remain above
10 percent” of revenue, versus a 10.7 percent margin last year,
the Hanover, Germany-based company said in a  statement  today.  “We shall very likely not quite be able to hold to our
tempo in the successful year 2012,” as global car production
may increase by about 2.5 percent to a “mere” 82 million
vehicles this year, Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said
in the statement. There is “still a great deal of uncertainty
regarding the course of passenger car production and other of
Continental’s key sales markets.”  Europe ’s car market was probably at the lowest in almost
two decades last year, according to the region’s main industry
lobby. Automotive executives are forecasting a sixth consecutive
contraction for 2013. That contrasts with a possible
acceleration in auto sales growth this year in  China  that the
country’s carmakers association predicted on Jan. 11.  Revenue Forecast  Revenue at Continental last year totaled about 32.7 billion
euros ($43.8 billion), the company said. That compares to
Continental’s forecast of 32.5 billion euros and the 32.8
billion-euro average of 25 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales will exceed 34 billion euros in 2013, it said.
The company, which is also Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, is
scheduled to publish complete figures for 2012 on March 7.  “The uncertainty that Conti is talking about and the
unwillingness to commit to at least flat margins raises question
marks over 2013,” Erich Hauser, an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 London , said in a report to clients. The forecast “is pretty
conservative for a company that just did 10.7 percent margins
and that will benefit from raw material tailwinds in 2013.”  Continental  fell  as much as 1.7 percent and was trading
down 0.6 percent at 84.55 euros as of 2:46 p.m. in  Frankfurt ,
the lowest since Nov. 29, based on closing prices. The stock has
surged 47 percent over the past 12 months, valuing the company
at 17 billion euros.  European Decline  Declining demand in Europe and slower expansion rates in
the U.S. may hamper Continental’s growth this year, Chief
Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said today in a phone
interview. The tire division is also unlikely to be helped by a
decline in raw-material prices a second year, after lower supply
costs at the unit helped earnings in 2012, Schaefer said.  “The first quarter will certainly be difficult,” with
industrywide auto production in Europe due to decline 12 percent
to 4.6 million vehicles, he said.  The company has sidestepped the effects of the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis by following  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and other
German carmakers into growing markets such as the U.S. and
China. The addition of products such as safety sensors,
emergency-braking systems and fuel-injection technology over the
past decade has given the manufacturer a wider range of high-
value parts. Rubber prices in 2012 fell from record highs in
February 2011, though ended December at 15 percent higher than
at the start of last year.  Faster Growth  Schaefer estimated in October that global car production in
2013 will increase by 2 percent to 3 percent, with demand for
technology to improve  fuel efficiency  and upgrade in-car
communications helping Continental’s sales grow faster.  The company was restored to  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) 
on Sept. 24 following a 45-month absence after industrial-
bearing maker Schaeffler AG, the company’s biggest investor,
gradually reduced its holding, enabling more shares to trade
freely. A day after Continental’s DAX return, Schaeffler sold
another 10.4 percent stake in Continental for 1.6 billion euros
to reduce debt. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company still
owns 49.9 percent of Continental’s stock.  Continental is also reducing borrowings, which soared
because of the 2007 acquisition of the VDO component business
from  Siemens AG. (SIE)  To that end, the parts maker is working to
refinance a syndicated loan maturing in April 2014, scaling back
the total “slightly” to 4.5 billion euros, it said in
December. The company, which had net debt of 6.8 billion euros
at the end of September, is looking to reduce interest costs
with the new loan agreement.  “We already came very close to meeting many of our medium-
term financial targets in 2012,” and “we shall further reduce
our indebtedness in the current year,” CEO Degenhart said in
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  