-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Anheuser-Busch Offering Debt
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-14T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-increase-for-second-day.html
 A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk climbed for a second day, poised for the biggest jump in
more than two weeks.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.4
basis points to a mid-price of 88.6 basis points at 12:11 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That
would be the largest increase since a 4.6 basis-point jump on
Dec. 28.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to
speak at 4 p.m. today in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , before economic
data this week that may show retail-sales growth slowed and
manufacturing in the New York region stagnated. Weakening
economic data may heighten investor concern that the economy
will falter, hindering companies’ ability to repay debt.  “There is some apprehension about the budget discussion,
specially the debt ceiling,” said  Michael Kraft , senior
portfolio manager at the New York-based Vanderbilt Avenue Asset
Management in a telephone interview. “Investors will continue
to be conservative for the next couple of weeks, which is also
when earnings begin to show some color.”  A failure to reach a compromise to avoid more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect
this year had increased concern that the economy might tumble
into a recession.  Reported Earnings  Of the 28 companies in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
that reported quarterly earnings, 22 exceeded analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., EBay Inc. and General Electric Co. are among
S&P 500 companies scheduled to report this week.  “In the coming weeks sales numbers are also important,”
said Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at the New York-
based Odeon Capital Group LLC, in a telephone interview. “If
overall sales numbers are coming weak, it’s not positive. The
reality is consumers don’t have money and that shows a negative
picture.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, and
Penske Truck Leasing Co. are leading companies in the U.S.
offering at least $3.3 billion of debt today.  Transocean Swaps  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt rose 2 basis
points to 4.8 percentage points today. Bonds of financial
institutions advanced 3 basis points to 3.33 percentage points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 6.2 basis points to 448.1 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
 Transocean (RIG)  Ltd., climbed 12.2 basis points to 144.7 basis points
as of 11:30 a.m in New York, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Transocean, the world’s largest offshore rig contractor,
said yesterday that billionaire  Carl Icahn  and his affiliates
have acquired a 1.56 percent stake in the company and are
seeking to expand that to more than 3 percent. Earlier this
month, the company agreed to plead guilty to one misdemeanor
count of violating the  Clean Water Act  as owner of the Deepwater
Horizon rig that drilled BP Plc’s ill-fated Macondo well off the
Louisiana coast in 2010, according to a filing in federal court
in  New Orleans .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  