-- Czech Koruna Strengthens From Six-Month Low on Fed: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-01-14T14:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/czech-koruna-strengthens-from-six-month-low-on-fed-prague-mover.html
The koruna gained from a six-month
low as a Federal Reserve president said the U.S. central bank
should continue to stimulate the world’s largest economy,
boosting appetite for riskier assets.  The koruna strengthened 0.1 percent to 25.606 per euro by
2:31 p.m. in  Prague , paring this month’s loss to 2 percent. It
reached 25.643 on Jan. 11, the weakest level on a closing basis
since July 6, after Governor Miroslav Singer said the Czech
National Bank may sell the currency this year to help stimulate
the economy out of a recession.  Most European stocks rose and the euro appreciated to its
strongest intraday level in 10 months against the dollar after
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the
central bank should continue to support economic recovery.  “Central European currencies could be supported this week
by the euro’s gains against the dollar,” analysts Jan Bures and
Jan Cermak at CSOB AS in Prague wrote in a report to clients
today. The koruna’s appreciation will be limited “because of
the CNB’s rhetoric,” they said.  The CNB cut its main  interest rate  three times last year to
0.05 percent as the economy shrank for three quarters. More
accommodative policy “could be achieved by influencing the
 exchange rate ,” according to the CNB’s minutes from its Dec. 19
meeting, published on Dec. 31. Currency interventions are the
“best way” to ease conditions, Deputy Governor  Vladimir Tomsik 
wrote in an article in the Hospodarske Noviny newspaper Jan. 4.  Last week’s 1 percent retreat lowered the koruna’s 14-day
relative strength index to 24, below the 30 level that indicates
in technical analysis that the asset may be oversold and poised
for a rebound. The RSI rose to 27 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  