-- Deutsche Bank Said to Consider 20% Bonus Cuts in Europe
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-14T17:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/deutsche-bank-said-to-consider-20-bonus-cuts-in-europe.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is considering
reducing bonuses for investment bankers in  Europe  by as much as
20 percent on average for 2012, while bankers in  New York  will
see smaller declines, said four people briefed on the matter.  The cuts may range between 10 percent and 20 percent on
average in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , while bonuses in
locations that performed better or where competition for staff
is stronger will fall less, said the people, who asked to remain
anonymous because the matter is private. The plans are
preliminary and may change, they said.  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , is reducing pay and
overhauling compensation for its senior executives to help boost
profitability as some regulators demand rewards be tied more
closely to company performance. Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain, 50, has said that he sees a risk the bank may lose
talented employees if competitors don’t follow suit.  “The bank’s earnings fell last year, so it makes sense for
bonuses to decline,” said  Philipp Haessler , an analyst at
Equinet AG who recommends investors buy the shares. “The
interesting question will be whether Deutsche Bank can lower its
compensation ratio in good years as well.”  The company will finish setting bonus levels and relay its
decision to some employees as early as this month, the people
said. The bank may also cap the immediate cash portion of
bonuses for 2012 as it did the previous year, said one person
familiar with the discussions. The firm is scheduled to publish
2012 earnings on Jan. 31.  Ronald Weichert , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to
comment on bonuses.  Reviewing Compensation  Bankers at U.S. firms are also facing pay reductions or job
losses as revenue growth wanes.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
nation’s biggest lender by assets, may shrink the bonus pool for
the corporate and investment bank by as much as 2 percent, three
executives with direct knowledge of the process said last month.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, plans to trim
bonuses by as much as 10 percent, excluding top performers, at
the trading and investment-banking division, people with direct
knowledge of the decisions said in November.  Deutsche Bank named a panel of business executives and a
former German finance minister in October to review its pay
system and make recommendations that will affect compensation
practices for last year.  The bank said Sept. 11 that it will increase the vesting
period for deferred bonuses for about 150 top executives to five
years from three, and will make a single payout after the
deferral period ends rather than staggered payments every year.  Lower Earnings  Compensation at its corporate and investment bank, which
includes transaction banking, fell 3 percent to 4.14 billion
euros ($5.54 billion) in the first nine months of 2012 from a
year earlier,  company filings  show. That was enough to pay the
division’s 14,378 employees an average 287,800 euros each.  Deutsche Bank plans to reduce costs by 4.5 billion euros a
year by 2015 and its expenses as a portion of revenue to less
than 65 percent by 2015 from 78 percent in 2011, according to
company filings. That will help boost after-tax return on
equity, a measure of profitability, to more than 12 percent by
2015 from 8 percent in 2011, the bank  said  Sept. 11.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has cut demand from Deutsche
Bank’s clients, while earnings may also be pressured by capital
rules, known as Basel III. The bank said last month that fourth-
quarter profit will be “significantly” reduced as it offloads
riskier assets to meet  capital requirements  and faces
reorganization costs to counter a slump in business.  Deutsche Bank closed at 36.87 euros in Frankfurt trading
and  climbed  12 percent this year.  ‘First Step’  Deutsche Bank’s bonus payments as a percentage of net
revenue  fell  to 11 percent in 2011 from 22 percent in 2006,
company filings show. The lender shrank its 2011 bonus pool by
17 percent and deferred about 61 percent of the total amount,
the company said last February.  Jain, at a conference in  London  in September, called on
investors to demand other firms follow Deutsche Bank’s plans in
changing compensation policies.  “We have taken a bigger first step than most of our
competitors,” he said. “Is there a risk that our competition
doesn’t follow suit? Only if you are willing to accept low ROEs
with unchanged compensation practices elsewhere.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will also cut pay for investment bankers by as
much as 20 percent to help cut costs, Reuters reported today,
citing two people with knowledge of the matter it didn’t name.
Barclays spokesman Simon Eaton in London declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  