-- Deutsche Bank Accused of Libor Fixing in Unitech Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-14T14:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/deutsche-bank-accused-of-libor-fixing-in-unitech-lawsuit.html
An Indian property developer suing
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  over an interest-rate swap agreement told a
U.K. judge it wants to add accusations to the lawsuit that the
lender manipulated the London interbank offered rate.  Unitech Ltd. (UT) ’s $150 million loan and related swap contract
is invalid because they were linked to Libor, which had been
improperly fixed by banks including Deutsche Bank, according to
the company’s filings for a London court hearing today.  Since the lawsuit began, “material has come to light which
shows that Deutsche Bank AG has been involved in the
manipulation of Libor,” Unitech said.  Germany’s largest bank sued the Indian company in March
last year saying it owed $11 million under the swap and had
missed payments. Unitech countersued in May claiming the swap
wasn’t suitable or properly explained.  Deutsche Bank is one of more than a dozen banks being
investigated by regulators worldwide for trying to fix the
interest-rate benchmark for profit, or to appear financially
sounder. While  Germany ’s largest bank hasn’t yet been censured
by regulators, both it and the country’s financial regulator are
under pressure to release results of an investigation into
whether the lender improperly influenced the benchmark rate.  The court hasn’t given Unitech permission to amend its
claim and lawyers for both sides agreed they needed more time to
discuss amending the lawsuit. Another hearing is scheduled for
February.  “We’ve not had an opportunity to take instruction,”
Richard Handyside, a lawyer for the bank, said at the hearing.
“It’s a matter which needs to be investigated.”  Simple Case  The mis-selling claims on the swap are “categorically
false,”  Kathryn Hanes, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail. “This is a simple case of a loan that has been
defaulted on.”  It’s the second civil lawsuit in the U.K. linked to Libor
manipulation.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was sued by affiliates of Guardian
Care Homes Ltd. over another interest-rate swap linked to the
benchmark. A trial is due to take place later this year.  Barclays Plc was fined 290 million pounds ($465.5 million)
in June for manipulating Libor and related rates, while  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, was fined $1.5 billion by U.S. and
U.K. regulators for manipulating rates.  The case is: Deutsche Bank AG v. Unitech Limited,  High
Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, 12-464  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  