-- Deutsche Tops Bond Trades as Greenwich Warns on Funding
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-14T15:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/deutsche-tops-bond-trades-as-greenwich-warns-on-funding.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  overtook  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  as the biggest bond trader last year as rival banks exited
fixed-income businesses when faced with stricter capital
requirements, according to a Greenwich Associates study.  Europe ’s biggest bank by assets saw its share of fixed-
income trading volumes slip to 10.7 percent from 10.8 percent,
while Barclays declined to 9.8 percent from 10.9 percent, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based researcher said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The Basel III rules on capital and liquidity, which started
taking effect this year, haven’t yet sapped market liquidity,
though institutional investors may eventually see funds dry up
as fixed-income dealers eliminate trading desks and cut
inventory, Greenwich said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank,
was the most prominent firm to exit some fixed-income businesses
in 2012 when it decided to scale back its trading arm in the
face of higher  capital requirements  from Swiss regulators.  “What happens when  interest rates  begin to rise and fixed-
income markets begin to sell off?” Andrew Awad, a Greenwich
Associates consultant, said in the statement. “When everyone
wants to sell, there will be no one on the other side to cross
trades with, and capital-constrained banks will have no interest
in assuming their traditional role of liquidity backstops.”  Barclays was named the 2012 Greenwich Quality Leader in
fixed income after receiving ratings from investors that topped
those awarded to competitors by a “statistically significant
margin,” according to the statement.  Banks are increasingly crossing trades among institutional
clients to generate a liquid market, a process that works well
as long as buyers “are in abundance,” Greenwich said.  Deutsche Bank and the largest fixed-income dealers may
benefit from their scale as larger volumes give more insight
into supply and demand trends, while scale is also necessary to
generate acceptable return on investment in the business,
Greenwich said.  “It’s quite likely that in highly liquid rates and credit
products, the big will get bigger as top-tier dealers leverage
the benefits of scale to win even bigger shares of the market,”
said Woody Canaday, a Greenwich consultant.  What follows is a table with data from today’s statement and a
comparable Greenwich ranking for 2011 for Deutsche Bank,
Barclays,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group (GS)  Inc. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are tied for 2012,
according to the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  