-- Deutsche Bank CO2 Trade Partner Convictions Upheld by Top Court
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-01-14T15:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/deutsche-bank-co2-trade-partner-convictions-upheld-by-top-court.html
Germany ’s top criminal court upheld
the first convictions in a tax-evasion probe that has spread to
two of the highest ranking officials at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The Federal Court of Justice rejected the appeals of four
of six men found guilty in December 2011 of evading a total of
260 million euros ($347 million) in taxes on carbon emission
trades, according to a ruling posted on the court  website  today.  The ruling is part of a wider probe in which Deutsche Bank
co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  and Chief Financial
Officer  Stefan Krause , are being investigated. The bank was
raided for a second time in December and five bank employees
were arrested.  The case is part of the biggest crackdown on emissions-
related tax crimes since  Europe  opened the cap-and-trade system
in 2005. German authorities enlisted assistance from 10
countries in 2010 and froze 100 million euros in funds as part
of the probe.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The men in today’s case worked at small trading companies
that bought certificates from suppliers overseas and resold
them. Each sale generated VAT, which the buyer could reclaim
from the tax authorities as a refund. Deutsche Bank bought the
allowances.  A Frankfurt court had sentenced the men to prison terms of
as much as seven years and ten months. Only four of them
appealed. Prosecutors are meanwhile investigating about 190
people in total over the issue.  The appeals court rejected arguments that tax authorities
waited too long to make arrests after learning about the trades
and allowing more to take place.  “Criminal perpetrators have no right to claim that tax
authorities or prosecutors take timely action against them to
prevent completion of the crimes,” the judges said in a
statement on the court’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  