-- Dialog Semi Falls on Nikkei’s Apple IPhone Cutback Report
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-14T10:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/dialog-semi-falls-on-nikkei-s-apple-iphone-cutback-report.html
Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG) , which
makes chips used in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, fell the most in almost
six months after Nikkei newswire reported that the U.S. company
scaled back production plans for the smartphone.  Apple reduced its original target to order 65 million
iPhone 5 handsets this quarter by about half, Nikkei said,
citing an unidentified senior executive at a component maker it
didn’t name. Dialog  fell  as much as 6.2 percent to 14.50 euros,
the biggest intraday drop since July 24, and was trading down
4.3 percent at 11:21 a.m. in Frankfurt. Volume was 62 percent
higher than the three-month daily average.  Dialog, which is based in Kirchheim,  Germany , reported
preliminary sales for 2012 on Jan. 10 that exceeded analyst
estimates and raised its revenue forecast. Apple, which has its
headquarters in Cupertino,  California , is one of Dialog’s
largest customers,  accounting for about 3 percent  of sales
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s not out of the question that the first quarter will
be weaker if Apple adjusts its volume,” said Veysel Taze, an
analyst at Close Brothers Seydler Research AG in  Frankfurt  who
 recommends  investors buy the shares. “But when you consider
Apple’s plan to present a cheaper iPhone toward the end of the
year, that will clearly help volumes in the longer run.”  Even though European semiconductors makers look expensive,
investors should add shares in the industry as inventories have
probably peaked, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including Sandeep Deshpande said in a note to investors today. A continued
softness in most consumer end markets will probably weigh on
some companies’ stocks in the short term, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  