-- Doha Bank Offers Shares at 44% Discount in Capital Increase Plan
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-01-14T09:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/doha-bank-offers-shares-at-44-discount-in-capital-increase-plan.html
Doha Bank QSC (DHBK) , Qatar’s fourth-
biggest lender, will increase its capital by as much as 50
percent, in part by offering stock at a 44 percent discount to
the current share price in a rights offering.  The company will initially raise capital 25 percent by
offering the shares next month at 30 riyals apiece and also
plans to issue global depositary receipts to expand capital by
as much as a further 25 percent, chairman Sheikh Fahad Bin
Mohammad Bin Jabor Al Thani said today on the bank’s website.  “The planned capital raising will potentially remove our
main concerns on the stock, weak visibility on loan growth and
risks of dividend cuts due to a stretched capital base,” Elena Sanchez-Cabezudo, a Dubai-based analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, said in an e-mailed report to clients.  Doha Bank said in September that it may raise as much as
5.81 billion riyals ($1.6 billion) from selling shares as it
seeks to boost lending and expand in foreign markets.  The company rose 0.6 percent to 53.7 riyals at 12:41 p.m.
in Doha, valuing the business at 11 billion riyals ($3 billion).  The bank will offer the new stock on Feb. 20 to
shareholders who are registered at the  Qatar Exchange  at the
close of business Feb. 19. The offering will be held after an
extraordinary  shareholders’ meeting  on Feb. 20, which will
consider the capital increase and changes to the bank’s articles
of association. The price of 30 riyals a share is a premium of
20 riyals over the nominal value of each share, the company
said.  The premium at which the global depositary receipts are
sold will be higher than the premium in the rights offering, the
bank said. It didn’t say when the receipts would be sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  