-- Dolphins’ Owner Will Pay for Most of $400 Million Stadium Update
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-01-14T19:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/dolphins-owner-will-pay-for-most-of-400-million-stadium-update.html
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross
said he’s prepared to pay “the majority of costs” for
renovations to the National Football League team’s stadium that
include a canopy suspended over the seats to protect fans from
the elements.  Ross said he wouldn’t ask for an increase on local
taxpayers to help fund the renovations, while pledging to invest
more and return more to fans than in any other stadium with a
public share.  No projected cost for the renovations or public subsidy was
included in a statement sent by the team. The  Miami Herald  said
the cost would be about $400 million, with the project’s public
share financed with help from a one-penny increase on hotel room
taxes and an increased state tax rebate for  Florida ’s
professional sports teams.  “My goal is to secure the future of Miami-Dade and the
Dolphins so we can remain a global competitor for sports and
entertainment for at least another 25 years,” Ross, the founder
of Related Cos. LP, said in the release. “That’s why I’m
willing to make the initial and most substantial investment in
this project.”  The 25-year-old stadium’s website says it “was the first
of its kind to be constructed entirely with private funds.”  Renderings of the renovation show a roof suspended from
poles covering the stadium’s seating area, while leaving opening
for air and light, which would help preserve the natural grass
playing surface. The plan also include more comfortable seats,
new video screens and improved views, the release said.  Canopy Roof  The Dolphins proposed adding a canopy-style roof in January
2010, saying the stadium trailed covered buildings in  Dallas ,
New Orleans and Indianapolis in the race to host Super Bowls and
might not win a record 11th bid for the title without something
to protect fans from downpours like the one that doused the 2007
game between the Colts and Chicago Bears.  The Miami venue needs to be “state-of-the-art” to compete
for Super Bowls, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said at a
December 2009 luncheon at the stadium, the Associated Press
reported. Ross said in a public “Pledge to the Community”
today that Miami was “on the clock” in bidding for the 50th
anniversary Super Bowl in 2016.  In 2008, the city and county agreed to fund a baseball
stadium for the Miami Marlins that the Herald said wound up
costing $639 million. Miami-Dade County financed its $347.5
million share with a $319.3 million bond issue in July 2009 and
subsequent debt sales. Revenue such as taxes on stays at hotels
and motels backs the borrowings.  That finance plan came under fire in late 2012 when the
Marlins finished last in the National League East division and
then traded away most of their top players, including shortstop
Jose Reyes and pitchers Mark Buehrle and Josh Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  