-- Amlak Said in Talks to Restructure $2 Billion Debt
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-15T11:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/dubai-lender-amlak-said-in-talks-to-restructure-2-billion-debt.html
Amlak Finance PJSC, the Islamic
mortgage company part-owned by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , is in
talks with creditors to restructure about $2 billion of bank and
government debt, two bankers familiar with the matter said.  The company is negotiating with a committee of five banks
representing creditors, said the people, declining to be
identified because the matter is private. PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP is advising Amlak on the talks, according to the people.  Shares of Amlak and  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , another Dubai-based
Islamic mortgage company, were suspended in November 2008 after
the seizure of global credit markets blocked their access to
funds. Amlak had a third-quarter loss of 40 million dirhams ($11
million) in 2011, the last time the lender disclosed financial
results, according to filings on the Dubai Financial Market.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the United Arab Emirates’ largest bank
by assets, is chairing the coordinating committee, the people
said. Standard Chartered Plc,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) 
and  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  are also taking part, they said.  Negotiations between Amlak and its financiers are still in
progress through a joint committee, the company said today in a
statement on the Dubai Financial Market Web site, without giving
any further information.  Government plans to merge Amlak and Tamweel were abandoned
after Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC increased its stake in Tamweel to
58 percent. Dubai Islamic offered to take over Tamweel on Jan. 3
through a share swap, four days after the United Arab Emirates’
central bank issued guidelines restricting home loans.  Liabilities Reduced  Amlak’s liabilities were reduced by 4 billion dirhams ($1.1
billion) last March after it sold land and reached agreements
with some creditors. A government committee restructuring Amlak
decided not to liquidate the company to protect the rights of
shareholders, U.A.E.’s Economy Minister Sultan Bin Saeed al-
Mansouri was cited as saying in a statement on the ministry’s
website at the time. It will some take time for Amlak shares to
resume trading, according to the statement.  Amlak and Tamweel were the two biggest mortgage providers
in Dubai during a real-estate boom that began in 2002 when the
government allowed foreigners to buy properties in some parts of
the emirate. Speculators fled after the credit crisis and Amlak
and banks curtailed mortgage lending, sparking a 65 percent drop
in property prices.  Amlak is 48.1 percent owned by Emaar, the U.A.E.’s biggest
real-estate developer by market value, and its businesses comply
with Islamic banking rules. Since 2008, a government committee
had been working on a plan to revive Amlak.  Spokesmen for Emirates NBD and Standard Chartered declined
to comment. A spokesman for Dubai Islamic Bank couldn’t
immediately comment, while a spokesman for National Bank of Abu
Dhabi declined to comment. Calls to PricewaterhouseCoopers in
Dubai weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  