-- Duchess of Cambridge’s Baby, Third in Line to Throne, Due July
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-14T12:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/duchess-of-cambridge-s-baby-third-in-line-to-throne-due-july.html
The Duchess of Cambridge’s first
baby, which will be third in line to the British throne, is due
in July and her condition continues to improve, her office said.  The former  Kate Middleton , 31, was discharged from King
Edward VII hospital in central  London  on Dec. 6 after a three-
day stay caused by hyperemesis gravidarum, or acute morning
sickness. The baby is likely to arrive shortly after the 31st
birthday of her husband,  Prince William .  “Their Royal Highnesses The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge
are delighted to confirm they are expecting a baby in July,”
according to a statement on the couple’s website. “The
Duchess’s condition continues to improve since her stay in
hospital last month.”  Hyperemesis gravidarum, triggered by pregnancy, causes such
severe nausea in as many as 2 percent of women that it prevents
food and liquids from being kept down, threatening  weight loss 
and dehydration.  The child will follow Queen Elizabeth II’s son, Prince Charles, and William in the line of succession. The British
government said a day after the pregnancy was announced that it
will propose giving princesses the same rights to succeed to the
throne as their brothers.  Current laws, including the 1700 Act of Settlement, give
male heirs precedence over their older sisters. The act also
excludes Roman Catholics or anyone married to a Roman Catholic
from becoming king or queen. Spurred on by the wedding of Prince
William last year, Prime Minister  David Cameron  agreed the law
needed to be changed and lobbied his counterparts from the other
members of the British Commonwealth.  The process of getting agreement among the 15 countries
that share the monarch to a limited change, which would also
remove the bar on those married to Catholics, was completed last
month. A Succession to the Crown Bill, which would also remove
the bar on those married to Catholics, will be introduced to
Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Dec. 4.  The Duke and Duchess, who started dating when they were
students at St. Andrews University in  Scotland , married in
London’s Westminster Abbey on April 29, 2011, with 1 million
people lining the streets of London and millions around the
world watching on television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  