-- Eastern Europe Seeks Growth Drivers as Austerity Cuts Demand
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2013-01-15T09:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/eastern-europe-seeks-growth-drivers-as-austerity-hurts-demand.html
Eastern European policy makers are
seeking new drivers to spur economic growth as austerity
measures squeeze domestic demand, the euro area’s debt crisis
slows exports and western banks withdraw funding.  European Central Bank council member  Ewald Nowotny ,
Hungarian central bank President Andras Simor, Latvian Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis and Gianni Papa, head of  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ’s eastern European business, will lead two days of
discussion on the region’s economic challenges at a Euromoney
conference in Vienna.  “The region needs to think about wholly new growth drivers
as the previous drivers, such as foreign direct investment, bank
credit, real estate and construction, are dead and unlikely to
return soon,” Tim Ash, chief  emerging-markets  strategist at
 Standard Bank  in  London , said by e-mail. “It would be dangerous
to rely on a recovery in the euro zone.”  Eastern  Europe , where foreign capital inflows and easy
access to credit fueled growth of more than 5 percent a year
before the global crisis of 2008, is being hurt through trade
and banking links to the recession-hit euro area.  Government efforts to bring down debt are curbing consumer
demand and credit growth has stalled as western lenders that
control three-quarters of banking assets retrench and bolster
capital to meet tighter regulatory requirements.  Growth Differential  Eastern Europe’s growth differential to the euro region
dropped to less than two percentage points from three-four
percentage points before 2008, Nowotny said at a Nov. 26
conference in Helsinki, citing research by Austria’s central
bank. That means it will take eastern Europe 50 years to reach
the euro-area’s income level rather than 37 years, he said.  “The  euro zone  crisis has undermined the growth model of
the central European countries which is based on exports
creation and foreign direct investment,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s
London-based chief economist for central and eastern Europe and
sub-Saharan  Africa , wrote in a Jan. 9 report. “Given that we do
not expect growth in the euro zone, or developed markets in
general, to return to pre-crisis levels, the potential growth
rates for” central and eastern Europe “will have to fall.”  To raise long-term expansion, governments in the region
must overhaul their economies, including labor and pension
rules, to compete globally, rather than only in Europe,
according to Ash.  Diversifying Trade  Diversifying trading partners away from the euro region
should also “help at the margins,” Ulgen wrote, adding that
 Poland  and the  Czech Republic  have already managed to increase
trade with countries from the former Soviet Union. Polish
exports to the  Commonwealth of Independent States  rose 21
percent in the first nine months of last year and Czech exports
increased 42 percent, according to HSBC.  While fiscal stimulus is not an option, there’s also
further room for monetary easing in Poland and  Hungary , while
the Czech Republic, with the policy rate near zero, may need to
resort to currency intervention, Ulgen wrote.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development said
that the 29 eastern European and central Asian countries where
it invests will grow 3.1 percent this year, up from 2.7 percent
in 2012, according to its October estimates.  Markets Rally  While eastern Europe’s growth outlook remains subdued,
bonds and currencies have rallied as investors faced with near-
zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and Europe sought higher-
yielding securities in emerging markets such as Poland.  Poland last year raised enough funds to cover about a
quarter of its 2013 financing needs. On Jan. 8, it took
advantage of record-low yields when it raised 1 billion euros
($1.34 billion) in 12-year notes before the  Federal Reserve  cuts
back on its stimulus program.  Yields on Czech debt also fell to record lows last year as
investors were attracted by the government’s continuation of
fiscal tightening even with the economy in recession, while the
central bank lowered borrowing costs to propel the economy.
Policy makers cut the Czech benchmark rate three times last year
to 0.05 percent, the lowest level in the European Union after
 Denmark .  The Polish zloty rose 9.4 percent in 2012, the best
performance of all currencies tracked by Bloomberg, followed by
the Hungarian forint with an 8.1 percent advance. The Czech
koruna pared its 2012 gain to 2 percent after the central bank
suggested it may weaken the currency to spur the economy.  Vienna Initiative  Eastern European growth has also suffered because of a
withdrawal of funding by the western banks that dominate the
market, the  Vienna Initiative  group of international lenders and
regulators said Nov. 9.  Western banks, led by UniCredit,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , have withdrawn funds
equivalent to 4 percent of gross domestic product from emerging
Europe, excluding Russia and  Turkey , since deleveraging resumed
in mid-2011 until the second quarter of last year, the group
said in the study.  Eastern Europe “has been buffeted by rapid deleveraging,”
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development President Suma
Chakrabarti said at the conference today. “The credit crunch
isn’t just a phrase for emerging Europe, it is a destroyer of
economic growth.”  While western parent banks have been aiming to increasing
financing at their eastern European units from local deposits,
these aren’t sufficient to boost lending, Chakrabarti said.  Cross-Border Finance  “Emerging Europe needs cross-border finance,” he said.
“While the EBRD strongly promotes the development of local
deposit bases, many countries in our region will need access to
foreign savings for some time.”  Wilhelm Molterer, vice president of the  European Investment
Bank , forecasts a reversal in that trend once the global
economic outlook improves.  “What we’re seeing in the meantime is that there is
greater interest from the banks in global loans, which is a sign
that there is more demand on the market,” Molterer said
yesterday in an interview in Vienna. “We also noticed in the
last quarter that business is picking up not only for global
loans, but also for corporate loans. The weak growth was mostly
a demand issue. The supply issue played a role in so far as the
 risk assessment  is more important than it was in boom years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  