-- ECB May Win Enhanced Bank Supervisory Powers in EU Negotiations
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-14T17:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ecb-may-win-enhanced-bank-supervisory-powers-in-eu-negotiations.html
The European Central Bank may gain
more power to give direct orders to banks as European Union
lawmakers and governments thrash out a final deal on handing
oversight powers to the central bank.  European Parliament lawmakers want the ECB to have the
power to give instructions to any bank, including those directly
regulated by national authorities, according to a document drawn
up by Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU.
The assembly is also pushing for clearer guarantees that it can
investigate allegations of rule-breaking and misuse of funds at
the ECB.  “Parliament wishes to provide the ECB with power to issue
supervisory instructions directly to a credit institution,”
according to the report, obtained by Bloomberg News. Lawmakers
say this “intermediate power” should be available to the ECB
before it has to resort to the “nuclear option” of taking on
day-to-day supervision of a bank, according to the document.  EU finance ministers reached an accord last month to put
the ECB in charge of supervising all euro-area lenders in a deal
that paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund to
provide direct bailouts to banks.  Under the accord, the ECB could directly supervise any
banks it chooses, while leaving day-to-day oversight of other
lenders in the hands of national regulators. A final deal on the
law must be negotiated by governments and the European
Parliament.  Ireland will explore how far it can go in meeting the
parliament’s call for more direct ECB power, the document says.  Lawmakers are also calling in the negotiations for the
London-based European Banking Authority to be given enhanced
powers, according to the document.  The assembly is seeking “a stronger role for EBA in
relation to stress testing” of banks and “associated data
gathering,” the note says.  Lawmakers also want the EBA to be tasked with drawing up a
“single supervisory handbook” that regulators in the bloc
would follow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  