-- Economic Ties Can Save Africa’s Arab Spring
-- B y   G h a z i   B e n   A h m e d   a n d   E l l e n   L a i p s o n
-- 2013-01-14T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/economic-ties-can-save-africa-s-arab-spring.html
Two years after the fall of Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, the economic imperative for
political stability in North Africa requires some bold and fresh
thinking. One idea worthy of more attention is promoting
regional economic integration.  Commerce among the Maghreb countries -- Morocco, Algeria,
 Tunisia ,  Libya  and Mauritania -- has been hovering around 3
percent to 4 percent of all the trade they conduct, making the
region probably the least integrated in the world.  Overcoming 
this failure would help to open borders and allow for greater
efficiencies, economic diversification and economies of scale,
drawing on each country’s relative strengths in human and
natural resources.  Tunisia, for example, has a surplus of skilled and manual
workers.  Libya  lacks skilled labor, but has Africa’s largest
reserves of oil and a huge project of reconstruction to undergo.
Algeria has natural gas and is trying to diversify its economy.
Morocco, meanwhile, excels in agriculture.  Integrating these often complementary strengths and
weaknesses is a strategic goal that should start with  Tunisia 
and its neighbors, Libya and  Algeria , before eventually
encompassing all of North Africa. This can’t be achieved
quickly, but might prove transformative for a critical region in
transition.  National Stability  Any success would have to begin with  Tunisia ’s development
of a stable and open economy. The coalition government led by
the Islamist Ennahda party hasn’t yet demonstrated that it is up
to the task of managing the transition, generating economic
growth, tackling regional disparities and fighting corruption.  If Tunisia is to consolidate its democracy, then Ennahda’s
leaders will have to be seen to abide by basic ground rules:
reject violence; uphold the rule of law; respect the freedoms of
speech, religion, association and assembly; and protect the
rights of women and minorities. The largely secular opposition,
meanwhile, will have to keep an open dialogue with the
government in order to avoid a polarization of society that
would probably lead to bloody confrontation.  Despite significant challenges, we believe Tunisia’s
evolution toward democracy will continue, provided that the
economy doesn’t collapse. The immediate priorities are to tackle
high youth unemployment -- which the  International Monetary Fund 
 estimates  at 30 percent -- and address decades of neglect that
caused large disparities between Tunisia’s developed coast and
economically depressed interior. Additional measures include
accelerating market reforms, institution building, and improving
labor markets, which are marked by significant rigidities and
skill mismatches.  All of this is achievable. The situation is ripe for fresh,
bold thinking, and the old big idea of Maghreb economic
integration can help. Robust regional trade would enable North
African states to deliver concrete dividends to citizens and
consolidate popular support for new institutions.  Unfortunately, none of the region’s governments has yet
embraced the idea, which should come as no surprise. In the
1990s, the U.S. promoted regional economic integration across
the Maghreb, as a way to attract investment and expand trade.
The idea faltered due to lack of interest from  Morocco  and
 Algeria , in particular, where a continued territorial dispute
over the Western Sahara blocked cooperation.  Lessons Learned  To avoid repeating that failure, integration efforts should
start where they have the best chance to succeed, in Tunisia and
Libya, two countries whose leaders need new ideas and aren’t
entrenched in the past. Private businesses are ready to take the
initiative and can draw on lessons learned by similar platforms
elsewhere.  The Business Advisory  Council  for Southeastern  Europe , to
name one example, has useful experience from its efforts to
stimulate trade between rivals Greece and  Turkey  and to help
reintegrate the economies of former  Yugoslavia  and its
neighbors, after that country broke apart in the brutal wars of
the 1990s. The council’s members consist of 35 investors and
chief executives from in and around the target region.  It won’t be easy. The main border crossing between Tunisia
and Libya has been closed in recent weeks due to protests, often
violent, in a town on the Tunisian side, over lack of economic
development. Still, if rivals in the Balkans could remove
the political barriers that were blocking trade and investment,
why shouldn’t North Africa be able to do the same?  The main task will be to engage business leaders, civil-
society members and policy makers, and to educate them about
what economic integration can deliver. Specific cross-border
efforts should then follow in order to broaden support for
economic integration beyond Tunisia, and to build up regional
relationships. Broad campaigns will also be needed to bring
people from all over the region together for further dialogue
and relationship building. This will take years of persistent
work.  The think tank Le Club de Tunis, for example, has started
an initiative aimed at getting the regions on either side of the
Tunisian-Algerian border to begin doing business and making
contacts with each other. Meanwhile, the  German Marshall Fund  of
the  United States  started  a project  in December to bring
together nonprofit organizations from countries across the
 Middle East  and North Africa.  As a matter of priority, private-sector business leaders
need the governments to harmonize  labor laws  and investment
codes across the region -- starting with Libya and  Tunisia  --
two steps that would allow the benefits of economic integration
to begin to flow. Also important is to strengthen each country’s
banking sector, to ease the requirement for cash guarantees to
provide credit to traders, and to harmonize payment procedures.
All of this is doable, given the political will. It’s up to the
private sector to show governments the way.  More than half a century ago, the U.S. helped Europe to
overcome the devastation and divisions of war, by promoting
economic integration between former enemies. For North Africa, a
public commitment to economic integration as a strategic goal
would create a new dynamic for smart economic policy making, and
over time, it would make an important contribution to regional
peace and security.  (Ghazi Ben Ahmed is a co-founder of Le Club de Tunis and
heads the  German Marshall Fund ’s office in the Middle East and
North Africa. Ellen Laipson is president and chief executive
officer of the Stimson Center in  Washington . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Ghazi Ben Ahmed at  gbahmed@gmfus.org 
Ellen Laipson at  elaipson@stimson.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 