-- Hedge Fund Manager Sentenced to 12 Years Prison for Fraud
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-14T21:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hedge-fund-manager-hu-is-sentenced-to-12-years-in-prison.html
     Jan. 14 (Bloomberg) --- Albert K. Hu, who was convicted of
running a  California  hedge-fund fraud scheme that the government
said cheated investors of at least $6.5 million, was sentenced
to 12 years in prison.  Hu, 50, formerly of Fremont, California, and  Hong Kong , was
found guilty by a jury in June of seven counts of wire fraud.
Evidence showed that he carried out an investment scheme from
2002 to 2008 that defrauded investors of millions of dollars,
federal prosecutors said. Hu also faces a civil lawsuit by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “What is fairly clear is Mr. Hu was involved in a
fraudulent scheme that took a lot of money from a group of
people,” and  it “definitely had a major impact on their
lives,” U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in  San Jose ,
California, said today when he imposed the sentence.  Jerry Fong, a lawyer for Hu, had no immediate comment on
the sentence.  Hu founded and operated  hedge funds  under the names Asenqua
Beta Fund and Fireside LS Fund out of  San Francisco ,  Singapore ,
and Sunnyvale, California, prosecutors said.  He lured investors with promises of returns as high as
30 percent a year and assurances that law firms including
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP and Heller Ehrman LLP served
as legal counsel for his funds, according to prosecutors. A
purportedly independent auditing firm was a facade, the
government said.  ‘Personal Use’  Instead of investing the money as promised, Hu “converted
that money for his own personal use and for other non-investment
purposes,” according to an indictment.  Fong argued for a sentence of no longer than 6 1/2 years.
The government asked for 19 years and seven months, based on
advisory guidelines.  Hu is “an extremely intelligent individual, who’s done
some good things in his lifetime,” though his contribution to
society “cuts both ways” because he “had more things going
for him than most people, and yet he turns to criminal activity
when he had proved that he could teach at a college level or run
a company,” the judge said.  Whyte agreed with prosecutors’ argument that the fraud
involved a “sophisticated means,” which adds time to a prison
term under the guidelines.  ‘Sophisticated Means’  “The whole set-up was a sophisticated means,” Whyte said.  Hu told Whyte that he read “each and every victims’
statement” and that he is “sorry for their loss.” During his
years in custody, Hu said he has learned the “true meaning of
sympathy, redemption, mercy.”  Fong told the judge Hu wants to leave finance and return to
the technology industry, saying he would be “more likely to pay
restitution to people if he were out innovating.” Whyte said he
will take up the question of restitution at a separate hearing.  The maximum penalty for each count of  wire fraud  is 20
years in prison and a fine of $250,000, plus restitution.  The SEC case against Hu is pending in federal court in San
Francisco. The agency will move for a judgment against him based
on the outcome of the criminal case, Robert Tashjian, a lawyer
for the agency, said in an interview.  Hu has been in custody since his arrest in Hong Kong in
2009, followed by extradition to the U.S., according to
prosecutors.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Hu, 09-70057, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The SEC case
is U.S. v. Hu, 09-1177, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 