-- Telekom Austria CEO Will Discuss Hybrid Bond at Investor Event
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-01-14T13:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/telekom-austria-ceo-will-discuss-hybrid-bond-at-investor-event.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of two
European phone companies part-owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil (AMX)  SAB, will use a capital markets day tomorrow to discuss
the possible release of a new hybrid bond.  “A hybrid bond will be a subject,” Chief Executive
Officer Hannes Ametsreiter told journalists today in Vienna,
without providing further detail.  Telekom Austria is considering an 800 million euro ($1.1
billion) hybrid  bond issue  to help finance the acquisition of
new radio spectrum in Austria, Rudolf Kemler, head of state-
asset agency and 28 percent Telekom shareholder OeIAG, said in
an interview published by News magazine on Jan. 3.  Institutional investors and analysts will gather in Vienna
tomorrow to attend Telekom Austria’s annual capital markets day.
The company, Austria’s worst-performing stock in 2012 with a 38
percent decline, doesn’t publicly transmit information released
at such events via the Internet, unlike most competitors.  Investors not attending the capital markets event can
receive information after markets close, Ametsreiter said, while
adding he did not expect significant news announcements. “We’re
probably one of the most transparent companies that exists,” he
said.  Telekom Austria , which was under parliamentary
investigation for most of 2012 on charges of corruption and
insider trading, said Jan. 8 that revenue will fall to about 4.1
billion euros this year, compared with a 2012 forecast for 4.2
billion euros.  It declined to give a full-year profit forecast for the
first time in a decade because of “continued low visibility in
its major markets”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  