-- Embraer Shares Beat Bombardier on Regional-Jet Strategy
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-14T19:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/embraer-shares-beat-bombardier-on-regional-jet-strategy.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest
planemaker, is betting the E-jet will win a greater share of the
shrinking regional market because airlines prefer revamped
versions of current aircraft to risking delays and malfunctions
in new models such as  Bombardier Inc.’s (BBD/B)  CSeries.  The choice of Pratt & Whitney engines last week for the
next line of aircraft marked a milestone in Embraer’s strategy.
When Embraer’s E-jets debut in 2018, Bombardier will have been
flying its  CSeries  with those engines for four years -- and
grappling with any flaws in the new technology.  Jet buyers are getting fresh reminders of the difficulty in
starting a model from scratch.  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner,
which entered service in 2011, came under a special U.S.
regulatory review last week following a fire, two months after
Bombardier said it was pushing back the CSeries’ first flight to
resolve unspecified “issues” with suppliers.  “The riskier path is obviously being taken by Bombardier,
because they’re doing a new plane and spending more money,”
Turan Quettawala, a Toronto-based analyst at Scotiabank, said in
a telephone interview. “Time will tell if it will be higher
reward. On a risk-adjusted basis, Embraer probably does a little
bit better.”  Shares of the Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-based planemaker
 outperformed  both Bombardier and the nation’s benchmark Bovespa
index in the year through Jan. 11. Embraer climbed 2.7 percent
to 14.27 reais at the close today in Sao Paulo, outpacing a gain
of less than 1 percent for the benchmark Bovespa index.  Bombardier’s stock traded at an 86 percent  discount  to
Embraer’s on a price-to-earnings basis at the end of last week.  Less Expensive  The E-jet redesign will be about $1 billion cheaper than
the $3 billion or more needed for a brand-new plane, Paulo Cesar Silva, the company’s commercial-jet chief, said when the
decision was announced in 2011. An Embraer spokesman, Marcio
Meo, declined to comment on the company’s strategy.  Embraer and Bombardier share a duopoly in a segment of the
airline market that’s under pressure as carriers increasingly
favor larger planes. Regional-jet orders for the two companies
slid to 181 planes in 2011, less than half the 2007 total.
Single-aisle jet orders were 2,107, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “I don’t know if there’s room for two players,” said
Jacques Kavafian, vice president of brokerage Toll Cross
Investment.  Kavafian said some airlines are keen on new models, partly
because of the discounts they receive as initial buyers. Others
tend to shy away from new technology, he said.  Dreamliner Delay  Manufacturers of a new plane, meanwhile, grapple with risks
from high costs for research and development, the prospect of
significant delays in which capital costs mount and erosion of
early profit margins from the discounts.  Boeing stock still trades  26 percent  below its price on
Oct. 9, 2007, the day before announcing the first of a series of
delays on the Dreamliner because of parts shortages, vendors
missing deadlines and tests that showed unplanned stresses on
the plane’s structure.  In November, Bombardier’s  credit rating  was lowered one
level to BB, two steps below investment grade, by Standard &
Poor’s, amid heavy expenditures for its new aircraft. The
manufacturer subsequently postponed a bond issue for almost two
months.  Fuel Efficiency  Embraer’s upgrade has proceeded more smoothly so far, with
investors  boosting the stock  19 percent from mid-November 2011,
when it announced its plans, through the selection of its engine
supplier last week.  More than 900 E-jets are in use now, with the smallest
variant carrying 70 passengers and the larger version capable of
flying 120. Embraer has said the upgrade will improve fuel
efficiency with new wings and the geared-turbofan engines from
Pratt & Whitney, currently in use by Bombardier, will decrease
maintenance costs.  The CSeries carries catalog prices of $58 million to $67
million, while Embraer’s E-Jets list from $38 million to $48
million. Airlines typically negotiate discounts of up to 45
percent, said George Ferguson, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  “There is a lot less risk with what Embraer is doing,” he
said by telephone from Skillman, New Jersey. “Look at the
problems with the Boeing 787. It’s a viable airplane, but this
was an all-new system, and all-new systems can have that many
more problems because it has that many more things that can go
wrong.”  Moving Goalposts  The new Canadian jets are designed to carry 100 to 145
passengers, competing with the largest E-Jets as well as the
smallest commercial single-aisle planes from Boeing and Airbus
SAS.  Fierce competition from both Boeing and Airbus in the
narrow-body segment played into Embraer’s strategy, Silva said.
The company said today it delivered 106 E-Jets last year, a
period in which orders for the CSeries slipped to 15, leaving
the backlog at 138.  Bombardier shipped 14 of its CRJ regional jets, which seat
60 to 99 passengers, in the same period and posted orders for
73. Those included an agreement by Delta Air Lines Inc. to buy
40, a purchase for which the Canadian company competed with
Embraer.  Embraer’s strategy is risky because it means the company
isn’t innovating as the market changes, said Kavafian of Toll
Cross, which holds no shares of either planemaker.  “The new engine is what they think they can do to at least
narrow the gap of cost” with Bombardier jets, which are now
cheaper than Embraer’s planes, he said in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “Bombardier is applying the right strategy,
whereas Embraer is being more lazy.”  New Engine  The Canadian company’s jets will continue to be more
efficient than those of its Brazilian competitor, said Benjamin Boehm, vice president for business development and strategy at
Bombardier.  “Re-enginings don’t move goalposts,” Boehm said in a
telephone interview. “They are taking an existing design and
putting a new engine on it. Our current data would indicate we
will retain a competitive advantage.”  The Brazilian planemaker posted a book-to-bill ratio of 0.3
percent in the third quarter. The gauge, which shows demand by
comparing orders to deliveries, was the lowest of the four
largest planemakers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bombardier is tied for first place with Airbus at 1.6 percent.  “If this CSeries gets delayed, you could find out that
Embraer is in very good shape,” Ferguson said. “If Embraer is
doing a refresh, they can be first to market. The game is now in
Bombardier’s camp. They’ve got to get that CSeries through
flight testing and into service, and they really need to build
out their customer base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  