-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Quotas Lift China, Boespa Rallies
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-01-14T22:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/emerging-stocks-rise-as-china-equities-rally-most-in-four-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, spurred
by the biggest rally in Shanghai-listed shares in four weeks,
after  China ’s securities regulator said foreign investor quotas
can increase 10-fold and financial shares climbed.  Haitong Securities Co. and  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) 
advanced at least 2.9 percent in Hong Kong as the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped to a seven-month high. Indian developer
DLF Ltd. drove gains among financial companies after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. raised the shares to the equivalent of buy. PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes and  Banco do Brasil SA 
drove  Brazil ’s Bovespa index to a one-week high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.7 percent to
1,080.71 in  New York , the steepest advance since Jan. 2. China
can boost the size of two programs allowing foreigners to buy
yuan-denominated A shares and bonds, China Securities Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  said. Burnishing the global
outlook, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Jan. 11
the euro is “over the worst of the crisis.”  “The move today is certainly tied to foreign investment,
but it’s carrying on a trend that began in China in September
with evidence of stabilization and economic recovery,” Geoffrey Dennis, global  emerging-markets  strategist at Citigroup Inc.,
said by phone in New York.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.4
percent to $44.66 in New York, after retreating 1.2 percent last
week. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, sank 8.9 percent to 16.54.  Banco do Brasil  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  climbed 0.9 percent, the most since Jan. 4 as
 Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s biggest lender by assets,
jumped 3.7 percent. The bank is in talks that may lead to
acquisitions in  Florida  and New Jersey, Paulo Rogerio
Caffarelli, vice-president for international business, said in
an interview last week. PDG Realty led a rally in Brazilian
homebuilders, rising 4.7 percent.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.1 percent while Hungary’s
BUX Index gained for a fourth day and Turkey’s ISE National 100
Index jumped 1.2 percent to a record close.  “What’s driving the sentiment in central and eastern
 Europe  is the realization that the  euro zone  is healing,”
Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-markets strategist at Nordea Bank
AB in Copenhagen, said  by e-mail. “That’s where central and
eastern European exports are headed.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 3.1 percent as  India ’s
Sensex climbed 1.2 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained
0.9 percent to the highest close since June 19, 2011. Mexico’s
IPC Index gained 0.1 percent.  Financial Surge  A measure of financial stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index advanced 1.4 percent, the most among 10  industry  groups,
as Chinese insurers and banks rallied. Energy and utility stocks
followed, adding 0.9 percent each.  OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest crude producer,
added 1.1 percent in Moscow.  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , Poland’s second-
biggest  oil company , gained 2.5 percent, the most since Jan. 2.
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , an oil company controlled
by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , jumped 3.7 percent in Sao
Paulo.  Oil rose to the highest level in almost four months, adding
0.6 percent to $94.14 a barrel after money managers raised net-
long positions, or wagers on the U.S. benchmark crude, by 12
percent in the week ended Jan. 8, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Jan. 11 Commitments of Traders
report. It was the most since Sept. 25.  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s largest food retailer by
revenue, fell 3.9 percent in  London , the most since Nov. 28,
after the company announced the resignation of Chief Financial
Officer Kieran Balfe and two other managers.  Boryszew, Aldar  Boryszew SA (BRS) , the Polish chemical and auto-parts producer
controlled by billionaire Roman Karkosik, sank 1.8 percent in
Warsaw. The company canceled its 2012 profit forecast because of
lower valuations on real estate in Warsaw, according to a
regulatory filing Jan. 11.  Aldar Properties PJSC surged 4.5 percent and Sorouh Real
Estate Co. rose 3.2 percent on bets  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest property
developers are poised to benefit from about $90 billion in
infrastructure spending over the next five years.  The developing-nations index has risen 2.5 percent this
month, trailing the 3.1 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets gauge trades
at 11 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s
valuation of 13.3 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘More Attractive’  “Emerging market equities, as an asset class, are a lot
more attractive than in developed markets because, on average,
they will deliver relatively stronger earnings growth against a
much safer individual country macro and fiscal backdrop,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Sberbank Investment Research, said
by e-mail today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 265 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  The  iShares FTSE A50 China Index ETF , a Hong Kong-listed
fund that tracks the performance of mainland-traded stocks,
jumped 3.4 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
companies listed in  Hong Kong  added 1.4 percent. appetite for
the nation’s assets.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.7 percent as  China Lodging
Group Ltd. (HTHT)  and  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  rose on the
prospects of greater foreign investment.  ‘Major Gainer’  “The major gainer has been the A-share market as a result
of the announcement” by regulatory chief Guo, Geoffrey Ng, who
helps oversee $1.8 billion as chief executive officer at Hong
Leong Asset Management Bhd., said by phone from  Kuala Lumpur .
“To a certain extent, it has pulled up some of the regional
markets.”  China can raise the level of quotas for the  Renminbi 
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors and the Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investors programs, Guo said at a
conference in Hong Kong today. RQFII allows offshore  yuan  in
Hong Kong to be invested in mainland securities while QFII
permits foreigners to buy yuan-denominated stocks and bonds.  Regulators have since 2003 approved a combined QFII quota
of $36.04 billion as of Nov. 30, the Beijing-based State
Administration of Foreign Exchange said on Dec. 11. The
government scrapped a ceiling on investments by overseas
sovereign wealth funds and central banks in its  capital markets 
last month, part of government efforts to encourage long-term
foreign ownership and shore up slumping equities.  Beijing Pollution  Haitong Securities advanced 5.5 percent, its steepest
increase since Dec. 28, while China Life climbed 2.9 percent,
the most since Jan. 2. Guo’s comment boosted insurers, which
have investments in publicly traded stocks and brokers that
benefit from the prospects of higher volumes.  Environmental shares and drug makers rallied in China as a
measurement of air pollution in Beijing exceeded World Health
Organization guidelines. Beijing SJ Environmental Protection and
New Material Co. jumped 4.2 percent on expectations of increased
sales, while Tasly Pharmaceutical Group Co. surged 3.8 percent
to a record close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  