-- Encana to Rally as CEO Shift Signals Oil Focus: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-01-14T15:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/encana-to-rally-as-ceo-shift-signals-oil-focus-corporate-canada.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  investors say the
resignation of Chief Executive Officer Randall Eresman will
revive one of  Canada ’s worst performing energy stocks by
speeding a shift away from natural gas production to more-
profitable oil.  The departure of Eresman, announced on Jan. 11, will spark
a focus on liquid petroleum products after Eresman spun off
Encana’s oil unit in 2009 just as natural gas prices plunged,
said  John Stephenson , who helps manage C$2.7 billion ($2.74
billion) at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.  Shareholders had become “dissatisfied” with the company’s
share performance and strategy with its emphasis on natural gas,
said Stephenson, who owns Encana stock.  “The company had been floundering for some time and
strategically it was adrift,” he said by e-mail from Toronto on
Jan. 12. “I see new leadership as a positive for Encana since
it will reinvigorate the organization and help focus the company
on becoming more balanced between natural gas, liquids and
oil.”  The spin off of oil sands producer  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) 
reduced Encana’s stature from Canada’s largest energy company
with  oil sands  and overseas assets to a diminished producer of
natural gas that posted $4.3 billion in losses in the past two-
and-a-half years. As he gambled that turning Encana into a
“pure” producer of shale gas would deliver profit growth,
Eresman failed to see the impact of surging supplies on price,
said Bill Gwozd, an analyst at Ziff Energy Group, an energy
consultancy.  “Even if gas prices were in the high single digits, he
could have made a lot of money,” said Gwozd in a phone
interview from Calgary. “But now with gas prices as low as they
are, the economics are very challenging.”  Price Declines  With gas prices hovering at less than $4 per million
British thermal units for more than two years, Encana will
likely accelerate its shift to drilling for oil and other liquid
fuels, he said. “Industry likes to see a more balanced
portfolio,” Gwozd said.  The U.S. Energy Department in a Jan. 8 report said 2013
natural gas prices will average $3.74 per million Btu. Prices
averaged $2.75 in 2012.  Encana produces more than 20 times as much natural gas than
liquid fuels like oil, based on energy content. The company
plans to boost production of liquid fuels to 80,000 barrels a
day by 2015 from 24,000 at the end of 2011.  Shares Plunge  The Calgary-based company has reported six quarters of
losses over the past two and a half years, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Encana is expected to post net income
before one-time items of $249.8 million in the fourth quarter,
according to the average of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That compares with a loss of $246 million in the year-earlier
period.  Encana has fallen 43 percent to C$19.50, from C$34.11 at
the end of 2009. That makes Encana the 11th-worst performer on
the 62-member S&P/TSX  Energy Index (STENRS)  over that period. The market
value has dropped to C$14.3 billion. It rose one cent to C$19.48
in Toronto at 10:25 a.m.  Encana announced Eresman’s departure after the close of
trading Jan. 11, saying he will retire after 35 years at the
company. He will be replaced by board member and Range Royalty
Management Ltd. CEO Clayton Woitas. Eresman, 54, will be an
adviser of Canada’s largest natural gas producer until Feb. 28
and Woitas will remain in his new role until a permanent
replacement is found, the company said in a statement.  Jay Averill, an Encana spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s strategy when contacted by Bloomberg on Jan. 13.  Medicine Hat  Eresman, who was born in the southeastern  Alberta  town of
Medicine Hat, had been CEO since Jan. 1, 2006. In 2011, Eresman
earned a total of $9.25 million, including salary, stock and
bonus awards, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of Montreal analyst  Randy Ollenberger , called the
change of leadership “potentially positive” in terms of
shaking up the company. Ollenberger, who is based in Calgary,
rates Encana the equivalent of a ’buy.’  “New leadership could bring renewed enthusiasm to the
company as it shifts its strategy to a more balanced
portfolio,” he said in a research note. “A fresh set of eyes
may identify additional opportunities to generate  shareholder
value .”  Eresman engineered Encana’s transformation by spinning off
its oil assets into Cenovus Energy in November 2009. Cenovus is
now valued at C$25.3 billion, or 43 percent more than its former
parent.  Split Shelved  The split was first announced in May 2008 and then shelved
as the financial crisis caused commodity prices to sink. U.S.
gas futures had dropped 42 percent from January through Sept.
11, 2009, when Eresman said the company would go ahead with the
Cenovus spin off. Dividing the company was necessary because of
diverging production technology, Eresman said at the time.  Encana was then forced by falling gas prices to pursue
joint venture agreements with companies including  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058) , which on Feb. 17 agreed to pay C$1.46 billion for a 40
percent stake in development of Encana’s Cutbank Ridge shale gas
acreage in British Columbia and Alberta. Last month PetroChina
bought a 49.9 percent stake in the Encana’s Duvernay shale
formation in Alberta for C$1.18 billion.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  last month introduced new
foreign investment guidelines as he approved the sale of Nexen
to Cnooc’s Ltd. of  China . He said future takeovers of Canadian
oil sands companies by state-owned entities would only be
approved in “exceptional” circumstances. He didn’t offer
similar protection for gas producers such as Encana and signaled
joint ventures would still be welcomed.  China Ventures  The PetroChina agreement brought Encana’s net proceeds from
joint ventures and  asset  sales to C$3 billion last year, up from
an annual target announced at the company’s June investor day of
C$2 billion to C$2.5 billion.  Ereman’s departure was probably a dismissal after the
company’s poor performance, said Jennifer Stevenson, a vice
president who helps manage about C$100 billion at Dynamic Funds
and doesn’t own Encana stock.  “Usual retirements are phased in and pre-announced in my
view,” she said. The new CEO needs to provide shareholders with
“strong financial stewardship and a business plan,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  