-- Herbalife Rises to Highest Since Ackman Revealed Short Position
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/herbalife-rises-to-highest-price-since-ackman-pyramid-allegation.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  rose to the highest
price yesterday since before hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman 
called the nutrition company a pyramid scheme and announced he
had taken a short position in the shares.  The stock  advanced  10 percent to $44.08 yesterday at the
close in  New York . The stock closed at $42.50 on Dec. 18, the
day before Ackman revealed that he had shorted the shares after
researching the company for a year.  The shares jumped after analysts at D.A. Davidson & Co. and
Barclays Plc said Herbalife may announce stock repurchases this
week when the company reports preliminary earnings for the
fourth quarter.  “If we see the pre-release and another large share
repurchase, up to and including the $950 million remaining under
the authorization, we predict MOASS –- Mother of all Short
Squeezes,”  Tim Ramey , an analyst at D.A. Davidson in  Lake
Oswego ,  Oregon , said in a note. Herbalife earnings may “exceed
their own guidance,” said Ramey, who has a buy rating on the
shares.  Brian Wang, an analyst at Barclays, said in a Jan. 11 note
that he expects Herbalife’s earnings to be “strong,” and the
company can buy back 20 percent of its shares, “which would be
materially accretive to earnings.”  Ackman, founder of New York hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LP, joined  Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) 
Chairman  David Einhorn  last year in raising questions about
Herbalife. On Dec. 20, Ackman appeared at a Sohn Investment
Conference in New York and accused Herbalife of using inflated
pricing, misleading sales information and a complicated
incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme.  Debunking Claims  Herbalife executives and consultants hit back on Jan. 10,
arguing that all of Herbalife’s payments to distributors are
tied to product sales and the company’s accounting practices are
legal.  “Management did a good job of debunking some of the claims
in the Pershing Square presentation and giving additional
clarity where they could,” Wang wrote.  Herbalife had fallen 43 percent from the day before Einhorn
questioned its disclosures through Jan. 11. Einhorn has said
nothing more publicly about Herbalife since the conference call
on May 1. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission later
looked into the disclosures and closed its inquiry without
taking action.  The rise in Herbalife shares yesterday coincided with other
investment developments for Ackman. His bet that  Hong Kong  will
amend its 29-year-old peg to the dollar won’t be realized,
according to K.C. Chan, the city’s secretary for financial
services and the treasury.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has injected almost $14
billion since Oct. 19 as the local currency’s move to HK$7.75
obliged it to buy U.S. dollars in the foreign-exchange market.
Ackman said Oct. 20 he was keeping his call contracts on the
city’s currency and suggested Hong Kong revalue its dollar 30
percent higher versus the greenback to curb inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  