-- Hero Turns to ’Bharat’ to Thwart Honda’s Growth in India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-15T10:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hero-turns-to-bharat-to-thwart-honda-s-growth-in-india.html
Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s biggest
motorcycle maker, is wooing rural buyers with promotions such as
free health checkups after competition from former partner  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  prompted the first drop in sales in almost a decade.  The New Delhi-based company, which gets over 45 percent of
its revenue from sales in  non-urban areas  in the world’s second-
largest market for the two wheelers, is organizing free  vehicle
servicing  and medical camps in over 100,000 villages around the
country to bolster its presence and attract new customers,
according to Anil Dua, the senior vice president for marketing
and sales at Hero.  “We’ve stepped up our engagement with rural India,” Dua
said in an interview. “The outlook looks promising on account
of several factors” including rising rural income, better farm
output and the government’s social spending programs, he said.  Hero is seeking to fortify its leadership in the South
Asian country’s villages and small towns after Tokyo-based
Honda’s deliveries of scooters and motorcycles jumped 37 percent
in the April-December period compared with a 2 percent decline
for the Indian manufacturer. Honda, which in 2010 exited a 26-
year partnership with Hero, is targeting a 30 percent increase
in sales to 2.75 million units in the year ending March 31.  Share Performance  Net income  at Hero dropped 27 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, the first decline in six quarters, while revenue
fell 11 percent, the first slump since 2003 as competition from
the Japanese maker hurt sales. Revenue growth in the year ending
March 31 may be the slowest since 1992, according to the median
 estimate  of 61 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The Indian
company will announce its earnings for the three months ended
Dec. 30 on Jan. 17.  Shares of Hero gained 2 percent in 2012 compared with a 26
percent advance in the benchmark BSE Ltd.’s  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The
stock rose 0.1 percent to 1,844.60 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. Local rival  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT)  rallied 38 percent last
year.  “The rural market is the right strategy for Hero as the
penetration in these markets is low,” said Umesh Karne, an
analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai who recommends adding
the  stock . “Hero can see success provided they market their
products properly. They will need to bring customers to the Hero
brand from the old Hero Honda brand.”  The company is still relying on technology from Honda for
its best sellers, the 100-cc Splendor and Passion, and is
struggling to introduce new independent models since the world’s
biggest maker parted ways two years ago. It introduced four
models in the period, versus at least five by Bajaj and seven by
Honda.  Few Models  Hero, controlled by billionaire Chairman Brijmohan Lall Munjal, will bring out its locally developed model only in the
year ended March 31, 2014, according to Dua. Honda’s sales of
models in the 110-150 cc range surged 49 percent in the nine
months to December, compared with 6.5 percent for Hero and a 14
percent decline at Bajaj, according to data provided by the
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  “It is very tough to maintain your image and market share
with the same old products,” said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst
in Mumbai at Quant Broking Pvt., who recommends selling the
stock. “Structurally, Hero has been losing market share as
Honda has gained. If you continue to lose share, your margins
will suffer. This is just the beginning for Honda in  India .”  Of the 66 analysts who track the stock, 27 rate it a sell,
while 19 advise buying it, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company sold 6.23 million units in the year ended
March 31, and has a capacity to produce 7 million two-wheelers
annually.  Record Wheat  Hero is counting on rising incomes in rural areas as farm
output picks up and the government spends on social programs,
said Dua. Food grain production climbed to a record 257.4
million metric tons in the year ended June 30, according to the
agriculture ministry.  Wheat output in India, the world’s second-biggest producer,
may reach a record for a seventh year as cold weather boosts
yield prospects and record domestic prices spur planting,
according to the state-owned Directorate of Wheat Research.
Prices in India jumped 29 percent last year after exports rose
and the government increased the minimum price paid to farmers
to a record.  India’s rural spending was $67.57 billion between 2009-10
and 2011-12, compared to urban consumption of $53.95 billion in
the same period, according to a November 2012  note  by India
Brand Equity Foundation. Rising incomes and low penetration of
consumer durables are the reasons cited for the growth in
spending, according to the report.  “Honda doesn’t have that great a presence in rural areas
and a greater rural presence will help Hero mitigate some of the
losses in market share in urban areas,” said Yaresh Kothari, an
analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai. “In the long term, the
rural market will grow as the penetration is low and spending
levels will increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  