-- EU Carbon Permits Drop to Record, Offsets Fall on Supply Glut
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-14T17:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/eu-carbon-permits-drop-to-record-offsets-fall-on-supply-glut.html
United Nations emission offsets from
developed nations plunged 42 percent and European Union carbon
allowances slumped to a record on a supply glut.  UN Emission Reduction Units for delivery in December
dropped to as low as 15 euro cents ($0.20) a metric ton, an all-
time low, and were at 16 euro cents on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange at 4:59 p.m. in London. There were 657 million tons of
ERUs issued as of Jan. 9, which will be potentially eligible for
conversion to EU allowances and use in the bloc’s carbon market,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a research note today,
citing UN data.  The European Commission, the EU regulatory arm, is seeking
to impose limits on ERUs from certain countries including  Russia 
in its cap-and-trade program. In a draft regulation presented to
 member states  last week the commission proposed ERUs
representing emissions cuts made before Dec. 31 and issued this
year or later under the so-called Track One procedure by
countries without post-2012 emission goals may be used as long
as they undergo additional checks. The proposal is less
stringent than an original plan by the EU in October.  “The proposal allows for increased flexibility to
demonstrate that reductions have taken place by end-2012 in case
changing track is not possible,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate
spokesman for the commission, said by e-mail today.  ERUs are generated under the UN Joint Implementation
program, which encourages investments in low-carbon energy by
industrialized countries in other nations that have emission
goals under the  Kyoto Protocol . Track One ERUs are issued in a
procedure overseen by governments while Track Two offsets are
approved by UN regulators for issuance.  EU Regulation  The EU regulation would impact offsets for greenhouse gas
cuts made in the first commitment period under the protocol,
which started in 2008 and ended in 2012. Track Two credits will
be allowed to be held in the EU registry until March 2015, in
line with the existing regulation, according to the draft.  EU allowances for December dropped as much as 2.9 percent
to 5.75 euros and closed at 5.90 euros on ICE. The contract may
drop as low as 5.40 euros a metric ton by end of week on new
supply of permits from auctions held by European governments,
according to New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  