-- European Stock Futures Rise as Evans Backs Stimulus
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-14T07:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/european-stock-futures-rise-as-evans-backs-stimulus.html
European (SXXP)  stock futures rose after
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the
central bank should continue to support economic recovery. U.S.
index futures and Asian shares excluding Japan also climbed.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  may advance after saying it is buying the
Harry Winston watch and jewelry brand for about $1 billion.
Volkswagen AG may move after posting a 25 percent increase in
2012  China  sales.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  may be active after
announcing a plan to cut costs by 600 million euros ($803
million).  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  may decline after United Parcel Service
Inc. said it expects regulators to block its takeover of TNT.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for the
euro area, added 0.5 percent to 2,725 at 7:34 a.m. in  London .
Contracts on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.3 percent.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in March
climbed 0.2 percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding  Japan 
Index advanced 0.4 percent.  “Despite the Federal Open Market Committee minutes earlier
this month giving traders a shock reminder that the unlimited
quantitative easing wasn’t a permanent monetary policy and may
one day end, Evans reassured traders that the policy would
remain in place until well after the economy got back on track
to self sustainability,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at Capital
Spreads in London, wrote in a note.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, the region-wide benchmark, fell
last week amid the highest valuation in 11 quarters and concern
that quickening inflation in China will limit the scope for
economic stimulus. Even so, the gauge has rallied 2.7 percent
since the New Year as U.S. lawmakers reached a budget
compromise, avoiding a fiscal crisis.  Moving Slowly  The U.S. government should put “in place policies that
slowly but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into
balance with future spending,” Evans said in remarks in  Hong
Kong  today. “Under this scenario, monetary policy has an
important contribution to make.”  FOMC minutes, released Jan. 3 in  Washington , showed a split
on how long the $85 billion monthly bond-purchase program should
last. Members were evenly divided between those who backed
ending the purchases by mid-2013 and those in favor of
continuing further.  Swatch may be active after agreeing to buy the Harry
Winston brand. The world’s biggest maker of Swiss watches will
pay Harry Winston Diamond Corp. $750 million and assume as much
as $250 million in debt, the Biel, Switzerland-based company
said in a statement.  Volkswagen Sales  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker, may be active
after it said 2012 sales in China rose by 25 percent to 2.81
million vehicles. Overall, full-year deliveries rose by 11
percent to 9.07 million vehicles.  Assicurazioni Generali may move. Italy’s biggest insurer
said it plans to save 600 million euros in costs by the end of
2015.  TNT may decline. UPS said it expects European Commission
antitrust regulators to block its proposed 5.16 billion-euro
takeover of TNT. UPS will pay TNT 200 million euros and withdraw
the offer if the regulators prohibit it, the Atlanta-based
company said. The decision is expected to be formally adopted in
coming weeks, UPS added.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone maker struggling to
reverse falling sales, may move. The stock was cut to
underweight, a rating similar to sell, from equal weight at
Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  