-- Evans Says Fed Support Needed While Deficit Tackled
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-14T03:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/evans-says-fed-support-needed-while-deficit-tackled.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. central bank should keep
policy accommodative to support the economy while lawmakers
reduce  government spending  to tame the country’s budget deficit.  The government should put “in place policies that slowly
but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into balance
with future spending,” Evans said in remarks in  Hong Kong  today.
“Under this scenario, monetary policy has an important
contribution to make.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month announced
measures to further support the  U.S. economy , saying the central
bank would expand its bond-purchasing program and link policy to
economic indicators for the first time. After President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers averted $600 billion in spending cuts and
tax increases that had been scheduled to start this month,
Republicans are calling for a reduction in federal expenditures
as a fight looms over raising the government’s borrowing limit.  “Too much austerity too soon could be very damaging to
near- and medium-term growth,” Evans said at the Asian
Financial Forum. In a fragile economy, sudden spending cuts and
tax increases “could cause longer-lasting damage if they result
in lower growth in the physical productive capital stock and
even more time out of work for the long-term unemployed, whose
job skills would be further eroded.”  Spending Cuts  The compromise Obama and lawmakers reached this month
raised income-tax rates for couples with annual income above
$450,000 while extending tax cuts for lower incomes, and delayed
automatic spending reductions until March 1.  Evans, who votes on the policy-setting FOMC this year, has
been one of the most outspoken advocates within the Fed for
stimulus. He was the first official to propose linking the
central bank’s  benchmark interest rate  to economic thresholds, a
policy that was adopted by the FOMC at its Dec. 11-12 meeting.  At that time, the Fed said that it expected to keep
interest rates low as long as the  unemployment rate  is above 6.5
percent, provided that inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. Previously, the central bank said it would keep
rates near zero through at least mid-2015.  “Given more explicit conditionality, markets can be more
confident that we will provide the monetary accommodation
necessary to close the large resource gaps that currently
exist,” Evans said today. “Also, clarifying conditionalities
can help households and businesses better plan for the future,
and so boost the effectiveness of our current policies.”  Job Growth  Evans, responding to questions after his remarks, said he
expects  interest rates  to stay low until 2015. If the U.S. adds
200,000 jobs per month for several months, that would be an
indicator that the Fed could end asset purchases in line with
its pledge to continue until it sees “substantial improvement”
in labor markets, he said.  “That would be consistent with substantial improvement,”
Evans said. “That’s going to be on the order of 1 million to
1.5 million jobs over the next six months to a year. That would
be indicative that we could stop.”  In December, the U.S. central bank also said it would start
buying an additional $45 billion per month in Treasuries as part
of its open-ended bond-buying program. The expansion was meant
to offset the end of Operation Twist, in which the Fed swapped
short-term Treasuries for longer-term bonds.  Evans had dissented twice in 2011 in favor of adding
stimulus, and was an early advocate for a third round of
quantitative easing that the Fed announced in September 2012. He
became president of the Chicago district bank in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  