-- Ex-BP Engineer Criminal Trial Over Spill-Size Data Postponed
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-01-14T22:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ex-bp-engineer-criminal-trial-over-spill-data-postponed-to-june.html
The trial of a former  BP Plc (BP/) 
engineer charged with destroying evidence sought for a U.S.
probe of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill will be postponed to
June 10, a judge said.  Kurt Mix, who was charged with obstruction of justice for
allegedly deleting text-message strings from his mobile phone,
had been facing a Feb. 25 trial date, the same day another
federal judge in  New Orleans  is scheduled to begin a trial over
liability for the spill.  U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval in New Orleans postponed
the Mix trial today, citing the volume and complexity of
documents in the obstruction of justice case.  “I need some time to establish categories of documents
that I can rule on,” to determine what is “relevant, not
relevant, whatever the objections may be,” Duval said in a
hearing.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. It also set off hundreds of lawsuits
against BP, its partners and contractors on the project.  Mix worked on BP efforts to estimate the amount of oil
leaking from the Macondo well. The two counts of the indictment
concern text messages between him and the contractor and another
string with his supervisor. Mix’s prosecution was the first
criminal case to arise from the 2010 spill.  Since his arrest in April, BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  have
pleaded guilty to criminal charges over the spill.  Criminal Counts  BP agreed to plead  guilty  to 14 criminal counts including
11 for felony manslaughter related to the 11 deaths that
occurred when the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and
sank. The  company  also pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count
under the  Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the
 Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of
Congress.  Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the rig, pleaded guilty this month to one
misdemeanor violation of the U.S. Clean Water Act.  Two BP well-site managers were charged with involuntary
manslaughter and a former executive was charged with obstruction
and false statements.  Duval also heard arguments today from Mix’s lawyers that he
produced “smoking gun” documents that federal prosecutors used
to charge BP and senior vice president  David Rainey  with lying
to Congress about flow rate estimates from the broken Macondo
well in 2010.  “I’m not necessarily interested in every document he tried
to preserve,” Duval said today. Duval took “under advisement”
Mix’s motion asking the court to find that the defendant had
provided the evidence the U.S. used in its claims against BP and
Rainey.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  