-- Ex-Citigroup Secretary Convicted of Stealing From Salomon
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ex-citigroup-secretary-convicted-of-stealing-from-salomon.html
A former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  secretary
was found guilty by a federal jury of stealing $1.3 million from
William Salomon, the 98-year-old former Wall Street banker who
was the son of the founder of Salomon Brothers.  Karen Febles, 48, was convicted yesterday by jurors in
 Newark , New Jersey, of four counts of  wire fraud , three counts
of  money laundering , two counts of  tax evasion  and one count of
bank fraud. Febles who testified in her defense on Jan. 11,
denied wrongdoing.  Febles, who controlled Salomon’s checkbook, used the money
she stole to pay for cars, real estate, cruises and jewelry,
prosecutors told jurors. Jurors deliberated less than three
hours yesterday before announcing a verdict after 4 p.m.  “Karen Febles took advantage of her position as executive
assistant to loot her employer’s bank accounts,” U.S. Attorney
Paul Fishman said in a statement. “By betraying her employer’s
trust, Febles financed a luxurious lifestyle she could not
otherwise have afforded.”  Febles also was convicted of failing to pay more than
$250,000 in taxes.  “We respect the jury’s verdict, and we’ll go ahead and
prepare for sentencing,” Febles attorney Edward McQuat said in
a telephone interview. “I’m sure she’ll appeal.”  Salomon Brothers  Salomon told jurors on Jan. 9 that he worked from 1933
until 1978 at  Salomon Brothers , the investment firm founded by
his father and uncles. Citigroup, which bought the firm that
became Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc., agreed to supply him
with an office, a driver, a secretary and a personal assistant,
he told jurors.  “Were you not careful in overseeing Ms. Febles’s check
writing?” Assistant U.S. Attorney Evan Weitz asked Salomon.  “There’s no reason to have a personal secretary if you
can’t trust her,” Salomon said.  Weitz asked if Salomon trusted Febles, who worked for him
from 2000 until New York-based Citigroup fired her in September
2011.  “I certainly did,” said Salomon said.  Weitz told jurors that Febles used the money she stole to
buy a Range Rover and a Mercedes-Benz, spent $100,000 on
cruises, and paid more than $50,000 in rent one year. Citigroup
paid her $90,000 to $95,000 a year, the prosecutor said.  Febles, he said, altered some checks to make them larger
than the ones signed by Salomon.  The case is U.S. v. Febles, 12-cr-406, U.S. District
Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  