-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Banker Agrees to U.S. Extradition
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-01-14T17:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ex-credit-suisse-cdo-banker-agrees-to-u-s-extradition.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a
bonus-boosting fraud tied to a $5.35 billion trading book,
agreed to be extradited to the U.S. to face the charges.  A U.K. judge ordered the extradition at a hearing this
morning after Serageldin didn’t contest it, said Tim McAtackney,
a spokesman for the U.K. Crown Prosecution Service. Peter Binning, Serageldin’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment on the court ruling.  Serageldin was negotiating a deal with U.S. prosecutors
when he was arrested in September outside the U.S. Embassy in
 London . At a hearing in the British capitol in November, Ben
Brandon, another lawyer for Serageldin, said he was close to a
plea agreement with the  U.S. Department of Justice  and awaiting
a final reply.  A U.S. citizen who lives in England, Serageldin was charged
in February with masterminding a scheme to fake collateralized
debt obligations. The indictment accuses him of conspiracy,
falsification of books and records, and  wire fraud . The
conspiracy charge carries a maximum five-year prison term on
conviction. The other counts are punishable by as many as 20
years.  At the time he was first charged in Manhattan federal
court, Serageldin said through his lawyers that he was
surprised, since he had been cooperating with investigators for
four years. The case is being investigated by agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  in  New York .  Serageldin, who was born in Egypt, wants to renounce his
U.S. citizenship and serve part of any sentence in the U.K.,
Brandon told the London court on Sept. 27.  Two of his subordinates,  David Higgs  and Salmaan Siddiqui,
pleaded guilty Feb. 1 in New York to manipulating CDO prices.  The U.S. criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and
U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  