-- ExxonMobil Knew in 1984 MTBE Would Contaminate Ground
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/exxonmobil-knew-in-1984-mtbe-would-contaminate-ground.html
ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  knew that incidents
of groundwater contamination would triple if it added a chemical
to gasoline that makes the fuel burn more cleanly, a lawyer for
 New Hampshire  said at the opening of an $816 million trial.  ExxonMobil and Citgo Petroleum Corp. are the last holdouts
in the suit by New Hampshire alleging oil companies knew the
chemical would contaminate groundwater. The state court trial, 
which began yesterday in Concord, pits the New Hampshire’s
environmental claims against assertions by companies that they
were simply complying with federal pollution standards.  It’s one of scores of cases involving the additive methyl 
tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, that have been filed since 2000 
against oil refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  “Exxon decided to disregard the recommendation of its own
employees and put MTBE in gasoline,” Jessica Grant, a lawyer
for the state, said in her opening statement yesterday. “In
1984 Exxon anticipated that if it added MTBE to its gasoline the
number of contamination incidents would triple. These incidents
would take longer to clean up and cost five times as much.”
Each cleanup at that time would have cost as much as $7 million,
she said.  The companies said the federal  Clean Air Act  overrides the
state claims, and that by adding MTBE to gasoline, they were
complying with a U.S. mandate to supply fuel that would burn
more cleanly.  Pre-Emption  Keith Hylton, who teaches law and economics at Boston
University School of Law, said the  oil companies  are counting on
pre-emption, which turns on whether federal regulators “looked
at all the issues that the state would examine in a lawsuit. The
oil companies will say: Federal law made us do that and that
pre-empts any state lawsuit,” Hylton said.  “This case is about decisions made by the government with
regard to public safety and public health,” James Quinn, a
lawyer for ExxonMobil, said in his opening statement yesterday
to the jurors. “There were great benefits to using MTBE but
there were downsides. All of these downsides were known to all
the folks involved.”  Oil refiners began adding MTBE to gasoline in the late
1970s to replace lead. From 1995 to 2006, they increased the use
of MTBE, which boosts the oxygen level of the fuel and makes it
burn more cleanly.  MTBE is produced by combining methanol, which is derived
from natural gas, and isobutylene, a byproduct of gasoline
refining. It can leak into the ground from gas stations,  storage
tanks  and automobile junkyards. It dissolves in water and
doesn’t biodegrade, so it can be carried with the water great
distances from the site of a leak or spill, according to court
papers. The chemical is difficult and expensive to find, treat
and remove, according to court filings.  ‘Foul, Putrid’  According to filings in the New Hampshire case, MTBE can
render drinking water “foul, putrid and unfit for human
consumption.” The state said it petitioned the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  in 2001 to get out of its
reformulated gasoline program because of awareness of MTBE’s
harmful effects. The additive has been banned in the state since
January 2007.  “Despite knowing that MTBE posed a greater threat to
drinking water they never posted a single warning,” Grant said.  2003 Complaint  In 2003, New Hampshire sued ExxonMobil and Citgo along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and Hess Corp. All have settled except Irving, Texas-
based ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of
 Venezuela ’s state-owned oil company,  Petroleos de Venezuela SA .
Shell and Sunoco agreed to pay New Hampshire $35 million in a
settlement announced in November.  The state said it has identified 228 sites that will
require cleanup from contamination by MTBE, which, according to
court filings, can cause cancer in animals. It said tests in
2005 and 2006 showed MTBE in 9.1 percent of private wells
throughout the state.  New Hampshire is seeking $816 million to cover cleanup and
monitoring costs, Grant said, and it will ask for damages from
ExxonMobil and Citgo based on their market shares of gasoline
sold in the state during the time the suit covers. ExxonMobil’s
market share was about 30 percent, she said. That means the
state will seek $245 million in damages from the company.
Citgo’s market share ranged from 3 percent to 8.7 percent.  ‘Second-Guessing’  The state is “second-guessing decisions made by Congress,
the EPA and by the state’s own officials to rely on gasoline
with MTBE as the solution to air pollution,” Claire Hassett, a
spokeswoman for ExxonMobil, said in an e-mail. “Gasoline with
MTBE was a product that worked as it was intended -- it provided
significant health benefits by helping gasoline burn cleaner,
thereby reducing smog.”  Citgo said in a statement that its “use of MTBE was the
result of the government’s mandates with the intended purpose of
improving  air quality .”  The state said the oil companies could have used safer
additives, such as ethanol, and chose not to because MTBE is
inexpensive to produce.  “If they had an alternative product to use and the
alternative is just as good and avoids serious risk to
consumers, there’s a strong argument the defendants have failed
the risk-utility standard and can be held liable,” Hylton said.  Short Supply  The oil companies said ethanol wasn’t in large enough
supply at the time that an additive was being sought, and that
it presents its own environmental hazards.  “This case is not about health risks or personal
injuries,” Hassett said. “There is not a single recorded case
of anyone getting sick from drinking water with MTBE. The
majority of the state’s damage claims are based on computer
models and projections not on actual testing or data.”  She said the fault lies with whoever spilled the chemically
treated fuel.  “MTBE contamination has been found in New Hampshire
because someone spilled gasoline in New Hampshire, not because
it was added to gasoline in a refinery in another state,” she
said. “The state should be suing parties responsible for
spilling gasoline.”  The oil companies also said in court filings that a statute
of limitations should prevent the litigation from proceeding.
The state waited three years from the time it detected MTBE in
sites until it sued, they said.  New Hampshire  Superior Court  Judge Peter Fauver in August
rejected a series of motions by the oil companies seeking
judgment without a trial based on the arguments they raised.
Those issues can be brought up again for the jury’s
consideration.  Water Sources  In January 2011, the New Hampshire Supreme Court denied a
motion by the companies to decide the case in their favor and
sent it back to the Superior Court. The state’s highest court
said New Hampshire could seek damages for contamination of
nonpublic sources of water, such as wells, and also of public
sources.  The New Hampshire case had been moved to federal court in
 New York , where other lawsuits have been consolidated for
pretrial evidence-gathering and motions before U.S. District
Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan . In 2007, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in New York sent New Hampshire’s case back to the state
court there.  Scheindlin presided over the trial of  New York City ’s case
against ExxonMobil. In 2009, the jury in that case ordered
ExxonMobil to pay $104.7 million after finding it liable for
polluting wells in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  Consolidated Cases  The cases consolidated in New York may be tried separately
in courts around the U.S. if settlements aren’t reached. In the
New York litigation, the  New Jersey  Department of Environmental
Protection filed its fourth amended complaint in June. No date
has been set for a trial, which would probably take place in
federal court in New Jersey.  In New Hampshire, after the jury was dismissed yesterday,
Nathan Eimer, a lawyer for Citgo, asked the judge to declare a
mistrial, claiming that the state’s lawyer had misrepresented a
document as one of Citgo’s in her remarks to the jury.  “There’s a long road ahead of us,” Fauver told the
lawyers. “This will all be clarified. I don’t think it warrants
a mistrial.”  Citgo will make its opening statement today after
ExxonMobil completes its argument.  Lawyers said the trial may take more than four months.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-
C-0550, State of New Hampshire Superior Court (Merrimack
County). The federal cases are consolidated as In re MTBE
Products Liability Litigation, 00-11898, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in U.S. District Court for the District of
New Hampshire in Concord at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net  and;
Sarah Earle in U.S. District Court for the District of
New Hampshire in Concord at   sarah_earle@comcast.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  