-- ExxonMobil Cites U.S. Pollution Rules in N.H. MTBE Fight
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   S a r a h   E a r l e
-- 2013-01-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/exxonmobil-cites-u-s-pollution-rules-in-n-h-mtbe-fight.html
ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  and Citgo Petroleum
Corp. are the last holdouts in an $800 million lawsuit by  New
Hampshire  alleging that oil companies knew a chemical added to
gasoline would contaminate residents’ groundwater.  Opening statements are set to begin today in Concord in a
trial that pits the state’s environmental claims against the
companies’ efforts to comply with federal pollution standards.
It’s one of scores of cases involving the additive methyl
tertiary butyl ether that have been filed since 2000 against oil
refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  New Hampshire says ExxonMobil and Citgo knew MTBE would
pollute water supplies. The companies say the federal  Clean Air
Act  overrides the state’s claims and by adding MTBE to gasoline,
they were complying with a U.S. mandate to supply fuel that
would burn more cleanly.  “The  oil companies  will say: Federal law made us do that
and that pre-empts any state lawsuit,” Keith Hylton, who
teaches law and economics at Boston University School of Law,
said in an interview before the trial began. “If the federal
regulatory body looked at all the issues that the state would
examine in a lawsuit, then there is pre-emption.”  Oil refiners have added MTBE to gasoline since the 1970s to
replace lead. From 1995 to 2006, they increased the use of MTBE,
which boosts the oxygen level of the fuel and makes it burn more
efficiently.  ‘Foul, Putrid’  According to filings in the New Hampshire case, MTBE can
render drinking water “foul, putrid and unfit for human
consumption.” The state said it petitioned the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  in 2001 to get out of its
reformulated gasoline program because of awareness of MTBE’s
harmful effects. The additive has been banned in the state since
January 2007.  In 2003, New Hampshire sued ExxonMobil and Citgo along with
Shell Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd.,
Vitol SA and Hess Corp. All have settled except Irving, Texas-
based ExxonMobil and Citgo, the Houston-based unit of
 Venezuela ’s state-owned oil company,  Petroleos de Venezuela SA .
Shell and Sunoco agreed to pay New Hampshire $35 million in a
settlement announced in November.  The state has said it has identified 229 sites that will
require cleanup from contamination by MTBE, which, according to
court filings, can cause cancer in animals. It said tests in
2005 and 2006 showed MTBE in 9.1 percent of private wells
throughout the state.  New Hampshire is seeking $816 million to cover cleanup and
monitoring costs, Jessica Grant, a lawyer for the state, said at
a pretrial hearing.  ‘Second-Guessing’  The state is “second-guessing decisions made by Congress,
the EPA and by the state’s own officials to rely on gasoline
with MTBE as the solution to air pollution,” Claire Hassett, a
spokeswoman for ExxonMobil, said in an e-mail. “Gasoline with
MTBE was a product that worked as it was intended -- it provided
significant health benefits by helping gasoline burn cleaner,
thereby reducing smog.”  Citgo said in an e-mailed statement that although it
doesn’t comment on pending litigation, its “strong safety and
environmental record speaks for itself.”  The state has said the oil companies could have used safer
additives, such as ethanol, and chose not to because MTBE is
inexpensive to produce.  “If they had an alternative product to use and the
alternative is just as good and avoids serious risk to
consumers, there’s a strong argument the defendants have failed
the risk-utility standard and can be held liable,” said Hylton,
the Boston University professor.  Short Supply  The oil companies have said ethanol wasn’t in large enough
supply at the time an additive was sought and that it presents
its own environmental hazards.  “This case is not about health risks or personal
injuries,” Hassett said. “There is not a single recorded case
of anyone getting sick from drinking water with MTBE. The
majority of the state’s damage claims are based on computer
models and projections not on actual testing or data.”  The oil companies also said in court filings that a statute
of limitations should prevent the litigation from proceeding.
The state waited three years from the time it detected MTBE in
sites until it sued, they said.  New Hampshire  Superior Court  Judge Peter Fauver in August
rejected a series of motions by the oil companies seeking
judgment without a trial based on the arguments they raised.
Those issues can be brought up again for the jury’s
consideration.  Water Sources  In January 2011, the New Hampshire Supreme Court denied a
motion by the companies to decide the case in their favor and
sent it back to the Superior Court. The state’s highest court
said New Hampshire could seek damages for contamination of
nonpublic sources of water, such as wells, as well as public
sources.  The New Hampshire case was moved to federal court in  New
York , where other lawsuits have been consolidated for pretrial
evidence-gathering and motions before U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin, who presided over the trial of  New York City ’s case
against ExxonMobil. In 2009, the jury in that case ordered
ExxonMobil to pay $104.7 million after finding it liable for
polluting wells in the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  In 2007, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York sent New
Hampshire’s case back to the state court.  The cases consolidated in New York may be tried separately
in courts around the U.S. if settlements aren’t reached. In the
New York litigation, the  New Jersey  Department of Environmental
Protection filed its fourth amended complaint in June. No date
has been set for a trial, which would probably take place in
federal court in New Jersey.  Great Distances  MTBE is produced by combining methanol, which is derived
from natural gas, and isobutylene, a byproduct of gasoline
refining. It can leak into the ground from gas stations,  storage
tanks  and automobile junkyards. It dissolves in water and
doesn’t biodegrade or stick well to soil particles, so it can be
carried with the water great distances from the site of a leak
or spill, according to court papers. The chemical is difficult
and expensive to find, treat and remove, according to court
filings.  “In the 1980s, the defendants knew that the addition of
MTBE would lead to widespread contamination,” Grant said in an
interview after a pretrial hearing Jan. 9. “Despite knowing
that MTBE posed a greater threat to drinking water resources,
they never posted a single warning.”  Spills Fault  ExxonMobil’s Hassett said the fault lies with whoever
spilled the chemically treated fuel.  “MTBE contamination has been found in New Hampshire
because someone spilled gasoline in New Hampshire, not because
it was added to gasoline in a refinery in another state,” she
said. “The state should be suing parties responsible for
spilling gasoline.”  ExxonMobil rose 0.6 percent to $89.61 in New York Stock
Exchange  composite trading  on Jan. 11. Citgo’s shares don’t
trade publicly.  The case is State of New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-
C-0550, State of New Hampshire Superior Court (Merrimack
County). The federal cases are consolidated as In re MTBE
Products Liability Litigation, 00-11898, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire, at 
 sarah_earle@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  