-- Falcons’ Defeat of Seattle Ends Playoff Doubts as Gonzalez Cries
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/falcons-defeat-of-seattle-ends-playoff-doubts-as-gonzalez-cries.html
Moments after Matt Bryant kicked a
49-yard field goal to lift the  Atlanta Falcons  to their first
playoff victory in nine years, tight end Tony Gonzalez was on
the Georgia Dome turf, crying.  “Like a little baby,” Gonzalez, 36, told reporters in the
locker room after yesterday’s 30-28 win against  Seattle . “What
a roller-coaster of emotions. I’ve never cried after a game.”  The win was the first in the National Football League
postseason for Gonzalez, who said he is “95 percent sure”
he’ll retire after this season. It was also the first playoff
win for fifth-year quarterback  Matt Ryan , who has lost
postseason games in each of the past three seasons.  “Our goal isn’t to win one playoff game and stop answering
that question,” Ryan, who passed for 250 yards and three
touchdowns, said in a news conference. “Our goal is still in
front of us and we have two more games to go.”  Atlanta’s success sets up a home meeting with the  San
Francisco 49ers  on Jan. 20 in the National Football Conference
championship game. The same day, the  New England Patriots  will
host the  Baltimore Ravens  in the American Football Conference
championship game, with the victors advancing to the Feb. 3
 Super Bowl  in  New Orleans . The Patriots yesterday beat the
Houston Texans 41-28.  The Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book lists the 49ers as a 3
1/2-point favorite to win at the Georgia Dome.  Past Wins  The Falcons -- who last reached this stage after the 2004
season, when they lost to the  Philadelphia Eagles  -- have won
their past four games against  San Francisco , which beat the
 Green Bay Packers  45-31 on Jan. 12.  Atlanta also defeated the 49ers 20-18 in the only
postseason meeting between the teams, after the 1997 season,
before going on to lose 34-19 to the  Denver Broncos  in their
only visit to the Super Bowl.  To secure yesterday’s win, Ryan rallied the Falcons with 31
seconds remaining after the Seahawks fought back from 20-0 down
midway through the third quarter to take a 28-27 lead. Atlanta
never trailed until Seattle’s Marshawn Lynch drove in for a
touchdown from two yards.  “I thought it was over,” said Gonzalez, a 13-time Pro
Bowl selection who holds the NFL record for a tight end with 103
career touchdowns. “I’ve been here for 16 years and this was
how I was going to go out. I was thinking, ’I guess it just
wasn’t meant to be.’”  Winning Drive  Gonzalez and Ryan then connected on a 19-yard pass play,
which the tight end called the “easiest” and “most
important” catch of his life. The play, which came after Ryan
converted a 22-yard pass to Harry Douglas, set up Bryant’s kick
with eight seconds remaining.  Ryan, Gonzalez and the Falcons are used to late-game
heroics. Since taking over as the starting quarterback in 2008,
Ryan has guided Atlanta to 15 fourth-quarter comeback victories
and 22 game-winning drives, including six this season. Ryan said
that allowed him to remain calm as the clock ticked down.  “Your past experiences kind of harden you and make you a
little tougher in those situations,” he said. “The one thing
I’ve learned in my five years, specifically in the postseason,
is that it’s hard.”  Ryan said he didn’t deliver a “fire and brimstone
speech,” which center Todd McClure said helped the team remain
focused on the final drive.  “He just came in the huddle and said ’we’ve been here
before,’” McClure said.  The result relieved pressure on the Falcons, the only team
in the NFC with five consecutive winning seasons, after playoff
losses to the  New York Giants  last year, the Packers in 2011 and
the  Arizona  Cardinals in 2008, McClure said.  “We had a big chip on our shoulders and wanted to prove
that we could do it,” he said. “I think we proved that.”  Asked if he ever doubted the outcome, McClure smiled and
let out a light laugh.  “Yeah, I’m human,” he said. “There’s 30-something
seconds left, we’ve got to move the ball down the field. Yeah, I
did. It looked bleak at times, but we pulled through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  