-- Fast Foods Linked to Asthma, Eczema in Children: Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-01-14T14:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/fast-foods-linked-to-asthma-eczema-in-children-study.html
Eating fast food three or more times
a week is linked to a higher risk of severe asthma and eczema in
children, researchers found.  Teens who ate three or more weekly servings had a 39
percent increased chance of developing severe asthma, while
younger children had a 27 percent higher risk, according to a
 study  of 319,000 teens in 51 countries and 181,000 children ages
6 and 7 in 31 countries. The research, led by scientists at the
University of Auckland in  New Zealand , was published today in
the British medical journal  Thorax .  The study didn’t prove that eating more fast food caused
the increase in the conditions, which both can be linked to the
overreaction of the body’s immune system. Because fast food was
the only dietary category shown to have an association with the
disorders, the results suggest that such a diet may cause asthma
attacks or eczema outbreaks, the authors said. Conversely,
eating three or more servings of fruit a week showed reduced
risk in developing those conditions, they said.  “What’s clear from this study as that fruits and
vegetables turned up as protective factors and fast foods turned
up as risk factors,” Gabriele Nagel, a senior researcher at the
Institute of Epidemiology and Medical Biometry at Ulm University
in  Germany , said in a telephone interview. “Our study provides
evidence toward giving dietary recommendations in order to
prevent asthma and allergies in childhood.”  Trans Fats  The study authors included scientists in New Zealand,
 Australia , Spain, Germany and the U.K. A smaller  previous study 
came to similar conclusions, said Nagel, one of the authors.  Fast foods contain high levels of trans fatty acids, which
are known to affect immune reactions, they said.  The data came from developed countries including Canada as
well as  developing countries  such as Nigeria and Brazil.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the BUPA Foundation,
the Asthma and Respiratory Foundation of New Zealand, the
Auckland Medical Research Foundation and other New Zealand
charities contributed funding for the research.  An almost fourfold increase in  childhood obesity  in the
past three decades, twice the asthma rates since the 1980s, and
a jump in the number of attention-deficit disorder cases are
driving the growth of chronic illnesses, according to a 2007
study by researchers at  Harvard University . An association
between asthma and obesity supports the theory that sedentary
behavior diminishes lung function, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  