-- Fed's Williams Says QE Probably Needed Well Into 2013
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-01-14T19:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/fed-s-williams-says-qe-probably-needed-well-into-2013.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the Fed will probably
need to keep buying assets “well into” the second half of the
year to combat unemployment that will decline only gradually.  “I anticipate that continued purchases of mortgage-backed
securities and longer-term  Treasury securities  will be needed
well into the second half of 2013,” Williams said today in the
text of a speech he’s giving in Half Moon Bay,  California .  Fed policy makers are debating how long to push forward
with a third round of bond purchases. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  at its December meeting expanded its quantitative
easing program to $85 billion per month, including Treasury
securities, and linked policy to economic indicators for the
first time.  “The Fed must do what it can to help the economy
improve,” Williams said at the SEMI Industry Strategy
Symposium.  The central bank in September announced its third round of
quantitative easing without setting an expiration date or a
total amount for the purchases. Williams was among the first Fed
officials to call for such an “open-ended” approach.  The FOMC said last month it will expand the program to
include Treasuries to offset the end of Operation Twist, in
which the central bank was swapping its short-term securities
for longer-term ones. At that meeting, several officials said
they expect to slow or end the purchases “well before” the end
of 2013.  “The Fed is missing on both of its goals, especially the
maximum-employment mandate,” Williams said, referring to the
central bank’s goals of  price stability  and full employment.
“And there are risks that the economy will slow further.”  At the December meeting, the FOMC said it expects to keep
 interest rates  near zero as long as the  unemployment rate  is
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. Williams told reporters after his speech today that
he expects the unemployment rate to fall to 6.5 percent in the
second half of 2015, adding that he believes the current stance
of monetary policy is “appropriate.”  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said today that while
he’s supported the central bank’s open-ended bond purchases so
far, further expansion of a record stimulus could complicate the
eventual shrinking of the balance sheet.  “I do think the growth of the Fed’s balance sheet could
have longer-term consequences that are worrisome,” Lockhart
said in a speech in Atlanta. “While I’ve supported these policy
decisions to date, I acknowledge legitimate concerns.”  Williams said he expects the economy to grow about 2.5
percent this year and “a little under” 3.5 percent in 2014.
The unemployment rate will stay at or above 7 percent at least
through the end of next year, the district bank president said.  Responding to a question from the audience, Williams said
the time to begin raising interest rates is still “a few
years” away. Unprecedented monetary stimulus measures have
helped support the economic recovery, while they haven’t worked
“as well as we hoped” because of a still-restrictive credit
market and the “pretty severe headwinds” that the economy has
faced, he said.  Regional bank presidents rotate voting on the FOMC, and
Williams is not a voting member this year. He became president
of the  San Francisco  Fed in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  