-- Finland No Longer Faces Threat of Downgrade, S&P Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-01-15T11:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/finland-luxembourg-no-longer-in-aaa-downgrade-danger-s-p-says.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to specify Germany’s outlook as
stable. See TOP CRIS for more news on the  European debt crisis .)  Finland  and Luxembourg no longer
face the threat of a downgrade from  Standard & Poor’s , helping
to preserve a core of AAA nations whose top ratings bolster the
euro region’s rescue funds.  Luxembourg and Finland both had the outlook on their rating
raised to stable from negative at S&P yesterday. The company
kept the Netherlands, which also has the top rating, on an
outlook for a possible downgrade.  “The risks to Finland’s financial, economic, and policy-
making environment emanating from the euro zone crisis have
remained contained and we expect that this will continue to be
the case throughout 2013,” S&P yesterday said in a statement in
London. “Luxembourg’s strong government balance sheet, wealthy
population, and stable political environment are sufficient to
outweigh risks to its economy,” it said.  The announcements follow a lull in the region’s sovereign
debt crisis and leave  Germany  as the other country in the euro
area rated AAA by S&P, also with a stable outlook, after  France 
and  Austria  were downgraded a year ago. Investors often ignore
such actions, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the
U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  The negative outlook on the Netherlands “reflects our view
that there could be a more negative macroeconomic scenario,
connected to possible pressures on the Dutch financial sector
and the broader Dutch economy caused by the potential for a
sharper than currently projected decline in domestic demand and
a weakening external environment,” S&P said.  Yield Tendencies  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published on Dec. 17.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s Investors Service rating
and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse
than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than
300 changes since 1974.  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  has said that
retaining the country’s AAA credit rating and stopping debt
growth by 2015 are the government’s overarching fiscal policy
goals even as a recession started in the second quarter of last
year. The premier, who heads the National Coalition Party,
favors stimulus and spending cuts over higher taxes, while
Social Democratic Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen is pushing
to avoid reducing expenses.  “It’s positive news for the Finnish economy,” Urpilainen
said on her blog. “Sovereign ratings have an impact the cost of
credit and thus on borrowing costs. It also has an impact on our
international standing.”  Growth Forecast  The economy of 5.4 million people will grow 0.5 percent
this year after an estimated contraction of 0.1 percent in 2012,
the  Finance Ministry  said Dec. 20. The budget will be 1.5
percent in deficit in 2013 and 0.9 percent in 2014.  “The stable outlook reflects our view of the low
likelihood of a rating change in light of Finland’s high level
of prosperity, strong government and external balance sheets,
and broad-based commitment to prudent fiscal and structural
policies,” S&P said.  The top-rated euro region countries have helped to bolster
the creditworthiness of its bailout funds, the Luxembourg-based
European Stability Mechanism and European Financial Stability
Facility. The EFSF was formed in 2010 to provide loans to cash-
strapped European Union countries. The ESM will replace the
temporary EFSF. The two funds will run in parallel until the
EFSF is phased out in mid-2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in  London  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  