-- Equipment at Chevron El Segundo Plant Said Damaged in Fire
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-01-14T23:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/fire-at-chevron-el-segundo-oil-refinery-said-to-damage-equipment.html
A fire yesterday at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s
El Segundo refinery,  California ’s largest, damaged equipment
associated with the plant’s fluid catalytic cracker, a person
with knowledge of the refinery’s operations said.  The blaze, which ignited at around 6 p.m. local time,
damaged the selective catalytic reduction plant, a unit that
removes particulates from gas produced by the catalytic cracker,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  The El Segundo refinery, south of  Los Angeles , can process
279,000 barrels of feedstock a day, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It supplies 40 percent of the jet fuel to Los Angeles
International Airport and 20 percent of the region’s gasoline,
 San Ramon , California-based Chevron said on its  website .  An “incident” in one of the refinery’s process units
caused a  power failure  at the plant yesterday, resulting in the
slowdown of several units, Rod Spackman, a Chevron spokesman at
the refinery, said by e-mail. The upset occurred while the plant
was preparing the unit for planned maintenance, he said.  Aside from maintenance and the unit involved, the refinery
is running normally, Spackman said.  “There was no significant fire at the refinery, and there
was nothing that would impact the process unit,” Spackman said
in a later telephone interview. He declined to comment on
whether yesterday’s incident damaged equipment at the plant.  Scheduled Maintenance  The refinery’s fluid catalytic cracker was scheduled to
shut for a 54-day maintenance turnaround that included work on
the alkylation unit, a person with direct knowledge of the plans
said Dec. 7.  Alkylation units produce a high-octane blending component
for gasoline. Fluid catalytic crackers process vacuum gasoil
into gasoline or lighter crude products.  The El Segundo Fire Department responded to an incident at
the refinery at about 5:56 p.m. local time yesterday, Richard
Guyer, a battalion chief for the department, said by telephone
today. The plant extinguished “a small ground fire” and was
flaring gases after pressure built up in a unit and a cap
dislodged, he said.  The incident ended at about 8:06 p.m. local time, he said.
Guyer said it wasn’t clear whether the fire was extinguished at
that time or whether the plant stopped flaring gases.  “The flare and the fire were all the same, really,” he
said. “The fire was contributing to the flare activity.”  The El Segundo refinery reported a “failure” at the fluid
catalytic cracker yesterday at 6 p.m. local time and planned to
flare gases until Jan. 23, notices to state and air regulators
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  