-- Fish & Chips Battered in U.K. as Deluge Slashes Potato Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-14T16:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/fish-chips-battered-in-u-k-as-deluge-leaves-soggy-potato-crop.html
U.K. consumers may have to pay more
for the 382 million fish-and-chip meals they buy annually after
the second-wettest year in a century curbed the potato crop.  Most of the country’s 10,500 outlets probably raised prices
for chips by 10 percent or more, said Gregg Howard, the owner of
Our Plaice in Hagley, England and president of the National
Federation of Fish Friers. A medium portion of chips now costs
1.50 pounds ($2.42) in his shop, 20 pence more than last month.
That may increase again in the second quarter because the new
crop won’t emerge until the summer, he said.  Higher costs matter because the average person in the U.K.
eats 104.5 kilograms (230 pounds) of potatoes a year, almost
twice as much as in the U.S. Farmers more than doubled prices in
the past year after the U.K. got an average of 52 inches of
rain, the second-highest level since records began in 1910,
according to the  Met Office , the national forecaster.  Great
Britain ’s harvest last year was the smallest since 1976.  “Everything potato-based is going to go up in price for a
while,” said Howard, whose federation represents an industry
selling $1.9 billion of fish and chips a year. “Most people are
increasing prices marginally, just to cover the increase in
potatoes,” said Howard, who buys about 3 metric tons of
potatoes a week and says his costs doubled in a year.  Our Plaice  sells  a portion of cod, haddock, scampi or
plaice for 4.20 pounds, while the largest serving of chips costs
2.50 pounds. Customers can add mushy peas, curry sauce or gravy
for 80 pence. The most popular fast food in the U.K. is fish and
chips, the British embassy in  Washington   says .  Early Varieties  Supermarket prices for white potatoes were at 86 pence a
kilogram (62 cents a pound) in November, the highest for any
month since 2001, the most recent government statistics show.  Britain’s harvest slumped 24 percent to 4.64 million tons
last year, according to the Potato Council. While early
varieties will be sown this month, the main crop is planted in
late March, said Rob Clayton, the director of the council in
Kenilworth, England. The first potatoes are collected as early
as June, with the main harvest in August.  “It gets harder and harder to tell how long this is going
to last,” Clayton said. “I still don’t think everyone has a
precise strategy on how to utilize the domestic crop to its full
potential. Some supermarkets are already advertising to
consumers smaller potatoes or products with more blemishes.”  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc, the Bradford, England-
based retailer with more than 455  stores , amended specifications
for the potatoes it buys to ensure it’s still able to stock
British-grown supply, the company said in an e-mail.  Lower Quality  The average price farmers got for main-crop potatoes
reached 236.2 pounds a ton in the week ended Dec. 8, the highest
since June 1995, according to the Department for Environment,
Food & Rural Affairs. Some growers still lost money last year
because declining yields meant they couldn’t fill supply
contracts or harvested lower-quality crops, Clayton said.  “We were late in planting because the weather was very
bad, and then it was cold, wet and there were poor levels of
solar radiation, or sunlight,” said Tim Papworth, whose
production fell 20 percent on his 350-acre farm in North
Walsham,  England . “Yields were severely down and quality was
affected badly, with blight being an issue as well as slugs.”  Snow Forecast  Eastern England and Yorkshire are Great Britain’s main
potato-producing areas. Those regions received about 37 percent
more than the normal amount of rainfall in 2012, Met Office data
show. Parts of the U.K. may receive snow today, with wintery
showers persisting in some eastern areas through at least Jan.
18, the forecaster said.  Imports  rose 14 percent to 750,000 tons in the five months
through October, the Potato Council said Dec. 20. Combined
production across Great Britain,  Netherlands ,  Germany ,  France 
and  Belgium  probably fell 17 percent to 22.3 million tons last
year, according to North-Western European Potato Growers, a
group representing farmers.  The average person in the U.K. eats more potatoes than
wheat, according to the  United Nations ’ Food & Agricultural
Organization. It ranks 10th worldwide for consumption in a table
headed by Belarus. About 80 percent of people visit a fish and
chip  shop  at least once a year, according to the National Fish
Friers Federation. Lower fish prices have helped offset some of
the gains in potatoes, Howard said.  “It is a very unusual year, but rest assured fish fryers
are keeping the price of fish and chips affordable,” Howard
said. “It’s the nation’s favorite dish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  