-- Fix Tunisia With Fewer Lamborghinis, More Roads
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-14T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/fix-tunisia-with-fewer-lamborghinis-more-roads.html
In the visceral struggle under way
for the future of the Arab Spring, those who champion open and
modern societies need a win, and soon, to light up a viable path
forward.  The place to start is where the uprisings began two years
ago: in  Tunisia .  Tunisia is small (about the size of  Greece ), has a
relatively educated population with strong cultural and economic
bonds to  Europe ; a sizeable middle class; and a lively civil
society. Thanks to functioning institutions and laws such as the
1956  Code of Personal Status , which offers Tunisian women more
rights and protections than other countries in the region, it
also has a head start on its Arab neighbors.  Building a stable democracy in the seat of the ancient
Carthaginian Empire should therefore be easier, and cheaper,
than in  Libya  or Egypt, let alone Yemen and  Syria . So two years
after Tunisians, with so much hope and courage, forced Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power, why is the process proving so hard?  One answer is that the country has become snarled in a
mismatch of politics, money and time: Politics, because the
Islamist and secular parties that share power began wrestling
for advantage before adopting a constitution; money, because
without the stability that a constitution provides, business
will not invest; and time, because Tunisians are impatient to
see change.  When Ben Ali was unseated on Jan. 14, 2011, Tunisians
expected a jump in  living standards . Instead, unemployment rose
to a peak of 19 percent from 13 percent the previous year,
inflation doubled and the economy shrank. Frustration created an
opening for hard-left labor unions to rally support and for
marginal Salafist groups to grab attention by attacking art
galleries and the U.S. Embassy. Islamists were suspected in the
recent firebombing of a Muslim shrine, objectionable to purists,
in a well-heeled Tunis suburb.  The government and the Constitutional Assembly have been
slow to pass not just a constitution, but also laws on
elections, investment, bankruptcy and other areas. Tunisia
slipped five places on the World Bank’s most recent Ease of
Doing Business  Index , to 50th in the world, from 45th.  Yet Tunisia also has a more  promising  story to tell. Its
constitution has taken longer than expected to draft partly
because -- unlike in  Egypt  -- Islamist and secular parties have
had to negotiate. A text was sent out for public consultation
late last year, and fresh elections will follow its adoption.  On the economic side, there’s plenty of low-hanging fruit.
An investment law that international financial officials
describe as excellent is awaiting adoption, and the economy is
returning to moderate growth, with unemployment falling a
little, to 17 percent. Alaya Bettaieb, the secretary of state
for investment and international cooperation, estimates that
Tunisian companies are sitting on at least $20 billion in cash
that they can invest, but won’t until they have political
certainty and legal security.  Similarly, electricity provider Societe Tunisienne de
l’Electricite et du Gaz, or STEG, and other state-owned
utilities built fiber-optic networks across Tunisia under Ben
Ali, for their internal use. Parliament is now considering a
draft law that will let them lease the networks to
telecommunications companies, enabling these to quickly hook up
the badly served interior. That would be a big step. And a
relatively  recent law  on franchising has opened the door to a
range of foreign investments. There are no McDonalds or
Starbucks in Tunisia, because previously the Ben Ali family
controlled all franchises.  The hard question for Tunisia is how to make sure the
politics are settled and investment begins to flow, before a
major eruption in the streets derails all progress.  A big part of the answer has to include a combination of
more outside assistance and a higher-profile, fully coordinated
program to deliver results visible to ordinary Tunisians. Such a
broad deal should also be used to spur the government to set a
clear timetable to adopt the constitution and hold elections.  Tunisia has received significant loans and aid over the
past two years, amounting to between $2.5 billion and $3
billion. But the money delivered so far has merely kept the
country alive. Mustapha Kamel Nabli, a former  World Bank 
economist and, until last July, Tunisia’s central-bank governor,
estimates that the revolution cost Tunisia about 8 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with the roughly 6.5 percent it
has received in foreign aid. The gap was filled by one-time
revenue, such as from the sale of Ben Ali family businesses. Not
even the auction this month of thousands of Ben Ali’s personal
effects will fill the budget gap. (If you want to help out by
buying a Lamborghini Gallardo, or a 207 mph Mercedes McLaren SLR
with ex-dictator-chic, click  here .)  What’s needed is to break ground soon on roads, medical
clinics and other public-infrastructure projects, plans for
which languish on the government’s shelves. These can be funded
with international aid and carried out in public-private
partnerships that quickly get them up and running.  Similarly, the U.S. and the European Union could do more to
encourage their own companies to invest in Tunisia, by providing
guarantees and political-risk insurance. In the U.S. case, this
could come from an expanded commitment to Tunisia by the
 Overseas Private Investment Corporation . The country’s own banks
are broken and can’t provide sufficient credit.  The temptation with Tunisia is to dismiss it as too small,
too economically and strategically insignificant to merit the
added attention and resources of a miniature  Marshall Plan :
Unlike Libya, it has no oil, and unlike Egypt, it has neither a
border and peace treaty with  Israel , nor the Arab world’s
largest population.  Ignoring little Tunisia, however, would be a big mistake.
There is real strategic value to stabilizing the home of the
Arab Spring, and a regional price to pay for failure. It would
not take much to help Tunisia turn from mess to success.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  