-- Flights Canceled, Trains Delayed as Snow Blankets East Japan
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-01-14T09:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/flights-canceled-trains-delayed-as-snow-blankets-eastern-japan.html
Snow delayed train services and
disrupted flights in Japan as Tokyo was blanketed by the first
snowfall of the season.  The  Japan Meteorological Agency  issued a gale and snow
advisory for central Tokyo, with seven centimeters (2.8 inches)
of snow already fallen in the city, Kenji Okada, a forecaster
for the agency, said by phone today. The snow came 11 days later
than the average first fall and six days earlier than last year,
according to the official.  There were delays of as long as 15 minutes for bullet train
services to and from Tokyo,  Central Japan Railway Co. (9022)  said on
its website. Some of the train lines operated by  East Japan
Railway Co. (9020)  have been halted, the company said. Japan’s
financial markets were closed today for a national holiday.  The weather also disrupted traffic in the Japanese capital.  “It’s the worst snow in my 51 years of experience,” said
Katsutoshi Nokimura, a 74-year-old  taxi driver  in Tokyo. “Some
people abandoned their cars after getting stuck. It’s chaos.”  Some taxi companies told drivers to return to their depots
because the conditions are too dangerous, Nokimura said.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  canceled 250 domestic flights as of
5:30 p.m. local time, affecting about 58,000 passengers, it said
in a faxed statement.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  said it canceled 469
domestic flights, affecting more than 42,000 passengers, as of 5
p.m. One runway at Narita International Airport was closed
temporarily for checks due to heavy snow, NHK said.  As much as 50 centimeters of snow is expected in the Kanto
and Koshin regions and up to 40 centimeters in the northeastern
region of the nation by tomorrow morning, the weather agency
said in a statement. Strong winds were also forecast in areas
facing the  Pacific Ocean  across the country, the agency said.  Most schools were closed for Coming-of-Age Day in Japan.
KAIS International School in Tokyo and Yokohama International
School in Kanagawa prefecture sent pupils home early.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  