-- Ford, GM Leading $5.8 Billion in Planned Asset-Backed Securities
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-14T19:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ford-gm-leading-5-8-billion-in-planned-asset-backed-securities.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Honda (HMC)  Motor Co. and
General Motors Financial Co. are leading firms marketing about
$5.8 billion in asset-backed bonds tied to car loans and leases.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to sell
$1.15 billion of so-called floorplan debt as soon as tomorrow,
according to a person familiar with the offering who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Honda and GM
Financial each plan to market $1 billion of bonds linked to auto
loans, according to a person with knowledge of the transactions.  Automobile debt accounted for about $97 billion of the $258
billion of asset-backed bonds tied to consumer and business
lending issued last year as vehicle sales surged, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total U.S. deliveries of cars and light trucks climbed 13
percent to 14.5 million last year, the highest since 2007.
Industrywide car and light truck sales in the country rose 9
percent in December, trailing the 9.8 percent average estimate
in Bloomberg’s survey of analysts. The industry capped a third-
straight annual gain of at least 10 percent, a streak last
achieved in 1973.  ‘Unusual’ Deal  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  is selling $940 million of securities
tied to vehicle loans as soon as this week, said a person
familiar with the offering. Ally’s planned deal, its first
offering tied to non-prime auto loans, would allow proceeds from
loan payments during the first 12 months to be directed to
purchase of new loans for a collateral pool, Moody’s Investors
Service said today in presale report.  “In the term markets, it is unusual to finance an
amortizing asset with revolving debt,” Mack Caldwell, head of
Moody’s auto ABS ratings team, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The revolving feature was used in the term markets for autos
in a few transactions that closed in the first decade of the new
millennium.”  Other companies planning asset-backed bonds include
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, which is planning to sell $1
billion in securities linked to leases as soon as this week,
according to a person familiar with the offering. Macquarie is
planning to issue $500 million of auto asset backed securities,
which may price this week, said a person with knowledge of the
deal. First Investors intends to issue $187 million of the debt,
a person familiar with that offering said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  