-- Ford May Alter Lincoln Models to Appeal to Chinese Buyers
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-15T00:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ford-may-alter-lincoln-models-to-appeal-to-chinese-buyers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is considering
modifying Lincoln models before they go on sale in China next
year to meet the tastes of consumers there who often expect to
be chauffeur-driven in their luxury cars.  “The brand will come to life in China a little differently
than here,” Jim Farley, Ford’s chief of Lincoln and global
marketing, told reporters yesterday at the  Detroit auto show .
“We’ve made several changes, but we haven’t shown the Chinese
variations of our products yet.”  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally is trying to revive
Lincoln and make it a global brand. In the U.S., sales have
fallen 65 percent since peaking in 1990. Lincolns go on sale in
China, the world’s largest auto market, in the second half of
2014. Ford may have to alter its new Lincoln models, such as the
MKZ midsize sedan, to attract customers who ride in the back
seat of the car.  “MKZ-class vehicles or above are chauffeur driven,” said
Farley, who declined to say if Ford is stretching Lincoln models
to make back seats bigger. “All the technology we put in for
the driver is often someone who is driving the owner. Those are
not subtleties. Those are really fundamental product
requirements.”  Mulally yesterday unveiled a concept for the Lincoln MKC
small sport-utility vehicle, set to go on sale in the U.S. next
year. The compact SUV, which resembles a Range Rover Evoque,
features Lincoln’s new signature split wing grille and narrow,
small headlights. Chinese consumers prefer big headlights and a
different front-end look, Farley said.  Cultural Complications  “The front face of the vehicle is an area we’ve been
trying to work out and see more dilemmas,” Farley said. “It’s
complicated culturally. Generally speaking, we find the tastes
for the front-end of the vehicle can be very different between
 China  and the U.S.”  Farley said Lincoln is working to reconcile those differing
tastes in the models it takes to China. He declined to say what
changes are being made to the front-end of Lincolns for China.  “Chinese consumers really appreciate larger lights, more
vertical, where the west seems to be going to more narrow
lights,” Farley said. “So that’s something we’ve really had to
think through.”  Decisions on product changes for Lincoln will have to come
quickly because the brand’s introduction is coming soon, Farley
said.  “This story will evolve a lot over the next year,” he
said.  Lincoln Strategy  The MKC and MKZ are among four new Lincoln models coming in
the next four years as Ford spends $1 billion to turn the brand
around. Comedian Jimmy Fallon is helping Lincoln produce its
first Super Bowl ad Feb. 3 from suggestions he solicited on
Twitter. Farley wouldn’t say if Fallon would appear in the ads.  Lincoln had U.S. sales of 82,150 vehicles in 2012, down
from a high of 231,660 reached 22 years earlier. Its deliveries
fell 12 percent in December, when luxury vehicles typically sell
well.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW was the top-selling
luxury-auto brand in the U.S. last year, with 281,460.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  