-- Ford CFO Says ‘Wonderful’ Profits Continued in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ford-cfo-says-wonderful-profits-continued-in-fourth-quarter.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , which posted record
North American profits in 2012’s third quarter, continued to
generate strong earnings and  cash flow  in the fourth quarter,
the company’s chief financial officer said.  “We’ve had a wonderful nine months, in terms of
profitability, margin and generating very positive operating
cash flow,” CFO Bob Shanks told reporters yesterday in  Detroit .
“We’ll announce full-year results toward the end of this month,
but I think the path that we’ve been on will continue.”  For the fourth quarter, Ford will probably report adjusted
profit of 26 cents a share, or 28 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ford climbed to its highest in 18 months on Jan. 11 after
it doubled its quarterly dividend to 10 cents a share and
revealed plans to hire 2,200 salaried workers this year. Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has led the company to 14
consecutive  quarters of net income . The CEO, 67, boosted margins
by selling models such as the Focus small car globally, rather
than develop different versions for various regions.  In  North America , the Dearborn, Michigan-based company
earned $6.47 billion before taxes in 2012’s first nine months,
more than it made in the region for all of 2011. North America
had an operating profit margin of 11.2 percent during the period
in an industry where a 5 percent margin is respectable.  Improvements Expected  Ford’s strong profit and cash generation gave the company
confidence it could double the dividend and not have to cut it
even if the auto market turned down, Shanks said.  “As we’re looking out into the future, we’re still
expecting to see improvements in our business,” Shanks said.
“We believe we can sustain that increase.”  Ford shares have been rising since it announced plans in
October to shut three factories in  Europe  and cut 6,200
employees, or 13 percent of its workforce in that region. Though
Ford said it expects to lose $3 billion in Europe in 2012 and
2013, investors reacted positively to Mulally’s plan to restore
profits there by mid-decade.  “The Europe restructuring had been a big overhang in terms
of people not knowing what we were going to do,” Shanks said.
“The clarity around when we expect to cross break even and
return to the black, that took a bit of uncertainty away in the
minds of some investors.”  Ford fell less than 0.1 percent percent to $13.99 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 8 percent this year
after rising 20 percent in 2012.  “The economy is improving, housing and autos are picking
up and Europe seems to be somewhat stabilized,” said  Gary Bradshaw , a  fund manager  for Dallas-based Hodges Capital
Management, who has about 150,000 Ford shares and says is ready
to buy more. “Now is the time to buy Ford, the stock is acting
great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  