-- Forint Heads for Steepest 3-Day Slide in Year on Policy Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-14T09:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/forint-heads-for-steepest-3-day-slide-in-year-on-policy-outlook.html
 The forint headed for the steepest
three-day slide in more than a year on speculation a change of
leadership at the central bank in March will make monetary
easing more radical and weaken the currency.  Hungary ’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 297.94
against the euro, its lowest since June 14, extending its drop
in the past three sessions to 2.8 percent. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 6.3 percent, the highest since Dec.
19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country must reject “traditional” economic models
including policies of previous governments that kept the forint
strong to control inflation and allowed the budget deficit to
widen, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  wrote in his weekly
column in the Heti Valasz newspaper Jan. 10. The minister has
been named a potential successor to central bank President
Andras Simor, whose term ends in March, according to media
reports including the Index news website.  “The market fears that Matolcsy might employ unorthodox
monetary measures to support the economy, thereby hurting the
Hungarian currency all the more,” Felix Herrmann, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at DZ Bank AG, wrote in a research report today.  Hungary’s central bank, which cut interest rates for five
consecutive months through December, should “bravely use
unorthodox tools” to support economic growth, Matolcsy said in
an interview with Budapest-based HirTV last month. The country’s
inflation rate stood at 5.2 percent in November, the highest in
European Union.  The forint may weaken “well above 300” per euro if
Matolcsy is appointed central bank president, Herrmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  