-- Ex-Financial Services Roundtable CEO Bartlett Joins PR Firm
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-14T22:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/former-financial-services-roundtable-ceo-bartlett-joins-pr-firm.html
Steve Bartlett , the longtime
Financial Services Roundtable president and chief executive
officer who stepped down last year, has joined Levick, the
consulting firm said today.  Bartlett, a former Republican congressman and  Dallas  mayor,
took the Roundtable’s top job in 1999 and directed the group’s
lobbying during the financial crisis and the passage of the
Dodd-Frank Act. At Levick, he will advise clients in the
financial services, energy, health care and manufacturing
sectors, the firm said in a statement.  “We are thrilled to have Steve join our ranks,” Richard S. Levick, the firm’s CEO, said in the statement. “There are
few like him for expertise, depth of knowledge of the key issues
of the day, and for understanding the power of the court of
public opinion to sway the destiny of institutions.”  Bartlett, 65, said he may register as a lobbyist for some
clients, but most of his projects won’t involve lobbying
Congress or federal agencies. He started work last week.  He said he will mostly advise companies that need help
navigating regulatory risk and understanding how federal
agencies and congressional committees work.  “My principal job is to help advise corporations manage
through these times,” Bartlett said.  Levick’s Clients  Levick’s former clients included Dubai, the Principality of
Liechtenstein and LGT Group, and entertainer Rosie O’Donnell,
according to the company’s website. LGT Group, a bank owned by
Liechtenstein’s royal family, hired Levick to help rebut
accusations that it aided U.S. clients who wanted to hide assets
and evade taxes.  Former Minnesota Governor and GOP presidential candidate
 Tim Pawlenty  was named president and CEO of the Roundtable in
September to replace Bartlett, who announced plans to retire
last March. The group lobbies Congress and the White House on
behalf of large financial companies such as  Bank of America 
Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Bartlett served in the  House of Representatives  for four
terms before leaving Congress in 1991 to serve a term as mayor
of Dallas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  