-- France’s Mali Force Faces Struggle to Widen Success
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-01-14T09:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/france-s-mali-force-may-struggle-to-widen-success.html
Ousting Islamist insurgents from
Mali’s desert north will probably prove more difficult than
 France ’s weekend success in reversing the militants’ advance in
the former French colony.  A 550-strong force of French air and ground forces carried
out attacks on Jan. 11 that pushed the rebels out of Kona, a
town about 700 kilometers (430 miles) north of the capital,
Bamako, hours after President  Francois Hollande  announced that
France would support Mali’s battle to win back two-thirds of its
territory. The insurgents had taken Kona last week.  European and U.S. policy makers are concerned northern Mali
may become an Islamist militant base to strike international
targets and destabilize regional countries from  Algeria  to
 Nigeria . The rebels seized the north of Africa’s third-biggest
gold producer after government soldiers overthrew the government
in March. The army said it wasn’t adequately equipped or trained
to take on the Islamists, who benefitted from arms flowing into
Mali from the 2011 war in Libya.  “It will be very difficult and complicated, given the
terrain,” David Zounmenou, a researcher in the African conflict
prevention program at the  Institute for Security Studies  in
 Pretoria ,  South Africa , said in a phone interview yesterday.
“It’s not going to be quick, but it is certainly going to be
helpful in restoring Mali’s territorial integrity.”  Beaten Army  The Economic Community of West African States will meet
Jan. 16 to discuss the deployment of about 2,000 Ecowas soldiers
to Mali, a plan backed in a United Nations  Security Council 
resolution last month to restore state control over the north.
The intervention was being set for September.  “We had to act very quickly,” French Defense Minister
Jean-Yves Le Drian said yesterday on  Europe 1 radio . “It would
have been the total destruction of the Malian state.” He
described the insurgents as a mix of “Islamic terrorists and
gangsters, including arms traffickers.”  The Security Council will meet later today in  New York  to
discuss the situation in Mali, France’s mission to the UN said
yesterday in a posting on Twitter.  Mali’s own army has been beaten and fighters from Islamist
groups including the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West
Africa, Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north African unit, along
with Touareg separatists, are spread across an area the size of
France itself.  ‘Hardcore Islamists’  A campaign to drive “hardcore Islamists” from key cities
may not take too long, “but to eradicate their threat once and
for all, it will probably take longer,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist at  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  in
 London , said Jan. 12. “The risk however is that they regroup in
the desert and continue to operate in small groups, making this
desert zone relatively volatile in coming years.”  The U.S. has offered to provide intelligence, logistical
support and in-flight refueling for French aircraft. The U.K. is
assisting with two Boeing C-17 military cargo aircraft to help
transport troops.  Four French Rafale jet fighters hit several targets near
the northern city of Gao, notably rebel training camps,
infrastructure and logistics depots, the  Defense Ministry  in
Paris said yesterday in a statement.  Mopti Airport  Retaking Kona, about 400 kilometers south-west of Gao, will
help secure the airport in nearby Mopti, providing a closer base
for air raids on the north.  One French soldier, a helicopter pilot, has been killed
since operations began, while the rebels have lost “a
significant number of partisans,” Le Drian said.  France’s military operation has already drawn internal
criticism. Former French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin
said “none of the conditions of success exist” in  Mali .  “We’re fighting blindly, due to a lack of war aims,”
Villepin said in an opinion piece in Le Journal du Dimanche
yesterday. “Stopping the progress of the Islamists,
reconquering the north, eradicating the bases of al-Qaeda in the
Maghreb are different wars.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  