-- France Telecom African Phone Bills to Drop Further, Girard Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-14T07:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/france-telecom-african-phone-bills-to-drop-further-girard-says.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , which is working
to double revenue from  emerging markets  by 2015, said African
customers’ monthly phone bills will decline further as the
company’s subscriber base skews toward lower income users.  Monthly bills globally probably fell 10 percent in 2012
from a year earlier as the price for voice minutes and texts
decreased, the operator of the Orange brand said in October. In
Africa, where most people earn less than $2 a day, those trends
have been exacerbated by more limited incomes and a price war
that’s only recently abated, said Elie Girard, the Paris-based
company’s vice president of strategy.  France Telecom  has more
than 70 million customers in Africa.  “When the penetration rises, the next customers are always
poorer,” Girard said in an interview in London last week. “So
you integrate in your base customers who are poorer, who pay
less than the first person who got their phone.”  France Telecom plans to reach 7 billion euros ($9.4
billion) in revenue from emerging markets including Africa and
the  Middle East  by 2015 as it rebalances its business away from
 Europe , where sales are falling even though there are more
mobile-phone accounts than people. Orange agreed on an exclusive
partnership with Baidu Inc. to offer the Chinese company’s
browsers on phones across Africa.  France Telecom will focus on expanding geographically
through acquisitions and converting customers to more lucrative
data contracts by offering them new content, Girard said.  Mobile Payment  One example is a version of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website that
has been developed for standard phones that introduces users to
social networking and encourages them to upgrade to a
smartphone. The Orange brand is also expanding its mobile
payment system, which lets customers send money to each other,
pay electricity bills and top up their wireless plan.  “The direction is adapting devices and content within the
whole ecosystem,” Girard said.  Average bill declines have improved from previous years
when competitors were cutting prices to half or a third of their
original value, Girard said. When  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  expanded in
the continent with the $10.7 billion purchase of Zain’s African
businesses in 2009, the industry saw dramatic price cuts, Gerard
said. In  Kenya , prices for plans would be cut in half in a day,
and competitors like Orange were forced to match it, he said.  Africa will be the mobile phone industry’s fastest-growing
region by subscribers over the next five years as companies
build advanced networks and customers switch to broadband,
according to consultant AT Kearney Inc. There’s ample room for
handset ownership in Africa to grow, from about 73 percent of
the population last year to 85 percent in 2015, reaching 900
million users, Kearney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  