-- French Strikes in Mali Continue as Islamists Vow Revenge
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-01-14T19:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/french-military-operations-continuing-in-mali-le-drian-says.html
French forces battled Islamist
militants in  Mali  for a fourth day as a rebel spokesman said the
intervention had opened the “gates of hell.”  The insurgents are in retreat after French air strikes on
the eastern edge of the front line between government- and
rebel-controlled territory,  France ’s defense minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, told reporters after a meeting of the inner “war
Cabinet.” The situation is “evolving favorably,” he said,
adding that the Islamist militants are “extremely well armed.”  A 550-strong contingent of French air and ground forces has
been carrying out attacks since Jan. 11 against militants based
in the north who went on the offensive last week. They pushed
the insurgents out of Kona, a town about 700 kilometers (435
miles) north of the capital, Bamako, hours after President
 Francois Hollande  announced that France would support Mali’s
battle to win back two-thirds of its territory.  European and U.S. policy makers have said they are
concerned northern Mali may become an Islamist militant base to
strike international targets and destabilize regional countries
from  Algeria  to  Nigeria . France has sought various forms of
assistance from allies including the U.S., U.K., and  Canada .  European Union foreign ministers will hold an emergency
meeting this week on Mali, EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said today. The EU will consider possible backing
including rapid deployment of military trainers, logistical
assistance and other “direct support,” Ashton said in a
statement.  Logistics Support  Canada will send a military transport plane to support an
international mission in Mali following a request from France,
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in a statement. The British
government is assisting with two Boeing C-17 military cargo
aircraft to help transport troops, Defense Minister Andrew Robathan told Parliament in  London  today.  U.S. military assistance is likely to be limited to
logistics and intelligence support, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  “It’s basically in three areas we’re looking at,” Panetta
told reporters today en route to Lisbon, where he is beginning a
visit to European capitals. “One is, provide limited logistical
support; two, provide intelligence support; and three, provide
some airlift capabilities.”  The rebels seized the north of  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer after government soldiers overthrew the government in
March. The army said it wasn’t adequately equipped or trained to
take on the Islamists, who benefited from arms flowing into Mali
from the 2011 war in  Libya .  Dangerous ‘Trap’  France “has fallen in a trap much more dangerous than
Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia,” Omar Hamaha, a spokesman for
the Islamist militants in northern Mali who’s known as the “Red
Beard” for his henna-tinted facial hair, told French radio
station Europe1. “And it’s only started.”  One French soldier, a helicopter pilot, has been killed
since operations began, while the rebels have lost “a
significant number of partisans,” Le Drian said yesterday.  At least 13 international companies were engaged in gold
exploration and production in Mali in 2010, according to a U.S.
Geological Survey Report. Output of the metal for the country
was 36,344 kilograms the same year.  The Mali operations of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s
biggest gold producer, are all in the south or southeast and not
close to the fighting,  Alan Fine , a spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mail. The company’s Morila mine, which it co-owns
with  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  and the government, produced more
than a third of Mali’s output in 2010, according to the USGS.  Fighter Strikes  Four French Rafale jet fighters hit several targets near
the northern city of Gao, including rebel training camps,
infrastructure and logistics depots, the Defense Ministry in
Paris said yesterday in a statement.  “The Mirages that bombed Gao were at 13,000 meters up;
come down to earth if you are men,” Hamaha said. “We’ll
receive them with open arms.”  Militants recaptured the town of Diabaly, Le Drian said.  “We recorded material and human losses,” Mali’s  defense
ministry  communications adviser, Colonel Diarran Kone, said
today in a phone interview. “The fighting will continue until
we get good results.”  Mali is led by interim President Dioncounda Traore and
Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was appointed last month
after the leader of the March coup, Captain Amadou Sanogo,
forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  ‘Islamic Terrorists’  Mali ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the United Nations’
Human Development Index, which measures indicators including
literacy, income and gender equality. Its $10.6 billion economy
contracted 4.5 percent last year and is forecast to expand 3
percent in 2013, according to the  International Monetary Fund ,
slower than the sub-Saharan African outlook of 5.25 percent.  Mali’s own army failed to defeat the fighters from Islamist
groups including the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West
Africa, Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s north African unit. They and
Touareg separatists are spread across an area the size of France
itself.  “We had to act very quickly,” Le Drian said yesterday.
“It would have been the total destruction of the Malian
state.” He described the insurgents as a mix of “Islamic
terrorists and gangsters, including arms traffickers.”  Sending Soldiers  The Economic Community of West African States yesterday
sent Nigerian Major-General Shehu Abdulkadir to Bamako to head
the group’s intervention force, Kadre Desire Ouedraogo, the
community’s president, told reporters today in the Nigerian
capital, Abuja. By the time Ecowas defense chiefs meet in Bamako
tomorrow, the first troops will be on the ground, he said.
Ecowas has agreed to send as many as 3,300 soldiers.  “We are taking all steps so that this deployment can be
effective as soon as possible,” Ouedraogo said.  France’s forces will remain in Mali until the West African
force has been formed and retaken the north, Le Drian said today
on BFM TV.  The UN  Security Council  will meet later today in  New York 
to discuss the situation in Mali, France’s mission to the UN
said yesterday in a posting on Twitter.  The Security Council last month backed an Ecowas plan to
restore state control over the north. The intervention was
initially set for September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Diakaridia Dembele in Johannesburg at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  