-- French Strikes on Mali Islamists Threaten Revenge Attacks
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-01-15T13:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/french-led-strikes-on-mali-islamists-threaten-revenge-attacks.html
French and West African military
intervention in Mali runs the risk of provoking revenge attacks
by Islamic militants, spreading instability in a region rich in
gold, uranium and cocoa, said analysts from Dakar to  London .  “When you send troops to the north of Mali there is the
possibility of reprisals in terms of terrorist attacks,”  Gilles
Yabi , the West Africa program director of Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group , said yesterday in an interview from
the Senegalese capital, Dakar. “These countries don’t have the
level of security and protection that western countries have.
France itself is taking a risk, in terms of the hostages and in
terms of terrorist attacks.”  France intervened on Jan. 11 to reverse an advance by
rebels armed with weapons from Libya’s 2011 uprising, toward the
south. European and U.S. policy makers have expressed concern
northern Mali may become an Islamist militant base to strike
international targets and destabilize regional states from
Nigeria to  Algeria .  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, is already battling
Islamist insurgents whose attacks have killed more than 1,500
people since the Boko Haram group started its campaign four
years ago.  Regional Destabilization  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is still holding four
Frenchmen kidnapped in 2010 from a mine operated by  Areva SA (AREVA) ,
the world’s biggest builder of nuclear power plants, in
neighboring  Niger , which provides 7.5 percent of the world’s
uranium supply, according to the World Nuclear Association.  “France’s big fear is not just Mali, but the
destabilization of the whole region,” Louis Caprioli, the
former head of DST, France’s former anti-terrorism unit, said in
an interview. “Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb was already
destabilizing Mali’s neighbors. Niger next door is already a
fragile state and France would be in trouble if it lost its
uranium supplies.”  The 550-strong contingent of French air and ground forces
has pushed the insurgents out of Kona, a town about 700
kilometers (435 miles) north of the capital, Bamako, hours after
President Francois Hollande announced that France would support
 Mali ’s battle to win back two-thirds of its territory.  Air strikes, which are continuing in western Mali today,
have “achieved their objectives,” Hollande said during a visit
to a naval base in Abu Dhabi today, BFM TV reported. France has
deployed 750 military personnel for the operation so far, he
said.  U.S. Support  The U.S. may aid the operations with logistical and
intelligence support and “airlift capabilities,” Defense
Secretary Leon Panetta told reporters yesterday en route to
Lisbon, where he began a visit to European capitals.  Panetta declined to say if the U.S. intelligence support
will be in the form of satellite imagery or use of drones. He
also didn’t elaborate on what kinds of airlift will be provided.  France ’s intervention opened “the gates of hell,” Oumar
Hamaha, a spokesman for the Islamist militants in northern Mali
who’s known as the “Red Beard” for his hennahed facial hair,
told French radio station Europe1 yesterday.  Robert Fowler, a Canadian diplomat who was held hostage by
Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb for about five months before his
release in 2009, said the Islamists were aiming to establish a
base in the sparsely populated Sahara and Sahel regions. Hamaha
was his captor, Fowler said.  Gold Mines  “They told me clearly that their motivation was to install
chaos and instability from  Somalia  to Mauritania, or the vast
stretch of the Sahara depending on your definition,” he said in
a Jan. 11 interview from Ottawa. “They want the jihad to grow
and flourish in the region.”  Mali vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-biggest gold
producer. At least 13 international companies were engaged in
gold exploration and production in Mali in 2010, according to a
U.S. Geological Survey Report. Output of the metal for the
country was 36,344 kilograms the same year.  The situation is “not only an issue for Mali,” Mark Bristow, the chief executive officer of  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,
which operates three mines in Mali, said in a phone interview.
“It’s a thorny issue, but has to be dealt with. It will not go
away on its own.”  The operations of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) , Africa’s biggest
gold producer, are all in the south or southeast and aren’t
close to the fighting, Alan Fine, a spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mail. The company’s Morila mine produced more than
20 cent of Mali’s output in 2010, according to the USGS.  ‘Breathing Time’  French air strikes alone may not “disrupt long-standing
patterns of smuggling and other illicit economic activity, some
of which helps sustain jihadist and other insurgencies,” Jolyon
Ford, senior  Africa  analyst at Oxford Analytica, said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  “The strikes can buy breathing time because the overall
objective is still an African-led operation combined with
continued negotiation which brings rebels back into the Malian
state with some autonomy arrangement,” he said.  The militants captured the central village of Diabaly,
French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said yesterday. He is
scheduled to give an update at a press conference at 6:30 p.m.
in Paris.  Nigerian Troops  Troops from the Economic Community of West African States’
planned 3,300-member force may start arriving tomorrow in Mali,
Kadre Desire Ouedraogo, the community’s president, told
reporters in the Nigerian capital, Abuja.  The commander of the West African troops will be Nigerian
Major-General Shehu Abdulkadir. Nigeria’s military and police
have been fighting to stop Boko Haram Islamists from carrying
out attacks in the north and the capital, Abuja.  “We expect Boko Haram to broaden its traditional focus on
government targets in Nigeria, as well as religious and military
institutions, to include more frequently in the future
international, or foreign targets,” Christoph Wille, Africa
Analyst at London-based Control Risks, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Nigeria has a technical team in Mali and troops will be
deployed there before next week, President Goodluck Jonathan
said on state-owned Radio Nigeria today. Defense ministers from
Ecowas are meeting in Bamako today and leaders from the regional
group will convene a summit on Jan. 19 in Ivory Coast’s capital,
Abidjan.  Political Instability  Mali’s rebels exploited political instability in Bamako,
following a March coup to seize control of the north. While the
insurgents include Islamists such as Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda’s
north African unit, there are also ethnic Touareg fighters
seeking greater autonomy in the region.  Mali is now led by interim President Dioncounda Traore and
Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was appointed last month
after the leader of a coup in March, Captain Amadou Sanogo,
forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  The country ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures indicators
including literacy, income and gender equality.  Its $10.6 billion economy contracted 4.5 percent last year
and is forecast to expand 3 percent in 2013, according to the
International Monetary Fund, slower than the sub-Saharan African
outlook of 5.25 percent.  “West Africa is the continent’s turbulent zone,” Manji
Cheto, an analyst at London-based africapractice, which advises
companies in Africa, said in an interview “Now we’re going to
see a steady dry up of investment in the Sahel region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  