-- Generali CEO Greco Targets Higher Cash Flow, Cost Reduction
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-01-14T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/generali-ceo-greco-targets-higher-cash-flow-cost-reduction-1-.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Europe ’s
third-largest insurer, plans to cut costs and boost cash flow to
more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) by 2015 as it focuses
on emerging markets and insurance to restore profitability.  Cash flow is expected to increase by 700 million euros from
1.3 billion euros in 2011, the Trieste, Italy-based insurer said
today. The company wants to reduce costs by 600 million euros by
2015 and sees a return on equity of 13 percent, with more than 5
billion euros operating profit “over the cycle.”  “We want to create value, focusing on the insurance
business and return to shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer
Mario Greco said in an interview with Bloomberg television
before a strategy presentation to investors in  London . “We are
confident to reach these targets. The ROE target is challenging,
but we think we will be there by 2015.”  Greco, who took the helm at Generali in August, is seeking
to convince investors he can revive profit and boost capital by
cutting costs, shedding non-strategic assets and targeting
faster-growing emerging markets. Cost-cutting will impact on
personnel, “even if job cuts are not significant,” Greco said.  The plan is “slightly underwhelming,” Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analysts Thomas Seidl and Rusne Didziulyte wrote
in a note to clients, citing cost-cut targets below their
forecast. “We do not see how Generali can achieve its target
equity level without external funding which eventually would
dilute shareholder value.”  Generali’s CEO ruled out any plan for a capital increase to
cut debt, adding that the company may consider to raise funds
“if growth opportunities arise.”  Lagging Peers  Generali shares fell percent 3.1 percent to 14.10 euros in
Milan trading, the biggest one-day decline in more than three
months, giving the insurer a market value of 22 billion euros.
The stock, which hit its lowest level since December 1988 on May
31, rallied about 40 percent since Greco’s appointment, almost
double the gain in the 26-company  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index. (BEINSUR)   Generali also wants to boost the insurer’s Solvency I
ratio, a measure of its ability to absorb losses, to 160 percent
by 2015, from 140 percent at the end of the third quarter. That
compares with a third-quarter median ratio of 195 percent for 10
insurance companies in western Europe disclosing data, according
to Bloomberg Industries data.  “Generali will achieve this through retained earnings,
selective disposals of non-core assets and other capital
management actions,” the company said. The insurer plans to
increase the weight of operating profit at its non-life business
from 35 percent to 50 percent in 2015.  Growth Markets  Analysts predict operating profit will rise to 4.91 billion
euros in 2015, according to the  average  estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The insurer  targeted  more than 4
billion euros of operating profit in 2012 and expects non-life
premiums to climb, while life premiums will match the 2011
level.  Generali is unifying its domestic business around three
brands, Generali, Alleanza and Genertel, and simplifying the
Italian business as part of the plan to improve efficiency and
cut costs in the country. Analysts at Merrill Lynch Bank of
America, CA Cheuvreux and Equita expected cost cuts of 235
million euros to 800 million euros in the next three years.  The Italian insurer agreed last week to buy the 49 percent
stake it doesn’t own in its eastern European venture with
private-equity firm PPF Group as part of the plan. The CEO, who
predicts profitability in the region will be twice as high as in
western European markets over the next five years, said it’s not
looking at other acquisitions in the region.  “We have very strong footholds in some  emerging markets ,
such as central, eastern Europe and Asia, in particular  China ,”
Greco said in the interview. “We will concentrate our resources
in these markets.”  Banca Generali  Generali, which operates in more than 60 countries with
82,000 employees,  makes  about 10 percent of its operating profit
in central and eastern Europe. The company has also set up
offices in India and China, where it has a joint venture with
China National Petroleum Corp.  “Banca Generali is not up for sale,” Greco said,
rejecting expectations of some analysts about a possible
disposal of the asset.  Greco, who is seeking to sell its U.S. life reinsurance
business and Swiss asset-management unit BSI Group, said that
the disposals will be done only at “the right conditions.” The
CEO will consider alternative options if offers are too low,
because “we are not a forced seller.”  Generali, which expected non-binding offers last week, has
hired Citigroup Inc. to advise on the sale of Generali USA Life
Reassurance Co. The unit may be worth $800 million to $1
billion, people with knowledge of the matter have said. Asset
sales will boost capital by 4 billion euros, Greco said during
the presentation.  Management Shuffle  Greco was picked by Generali’s controlling shareholders,
led by  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , to replace Giovanni Perissinotto who
resigned as CEO on June 2 after profit fell for four consecutive
quarters and at a time when the insurer’s capital was weakened
by exposure to  Italy ’s sovereign debt.  In the three months following his appointment, Greco
shuffled management to spur profit growth and smooth relations
with investors. He moved Managing Director Sergio Balbinot to
the new position of chief insurance officer and appointed
Alberto Minali as chief financial officer to replace Raffaele Agrusti, who became country manager for Italy.  Greco today appointed Nikhil Srinivasan, a former Allianz
Group executive, as chief investment officer and Carsten Schildknecht as chief operating officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  