-- Generali’s Greco Targets Higher Cash Flow, Cost Reduction
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-01-14T07:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/generali-s-greco-targets-higher-cash-flow-cost-reduction.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Europe’s
third-largest insurer, targets more than 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion)  cash flow  by 2015 and lower costs as the company
focuses on growing  emerging markets  and its main insurance
business.  Generali expects to increase its cash flow by 700 million
euros from 1.3 billion euros generated in 2011, the company said
in a statement today. The insurer wants to reduce costs by 600
million euros by 2015 and sees a return of equity of 13 percent,
with more than 5 billion euros operating profit “over the
cycle.”  “The goal of the strategy we are presenting today is to
transform Generali into one global insurance group that will be
able to compete in the international markets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Mario Greco  said in the statement. “Generali will have
a more solid and stable balance sheet and provide greater
returns for its shareholders.”  Greco, who took the helm at Trieste, Italy-based Generali
in August, is seeking to convince investors he can turn the
company around. He’s cutting costs, shedding non-strategic
assets and targeting growing emerging markets to revive profit
and boost capital.  Lagging Peers  Generali’s profitability is lagging behind peers, with the
insurer’s Solvency I ratio, a measure of its ability to absorb
losses, at 140 percent at the end of the third quarter. That
compares with a median of 195 percent for 10 insurance companies
in western Europe disclosing data, according to Bloomberg
Industries data. The company targets a solvency ratio of 160
percent by 2015.  “Generali will achieve this through retained earnings,
selective disposals of non-core assets and other capital
management actions,” the company said.  Analysts predict operating profit will rise to 4.91 billion
euros ($6.55 billion) in 2015, according to the  average  estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The insurer  targeted 
more than 4 billion euros of operating profit in 2012 and
expects non-life premiums to climb, while life premiums will
match the 2011 level.  Growth Markets  Generali is unifying domestic business around three brands,
Generali, Alleanza and Genertel, and simplifying the Italian
business as part of the plan to improve efficiency and cut costs
in the country. Analysts at Merrill Lynch Bank of America, CA
Cheuvreux and Equita expected cost cuts of 235 million euros to
800 million euros in the next three years.  “Generali will enhance its competitive position and
profitability through further investments in the high growth
markets: Central and Eastern  Europe  and  Asia ,” the insurer said
in the statement.  Generali agreed last week to buy the 49 percent stake it
doesn’t own in its eastern European venture with private-equity
firm PPF Group as part of the plan. The CEO predicts
profitability in the region will be twice as much as in western
European markets over the next five years.  Eastern Europe  Generali, which operates in more than 60 countries with
82,000 employees,  makes  about 10 percent of its operating profit
in central and eastern Europe. The company has also set up
offices in the main markets of the  Far East , including India and
China, where it has a joint venture with China National
Petroleum Corp.  Generali has said it’s seeking to sell its U.S. life
reinsurance business and Swiss asset-management unit BSI Group.  Greco was picked by Generali’s controlling shareholders,
led by  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , to replace Giovanni Perissinotto, who
resigned as CEO on June 2 after profit fell for four consecutive
quarters and at a time when the insurer’s capital was weakened
by exposure to  Italy ’s sovereign debt.  Management Shuffle  In the three months following his appointment, Greco
shuffled management to spur profit growth and smooth relations
with investors. He moved Managing Director Sergio Balbinot to
the new position of chief insurance officer and appointed
Alberto Minali as chief financial officer to replace Raffaele Agrusti, who became country manager for Italy.  Greco appointed Nikhil Srinivasan, a former Allianz Group
executive, as chief investment officer and Carsten Schildknecht
as chief operating officer.  Generali also created a 10-member management committee that
will be led by Greco with Balbinot as deputy and include the
heads of Italy,  France  and  Germany  as well as other top
executives.  The shares, which hit their lowest level since December
1988 on May 31, just two days before Perissinotto’s ousting,
have rallied 42 percent since Greco’s appointment on Aug. 1,
compared with the 23 percent increase in the  Bloomberg Europe
500 Insurance Index (BEINSUR) , showing investors’ optimism about his
ability to turn around the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  