-- Germany Seeks ‘Last Resort’ Model for ESM Bank Recapitalization
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-01-14T17:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/germany-seeks-last-resort-model-for-esm-bank-recapitalization.html
Germany  wants to model direct help
for ailing banks from the euro area’s permanent rescue fund on
national measures adopted at the height of the financial crisis
in 2008, where state bailouts are a last resort, according to a
Finance Ministry document.  In a letter sent today to a federal lawmaker, the ministry
said efforts must be “exhausted” to tap help from banks’
owners and the states in which they’re headquartered before
accessing the European Stability Mechanism as a “last resort.”
The ESM will open its doors to direct help for lenders on March
1, 2014 at the earliest, pending the setting up of a European
Union regulator, the ministry letter said.  “Strict conditions” must apply to access ESM aid,
according to the letter signed by Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter in response to questions by Green Party
lawmaker  Priska Hinz , a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . Banks’ “owners and creditors must be enrolled to share
the rescue burden and a significant contribution made by the
relevant member states.”  Cyprus may be the fifth euro-area state to gain bailout aid
that includes help for its banks. Assistance sought by the
divided island may match the size of its 18 billion-euro ($24
billion) economy.  Terms for German support for the ESM’s future role in
bankrolling lenders mirrors operational clamps designed to limit
taxpayers’ liabilities that were built into Germany’s  Soffin 
fund, the 500 billion-euro rescue resource that bailed out
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Hypo Real Estate Holding.  As in the case of Soffin, banks tapping aid must agree to
cuts in board members’ rewards and aid-repayment incentives,
Kampeter’s letter indicates.  Germany is “generally opposed” to banks gaining direct
ESM help to address so-called legacy obligations, Kampeter said.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government wants to await the outcome
of a European Council report on how legacy debt is categorized
and defined, the letter stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  