-- Get Out Your Hanky, ‘Letter’ Still Top Tearjerker: Movies
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/get-out-your-hanky-letter-still-top-tearjerker-movies.html
Forget “ Waterloo Bridge ” and “ Stella
Dallas ” and “ The Magnificent Obsession .” You can keep “ Johnny
Belinda ” and “ Beaches .” For me, the greatest tearjerker ever
made is Max Ophuls’s “ Letter From An Unknown Woman .”  It does everything a four-hankie movie should do, without
making you feel like a blubbering idiot. It’s so beautifully
conceived and deeply felt that it both fulfills the weepie genre
and transcends it.  Out on DVD from Olive Films, Ophuls’s 1948 movie was
adapted from a Stefan Zweig novella set in early 1900’s Vienna.
Joan Fontaine stars as Lisa Brandle, whom we first see as a
moony teenager entranced by her new neighbor, the matinee-idol-
ish concert pianist Stefan Brand. (His specialty etude is
Liszt’s “Un Sospiro,” dubbed on the soundtrack by Jakob Gimpel).  Louis Jourdan, with his square-cut features and
brilliantined black hair, plays Stefan with maximum Continental
ooze. Once he sets his sights on Lisa, the girl’s a goner.  What separates “Letter” from so many other love-is-blind
sobfests is that with the utmost poignancy, Ophuls makes us feel
the woman’s ga-ga yearnings in our bones.  It all starts out well for Lisa but, after a whirlwind
romance in which Stefan acts genuinely smitten around her -- the
hallmark of this world-class cad -- he drops her.  Love Child  She bears his child in secret and ends up in a loveless
marriage to a wealthy suitor. Then she spots Stefan 10 years
later at the opera and everything comes around again. Advancing
on her as fresh prey, he doesn’t even recognize her. It all ends
gloriously badly.  Ophuls, born Max Oppenheimer in  Germany , was one of the
great film artists -- and unlike most European directors who
fled to Hollywood during the war, he actually thrived there,
though not right away.  He became entangled with  Howard Hughes  on a misbegotten
project called “Vendetta” (Hughes dropped him several days into
the shooting) and a costume picture with Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.,
“ The Exile ” (1947), is lumbering. But “Letter From An Unknown
Woman” has the lush lyricism of some of his early German films,
like “ Liebelei ” (1933), which has a similar setting.  Ophuls was fortunate in having a relatively free hand on
the film, due in no small part to the ministrations of his
producer, John Houseman. The screenplay by Howard Koch, who,
like Houseman, had enjoyed celebrated collaborations with  Orson Welles , perfectly serves Ophuls hyperromanticism.  Camera Moves  Ophuls’s languorous camera moves are his signature; they
express the persistence, and transience, of desire. Later on, in
the 1950s, after he moved to  France , this style came to fruition
in his masterpiece “ The Earrings of Madame de... ,” starring
Danielle Darrieux, Charles Boyer and Vittorio De Sica, each in
the greatest performances they ever gave.  If Ophuls had remained in Hollywood, it’s likely he would
have enjoyed a success similar to, say, Fritz Lang’s. Both
“ Caught ,” featuring  Robert Ryan  in a lethal portrayal based on
Hughes, and the suspense melodrama “ The Reckless Moment ,” both
starring James Mason, are first-rate.  He died young, at 55, while directing a movie in France
about Modigliani. His son Marcel grew up to become the great
documentarian who made “ The Sorrow and the Pity .”  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1l2E@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 