-- Gillard’s Labor Narrows Poll Gap as Australia Election Looms
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-15T01:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gillard-s-labor-surges-in-first-poll-of-australian-election-year.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s ruling Labor party received a bounce in popularity,
narrowing the gap against the opposition coalition in the first
opinion poll of the 2013 election year.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
falling 3 points to 51 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper today. The measure is the
best gauge of which major party is likely to win the seats
required to form a government.  Australia’s first female prime minister is trying to focus
on winning an election that must be held by Nov. 30, amid
coalition attacks on the credibility of her minority government.
In 2 1/2 years in power, the former union lawyer has struggled
to focus voter attention on the economic and legislative
achievements of her administration, which needs support from
independents and Greens to make laws.  “The coalition is still on target to win the election
comfortably,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer at the School of
Political and Social Inquiry at  Melbourne ’s Monash University.
“Polls usually tighten up in an election year as voters get to
the point of deciding what government they want to lead them.
Policies become more important than personalities.”  Under the  Australian system  that requires voters to rank
candidates, the major parties’ primary vote may be bolstered by
preference votes once minor parties or independents are
eliminated. Labor rose 6 points in Newspoll’s survey of primary
voting intentions to 38 percent, its best result since the
August 2010 election, with the opposition falling 2 points to 44
percent.  Better PM  The Jan. 11-13 telephone survey of 1,152 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. On the
question of who would make the better prime minister, Gillard
extended her lead over Abbott by 3 points to 45 percent compared
with his 33 percent. The  previous poll  was held Dec. 7-9.  Today’s survey revives momentum for Gillard’s Labor, which
stalled at the end of last year when she faced claims by Abbott
that she may have broken the law when she was a union lawyer in
the 1990s. Gillard fiercely denied the allegations, which came
two months after she accused Abbott of sexism and misogyny
during a speech in parliament.  “There’s only one poll that ever counts and that’s the
election,” Finance Minister Penny Wong said in an interview
today with Australian Broadcasting Corp. television. “It’s
decided on who people think has got the head and the heart to
run the country and who’s got the economic plans for  Australia ’s
future.”  Fighting Fires  Abbott, a 55-year-old Rhodes Scholar and volunteer
firefighter who delayed his annual summer holidays this month to
help battle blazes in New South Wales state, is vowing to
overturn Labor’s taxes on carbon emissions and mining profits if
he wins power. The coalition leader has also said he will focus
on revamping the nation’s industrial-relations and immigration-
policy laws.  Gillard, who is attempting to focus voter attention on her
plan to improve education and disabled-welfare funding, has also
been attacked by Abbott for backpedaling on a pledge to this
year deliver the first surplus since the 2009 global recession.
In a midyear review released in October, the government forecast
a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion ($1.14 billion) in the 12
months ending June 30 after recording a A$44 billion deficit
last fiscal year.  Surplus Unlikely  Treasurer Wayne Swan said last month Australia is unlikely
to deliver the surplus as weaker growth and a strong local
currency curb tax receipts. Still, with the price of  iron ore 
surging 32 percent since the Reserve Bank of Australia’s latest
rate cut on Dec. 4 made it 1.75 percentage points in reductions
in 14 months, Gillard’s surplus goal may be back in reach as
mining-tax revenues increase.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell to 5.2 percent in
November from 5.4 percent a month earlier and the economy
expanded 3.1 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
among the fastest in the developed world.  A stronger economy would bolster Gillard’s re-election
chances, which have been damaged by coalition attacks on her
integrity, especially that she compromised her credibility by
reneging on a pledge not to implement a carbon tax in return for
Greens support in parliament. Three months after winning the
prime minister’s job in a party coup against predecessor Kevin
Rudd in June 2010, Gillard cobbled together a minority
government with support from the Greens and independents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  