-- GM Hangs on to Lead Over Volkswagen in Full-Year China Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T08:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gm-clings-on-to-lead-over-volkswagen-in-full-year-sales-in-china.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  outsold
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in  China  in 2012, keeping its lead among foreign
automakers in the country for an eighth year, after sales of the
U.S. carmaker’s Wuling minivans climbed to a record.  Deliveries at GM and its Chinese joint ventures rose 11
percent to a record 2.84 million vehicles, the Detroit-based
automaker  said  on its website today. Volkswagen, which unlike GM
includes  Hong Kong  in its China tallies, said deliveries climbed
24.5 percent to 2.81 million.  Both carmakers, which count China as their biggest market,
may increase their reliance on the country, where the total
number of vehicles sold is forecast to top 20 million units for
the first time in 2013. GM plans to add 400 dealerships,
focusing on the country’s smaller cities, while Volkswagen plans
to invest 9.8 billion euros ($13 billion) through 2015.  “GM remained a leader in our company’s largest market in
spite of a downturn in the commercial vehicle segment, where GM
has a significant presence,” Bob Socia, GM’s China president
said in the statement. “We benefited from a broad portfolio of
models that are meeting the diverse needs of vehicle buyers
across China.”  During October to December, Volkswagen outsold GM for a
second consecutive quarter, according to Bloomberg calculations
derived by subtracting nine-month figures from the annual tally.
VW delivered more than 800,000 vehicles in the fourth quarter,
while GM sold about 754,000 units, the data show.  ‘Strong Momentum’  “There’s a good chance that either company could come out
on top in China sales this year,” said  Yale Zhang , Shanghai-
based managing director of Autoforesight Shanghai Co. “In the
short term, VW will keep pretty strong momentum, most of their
models are new, so 2013 and 2014 should be their strong years as
their products are still in their growing life cycle.”  At GM, Wuling deliveries climbed 12 percent to 1.33
million, accounting for almost half of the company’s total sales
in the country. Buick and Chevy sales gained 8.4 percent and 5.3
percent, respectively. The automaker sold 30,010 Cadillacs, two
units more than the previous year.  Wuling Delivers  Last year’s growth in deliveries accelerated from the 8.3
percent pace in 2011, according to company data. While Wuling
sales growth quickened from 3.9 percent, Chevy and Buick
deliveries slowed from 9.4 percent and 17 percent, respectively
in 2011.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, reported China sales of vehicles under its namesake
brand climbed 25 percent last year. Deliveries at its Audi
luxury brand increased 30 percent to a record 405,838 units.  “Success in China is vital to Volkswagen’s 2018 strategy
to be the ecological and economic number one in the automotive
industry,”  Jochem Heizmann , VW’s China head, said in a
statement. “Although we expect tougher conditions for the car
industry to come, we want to maintain our leading market
position in China.”  For GM, promoting the Cadillac brand in China will be “an
area of concentration,” Socia said in November. GM will also
focus on boosting SUV sales and on exports, he said then.  GM will begin sales of the China-made Cadillac XTS sedan in
the first quarter, its second locally produced luxury model,
according to Dayna Hart, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for the
automaker.  Last year, GM introduced the Chevrolet Malibu and Buick
Encore and rolled out the Shanghai OnStar telematics service.
Shanghai GM, its joint venture with  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , began
construction of its fourth manufacturing base in Wuhan, while
SAIC-GM-Wuling announced plans for a third plant in Chongqing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  