-- GM’s Cadillac ATS, Chrysler’s Ram 1500 Win Auto Awards
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-14T13:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gm-s-cadillac-ats-chrysler-s-ram-1500-win-auto-awards.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s compact
Cadillac ATS won the North American Car of the Year award while
Chrysler Group LLC’s Ram 1500 won the truck prize, giving a
sweep to recipients of 2009 U.S.-financed reorganizations.  The luxury sports sedan beat out the Ford Motor Co. Fusion
and the revamped Honda Motor Co. Accord, both midsize sedans,
the Automotive Press Association announced today at the North
American International Auto Show. Last year,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s
Elantra compact sedan topped Ford’s Focus and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
 Passat. (PSAT)   The Ram 1500, a large pickup that can get 25 miles (40
kilometers) per gallon on the highway, was named truck/utility
of the year, at the  Detroit auto show . The Ram won over  Ford (F) ’s
C-Max hybrid, which Ford categorizes as a car, and  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261) ’s CX-5 crossover sport-utility vehicle. Last year, the
Range Rover Evoque, part of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Land Rover brand,
won the honor. Chrysler is majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   “The Ram shows that Fiat really understands that this is a
really important vehicle to Chrysler,” Michelle Krebs, a senior
analyst at Edmunds.com and one of 50 award voters, said in an
interview. “Clearly if Chrysler were going to survive it had to
redo the Ram.”  Fuel Efficiency  The finalists reflect automakers’ effort to increase fuel
efficiency to help meet new federal standards. The truck/utility
award was formerly known as the truck of the year award. The
move reflected the increasing number of car-based crossover
vehicles, which combine attributes of cars and trucks.  “Cadillac is striving to be a strong global brand and it
needs to go against the likes of Mercedes and BMW and this is
their first attempt to do that,” Krebs said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke (BMW)  AG’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz have ranked Nos. 1 and 2 in U.S. luxury-vehicle
sales the past two years.  Each car finalist get at least 32 mpg and the truck/utility
finalists are small SUVs and a pickup with a V-6 engine. The
U.S. wants automakers to double the average fuel economy of
passenger vehicles sold in the U.S. to 54.5 mpg by 2025.  U.S.-based automakers have won the car award 11 times among
the 20 times it has been awarded and have received the truck
award on 13  occasions . GM’s Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid and
Ford’s Explorer SUV won the awards in  2011 .  The predecessors of GM and Chrysler restructured in U.S.-
financed bankruptcies in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  