-- Goldman Sachs Opposes ACA Bid to Add Paulson to CDO Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-14T17:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/goldman-sachs-opposes-aca-bid-to-add-paulson-to-cdo-case.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  accused  ACA
Financial Guaranty Corp. (MANF)  of withholding thousands of audio
recordings the investment bank wants in its fight against a
lawsuit over a collateralized debt obligation called Abacus.  Goldman Sachs asked a New York state judge in court papers
Jan. 11 to order bond insurer ACA to produce the recordings,
pointing to one phone call that it says “utterly eviscerates”
ACA’s claims.  “ACA’s unjustified withholding of the additional
recordings impedes Goldman Sachs’ ability to challenge, and the
court’s ability to examine,” the claims in the case, the New
York-based company said.  Goldman Sachs’s bid for the recordings comes after ACA
sought court permission to file a revised complaint that adds
hedge fund Paulson & Co. as a defendant. ACA claims Goldman
Sachs and Paulson conspired to induce it to provide financial
guaranty insurance for Abacus.  ACA claims it was deceived into believing that Paulson was
a long investor in the deal when the hedge fund was in fact
betting against it. Goldman Sachs agreed to a $550 million
settlement in 2010 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to resolve claims that it misled investors.  ‘Doomsday’ Strategy  In its filing, Goldman Sachs quotes from a May 2007 call
between an ACA portfolio manager and a bond trader at Morgan
Stanley in which ACA is told Paulson was pursuing a “doomsday”
strategy and betting against the mortgage market. The recording
“demonstrates unequivocally” that ACA actually knew of
Paulson’s shorting strategy, Goldman Sachs said.  Marc Kasowitz , an attorney for New York-based ACA, said in
an interview that the call wasn’t about Abacus and was instead
“anecdotal market chatter” about Paulson.  ACA, which is seeking to recover $120 million in damages,
cites in its complaint a recording in which a Goldman Sachs
managing director told ACA that Paulson was a “100 percent
equity” investor in the deal. ACA has produced 6,900 recordings
to Goldman Sachs and will turn over more as they become
available, Kasowitz said.  “Goldman Sachs’s specific misrepresentation to ACA about
Paulson’s ‘100 percent equity’ interest in Abacus trumps any
anecdotal market ‘color’ by a third party,” Kasowitz said in a
statement.  The case is ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. v. Goldman Sachs &
Co., 650027-2011,  New York  State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  