-- Gun Regulations Must Be Focused to Pass, Thompson Says
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-01-14T16:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gun-regulations-must-be-focused-to-pass-thompson-says.html
Legislation to require background
checks for gun purchases and to limit high-capacity ammunition
magazines have the best chance of gaining bipartisan support to
pass the U.S. House and Senate, said California Representative
Mike Thompson.  Thompson, a Democrat and gun owner who is leading a House
panel on gun violence prevention, returned to Washington today
to meet with Vice President  Joe Biden  as the White House
prepares to release its recommendations by tomorrow for
legislative and executive actions to curb gun violence.  “Some form of that are all things middle-ground folks will
agree with,” said Thompson, who spoke at an event sponsored by
the Center for American Progress in Washington. “It’s got to be
very focused.”  Thompson said enhanced prosecution of existing gun laws and
improvements in school safety would be critical. He didn’t
mention renewing the 1994 assault weapons ban that lapsed in
2004 on his list of items with bipartisan support.  Thompson and Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , who was an adviser
to former President  Bill Clinton  when the assault weapons ban
and a 1993 crime bill were passed, stressed the importance of
focusing on gun access by criminals rather than  overall  gun
control .  Once Biden unveils his recommendations, the focus will
shift to Congress, where Democrats control the Senate and
Republicans control the House.  Assault Weapons Ban  Congress hasn’t passed major gun-related legislation since
the assault weapons ban. It didn’t enact new legislation after
the 1999 Columbine High School shooting in Colorado that was the
first in a series of killings at schools and universities in the
past decade.  The Dec. 14 shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut, which killed 20 children and six adults,
created an opening to pass new laws, Emanuel said.  “It’s been a tipping point for galvanization in action,”
he said. “But you’ve got to be very smart about this effort,
about how you’re going to go forward, because it’s not a
guarantee that just because Newtown happened we’re in a
different game and therefore we’re going to win.”  “We can’t lose this moment of galvanization,” Emanuel
said.  In addition to the Biden recommendations, a number of
Democrats in Congress plan to introduce legislation intended to
curb gun violence. Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of California said
she will introduce a bill expanding the classification of
assault weapons and prohibiting their sale and importation.  National Rifle Association President  David Keene  said
yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program that a White
House push for an assault weapons ban won’t succeed.  Among other members planning legislation is Senator  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut, who is offering a bill to toughen
rules on buying ammunition that would require retailers to use
an FBI database for background checks on anyone buying bullets.  -- Editors: Jodi Schneider, Laurie Asseo  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  