-- Gun Anger Often Fades as NRA Plays Waiting Game: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gun-anger-often-fades-as-nra-plays-waiting-game-bgov-barometer.html
President  Barack Obama  may have a
limited time to rally public opinion as he pushes Congress to
enact new restrictions on gun ownership.  The BGOV Barometer shows public support for new gun laws
increases after mass shootings only to diminish over time,
complicating efforts to use the outrage over last month’s
killing of 20 children and 6 adults at a  Connecticut  elementary
school to introduce a package of actions to ban military-style
assault weapons and require background checks on all gun buyers.  A December  Gallup poll  taken after the shootings in Newtown
showed 58 percent calling for stricter gun laws, up from 43
percent support in October 2011. The National Rifle Association
has opposed any new gun laws, calling instead for armed guards
at schools. Obama must keep reaching out to the public if he
hopes to pass any legislation, said Tom Diaz, who served as a
Democratic House Judiciary Committee aide in 1994 when Congress
banned assault weapons.  “There’s one word that explains it: leadership,” said
Diaz, the author of two books on guns. “It’s fireside chats.
It’s really holding people’s feet to the fire.”  A task force led by Vice President Joe Biden is drafting
proposals, to be delivered to the president by tomorrow, and
lawmakers have introduced legislation in the new Congress.
Republicans such as Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell say
lawmakers’ priority will be tackling spending as Congress
considers raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  Opponents of Change  “In a slow-moving legislative process like the U.S.
Congress’s, opponents of change know that they need merely wait
as public attention turns to the next big agenda item, and often
momentum will fade,” said Rogan Kersh, provost at Wake Forest
University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  Polls show the percentages of adults backing stronger gun
laws often rise after a major tragedy like the shootings in
Newtown, or the 2007 killings at Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University, better known as Virginia Tech, where 33
people including the shooter died.  After the April 2007 shootings at Virginia Tech, 51 percent
backed stricter laws in an October 2007 Gallup poll. In between
that tragedy and the Newtown massacre, an October 2011 survey
found 43 percent favoring stricter gun laws.  Surge in Support  Polling by the  Pew Research Center  after the Virginia Tech
shootings showed Americans, by 60 percent to 32 percent, saying
it was more important to control gun ownership than protect gun
rights. By March 2010, both sides had 46 percent support. Pew’s
post-Newtown poll showed 49 percent saying it was more important
to control gun ownership and 42 percent saying it was more
important to protect Americans’ gun rights.  Frank Newport, director of the Gallup poll, said the 15-
percentage-point rise in support for stronger gun laws was the
largest increase he recorded after any mass shooting.  “The fact that jump was as large as it was suggests the
probability that the increase in the desire for stricter gun
laws could last longer,” Newport said.  Representative Carolyn McCarthy, a  New York  Democrat whose
husband was killed in a 1993 mass shooting on the Long Island
Rail Road, is counting on that.  “We’ve certainly seen the ups and downs of people wanting
us to do something,” McCarthy said. “This time it feels
different. There’s a lot more anger.”  Social Media  McCarthy said proponents of new gun laws will use social
media to galvanize public opinion. A group formed after Newtown,
One Million Moms for Gun Control, started its Facebook page on
Dec. 15, a day after the killings. It recorded more than 20,000
likes in its first month.  Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said
he doesn’t expect “the sense of urgency” to stem gun violence
after the Newtown shootings to evaporate quickly.  “The atrocity was so staggering and brutal that I think it
struck a chord and captured attention in a way that is unique,”
he said.  Pressure now will fall on Obama, who has been more reticent
than former President Bill Clinton on banning assault weapons.  “While Clinton was vocal in supporting stronger measures
during his presidency, Obama has been silent, and governmental
leaders have a significant ability to lead public opinion,”
said Robert Spitzer, chairman of the political science
department at the State University of New York at Cortland and
author of four books on gun control.  Obama, in an interview broadcast Dec. 30 on NBC’s “Meet
the Press,” listed four top legislative priorities and
discussed gun control only when asked about it.  “We’re not going to get this done unless the American
people decide it’s important,” he said, noting his previous
support of banning assault weapons.  Citing an Abraham Lincoln adage, he added: “With public
opinion there’s nothing you can’t do, and without public
opinion, there’s very little you can get done in this town.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 