-- Gunman Fires Shots at New Democracy Party Headquarters in Athens
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-01-14T08:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/gunman-fires-shots-at-new-democracy-party-headquarters-in-athens.html
A gunman fired shots at the
headquarters of the ruling  New Democracy  party early today near
central Athens, with one bullet reaching the office used by
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. No injuries were reported.  Nine casings from a Kalashnikov assault rifle were found
outside the offices of the party, which is the main partner in
the coalition government headed by Samaras, according to a
statement from the Hellenic Police in Athens. One bullet was
found in the office of the party’s president, Samaras, the
police said. The attack occurred around 3 a.m.  “Nobody can terrorize democracy, New Democracy, the prime
minister,” party secretary Manolis Kefalogiannis said in an e-
mailed statement. “Luckily there were no victims. But this act
of violence must be condemned by all.”  The incident came after a spate of attacks on political
targets. Greek government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou condemned a
fire-bomb attack on his brother’s house on Jan. 12 in central
 Athens . That followed similar attacks early on Jan. 11 in which
unidentified perpetrators threw makeshift gas-canister bombs
into the homes of five Greek journalists working for national
media. No injuries were reported.  An anarchist group claimed responsibility for the Jan. 11
attacks, saying it wanted to protest coverage of the country’s
financial crisis seen as sympathetic to the government,
according to NET TV.  There was no immediate claim of responsibility for today’s
attack. Police said they are investigating whether a burnt,
stolen car found near the site was related to the shooting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  