-- Iceland Is Uncomfortable With Krona Weakness, Gudmundsson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-01-14T08:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/iceland-is-uncomfortable-with-krona-weakness-gudmundsson-says.html
Iceland’s central bank is concerned
about the krona’s current weakness as inflation overshoots its
target, Sedlabanki Governor Mar Gudmundsson said.  “It’s not comfortable to let the krona be this weak
considering that inflation is still above the target and wage
agreements in the labor market are open” for renegotiations, he
said in a Jan. 11 phone interview.  The currency closed last week at the lowest level against
the euro since in almost three years as the nation struggles
with an overhang of foreign currency debt. The bank last month
kept its benchmark rate unchanged, citing a stable krona, after
six increases since August 2011 to cool inflation as the nation
emerges from its 2008 economic collapse.  Policy makers are trying to steer Iceland’s recovery four
years after its banking meltdown plunged the nation into its
worst recession in six decades. Iceland, which completed a 33-
month  International Monetary Fund  program in August 2011, is now
outgrowing much of  Europe . The central bank’s main focus has
turned to unwinding capital controls enforced at the end of
2008, without putting pressure on the  exchange rate .  Currency restrictions are blocking as much as $8 billion in
offshore krona assets from being sold, according to estimates by
Arion Banki hf.  The bank is seeking “much more than anything else” to
reduce “excessive fluctuations” in the krona, Gudmundsson
said.  Assisting Banks  “We know why the exchange rate is as weak as it is,” he
said. “It’s due to domestic parties paying down their foreign
loans, which they’ve been unable to refinance in the foreign
market. Therefore they have to exchange their kronur into
foreign exchange, for this purpose. This can be mended by trying
to assist these parties -- and the banks in general -- in
gaining access to the international debt markets.”  The krona has lost 16 percent against the euro since an
Aug. 10 high. Inflation was 4.2 percent in December, surpassing
the bank’s 2.5 percent target.  The krona slid 0.4 percent to 171.08 per euro on Jan. 11,
the weakest closing level since April 26, 2010. The currency
traded at about 230 per euro offshore, according to Keldan.com,
a website run by Reykjavik-based H.F. Securities hf.  Preparation Work  While it will take time to abolish  capital controls , the
bank is continuing on “various preparation work,” Gudmundsson
said. The Treasury should make preparations so it doesn’t need
domestic financing from 2014, “since removal of capital
controls will cause an increase in the domestic cost of
financing,” he said.  The bank will also continue to reduce the “overhang” of
foreign currency through auctions and can continue working on
setting up an exit tax and develop the rules that are required
around the operations of financial undertakings, in order to
ensure that they won’t go “bankrupt immediately,” he said.  The bank in November estimated that inflation will average
3.6 percent this year and slow to 2.7 percent in 2014. Gross
domestic product will expand 2.5 percent in 2012, 2.9 percent
this year and 3.5 percent in 2014, it said. The economy of the
euro area is estimated to have contracted 0.4 percent last year,
the European Commission said on Nov. 7.  The bank this month halted foreign currency purchases,
which totaled a net 20 billion kronur last year, according to
the governor.  “So we’re taking a lot into the reserves, which would have
yielded a stronger krona had we not done this,” he said. “Now
we’ve stopped doing that, as the krona is now very inexpensive
and the foreign exchange is expensive. And if possible, one
should avoid purchasing foreign exchange when it’s expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  