-- Iceland Needs Krona Guarantees to Grant Bank Creditors Waivers
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-01-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/iceland-needs-krona-guarantees-to-grant-bank-creditors-waivers.html
Creditors of Iceland’s three largest
failed banks will need to guarantee that debt accords won’t pose 
a risk to the krona to be granted waivers from  capital controls , 
the island’s central bank governor said.  “It’s clear that we’ll never grant an exemption to the
foreign exchange laws, if that exemption might lead to financial
instability or have an adverse effect on the krona’s exchange
rate,” Sedlabanki Governor Mar Gudmundsson said in a Jan. 11
telephone interview.  Policy makers, including Prime Minister Johanna
Sigurdardottir, have said it will be hard to exempt the
creditors from krona controls, which have trapped as much as $8
billion in assets from being sold by offshore investors,
according to Arion bank hf estimates. Three lenders defaulted on
$85 billion in 2008, causing the currency to plunge as much as
80 percent offshore and sending the island into the worst
recession in six decades.  The winding-up committees of both  Kaupthing Bank hf  and
Glitnir Bank hf, whose assets total about $13.6 billion, have
both formally applied for exemptions to the island’s capital
controls that would enable them to settle with creditors.
 Landsbanki Islands hf  intends to complete a similar accord in
the next five to six years, according to the bank’s spokesman,
Pall Benediktsson.  Three Areas  The composition agreements pose a considerable risk to the
north Atlantic island, while they also present an opportunity
“if we play our cards right,” said Gudmundsson. The bank
requires guarantees in three specific areas, he said.  “Number one relates to the kronur redemptions” of the
failed lenders “which will be handed to foreign parties,” the
governor said. “And number two are the shares in the new banks,
which are listed in kronur, and future dividends. The third
matter is foreign exchange claims the failed banks own against
domestic parties, especially domestic parties which don’t have
any revenue stream in foreign exchange.”  The nation, which completed a 33-month $4.6 billion
International Monetary Fund economic program in August
2011, has been praised for its method of handling its crisis.
The controls and Iceland’s decision to allow its banks to renege
on their obligations to bondholders underpinned a recovery,
according to the IMF.  Krona Slide  Gross domestic product will expand 2.9 percent in 2013, the
central bank estimates, after contracting 6.8 percent in 2009
and 4 percent the following year.  The bank will need to examine at what price and how assets
are released out of the country and what kind of limits will be
set on dividend payments, Gudmundsson said. It will also need to
set new debt estimates for the country as a whole as well as the
future balance of payments, he said.  The krona slid 6 percent last year in onshore trading, its
second year of losses. It fell 0.4 percent to 171.08 per euro on
Jan. 11, the weakest closing level since April 26, 2010. The
currency traded at about 230 per euro offshore, according to
Keldan.com, a website run by Reykjavik-based H.F. Securities hf.  The estates of the failed lenders are urging quicker action
from the government and the central bank. The winding-up
committee of Kaupthing, the largest of the failed banks, in
November said it was forced to postpone a credit deal because of
opposition from the central bank.  “These banks have been in winding-up proceedings for about
four years,” said Steinunn Gudbjartsdottir, the head of
Glitnir’s committee, in an interview earlier this month. “Half
of the assets of Glitnir have now been sold and are held in
cash. Undeniably, this money legally belongs to the creditors of
Glitnir.”  Kaupthing is also waiting for the central bank’s response,
Johannes Runar Johannsson, a member of Kaupthing’s winding-up
committee, said in a Jan. 4 interview.  According to Gudmundsson, the central bank has yet to
receive all the information to make a decision.  “We’re not even at the point in time where everything has
been delivered to the central bank and the other parties are
only waiting for our reply,” said Gudmundsson. “We’re not
there yet, although we’re nearing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 