-- Tiffany Deal Whispers Buoy Value After Earnings: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-01-14T21:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/tiffany-deal-whispers-buoy-value-after-earnings-real-m-a.html
In the eye of the investor,  Tiffany
& Co. (TIF) ’s blue-boxed gifts are so alluring to potential suitors
that not even the worst earnings stretch in at least a decade
has put a dent in its valuation.  Even though the $7.6 billion company has  missed  profit
estimates in four straight quarters and said last week that
analysts’ fiscal 2014  projections  were too high, the jewelry
seller  fetches  18.6 times earnings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s only 0.4 point lower than the multiple in
March, when the shortfalls started, as takeover speculation
helps support the shares, Ariel Investments LLC said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , PPR SA and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA could all boost their earnings by adding
the company to their current stable of luxury brands, according
to ISI Group and the Luxury Institute. Ariel says a buyer would
have leeway to expand Tiffany in the U.S., Asia and  Europe . A
purchase at current prices would be the biggest of a retailer
since Coles Group Ltd. more than five years ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “Sooner or later someone will make a run at Tiffany,”
Howard Ward, the chief investment officer for growth equities at
Gamco Investors Inc., wrote in an e-mail. Gamco, which oversees
about $37 billion, owns shares of the company. “It is a trophy
property,” he added. “There are some obvious foreign luxury
brand companies that would be interested.”  Swatch Group AG today said it agreed to buy the Harry
Winston watch and jewelry brand for about $1 billion, adding a
luxury label in the Swiss watchmaker’s biggest acquisition ever.
Shares of Tiffany advanced 1.6 percent to $61.25 today.  Takeover Speculation  Mark Aaron, a spokesman for New York-based Tiffany, said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked about the
retailer’s takeover prospects. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Michael Kowalski said in a 2011 interview with the
Financial Times that Tiffany has been the subject of deal
speculation “probably since we went public in 1987.” He added
that his shareholders would be “best served” by the company
remaining independent.  Representatives of LVMH,  PPR (PP)  and Richemont declined to
comment.  Tiffany  shares  plunged 4.5 percent, the biggest drop in six
weeks, on Jan. 10 when the company said earnings for the fiscal
year ending this month will be at the low end of its forecast
after holiday sales growth slowed in the Americas and Asia.
Tiffany also projected earnings in the fiscal year ending in
January 2014 of about $3.39 to $3.49 a share, compared with the
$3.80 average of analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Not Suffering  The company had already missed analysts’ income forecasts
for four straight quarters, the longest stretch in at least a
decade, the  data  show. Still, Tiffany’s price-earnings ratio
hasn’t suffered much, only falling to 18.6 from 19 on March 19,
the last close before its first profit shortfall. The  valuation 
has held up even as Tiffany’s market capitalization dropped from
last year’s peak of $9.3 billion.  The Tiffany brand may be alluring to potential acquirers,
according to Tim Fidler, a Chicago-based money manager at Ariel
Investments, which oversees about $5 billion including the
retailer’s shares. In the luxury jewelry industry, Tiffany has
the best-known brand among affluent consumers surveyed by the
Luxury Institute. Despite falling short of earnings projections
since early last year, the company’s fiscal 2013 revenue is
forecast to be $3.8 billion, up $1.1 billion from three years
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tiffany’s Consistency  “There aren’t many companies in the public markets today
on the retail side that you can argue have all the positive
attributes with the consistency that Tiffany has demonstrated,”
Fidler said in a phone interview. “A lot of the big, European
houses would love to own a brand of this type.”  Tiffany said this month that it signed a 20-year agreement
to keep selling jewelry by Elsa Peretti, which accounts for
about 10 percent of its sales. The accord lets Tiffany retain
exclusive rights to the designs, which include “Diamonds by the
Yard” and iconic heart- and bean-shaped pendants.  By renewing the deal, Tiffany removed an impediment that
could have deterred suitors from considering a purchase of the
company, Omar Saad, a New York-based analyst at ISI, wrote in a
Jan. 8 note. He said Tiffany “would be a highly attractive
asset to the large luxury conglomerates,” and argued that LVMH,
PPR and Richemont could all boost earnings by purchasing it.
Milton Pedraza, the CEO of the Luxury Institute, a  New York- 
based research and consulting firm, agreed that those three
European companies could fuel growth with Tiffany.  High Ranking  “Tiffany continues to have a high brand ranking and
prestige,” Pedraza said. “Is it an interesting acquisition
opportunity for somebody? Yes, presuming they will do something
better and more interesting with it.”  Francesco Trapani, head of Paris-based LVMH’s watch and
jewelry unit, said in November that he expects more
consolidation in the industry. While the world’s largest maker
of luxury goods always has “a window open on M&A,” the company
won’t pay “stupid prices,” Trapani said. LVMH bought Bulgari
SpA, the Italian jewelry maker, in 2011, and it also sells
products including Louis Vuitton bags and Dom Perignon
champagne.  PPR of Paris is reorganizing to focus on luxury, sports and
lifestyle brands as it seeks to lift sales to 24 billion euros
($32 billion) by 2020 from 12.2 billion euros in 2011. The owner
of the Gucci brand has said  acquisitions  will account for about
20 percent of that goal.  Coles, Wesfarmers  Richemont, the second-biggest luxury goods company, owns
brands including Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels.  A deal for Tiffany at current prices would be the largest
takeover in the retail industry since Wesfarmers Ltd. purchased
Coles for $15.8 billion in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Because Tiffany’s management knows it’s running an
“iconic” brand, it may command a takeover price higher than
acquirers are willing to pay, said Brian Yarbrough, a St. Louis-
based analyst for Edward Jones & Co. Tiffany shares would be
trading above $90 if they were meeting their historical
relationship to forecast profit, he said. The company, which
ended last week at $60.28, may seek something similar in a sale,
he said.  “For a public company, it’s going to be hard to pay that
kind of a premium and have it not be dilutive,” Yarbrough said
in a phone interview. “Management is going to be very hesitant
to sell down here when the business is struggling and not firing
on all cylinders. There are reasons why buyers could be
interested, but it’s all going to come down to price.”  ‘Very Few’  The most likely buyers are the global luxury conglomerates
that would buy Tiffany for strategic reasons and that “can
afford to pay the most,” said Oliver Chen, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Tiffany is “an extremely attractive asset as an American
brand,” Chen said. “They are one of the very few,” he added.
“There is an opportunity for incremental product innovation,
and Tiffany has an extremely attractive global presence and
global awareness.”  Ariel’s Fidler estimated that Tiffany’s value to a buyer is
in the “high $70s to low $80s,” based on past acquisitions by
strategic buyers in the industry, a discounted cash flow
analysis and the current valuations of its peers.  “Obviously if someone is interested in the company, much
like management, you always want to listen,” Fidler said.
“There’s enormous value at this company and it’s not hard to
get to a number substantially higher than the current stock
price for a potential transaction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  