-- Imagination Declines as ARM Takes Share at Samsung: London Mover
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-14T16:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/imagination-declines-as-arm-takes-share-at-samsung-london-mover.html
Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG) 
was the second-biggest decliner among companies on the FTSE 350
index after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  is using competing technology in its new smartphones.  Imagination, a U.K. designer of chip technology for phones
and tablets, dropped 6.4 percent, the biggest fall since Oct. 10
in London, giving the Kings Langley, U.K.-based company a market
value of 1.15 billion pounds ($1.85 billion). The volume of
shares traded was more than three times the daily average for
the past three months.  The key risks to the company’s stock price are market-share
loss and higher spending requirements to stay competitive, Simon Schafer, an analyst at Goldman, said in a note dated Jan. 12.
The contribution from the company’s $100 million acquisition of
 MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS) , to win new technology for mobile
networks, is uncertain, said Schafer, who removed Imagination
from a conviction buy list, while still recommending that
investors purchase the shares.  “Anecdotal evidence suggests that Samsung Electronics’
next-generation smartphone chip contains plenty of intellectual
property from  ARM Holdings (ARM) ,” Schafer said. “This removes
upside potential to our market-share forecasts.”  Evidence indicates ARM technology in Samsung’s new line-up
will include the Mali-T604 Graphics Core, Schafer said.  Imagination Chief Executive Officer Hossein Yassaie said
last month that the company had accelerated investment in
graphics and that would bear fruit in the middle of this year.
Imagination controls about 50 percent of the market for graphics
chip designs, Yassaie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  