-- India Delays Tax-Avoidance Clampdown to Spur Investment Inflows
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-14T08:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/india-delays-tax-avoidance-clampdown-to-spur-investment-inflows.html
India  delayed a clampdown on  tax
avoidance  until 2016 after the plans spooked foreign investors
and threatened to hamper a push to revive growth.  The so-called General Anti-Avoidance Rules, or GAAR, will
take effect the year starting April 1, 2016, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said at a briefing in New Delhi today. A
panel set up by the government to review the measure, which was
due to be enforced from 2013, recommended the delay.  India’s recent push to lure foreign investment to revive an
economy facing budget and trade deficits has been hampered by
concern that the nation’s tax laws are becoming more hostile.
The government has stepped up efforts since mid-September to
steady the rupee and spur growth, which the  Finance Ministry 
estimates will be at a decade-low in 2012-2013.  “It’s a positive move,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The announcement will help sustain capital inflows in 2013.”  The rupee, which has declined 5.6 percent against the
dollar in the past year, strengthened 0.4 percent to 54.555 per
dollar as of 1:05 p.m. in Mumbai. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
of stocks rose 0.9 percent. The yield on the 10-year bonds due
June 2022 fell to 7.80 percent from 7.87 percent on Jan. 11.  Global funds turned  net sellers  of Indian stocks in April
and May after tax changes stoked concern that investments in
Indian assets, which are sometimes routed through third
countries to reduce levies, would face higher charges.  Panel Recommendations  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in July appointed a committee
led by Parthasarthi Shome to review the clampdown. President
 Pranab Mukherjee , then the finance minister, introduced the
anti-avoidance step in the March 2012 budget, before delaying
implementation to 2013.  Chidambaram said today the major recommendations of the
Shome panel have been accepted. The panel has separately
analyzed another Mukherjee change allowing for retrospective
application of changes to certain tax laws.  A Finance Ministry official with direct knowledge of the
matter said last week that India has written to Vodafone Group
Plc saying it’s ready for talks to settle a $2.2 billion dispute
arising from such retroactive levies. That spat has also cast a
shadow on India’s attractiveness to foreign investors.  Singh has overhauled economic policies since mid-September,
opening industries from retail to aviation to more foreign
investment and curbing fuel subsidies to tackle a  budget deficit .  The steps helped to spur inflows into stocks, with
foreigners buying a net $1.45 billion this year, more than three
times the level at the same time in 2012.  The government is trying to avert a credit-rating downgrade
to junk status.  Asia ’s No. 3 economy may expand as little as 5.7
percent in the 12 months through the end of March, the weakest
since 2002-2003, according to Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  