-- India, Pakistan Army Officers in Talks to Defuse Kashmir Clashes
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-01-14T09:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/india-pakistan-army-officers-in-talks-to-defuse-kashmir-clashes.html
Senior army officers from  India  and
Pakistan held talks today to defuse tension along their disputed
Kashmir border, after a series of clashes sparked a diplomatic
row and threatened the neighbors’ peace bid.  The rivals have traded claims of cross-frontier violations
of their decade-old truce in Kashmir and summoned each other’s
diplomats in the last week, with the beheading of an Indian
soldier in a Jan. 8 confrontation bringing demands for dialogue
to be scrapped. The  Hindu newspaper  reported the fighting may
have been sparked by the Indian construction of a bunker.  Indian Army Chief Bikram Singh told a press conference
today that the killing of two Indian soldiers was “gruesome and
unpardonable.” He said the military was seeking the return of
the slain soldier’s head. Hours later, brigade commanders of
both armies met along the de facto Kashmir border, known as the
Line of Control.  Some of the most serious cross-border skirmishes since 2003
between the two nuclear-armed neighbors, which resumed peace
talks after a three-year break in ties over the Mumbai terrorist
attack, have undermined a sustained bid to improve trade and
ease travel restrictions. The nations have fought two of their
three wars over Kashmir, which was divided between the two
shortly after independence from British rule.  General Singh today called  Pakistan ’s Jan. 8 attack
“preplanned,” and said India reserved “the right to retaliate
at the time and place of its choice.” At the same time, the
army chief vowed to “uphold the cease-fire as long as it is
maintained.”  Pakistan has denied its troops crossed the border and has
accused New Delhi of propaganda to divert attention from what
Pakistan’s army says was an unprovoked Indian attack two days
earlier that killed one Pakistani soldier.  --. Editor: Mark Williams  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  