-- India’s Nifty Futures Advance Before Government Inflation Data
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-14T03:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/india-s-nifty-futures-advance-before-government-inflation-data.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained
before government inflation data for December.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for January delivery rose
0.3 percent to 5,990, at 10:48 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying
S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index lost 0.3 percent to 5,951.30 on Jan. 11. The
BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, was little changed at
19,663.64. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares surged 6.7 percent.  Data today may show wholesale price  inflation  accelerated
to 7.37 percent in December from a year ago, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd., India’s largest software exporter, is
due to announce its third-quarter profit today.  “Inflation will be the key event in the week, along with
the slew of earnings,” Amar Ambani, head of research at
brokerage IIFL Ltd., wrote in an e-mail on Jan. 11. “Watch out
for the core inflation reading, a measure closely followed by
the  Reserve Bank  of India.”  RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  signaled higher odds on Dec.
18 of a cut in  interest rates  next year as he held borrowing
costs unchanged for a fifth policy meeting.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said the next day it sees a “high likelihood” of a 50-
basis point reduction in a policy review due on Jan. 29, Tushar Poddar, the bank’s chief India economist, wrote in a note to
clients.  Infosys Ltd., the first Sensex company to announce earnings
for the December quarter, surged by a record on Jan. 11 after it
raised its sales forecast and reported profit that beat
estimates. The stock was the  worst performer  in the Sensex last
year.  Foreign Investment  Net incomes of the 30 Sensex companies may grow 11 percent
from a year ago in the December quarter, after rising 7 percent
in the previous three months, Kotak Institutional Equities said
in a Jan. 3 report. Profit for 40 percent of the Sensex firms
missed analysts’ estimates for the September quarter, the same
as for the quarter ended June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Indian stock gauge had its  biggest annual rally  last
year since 2009 as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  opened the
economy to more foreign investment to boost an  economy  growing
at the slowest pace in three years and to avert a credit-rating
downgrade. The steps prompted offshore funds to invest $24.5
billion into domestic shares last year, the highest among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Foreigners bought a net $1.45 billion of stock this year,
more than three times the level at the same time in 2012, data
from the regulator show. The Sensex has risen 1.2 percent this
month and  trades  at 15.6 times estimated profit, approaching the
highest reading since March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  