-- India Inflation Cools in Rate-Cut Boost as Tax Crackdown Delayed
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l ,   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-14T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/indian-inflation-slows-to-11-month-low-boosting-rate-cut-case.html
Indian inflation eased to a three-
year low in December, boosting scope for an interest-rate cut to
revive economic growth as a delay in a tax clampdown that had
spooked foreign investors buoyed stocks, bonds and the rupee.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 7.18 percent in
December from a year earlier, the slowest pace since December
2009, the Commerce Ministry said yesterday. A crackdown on  tax
avoidance  will take effect in the year starting April 1, 2016,
rather than 2014, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said.  Chidambaram, who unveiled the delay as he prepares to start
a tour of Asia and Europe to woo investors, has also called for
cheaper credit to back recent government efforts to spur a
struggling economy.  India ’s central bank  signaled  Dec. 18 that
monetary policy should shift toward revitalizing growth as the
fastest inflation among major  emerging markets  slows.  “Easing headline inflation supports the likelihood of the
central bank cutting rates in the January review,” said Aditi Nayar, a senior economist at ratings company ICRA Ltd. in
Gurgaon, near New Delhi. Still, a “wide” deficit in the
current account, the broadest measure of trade, and lingering
price pressures will lead to “cautious” policy easing, Nayar
said.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government bonds due June
2022 fell to 7.80 percent at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai
yesterday, from 7.87 percent on Jan. 11. The  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  rose 1.2 percent. The rupee strengthened 0.5 percent to
54.5 per dollar.  Interest Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower  borrowing costs  25
basis points to 7.75 percent on Jan. 29, according to 13 of 16
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. The rest expect a 50 basis-
point cut.  The  Finance Ministry  predicts gross domestic product will
rise as little as 5.7 percent in the year to March 31, the
slowest since 2002-2003.  Indian inflation remains the fastest in the BRIC group of
major emerging markets, stoked by supply bottlenecks and a 5.5
percent drop in the rupee in the past 12 months. BRIC includes
 Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China .  Non-food manufactured goods prices, or  core inflation , rose
4.19 percent in December from a year earlier, compared with 4.49
percent in November, according to calculations by Bloomberg.
Food articles climbed 11.16 percent last month. Fuel and power
increased 9.38 percent.  A panel set up by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in July to
review tax changes recommended that the so-called General Anti-
Avoidance Rules be delayed. Chidambaram said yesterday the
government has accepted the panel’s major recommendations.  ‘Positive Move’  “It’s a positive move,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The announcement will help sustain capital inflows in 2013.”  Global funds turned net sellers of Indian stocks in April
and May after tax changes stoked concern that investments in
Indian assets, which are sometimes routed through third
countries to reduce levies, would face higher charges.  Singh’s administration since mid-September has opened
industries such as retail to more foreign investment and pledged
to contain the  budget deficit , seeking to boost confidence in
Asia’s No. 3 economy and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  Some companies have felt the impact of subdued economic
growth and cost increases. Local passenger-car sales by
companies such as Tata Motors Ltd. fell a second month in
December, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers data shows.  Another report yesterday showed Indian  consumer prices 
climbed 10.56 percent in December from a year earlier.  Separately, the Reserve Bank yesterday confirmed that Urjit
Patel has been appointed as one of four deputy governors, for a
period of three years from Jan. 11.  He will handle monetary policy, financial markets, economic
and statistical research and communication, among other
functions, the central bank said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  