-- TIPS Lose Appeal as Cost of Living Seen Unchanged
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-01-14T06:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/tips-lose-appeal-as-cost-of-living-seen-unchanged.html
Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, which have outperformed conventional U.S. government
debt every year since the financial crisis of 2008, are losing
their appeal.  TIPS handed investors a 1.6 percent loss in the past month,
versus a 0.9 percent decline for bonds that don’t offer
inflation protection, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. U.S. consumer prices were probably unchanged in
December from the month before, after falling in November,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
U.S. reports the figure Jan. 16.  “Consumer prices are under pressure,” said Hans Goetti,
the Singapore-based chief investment officer for Asia at
Finaport Investment Intelligence, which manages the equivalent
of $1.5 billion. “Unemployment is still high. We’re going to
revisit the lows in yields” for nominal bonds, he said.
Finaport favors the securities over TIPS, Goetti said.  Ten-year futures contracts for March delivery were
unchanged at 131 29/32 as of 6:31 a.m. in  London . Trading of
Treasury bills, notes and bonds was closed in  Japan  today for a
holiday, according to the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  website .  Benchmark 10-year yields dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, last week to 1.87 percent. The record low
was 1.38 percent set in July.  Ten-yields will rise to 2.27 percent by year end, according
to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with
the most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Inflation Expectations  On an annual basis, consumer prices probably rose 1.8
percent in December, Bloomberg surveys showed. The rate has
averaged 2.3 percent over the past year. It was as high as 14.8
percent in 1980.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.51 percentage points.
The average over the past decade was 2.19 percentage points.  Inflation may at times run modestly above the Federal
Reserve’s 2 percent target, Fed Bank of Chicago President
Charles Evans said today in Hong Kong.  U.S. economic growth this year will probably generate only
a small decline in unemployment from the current level of 7.8
percent, he said. The jobless rate was as low as 4.4 percent in
2007 before credit markets froze and the  world economy  began to
contract in 2008.  Investor Returns  That was the last time nominal Treasuries beat TIPS, as the
crisis spurred demand for the safety of government bonds and
sent inflation expectations to zero.  Last year, TIPS returned 7.3 percent, versus 2.2 percent
for conventional Treasuries, the Bank of America data show.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to speak at 4
p.m. today in Ann Arbor,  Michigan .  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of government and
mortgage debt a month to spur the economy by putting downward
pressure on interest rates. The central bank plans to buy as
much as $1.75 billion of Treasuries maturing from February 2036
to November 2042 today, according to the  website  of the Fed Bank
of New York.  U.S. data tomorrow may show retail sales rose and producer
prices fell in December, Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  Import prices dropped last month and the trade deficit
widened in November, the government reported Jan. 11.  GDP Outlook  “Friday’s combination of a dip in December import prices
and surge in the trade deficit point to decelerating inflation
and soft” fourth-quarter economic growth, according to a report
on Jan. 11 by  Ward McCarthy  and Thomas Simons, economists at
Jefferies & Co. The New York-based company is one of the 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  U.S. gross domestic product growth probably slowed to an
annualized pace of 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter from 3.1
percent in the third, based on a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The Commerce Department reports the figure Jan 30.  The Treasury Department is scheduled to announce Jan. 17
how much it plans to sell in 10-year TIPS on Jan. 24. The  amount 
will probably be for a record $16 billion, versus $13 billion at
the last auction of the securities in November, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in Jersey City,
New Jersey.  Treasuries are poised to get some help from Shinzo Abe as
Japan’s prime minister buys U.S. government bonds to weaken the
yen and boost his nation’s slowing economy.  A fund to buy foreign securities that Abe’s Liberal
Democratic Party has pledged to consider may amount to 50
trillion yen ($558 billion), according to Nomura Securities Co.
and Kazumasa Iwata, a former  Bank of Japan (8301)  deputy governor.
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. says the total may be double that.  “I can’t imagine the U.S. would be disappointed in Japan
buying Treasuries,” Jack McIntyre, a fund manager who oversees
$34 billion in global debt at Brandywine Global Investment
Management in Philadelphia, said in a Jan. 8 telephone
interview. “The Fed’s been doing all the  heavy lifting .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rocky Swift at
   rswift5@bloomberg.net  