-- Irish Safety Margin Small as Bank Debt Deal Sought, Gerlach Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/irish-safety-margin-small-as-bank-debt-deal-sought-gerlach-says.html
Ireland has a limited safety margin
for maintaining debt sustainability and would benefit from a
deal to reduce the cost of bailing out its banks, said Stefan Gerlach, a deputy governor with the nation’s central bank.  “Actions that would help reduce the sovereign-bank link
and would improve debt sustainability could greatly enhance
Irish prospects” of exiting its bailout program this year,
Gerlach said in an e-mailed version of a speech in Berlin today.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  is adopting a two-pronged
approach to help lower the burden of the nation’s 63 billion-
euro ($84.2 billion) bank bailout bill. He said yesterday that
he is “confident” of reaching a deal by the end of March with
the  European Central Bank  to restructure about 30 billion euros
of so-called promissory notes used to rescue former Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.  Separately, the government is campaigning to sell stakes in
Ireland’s surviving banks to the European Stability Mechanism,
the euro area’s permanent rescue fund.  With Ireland’s debt at a “high” level of 120 percent of
gross domestic product, “the safety margin is therefore
minimal,” Gerlach said. “Any unexpected increase in the ratio
risks triggering worsening market sentiment about the Irish
sovereign.”  Agreements to re-engineer the Anglo Irish promissory notes,
which are currently being repaid at an annual rate of 3.1
billion euros a year, “would improve the government’s fiscal
position and greatly enhance its ability to regain full access
to the markets,” Gerlach said.  While it’s uncertain as to how Ireland may benefit from ESM
bank recapitalizations, “greater clarity on this issue could
provide support for successfully exiting the program in 2013,”
he said.  The yield on the benchmark October 2020 Irish bond is 4.26
percent, down from 14 percent in July 2011.  --   Editors: Simone Meier, Stephen Taylor  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  