-- Pakistani Cleric Demands Government Quit as Thousands Rally
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-01-15T06:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/islamabad-braces-as-cleric-s-march-to-demand-poll-changes-nears.html
A cleric who led tens of thousands
of protestors to Islamabad to push for electoral reforms
demanded  Pakistan ’s government dismiss parliament and resign,
escalating a confrontation months ahead of a landmark poll.  Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri, 61, who heads an Islamic group
with 90 branches worldwide, said in a 2 a.m. speech to
supporters who had arrived in the capital through the night that
the national and four provincial assemblies must first be
dissolved, setting a now expired deadline of 11 a.m. After that,
“people will take things into their own hands,” he said.  Qadri’s comments mark a more hardline approach after he had
earlier asked the government to consult the army and judiciary
on the appointment of a neutral electoral commission and a
caretaker administration before a ballot is held. He has vowed
to hold a sit-in in the capital that he says will amount to the
“biggest  Tahrir Square ,” a reference to the Cairo area that
was the center of  Egypt ’s Arab Spring uprising in 2011.  “What he is asking is unwarranted, unconstitutional and
illegal because he has no authority,” said Rashid Ahmed Khan, a
professor of international relations and politics at the
University of Sargodha in central Pakistan, who says he has
known Qadri for years.  Pakistan’s stocks fell 0.7 percent to 16,512.75 at 10:58
a.m. in Karachi, the lowest in a week.  Brief Clashes  Police briefly clashed with Qadri’s supporters today as
they tried to enter the highly-protected red zone where most of
the foreign embassies are located, Interior Minister Rehman Malik told the Geo TV network in live comments. Malik put the
size of the crowd backing Qadri at 20,000 people. Geo, citing
intelligence agencies, said it could be twice that figure, far
below the turnout claimed by the cleric.  “Qadri’s demands are unconstitutional,” Information
Minister Qamar Zaman Kaira said in a press conference last night.
“He has the right for a peaceful demonstration, but there is no
mechanism in our constitution through which we can meet his
demands.”  The cleric’s central challenge for the interim
administration he proposes is the removal of corrupt politicians
and a bar on them from taking part in elections. His supporters
traveled from the eastern city of Lahore, the center of his
religious movement, in buses, trucks and cars.  “Today is the day of true revolution in Pakistan,” said
19-year-old Asma Nazir, who had arrived from Abbottabad, about
50 kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital, to attend the
march. “We will not leave this place until we get rid of these
corrupt politicians.”  Electoral Milestone  Qadri’s rise to prominence after he returned from  Canada 
last month comes as President Asif Ali Zardari’s government is
set to become the first democratically elected administration to
complete its five-year term and transfer power through a ballot
by mid-year, in a country ruled for half its history by the
military. The cleric’s message may be aimed at Pakistanis
disillusioned by established political parties that they blame
for corruption and a faltering economy.  Fourteen percent of Pakistanis viewed Zardari favorably in
a Pew Research Center  survey  in June, down from 64 percent in
2008. About 87 percent are dissatisfied with the country’s
direction, viewing the economy, crime and corruption as the
biggest problems, it said. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minor 4.2 percentage points.  Sufi Group  Under existing law, Zardari’s government will leave office
by the end of March, and a caretaker administration approved by
a majority of parties represented in parliament will oversee
elections within three months. Qadri’s dual citizenship of
Pakistan and Canada would bar him from standing in an election.  “The government must be aggressive in its tone,” said
Rasul Bakhsh Rais, professor at Lahore University of Management
Sciences. “They’ve given him space he doesn’t deserve.”  Rais said the government had two options: let the crowd
stay in central Islamabad, hoping it will wither away, or arrest
Qadri and risk clashes between the cleric’s supporters and
police.  Qadri formed his party,  Pakistan Awami Tehreek , or the
Pakistan People’s Movement in 1989 and was elected a member of
parliament under army rule in 2002. It’s his role as the head of
a Sufi Muslim-dominated spiritual foundation, the Minhaj-ul-
Quran, that provides his popular support and funding, he has
said. The body, which according to its website promotes inter-
faith tolerance, has offices in countries including the U.S.,
the U.K. and Canada.  Army Speculation  Qadri’s sudden appearance after years out of Pakistan
politics, and his demands that the army have a role in
determining the country’s electoral future, have triggered
speculation in the media that the security establishment may be
behind his movement. Both Qadri and the army deny any link.  After the scholar’s speech early this morning, protesters
moved closer to parliament, near where Qadri plans to hold an
indefinite demonstration until the legislature is dissolved. He
gave no more details of his intentions.  Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf today ordered the
Islamabad administration to help women and children who are
attending the demonstration as the temperature dropped to 41
degrees Fahrenheit (5 degrees Celsius). Security forces had
placed shipping containers around the capital to control crowds,
while the government had built a stage from which Qadri
addressed his supporters.  Shops, offices and schools were closed for a second day in
the capital where demonstrators have occupied the main highway
leading to parliament.  “Either there will be bloodshed or the government and
Qadri will reach an understanding to allow the people to go
home,” said Ashfaque Hasan Khan, a professor at the business
school of  National University  of Sciences & Technology in
Islamabad. “These people have not come to go home empty-
handed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  