-- MIT Probes Role in Case Leading to Web Activist’s Death
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-14T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mit-probes-role-in-case-leading-to-web-activist-s-death.html
The  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  is probing its role in the U.S. case against  Aaron
Swartz , the Internet activist who killed himself as he faced a
federal computer-fraud trial and the possibility of jail.  Swartz, 26, was accused in 2011 of gaining unauthorized
access to MIT’s network to put free copies online of
subscription-only journal articles. After his death, MIT
professors were among the many academics paying tribute to him
by posting their own work online without charge.  His family blamed MIT and U.S. prosecutors for his death,
which the  New York  Medical Examiner’s Office ruled a suicide by
hanging. Leo Rafael Reif, president of MIT, expressed his
condolences in a letter e-mailed to the university community and
initiated a “thorough analysis” of the institute’s response to
Swartz’s use of its computer network.  “Even for those of us who did not know Aaron, the trail of
his brief life shines with his brilliant creativity and
idealism,” Reif  wrote .  On his  blog , Swartz wrote of feeling “psychological pain”
and compared it to his work in programming. He also blogged
about fighting depression. The looming federal charges may have
contributed to his suicide, said Michael Peck, a clinical and
forensic  psychologist  in  Los Angeles .  “If you’re already depressed, the threat of jail time
could be a trigger for suicide,” Peck said. “That would be a
devastating thing to look forward to.”  Suicide, Depression  About 70 percent of people who commit suicide are
depressed, and the threat of incarceration may have conflicted
with Swartz’s conception of himself as a force for social good,
Peck said.  Almost four times as many men as women die of suicide,
according to the  National Institute of Mental Health . It is the
second-leading cause of death among people ages 25 to 34,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .  “Aaron’s death is not simply a personal tragedy,” his
family wrote in a  statement . “It is the product of a criminal
justice system rife with intimidation and prosecutorial
overreach. Decisions made by officials in the Massachusetts U.S.
Attorney’s office and at MIT contributed to his death.”  As a teenager, Swartz helped create a technology called
Really Simple Syndication, or RSS, which lets Web users gain
access to online information. He also co-founded the news and
information site  Reddit , as well as  Demand Progress , a group
that advocated against Internet piracy bills, according to his
website.  University Connection  In July 2011, Swartz was indicted for allegedly downloading
more than 4 million articles and documents from a subscription-
only  service . He was challenging the idea that access to
academic documents should be confined to the elite, Swartz’s
lawyer,  Elliot Peters  of San Francisco-based Keker & Van Nest
LLP, said in an interview.  “He was trying to make a point,” Peters said. “He was
certainly agitated about the case before him and was scared of
what they were trying to do to him.”  Swartz snuck into a room at MIT with a laptop and used the
university’s connection to download much of the archive of
JSTOR, a fee-based service for distributing scientific and
literary journals, Bloomberg Businessweek.com reported.  Swartz was indicted on federal charges of gaining illegal
access to JSTOR and downloading most of the library.  Publicly Available  “The U.S. Attorney’s office pursued an exceptionally harsh
array of charges, carrying potentially over 30 years in prison,
to punish an alleged crime that had no victims,” Swartz’s
family wrote. “Meanwhile, unlike JSTOR, MIT refused to stand up
for Aaron and its own community’s most cherished principles.”  Representatives from the U.S. Attorney in  Massachusetts 
declined to comment, citing respect for the family’s privacy.
Massachusetts U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz dismissed the case
against Swartz today in a filing in federal court, citing his
death.  JSTOR , in a statement, said it had settled its own claims
against Swartz in June 2011 and that he had returned the data.
JSTOR said while it regretted being brought into the federal
case, it had a responsibility to protect the owners and creators
of its content.  Swartz was mourned by academics, executives and fellow
activists, and the Internet was inundated with tributes to him.  “His stunts were breathtaking,”  wrote  Canadian author
Cory Doctorow, who knew Swartz.  Online Tributes  Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard Law School professor and
Internet activist, wrote in a blog  post  that the criminal case
against Swartz was misguided. Swartz “consulted me as a friend
and lawyer” in the MIT case, and he didn’t seek to profit from
downloading academic papers, Lessig wrote.  “From the beginning, the government worked as hard as it
could to characterize what Aaron did in the most extreme and
absurd way,” Lessig said. “The outrageousness in this story is
not just Aaron. It is also the absurdity of the prosecutor’s
behavior.”  Other academics took to the micro-blogging service Twitter
to honor Swartz by posting free versions of their publications
online, using the identifying hashtag  #pdftribute .  Hackers operating under the moniker Anonymous said in a
post on Twitter yesterday that they initiated a denial of
service attack on MIT’s website, using the hashtag
#JusticeForAaronSwartz. The university’s website was temporarily
shut down.  ‘Blown Away’  Marissa Mayer , chief executive officer at Yahoo! Inc., said
on  Twitter  that she met Swartz 11 years ago when she was an
executive at Google Inc.  “We had found his blog and were blown away by his age (16)
and insights,” she said.  A funeral will be held Jan. 15 at a synagogue in  Highland
Park ,  Illinois , near  Chicago , according to the Swartz family
statement. He is survived by his parents, Robert and Susan;
younger brothers Noah and Ben; and his partner, Taren
Stinebrickner-Kauffman, according to the statement.  The case against Swartz was U.S. v. Swartz, 11-CR-10260,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  