-- Italian November Industrial Production Falls More Than Forecast
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-01-14T09:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/italian-november-industrial-production-falls-more-than-forecast.html
Italian industrial  production  fell
more than forecast in November, signaling that the country’s
fourth recession since 2001 may have deepened in the final
quarter of the year.  Output declined 1 percent from October, when it dropped 1.1
percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in  Rome  today.
Economists forecast a decrease of 0.2 percent, according to the
median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Output fell an
annual 7.6 percent on a workday-adjusted basis, Istat said.  The recession in the euro region’s third-biggest economy
may have worsened after  Italy  contracted less than economists
forecast in the three months through September. Istat said last
week that the  unemployment rate  held in November at the highest
level in more than 13 years as businesses refrained from hiring.
The government and the central bank expect a recovery in the
second half of this year amid increasing exports. Still,
 consumer confidence  remained near a record low in December as
households were pessimistic about the length of the recession.  In the same month confidence among business executives
increased after the nation’s borrowing costs declined amid Prime
Minister Mario Monti’s efforts to contain the budget deficit.  Consumer pessimism translated into lower domestic demand.
 Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, saw its car sales in
Italy fall by an annual 22.5 percent last month.  The fall in industrial output in November was led by
declines in production of intermediate goods, Istat said. Output
of cars decreased an annual 14.1 percent, today’s data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Lorenzo Totaro} in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  