-- Mizuho to Hire Senior Bankers in U.S., Europe on M&A Push
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-01-15T03:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mizuho-to-hire-senior-bankers-in-u-s-europe-on-japan-m-a-push.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Japan ’s
No. 1 takeover adviser in 2012, plans to hire senior bankers in
the U.S. and  Europe  this year to help local companies make
acquisitions abroad.  The Japanese firm wants to add bankers who have access to
top executives in the health care, energy, technology, media and
telecommunication industries overseas, Hiroshi Motoyama, chief
executive officer at the  Mizuho Securities  Co. unit, said in an
interview. It plans to recruit fewer than 10, he said.  Japanese companies are spending unprecedented amounts
buying businesses offshore to counter the shrinking domestic
economy and population. Mizuho is hiring at a time when global
investment banks including Morgan Stanley cut jobs to improve
profitability amid stricter capital rules and an industry slump.  “The pipeline is expanding quite well” with global cross-
border as well as domestic restructuring deals, Motoyama, 58,
said on Jan. 11. “It’s key that we have strong bankers who can
introduce CEOs to Japanese companies. We can’t cover all
industries, so we have to target a few.”  Mizuho vaulted past  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  as the top
financial adviser for Japan-related takeovers last year after
working on  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s record $20 billion bid for Sprint
Nextel Corp. Japanese companies announced overseas takeovers
valued at $115 billion in 2012, the most since at least 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dispatch Bankers  The securities unit plans to send two or three junior
bankers from Japan to  New York  and London to obtain expertise on
cross-border deals, Motoyama said, adding that he will also hire
foreign graduates in  Tokyo . The firm has about 130 M&A bankers,
including about 10 each in New York and London, he said.  “It’s critical for a bank to have senior bankers who have
networks and reliable relationships with top executives,” said
Koji Hirai, head of M&A advisory boutique firm Kachitas Corp.
“There are many cases where top officials say ‘I am telling
this only to you because it’s you.’”  The unit of Japan’s  third-biggest lender  by market value is
rebuilding its investment banking operations after cutting jobs
and closing brokerage branches last year. Mizuho Securities
posted net income of 2.9 billion yen ($32 million) for the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 18.2 billion yen
a year earlier.  Morgan Stanley  In contrast,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  plans to trim about 15 percent
of its investment banking positions in  Asia  as it starts a round
of job cuts this week, two people familiar with the matter said.
Globally, the U.S. firm is eliminating about 1,600 jobs from its
investment bank and support staff in coming weeks, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 9.  Shares of Mizuho rose 0.6 percent to 170 yen at the lunch
break in Tokyo. They have gained 56 percent over the past 12
months.  Japan will have more domestic mergers this year as the
weakening yen boosts exporters’ earnings and spurs them to
consolidate to fend off global competition, said Hirai, a former
M&A head at a brokerage unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  Japan’s currency touched 89.67 against the dollar
yesterday, the lowest since June 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  