-- JPMorgan Seen Facing U.S., U.K. Actions on Whale Trades
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-14T17:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/jpmorgan-seen-facing-u-s-u-k-actions-on-whale-trades.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is set to face
new actions from U.S. and U.K. bank regulators as early as today
for botched trades that cost the company more than $6.2 billion
last year, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
 Federal Reserve , which have been investigating the loss, may
release some of their findings today, three people familiar with
the matter said. The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, which
has also been informally looking into whether traders
intentionally mismarked some of their positions and tried to
cover up their losses, may open an official investigation,
according to one of the people.  Regulators have yet to punish New York-based JPMorgan, the
biggest U.S. bank, for lapses in risk oversight that Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, has called “egregious.” It
isn’t clear whether the Fed and OCC’s announcement will also
include sanctions, according to the people, who asked not to be
named because the matter hasn’t been made public.  The OCC is preparing a cease-and-desist order requiring New
York-based JPMorgan to fix internal controls that contributed to
its wrong-way bet on  credit derivatives , a person familiar with
the matter said last month.  The chief investment office within JPMorgan’s national bank
suffered from “inadequate risk management,” Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  said during U.S. Senate testimony in June.  ‘Potential Gaps’  “We have been focusing on potential gaps or deviations
from accepted standards of risk management within that
particular office and looking to see whether similar gaps exist
in any other area,” Curry said.  The move to a formal enforcement proceeding by the FSA
typically indicates the agency found sufficient evidence of
financial rule violations.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman at JPMorgan, Robert Garsson at
the OCC,  Barbara Hagenbaugh  at the Federal Reserve and
 Christopher Hamilton  at the FSA all declined to comment on the
regulatory actions.  The bank’s board of directors is also considering releasing
an internal report that faults Dimon’s oversight of the division
when the company announces fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 16,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter have said.  Braunstein, Drew  The final report, which builds on a preliminary analysis
released in July, is critical of senior managers including
Dimon, former Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein, 51,
and ex-Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 56, for inadequately
supervising traders in the U.K. unit.  The report will be presented to the board when it meets
tomorrow. The directors will then vote on whether to disclose it
when the bank announces fourth-quarter results the following
day, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
report isn’t yet public.  Bruno Iksil, the U.K. trader nicknamed the London Whale
because his trading book was big enough to move the market, made
a wrong-way bet on credit derivatives that led to the company’s
biggest trading loss. At one point, as much as $51 billion in
 shareholder value  was erased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  