-- Judge Dismisses Cases Against Former Nortel Executives
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-14T18:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/judge-dismisses-cases-against-former-nortel-executives.html
An Ontario judge dismissed a case
against three former  Nortel Networks (NRTLQ)  Corp. executives who were
charged with accounting fraud at what was once  North America ’s
largest telephone-equipment maker before its collapse in 2009.  Judge Frank Marrocco said the burden of proof was not met
in fraud charges against Former Chief Executive Officer Frank
Dunn, former Chief Financial Officer Douglas Beatty and former
Controller Michael Gollogly. Marrocco made the ruling today in
Toronto.  “I am not satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt” that the
three executives “deliberately misrepresented the financial
results of Nortel Networks,” Marrocco wrote in his 141-page
ruling.  Dunn, Beatty and Gollogly were alleged to have misstated
financial results from 2000 to 2004, allowing them to pocket
millions in bonuses. All three pleaded not guilty to two counts
of fraud at the trial that began a year ago.  The charges made in 2008 against the Nortel executives
concern earnings statements showing the Mississauga, Ontario-
based company returned to profit in 2003 following losses in
2001 and 2002 amid the global technology stock crash. Nortel’s
board fired the executives in 2004 after an internal
investigation of the company’s financial reporting. It then
restated earnings back to 1999.  ‘Complete Vindication’  Greg Lafontaine, Beatty’s lawyer, said the decision was
“fantastic.” The verdict “was bang on with what the evidence
dictated,” he told reporters outside the courthouse. Beatty,
standing next to his lawyer, smiled but said nothing. Beatty
will now be “moving on,” Lafontaine said.  “This represents a complete vindication for Mr. Dunn and a
fundamental rejection of the Crown’s allegations against him,”
his lawyer David Porter told reporters outside the courthouse.
“We are very pleased with this decision.”  The case hinged on whether the three men were guilty of
misrepresenting Nortel’s earnings so as to trigger automatic
bonuses related to performance targets. Marrocco said he found a
memo by Nortel’s independent auditor Deloitte & Touche LLP into
the matter to be “persuasive.”  “The evidence falls far short of proving that the accused,
either individually or collectively, attempted to frustrate the
Comprehensive Balance Sheet Review or the first restatement of
Nortel‘s previously-published financial results,’’ Marrocco
wrote in his decision.  Technology Cornerstone  Nortel, once a cornerstone of the Canadian technology
industry that accounted for a third of the country’s benchmark
stock index, filed for bankruptcy in January 2009 after
reporting $11.6 billion in consolidated assets against $11.8
billion in debt as of Sept. 30, 2008.  The company has since sold its business units for at least
$7.5 billion, including the $4.5 billion sale in July 2011 of
its patent portfolio to a group that includes  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Marrocco is the former prosecuting attorney in  Canada ’s
biggest stock-market scandal, the Bre-X Minerals Ltd. gold-
discovery hoax. In that case, the only executive brought to
trial was acquitted in 2007.  The case is between Her Majesty the Queen and Dunn, Beatty
and Gollogly, Ontario Superior Court of Justice (Toronto).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  