-- KBC to Follow Barclays’s Lead With Contingent Capital Bond Sale
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-01-14T11:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/kbc-to-follow-barclays-s-lead-with-contingent-capital-bond-sale.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Belgium’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, plans to sell high-risk capital
bonds similar to Barclays Plc’s recent deal that bankers said
garnered more than $17 billion of orders.  The 10-year dollar-denominated notes will be written off if
KBC has losses that reduce its so-called core Tier 1 capital
ratio to 7 percent of assets or lower, according to an investor
presentation obtained by  Bloomberg News . The Brussels-based
lender has capital of 12.7 percent of assets, according to the
presentation.  Issuers of debt designed to take losses include Rabobank
Groep NV, UBS AG, as well as Barclays, which in November sold $3
billion of bonds that will be written off if  capital ratios  fall
to less than 7 percent. Bonds designed to absorb losses prior to
a lender’s collapse are a child of the 2008 financial-sector
crisis, when debt investors were repaid while taxpayer cash was
used to prop up banks to safeguard the wider economy.  “The idea is to provide both senior creditors and
shareholders with an extra layer of protection and enhance the
stability of the bank,” said Paul Smillie, a Singapore-based
global banking analyst at Threadneedle Asset Management, which
oversees about $45 billion of fixed-income securities. “This is
a carbon copy of the Barclays deal.”  KBC, which received Belgian bank-rescue funds three times
to cushion against declines in the value of collateralized debt
obligations and  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  insurance coverage of credit risk, is
raising money to repay its bailouts. Management also has
committed to retaining a Tier 1 ratio of at least 10 percent.  ‘Divesting Assets’  KBC spokeswoman Viviane Huybrecht didn’t respond to a call
seeking comment.  “That will make it one of the best-capitalized banks in
 Europe ,” said Smillie. “KBC has been divesting assets and
deleveraging for quite some time now.”  By selling the Tier 2 bonds in dollars, KBC can appeal to
wealthy Asian investors in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  seeking
higher-yielding securities.  Standard & Poor’s  said today it assigned a BB+ rating, the
highest speculative grade, to the proposed securities. The
bonds’ equity content is “minimal” and they are designed to
allow the lender to continue to operate as a going concern as it
seeks to raise money after they are triggered, S&P said.  Barclays (BARC)  7.625 percent contingent capital notes received a
BBB- rating from S&P, one step higher than the KBC securities,
and were priced to yield 604 basis points more than the
benchmark Treasury bond. They now yield 537 basis points more
than the 1.625 percent Treasury due 2022.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  