-- Krispy Kreme Surging 26% as Hot Sales Spur Takeover Talk: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-14T21:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/krispy-kreme-surging-21-as-hot-sales-spur-takeover-talk-retail.html
Krispy Kreme fans know a batch of
glazed doughnuts is fresh off the  production line  when their
local store turns on the neon “Hot Now” sign. It’s an apt
metaphor for a brand that seemed to have gone stale.  After falling victim to headlong expansion and America’s
obsession with low-carb diets,  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KKD)  has
revived itself by moving beyond its sugary signature product and
adding fruit juice, oatmeal, smoothies and coffee to the menu.
Quarterly sales have risen for more than two years, and fiscal
2013  sales  are forecast to match pre-recession levels.  The shares have soared 26 percent this year amid
speculation that the 76-year-old chain is a takeover target.
Krispy Kreme advanced 4 percent to $11.82 at the close in  New
York , the highest  price  since 2007.  Americans grazing between meals are looking for “smaller,
more frequent purchases” rather than spending $15 to $30 at a
casual-dining chain such as Applebee’s, said  John Gordon , the
principal at Pacific Management Consulting Group, a restaurant
adviser based in  San Diego .  Coffee and snack shop sales are forecast to increase 4
percent annually to reach $33.9 billion in 2017, compared with
growth of 1.9 percent a year for fast-food chains during the
same period, according to reports from  Santa Monica , California-
based researcher IBISWorld Inc.  Krispy Kreme’s 2.1 percent U.S. market share remains tiny
compared with  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ’s 36 percent and Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc.’s 25 percent, according to IBISWorld. Still, the
doughnut chain is poised to become a growth company again,
according to Nick Setyan, a Los Angeles-based analyst at Wedbush
Securities.  Growth Company  Thanks to improved profitability, the Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based company can “start growing and adding stores,”
he said in an interview.  Krispy Kreme is becoming more valuable to investors
relative to other eateries. On Jan. 11, it  traded  at a 75
percent price-to-earnings ratio discount to the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Restaurants Index, compared with an 87 percent
discount in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The chain may lure bids from other eateries looking to
boost morning food and drinks sales with its cult-like
following. Wendy’s Co. may look at Krispy Kreme as a way to
boost its breakfast sales, said Conrad Lyon, an analyst at Los
Angeles-based B. Riley & Co. Setyan says the company is also a
potential buyout candidate for a private-equity firm at as much
as $13 a share, 14 percent more than the Jan. 11 closing price.  Chef’s Recipe  In 1937, Vernon Rudolph, a Kentucky-born entrepreneur,
opened a factory in Winston-Salem and began cranking out yeast-
raised doughnuts based on a recipe acquired from a New Orleans
chef. He cut a hole in the factory wall and began selling them
to passers-by. By the late ’90s, the Krispy Kreme glazed
doughnut had become a cultural icon and even starred in a 2002
episode of “Sex and the City.” Today, there are 240 stores in
the U.S. and an additional 490 overseas.  The doughnut seller’s pell-mell expansion caught up with
it, though, and by 2005 the company’s board had ousted its CEO
and several executives amid an accounting scandal. The stock
plummeted, the company was forced to close half its stores and
14 quarters of losses ensued. In early 2008, James Morgan, a
former securities executive, became chief executive officer.  At the time “there was such a cloud over the company,”
said Peter Tourtellot, a founding principal at Anderson Bauman
Tourtellot Vos, a turnaround adviser based in Greensboro,  North
Carolina . “They’ve done a very, very good job in turning that
company around against very adverse conditions.”  U.S. Growth  “There’s still a lot of growth left in the U.S.” for the
doughnut seller, Tourtellot said. “All you’ve got to do is look
at  Dunkin’ Donuts  -- Krispy Kreme can do just as well.”  Morgan has begun pushing the brand beyond its stronghold in
the U.S. Southeast. Last year, Krispy Kreme celebrated its 75th
anniversary with a bus tour dubbed “Glaze the Nation.” The so-
called Krispy Kreme Cruiser, a restored 1960 Flxible Starliner,
doled out doughnuts, t-shirts and other swag across U.S. states
and will continue its circuit this year.  Krispy Kreme also added a digital flourish to its retro
“Hot Now” signs: a “Hot Light” app for smartphones that
alerts customers when the sign is lit at the closest local
store. The app has been downloaded 250,000 times since its debut
in December 2011, according to the company.  The marketing efforts are working. In November, sales rose
8.5 percent in the three months ended Oct. 28 amid stronger
customer traffic and gains selling doughnut mixes and other
ingredients to franchisees.  Growing Room  Sales may rise 8.5 percent to $437.5 million in the fiscal
year ending this month, which would be the highest since fiscal
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s also
larger than the revenue increases forecast for Dunkin’ Brands
and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  in 2012, the data show.  “In the  United States , we clearly have lots of room to
grow,” Morgan said on a conference call Nov. 19.  Krispy Kreme plans to open as many as 10 company and 15
franchised U.S. locations, along with 75 international shops,
this year. The chain has been expanding west and and north and
has recently opened stores in  Arizona  and  New Jersey .  Selling more drinks would help Krispy Kreme expand margin,
said Conrad Lyon, an analyst at B. Riley & Co. in  Los Angeles .
Gross margin for drinks is as much as 85 percent, compared with
about 70 percent for food, Lyon said. While beverages make up
approximately 12 percent of sales, Krispy Kreme has said it can
increase that to at least 20 percent if it sells more coffee.  And for those worried about packing on the pounds from too
many doughnuts, there’s a Krispy Kreme Challenge, where
participants run five miles, gobbling doughnuts mid-race. The
original event in Raleigh, North Carolina, which began in 2004,
has gained such a following that Krispy Kreme races have
proliferated across the nation.  Don’t worry, say the race websites: scarfing down the
doughnuts is completely optional.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  