-- Kulczyk Hires Four Ex-Vattenfall Electricity Traders in Warsaw
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-01-14T12:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/kulczyk-hires-four-ex-vattenfall-electricity-traders-in-warsaw.html
Kulczyk Investments Energy Trading
Polska SA, owned by Polish billionaire Jan Kulczyk, hired four
traders from  Vattenfall  AB after the Nordic region’s biggest
utility cut staff at its unit in Warsaw.  Marek Krzysteczko, the former director of central and
eastern European power trading at Vattenfall, joined Kulczyk
together with three former colleagues, the company said today in
an e-mailed statement. Krzysteczko also joined the board of the
energy-trading unit, which buys and sells power for the group’s
Polish units. They started this month.  “Vattenfall’s trading team is considered one of the best
in central and eastern Europe,” Marta Wysocka-Antonsen, a
spokeswoman for Kulczyk Holding, said in the statement.  Vattenfall Energy Trading  moved its central European
activities to Hamburg from Warsaw last year, cutting staff in
the Polish capital by about 50 percent. The team’s task will be
to increase the company’s activity in  Poland ’s wholesale market
and start trading German, Czech and Slovak electricity in the
coming months, according to the statement.  The four traders have resigned from Vattenfall, Thorsten
Ziegler, a spokesman for its trading unit in Hamburg, said today
by phone. The utility has three traders buying and selling power
in central and eastern Europe, as well as one analyst, and won’t
replace the Kulczyk hires, Ziegler said.  Kulczyk, whose biggest investments include stakes in oil
and gas exploration company  Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc. (KOV)  and brewer
 SABMiller Plc. (SAB) , is also building a coal-fired power plant in
northern Poland. In September, its Polenergia Holding unit
bought a controlling stake in renewable energy developer  Polish
Energy Partners SA. (PEP)   Vattenfall, the state-owned Swedish utility, sold its
Polish power and heating units in 2011 to  Tauron Polska Energia
SA (TPE)  and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  for $2.7
billion as it withdrew from markets including Poland, to focus
on Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  