-- N.Y. City Intends to Appeal Ruling on Police Stop-&-Frisks
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-15T01:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/new-york-appeals-judge-s-ruling-nypd-stop-and-frisks-are-illegal.html
New York  City intends to appeal a
judge’s order blocking the city police practice of stopping
individuals outside privately owned buildings in the Bronx.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan on Jan. 8
ordered the New York Police Department to stop making so-called
“trespass stops” outside buildings enrolled in the city’s
Trespass Affidavit Program, or TAP, in the Bronx, without
reasonable suspicion the people are on the property illegally.
The practice violates the U.S. Constitution, she ruled.  “We are appealing because we believe this decision goes
against well-established case law and the evidence before the
court,” Heidi Grossman, a lawyer for the city. The city will
take the case to the  U.S. Court of Appeals .  The ruling came in one of three federal court challenges to
NYPD “stop and frisk” practices before Scheindlin. The case
was filed last year by a group of black and Latino residents.  TAP, formerly called “Operation Clean Halls,” permits the
police to patrol participating private residential buildings.
Scheindlin found that officers were violating the civil
liberties of residents and visitors by stopping, frisking and
questioning them without sufficient cause to believe they were
trespassing.  New York City  Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said in a
statement that the program is intended to provide extra security
for apartment buildings whose landlords request it.  Scheindlin scheduled a Jan. 31 hearing in the case and said
she will hold a hearing to determine whether to order the police
to adopt a written policy for stopping people on suspicion of
trespass outside TAP buildings, to impose stricter supervision
of the stops, and to order new training for officers.  The case is Ligon v. City of New York, 12-cv-2274, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 