-- Suspected Cases of Gang Rape Show Threat Facing Indian Women
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-14T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/new-suspected-cases-of-gang-rape-show-threat-facing-indian-women.html
Indian police are investigating two
new cases of possible gang rape, including one with parallels to
the assault and murder of a student in New Delhi that sparked a
sustained debate about the lack of safety for women.  In one of the latest incidents, a 29-year-old woman was
attacked as she traveled alone on a bus operating illegally in
the northern state of Punjab, police said. Seven men have been
arrested for raping the woman on Jan. 11, police said. In a
separate case a day later, a woman was found hanging from a tree
half naked in Bihar state. Police suspect she was raped.  “It is a tragedy but at the same time I am not
particularly surprised,” Manpreet Singh Badal, a former finance
minister of Punjab, who has started his own political party,
said in a phone interview today. “Until men fear the law then
these types of crime are going to continue.”  The incidents will put further pressure on the government
and police to crack down on sex crimes after nationwide protests
that were triggered by the brutal gang rape of a 23-year-old
medical student in the national capital last month. The woman,
who was picked up along with a friend after leaving a city
cinema, died two weeks later in a Singapore hospital, leading to
weeks of soul-searching around  India .  In Punjab, the married woman was tricked onto the bus as
she returned from a visit to her husband’s family, Raj Jeet
Singh, senior superintendent for  Gurdaspur  district, said in a
phone interview. As the driver ignored her pleas to be allowed
off the bus, she was driven to a remote location and then raped
throughout the night before being dumped near her village the
next day, Singh said.  Sari Hanging  The case has similarities to the attack in New Delhi where
a man and a woman boarded a bus without knowing it was plying
illegally. In the brutal two-hour assault the woman was
allegedly repeatedly raped by six people on a moving bus before
the couple was thrown onto the roadside near New Delhi’s airport
naked.  Five men charged with the woman’s murder and kidnapping
appeared in court today and received a list of charges in Hindi,
said Manohar Lal Sharma, one of the defense lawyers. The next
hearing will be on Jan. 17, he said. A sixth person charged is
appearing before a juvenile justice board as he’s believed to be
under 18.  In Bihar, a 45-year-old mother of four children was found
hanging from a tree in a mango orchard in  Bhagalpur  district,
senior superintendent K.S. Anupam said by phone. The woman was
hanging by her sari and there is evidence that she was sexually
assaulted and that the attack was carried out by more than one
person, she said.  Rape Capital  Police are investigating why the woman, who was traveling
from the state of West Bengal to New Delhi, got off the train
between stations, Anupam said. There is the possibility that she
thought she had arrived at her destination, she said.  The gang rape of the student in Delhi on Dec. 16 set off a
charged debate about the safety of women in the world’s biggest
democracy. A woman was raped every 22 minutes in India in 2011,
according to the  National Crime Records Bureau . There were 572
cases of rape reported in New Delhi that year, a 23 percent
increase from 2008, the latest bureau data show. The rise may
reflect a greater confidence in reporting assaults.  What has united the nation in collective outrage is the
brutality of the crime, allegations by a male friend of the
victim that it took police 45 minutes to respond to calls, and
comments from politicians and religious figures that appear to
blame women for inviting a growing number of sexual assaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  