-- New York Woman Indicted for Hate Crime in Subway Killing
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-14T21:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/new-york-woman-indicted-for-hate-crime-in-subway-killing.html
A  New York City  woman was indicted
by a state grand jury for murder as a hate crime for pushing a
46-year-old man in front of a subway train last month,
prosecutors said.  The woman, Erika Menendez, 31, was found mentally fit to
stand trial and was indicted on one count of second-degree
murder as a hate crime and two counts of second-degree murder,
Queens District Attorney  Richard Brown  said today in a hearing
before acting Supreme Court Justice  Dorothy Chin-Brandt ,
according to his office.  Menendez, of Rego Park, Queens, was ordered to undergo a
psychiatric evaluation at a court appearance last month, Brown’s
office said in a statement. She faces a life sentence if
convicted.  “The defendant is charged with having been motivated by
hate when she allegedly shoved an innocent man into the path of
an oncoming train,” Brown said. “The violence of the attack
has no place in a civilized society -- and especially in Queens
County, which is proudly known as one of the most diverse
counties in the country.”  Indian Victim  Menendez is accused of pushing Sunando Sen, onto the tracks
of the Sunnyside subway station into the path of a No. 7 train,
according to the statement. Sen, a native of  India  who lived in
Queens and had a printing business in the city, was struck by
the train and died of multiple blunt force trauma.  Menendez admitted pushing Sen when she was arrested and
told the police, “I pushed a Muslim off the train tracks
because I hate Hindus and Muslims ever since 2001 when they put
down the twin towers I’ve been beating them up,” according to
Brown’s statement.  Sen’s was the second subway pushing fatality in December.
Naeem Davis, 30, was charged with two counts of second-degree
murder earlier in the Dec. 3 death of Ki-Suck Han, 58, on the
tracks at the Times Square station, according to the Manhattan
district attorney’s office. The victim was struck by a train and
died later that day.  Defense Lawyer  Steve Raiser, an attorney hired by Menendez’s family,
declined to comment on today’s proceedings, saying he isn’t sure
if he or a lawyer appointed by the court will represent her.  “The issue right now is whether she’s fit to proceed with
her own defense,” Raiser said in a telephone interview.  Joseph F. DeFelice, a court-appointed attorney, said
Menendez indicated that she wants him to represent her.  Menendez was in a “deteriorated mental state” when the
incident happened, and statements she made after being arrested
may not be reliable, he said.  “I don’t see it as a hate crime,” DeFelice said. “She’s
mentally ill.”  Menendez, who is being held without bail, will be arraigned
on Jan. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 