-- News Corp. Wins Control of German Division for $464 Million
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-14T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/news-corp-agrees-to-increase-stake-in-sky-deutschland-to-54-5-.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.
increased its stake in German pay-TV company  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD) 
to a majority, 18 months after giving up a bid to fully acquire
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp., which started investing in Sky Deutschland five
year ago, raised its holding to 54.5 percent from 49.9 percent
by buying new Sky shares for 347.4 million euros ($464 million).
The deal is part of a 1 billion-euro financing package Sky
agreed with News Corp. and lenders to help the pay-TV operator
win more customers, Sky Chief Financial Officer Steven Tomsic
said on a conference call today.  Sky rose as much as 4.9 percent in  Frankfurt  trading. The
stake increase shows that News Corp. hasn’t fully given up its
ambition to create a pan-European broadcaster, even though a
phone-hacking scandal at its British newspaper unit prompted the
New York-based company to drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) bid for the remainder of BSkyB in July 2011. In  Europe ,
Sky also operates in Italy and Austria.  “The market had long anticipated the second leg of equity
financing,” said  Conor O’Shea , a media analyst with Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris. Speculation around a full News Corp.
takeover will increase once the rights issue is complete, O’Shea
said.  Sky will sell 77.9 million new shares at 4.46 euros each to
News Corp. unit News Adelaide, Munich-based Sky said. After the
stock sale, Sky will hold a rights issue for all shareholders to
raise an additional 90.6 million euros. The subscription price
will be set “close to” and not more than 4.46 euros a share.  Best Performers  Sky rose 1.9 percent to to 4.69 euros at the close in
Frankfurt. The stock was the best performer in the 27-company
Bloomberg Europe 500 Media Index last year, having almost
tripled.  News Corp. (NWSA)  declined less than 1 percent to $26.80 at
the close in  New York .  Sky agreed with banks led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over 300
million-euro five-year credit facilities that are guaranteed by
News Corp. Also in the syndicate are Bank of America Merrill
Lynch,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   News Corp. also holds bonds that can be converted into 53.9
million Sky shares, equivalent to a 6.9 percent stake, at a
price of 3.053 euros a share.  “News Corp.’s continued investment underscores the value
we see in Sky Deutschland and the significant market
opportunities it faces, and reflects our confidence in its
management team and their strategies for growth,”  News Corp.
Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey said in a statement.  Soccer Rights  Sky Chief Executive Officer  Brian Sullivan  is hoping to
attract higher-paying subscribers with higher-resolution
broadcasts and an expanded lineup of shows to help Sky reach its
profit target. The company’s number of subscribers jumped 12
percent to 3.36 million last year, he said on a conference call.
Sky also confirmed today it will be profitable, based on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
for the full year 2013.  The company has concluded partnership with  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA) ’s German cable provider Unitymedia KabelBW and Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG to reach more customers. This month, it
agreed with Deutsche Telekom AG to sell Sky channels including
Germany’s Bundesliga soccer matches and UEFA Champions League
games to the phone company’s Entertain TV clients.  News Corp. will guarantee half of the annual license fee
Sky has to pay to be able to show matches of the the Bundesliga
soccer league through the 2016-2017 season, Sky said. Sky last
year beat rivals including Deutsche Telekom over the rights,
paying 485.7 million euros per season.  Tax Losses  The increase to majority control may also affect how News
Corp. can treat some tax losses at Sky. Sky said in November
that it was told by tax authorities that it may retain previous
tax losses in the event of a change in its ownership structure.
The tax loss carried forward totaled 2.3 billion euros on Sept.
30, of which 2.1 billion euros were from the German operating
business.  The amount to be retained won’t be known for another 12
months, when Sky files financial reports for 2013, CFO Tomsic
said today.  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch advised Sky on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  