-- Nice Gains on Report of Verint Acquisition Talks: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-14T14:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/nice-gains-on-report-of-verint-acquisition-talks-tel-aviv-mover.html
Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE)  advanced to the
highest level in almost six months after Calcalist said the
Israeli maker of analytical telecommunications products is in
talks to buy competitor  Verint Systems Inc. (VRNT)   The shares of Nice gained 6.5 percent to 139.1 shekels, the
highest since July 31, at the market close in Tel Aviv, bringing
the company’s market value to 8.53 billion shekels. Nice,
trading 3.9 times the three-month average daily volume, led the
benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  index which gained 0.1 percent.  The two companies have been holding talks for more than a
month, the newspaper reported on its website without saying
where it got the information. Nice, based in Ra’anana,  Israel ,
would buy Verint at a 25 percent premium to its U.S. share price
in exchange for cash and shares, the paper said. The joint
company would be valued at $4 billion, it reported. Verint
shares surged 8.4 percent to $34.129 at 9:37 a.m. in New York.  Melville, New York-based Verint, a maker of analytic
solutions of communications, interception, digital video
security and surveillance software, has a market value of $1.26
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nice makes
solutions that manage and analyze multimedia content and
transactional data, such as telephony, web, radio and video
communications.  “The deal makes sense because of synergies between the
companies, which operate in parallel sectors and complement each
other,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot
Investment House Ltd., said today by phone from Tel Aviv. “This
merger has been speculated upon already for many years as Verint
appears to be a natural target. The question is if the U.S.
regulators would approve such a deal since they are the two
major players in the important security sector.”  ‘Always Speculation’  “There has always been speculation on this subject and as
always the company does not comment on speculation,” Hanna
Yonai, a spokeswoman for Nice said today by phone.  Nice acquired Actimize Ltd., a maker of fraud-detection
software, for $280 million in 2007 and revenue growth is
expected to be driven by companies looking to analyze client
interactions, according to UBS AG.  Comverse Technology (CMVT)  owns a  41 percent stake  in Verint,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  