-- Nissan’s Infiniti Begins Luxury Push With Q50 Sedan
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-01-14T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/nissan-s-infiniti-begins-luxury-push-with-q50-sedan.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Infiniti, lagging
larger German, Japanese and U.S. luxury brands, is replacing the
G sedan with the Q50 sports car as the company links growth
goals for its rechristened lineup to better looks and
technology.  The 2014 Q50 will be available as a 3.7-liter V-6 engine
car and as a hybrid-electric, 3.5-liter engine model, Infiniti
said today at the North American International Auto Show in
Detroit. Along with a more “sculpted” exterior the car has
automatic systems to aid steering for better handling and also
prevent lane swerving, Infiniti said.  Nissan’s Hong Kong-based luxury brand last month said it
would revamp model names this year -- Q for cars, QX for light
trucks -- as part of a growth push in the U.S. and  China . In
U.S. luxury-vehicle sales, Infiniti ranks seventh, trailing
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW, Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura,  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi last year.  “Infiniti has been around since 1989, and it’s been a
largely U.S.-centric brand,” Johan de Nysschen, Infiniti’s
president, told reporters in Detroit late yesterday. “On the
one hand this gives us wonderful opportunity, and on the other
it also holds us back. If we want to be a major player in the
global stakes, we have to be more successful in other global
markets.”  Infiniti sales grew 22 percent to 119,877 last year, less
than half the U.S. volume reported by BMW, Mercedes and  Lexus .
Model renaming is to be completed in the 2014 model year.  Audi Hire  Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Yokohama, Japan-
based Nissan, hired long-time Audi executive de Nysschen last
year to revamp Infiniti and boost global sales of the brand to
500,000 vehicles annually. Worldwide sales were less than
200,000 in 2012, de Nysschen said.  Q50 and other new models will lift U.S. deliveries further
in 2013, Ben Poore, head of U.S. Infiniti sales said late
yesterday, without elaborating.  Nissan moved Infiniti’s global operations to Hong Kong in
May and plans to produce Infiniti vehicles in China in 2014.
Annual sales in China, the biggest growth market for Infiniti,
should reach 200,000 units by the end of the decade, de Nysschen
said.  Last month, Infiniti became a separate corporate unit with
Nissan, he said. To boost the appeal of its products in China
and  Europe , Infiniti will also be adding more high-output, small
engines for its vehicles, hybrid systems and other powertrains,
he said, without elaborating.  Executive’s Vision  “My vision for Infiniti is to establish the company as a
fully accredited member of the club of premium auto brands in
the world,” de Nysschen said. “I don’t know whether that takes
10 years, 15 years or 20 years.”  Nissan’s emphasis on increasing Infiniti sales relates to
the higher profit margins luxury cars generate.  “The premium brands account for about 12 percent of global
sales worldwide, but almost 50 percent of industry profits,” de
Nysschen said.  The brand planned to use a performance by Cirque du Soleil
acrobats to debut the sculpted Q50 today in  Detroit . U.S. sales
begin in mid-2013, the company said, without giving prices.  The current G sedan and coupe models are the brand’s top
sellers in the U.S., with a combined 59,844 sales last year,
almost half of Infiniti’s U.S. 2012 deliveries.  Other name changes including the current G Coupe becoming
the Q60 and the M sedan rechristened the Q70, Infiniti said last
month. Among the brand’s crossovers, the JX becomes the QX60;
the EX will be the QX50; the FX is to be the QX70; and the full-
sized QX sport-utility vehicle will be the QX80.  U.S. headquarters for Nissan and Infiniti are in Franklin,
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Detroit at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  