-- Nortel Creditors Start Mediation on Splitting $9 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-14T19:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/nortel-creditors-start-mediation-on-splitting-9-billion.html
Creditors of  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,
the telecommunications company being liquidated in bankruptcy,
gathered in Toronto to try for the third time to agree on how to
split $9 billion in cash.  The weeklong mediation pits Nortel’s Canadian and U.S.
entities, and their creditors, against the company’s European
units and their creditors, who include retirees fighting to
retain pensions. About 100 lawyers and financial advisers met
briefly today at a hotel in downtown Toronto before breaking up
for separate negotiating sessions, Peter Rehak, a spokesman for
the Canadian judge overseeing the mediation, said in an e-mail.  The groups are fighting over a shrinking pile of cash that
won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel and its units. The
Canadian creditors alone have filed more than $36 billion in
claims, according to a status report filed in a Toronto court in
October.  Without a mediated end to the disputes, court fights could
break out in  Canada , the U.S., the U.K. and  France  with
conflicting rulings by different judges, according to the
mediator, Ontario Chief Justice Warren K. Winkler.  “This would be a catastrophic outcome,” Winkler wrote in
April, when the current mediation effort started. The first two
mediations efforts failed.  Separate Courts  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in Toronto,  Delaware , the U.K. and France in 2009, with various
units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under
the jurisdiction of different courts.  The Canadian and U.S. units have generally worked closely
together, with the U.S. company liquidating Nortel’s most
valuable assets. Those sales have generated about $9 billion to
go with about $1.2 billion the company has from other sources.  The European units were placed under the control of court-
appointed administrators. In 2011, those administrators filed a
claim in the  U.S. bankruptcy court , alleging that the parent
company and the U.S. unit had siphoned money away from the
European units for years, leaving them unable to pay pensioners
and other creditors. The administrators have demanded about $10
billion.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  