-- Norway Needs Power Cables to Boost Hydro, Statkraft Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-01-14T10:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/norway-needs-new-power-cables-to-boost-hydro-statkraft-ceo-says.html
Norway  needs new power cables to
allow it to double installed capacity in its hydropower plants,
 Europe ’s largest, and boost electricity exports to the region,
according to Statkraft SF.  Installing more turbines would allow Norway to increase
output from its water reservoirs at times of higher-than-usual
demand, Christian Rynning-Toennesen, chief executive officer of
Norway’s biggest power producer, said Jan. 11 by e-mail from
Oslo. The Nordic nation needs to build links to  Germany  and the
U.K. to make the investments viable, he said.  Norway, which gets 99 percent of its electricity by running
water through turbines, last year boosted power exports to a
record. Increased shipments may help Germany, the region’s
biggest market, to avoid jumps in prices as it seeks to increase
generation from  wind turbines  and solar plants that is subject
to fickle weather conditions.  “Insufficient grid capacity is the challenge, not the cost
of installing more hydropower turbine capacity,” Rynning-
Toennesen said. “The available amount of water will remain the
same, so we won’t produce higher power volumes in absolute
terms, but we’ll generate more electricity in periods of high
demand.”  The Nordic nation produced a record 146 terawatt-hours of
electricity last year and exported 18 terawatt-hours, the
highest in 12 years, Energy Norway, the country’s power industry
association,  said  on Jan. 9. Exports were enough to meet almost
12 days of average consumption in Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy, according to data from the Bundesverband der Energie-
und Wasserwirtschaft, a utility lobby.  Pumped Storage  It is viable to increase production capability at
Statkraft’s 142 hydropower plants with a current installed
capacity of 10,574 megawatts over the next 10 to 20 years,
according to the company, Rynning-Toennesen said.  Norway has 29,000 megawatts of installed hydropower
capacity, according to the country’s water and energy
directorate NVE. Generating capability at existing plants could
be boosted by 5,000 to 10,000 megawatts, while a further 10,000
to 20,000 megawatts could be harnessed from  pumped storage 
facilities, according to Statkraft.  Pumped storage plants use low-cost off-peak electricity to
ship water from a lower reservoir to a higher elevation,
releasing it for production during periods of high power demand,
resulting in bigger income for the generator.  “When the wind blows on the  North Sea  we can use cheap
electricity to pump the water back up again, and save it until
there is greater demand for it,” Rynning-Toennesen said.  ‘Win-win’  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is replacing 17
reactors that supplied about a fifth of Germany’s power with
solar, wind and coal capacity following the 2011 nuclear
disaster in Fukushima,  Japan . Germany is also trying to meet a
European Union target to get 35 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020, from 23 percent last year.  “I see a win-win situation for both countries really,
since Norway could save its reservoirs by importing electricity
from renewables in Germany at times when they cannot be fully
consumed, and export the energy back to Germany when there is no
wind,” Carsten Rolle,  executive director  at the Federation of
German Industries, said on Jan. 11 by e-mail from Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  