-- NYC Comptroller Liu Shrugs Off Legal Cloud Before Mayoral Bid
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-14T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/nyc-comptroller-liu-shrugs-off-legal-cloud-before-mayoral-bid.html
New York  City Comptroller  John Liu 
stood in a Chinatown banquet hall last week surrounded by
hundreds of guests who paid $100 each to celebrate his 46th
birthday. There were platters of noodles, balloons and enough
American flag-themed cake to feed the entire room.  Liu, who has made no secret of his plans to enter the
Democratic primary for mayor, drew cheers when he promised to
“make an announcement soon.” To more applause he said, “I’m
ready to win this campaign.”  He didn’t mention the trial next month of two of his top
fundraisers on federal election-fraud charges. They have pleaded
innocent, and Liu denies wrongdoing. That hasn’t stopped
speculation -- even from Liu himself -- about the consequences
should the trial end with allegations implicating him. In
quieter moments, he shares his anxiety.  “I don’t think anybody would like a Sword of Damocles
hanging over their head,” he said in an interview last month.
“That doesn’t mean you quit or switch tracks when it has
nothing to do with what you’ve done.”  Liu assumed office as comptroller in 2010 after serving two
terms on the City Council. As comptroller, he’s New York’s chief
financial officer, responsible for reviewing contracts,
overseeing public-worker pension funds and auditing agencies.  He was 5 years old when his parents arrived in the U.S.
from  Taiwan  and settled in Flushing, Queens, where more Chinese
live than in  Manhattan ’s Chinatown. Emulating one of America’s
political family dynasties, his father named him and his two
brothers after John, Robert and  Edward Kennedy .  First Asian  Liu became the first Asian elected citywide in the most
populous U.S. metropolis. He accomplished the feat through the
traditional Democratic coalition of minorities and labor unions,
with help from Harlem-based campaign consultant Bill Lynch,
architect of David Dinkins’ historic 1989 election as New York’s
first black mayor.  “No one thought Liu had a chance in hell of winning that
race,” Lynch said in an interview.  Liu’s path to victory starts with voters of Asian descent,
who could make up more than 10 percent of the total Democratic
primary vote, Lynch said.  “He’s always been there on issues that affect Hispanic
and African-American voters, and he best articulates the views
of New York’s progressive voters,” Lynch said.  Busy Saturday  His Saturday, Nov. 30 itinerary already showed a campaign-
style schedule: a fundraiser to support a park in Queens; a
Chinatown street fair; lunch with senior citizens; a community
group’s meeting with state legislators; an NAACP dinner dance, a
Christmas tree lighting with Italian-Americans in the Bronx; a
party sponsored by Indonesian Christians and a dinner
celebrating the anniversary of the Queens Taiwanese community.  “My understanding of government and politics is from
junior high school,” said Liu, a former insurance actuary.
“Very basic: equal opportunity, fair treatment. I’ve always
been a math and science guy.”  On Dec. 20, Liu tried out his campaign themes inside a
packed auditorium at Manhattan’s John Jay College, where he
presented what he called his  State of the City  address. It
featured performances by a violinist, an interpretive dance
group and a choir from a Queens elementary school where Liu was
valedictorian.  He proposed raising the hourly  minimum wage  to $11.50 from
$7.25; free tuition at  City University  of New York for high
school students graduating in the top 10 percent; an end to
subsidies for large corporations; tax cuts for small businesses
and tax increases for the richest 1 percent.  Saving Money  He called for a ban on semi-automatic assault weapons and
for the end of stop-and-frisk practices by police affecting
hundreds of thousands of mostly minority youths.  In the interview, Liu touted his role in stopping cost-
overruns, including payments to  Science Applications
International Corp. (SAI)  on CityTime, a project to overhaul New
York’s payroll system, which ended in March with the company
paying the city $466 million as part of a settlement with
federal prosecutors who accused the company of failing to
investigate accusations of fraud and overbilling.  “I’ve saved a ton of money,” Liu said when asked to name
his main accomplishment.  Liu’s self-described achievements include enlisting Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s support to take advantage of historically
low  interest rates  and borrow $1 billion to create jobs
financing construction and repair of infrastructure and schools.  Bloomberg Counterpoint  The comptroller has also been a counterpoint to Bloomberg.
Last month he assembled a group of people in wheelchairs as he
rejected Bloomberg’s choice of a Nissan Motor Co. cab as the
city’s official taxi on grounds that it didn’t allow access by
disabled passengers, even though Bloomberg has legal authority
to overrule him. The mayor, who is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from
seeking a fourth term.  “He built a massive business empire and I admire the guy
for that,” Liu said. “But I think a city has to be run
differently than ‘it’s my way or the highway.’”  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for the mayor, declined to
comment on Liu’s remarks.  In November, Liu proposed a “Green Apple Bond” program to
finance and accelerate what is now a 12-year plan to replace
school lighting containing cancer-causing PCBs. The more-
efficient, less-expensive fixtures would pay the debt service,
he said. The mayor hasn’t embraced that idea.  Union Praise  “He’s done an outstanding job,” said Michael Mulgrew,
president of the 200,000-member  United Federation of Teachers ,
who hasn’t endorsed a mayoral candidate. “He proposes ideas to
solve real problems.”  Liu boasts that he’s managed the city’s five pension funds
and their $126 billion in assets more transparently,
broadcasting portions of investment meetings on the Internet.
Investment decisions are rarely disclosed.  He has used pension fund stock holdings to press
corporations to disclose political contributions and diversify
the racial and gender composition of their workforces.  The five funds produced a combined 1.37 percent return for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012, according to the city’s
 Comprehensive Annual Report . The median public pension with more
than $5 billion returned 1.15 percent, according to  Wilshire
Associates . City pensions returned 23.2 percent the previous
fiscal year, compared with 22.2 percent for the median fund.  Polling Fourth  Liu placed fourth in a Nov. 21  Quinnipiac University poll ,
receiving 5 percent of Democratic voters. City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn led with 32 percent; former City Comptroller
 William Thompson  had 10 percent; Public Advocate Bill de Blasio,
9 percent; and 4 percent backed Manhattan Borough President
Scott Stringer, who decided against a mayoral run in favor of
seeking Liu’s current job. Forty percent remained undecided.  The primary, scheduled for Sept. 10, requires the winner to
get more than 40 percent of the vote or face a run-off against
the candidate with the second-most votes.  The election’s unpredictability is compounded by the
unknown outcome of next month’s trials involving two of Liu’s
fundraisers, said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political
consultant.  “John Liu can win this thing,” Sheinkopf said in a Dec.
13 interview. “He will portray himself as the outer-borough
candidate who stood up to the Manhattan power elites and gave
voice to the disenfranchised.”  Fraud Allegations  Federal prosecutors accuse Xing Wu “Oliver” Pan, 48, a
Liu fundraiser, and Jia “Jenny” Hou, his 26-year-old campaign
treasurer, of soliciting thousands of dollars from secret
contributors, then dividing the money into smaller amounts
credited to phony or straw donors to obtain matching public
campaign funds.  Pan’s case is built on a $16,000 donation passed to him
from an undercover FBI agent, according to court papers. Hou’s
case stems from telephone text messages with a former boyfriend
suggesting, then canceling, a request for a donation, the
government said. The federal complaints contain no evidence
implicating Liu.  “There were months of wiretaps, and all one hears is John
Liu spending considerable time trying to raise money legally,”
said Paul Shechtman, Liu’s attorney.  Late yesterday, Liu’s campaign reported that he raised
$522,000 from 2,052 contributions in the six months through Jan.
11, giving him $2 million cash on hand. Under the city’s
campaign-finance program, Liu is eligible to apply for $3
million in public matching funds, campaign officials said.  The pending trial didn’t stop Liu from celebrating his
birthday with music, laughs and cheers. Although the candidate
warned his supporters to expect “lots of insinuations, lots of
allegations” in coming months, Liu’s takeaway from the event
included more than $100,000 from 843 attendees.  “A year ago they said I was done, finished, kaput, because
how could I raise any funds?” Liu said three weeks before the
party. “The reality is I expect to be fully funded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  