-- Obama Says He’s Reviewing Proposals to Reduce Gun Violence
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-14T17:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/obama-says-he-s-reviewing-proposals-to-reduce-gun-violence.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
reviewing a list of proposals to reduce gun violence and plans
to begin unveiling the specifics of his plan later this week.  “We’re going to have to come up with answers that set
politics aside,” he said at a White House news conference
today. “And that’s what I expect Congress to do.”  Obama listed strengthening background checks, banning
assault weapons and limits on high-capacity ammunition magazines
as initiatives that “make sense.”  Obama pushed reducing gun violence to the top of his
domestic agenda for his second term, following the Dec. 14
shooting of 20 children and six women at an elementary school in
Newtown,  Connecticut . Vice President  Joe Biden , who is heading
up an administration-wide anti-gun violence task force, said
last week he’d deliver recommendations to Obama by tomorrow.  At his news conference today, the president said the U.S.
public supports “common sense” limits on firearms and that any
measures he takes won’t infringe on the rights of gun owners. He
accused opponents of gun control of “ginning up fear” over
possible measures his administration might take in order to sell
more weapons.  “Responsible gun owners, people who have a gun for
protection, for hunting, for sportsmanship, they don’t have
anything to worry about,” Obama said.  Still, he alluded to the political difficulties of getting
his proposals passed by a Republican-controlled House during
this term.  “Will all of them get through this Congress?” he said.
“I don’t know.”  Biden and his advisers have signaled that the White House
intends to push a package of proposals that includes expanding
background checks, limiting high-capacity ammunition magazines,
and a renewal of the 1994 assault-weapons ban.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  