-- Lockhart Says Fed Balance Sheet Expansion Raises Concern
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-14T20:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/lockhart-says-fed-balance-sheet-expansion-raises-concern.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said while he’s supported the central
bank’s open-ended bond purchases so far, further expansion of a
record stimulus could complicate the eventual shrinking of the
balance sheet.  “Open-ended does not mean without bound,” Lockhart said
in a speech in Atlanta. “I do think the growth of the Fed’s
balance sheet could have longer-term consequences that are
worrisome. While I’ve supported these policy decisions to date,
I acknowledge legitimate concerns.”  The Atlanta Fed leader supported the Federal Open Market
Committee decision in December to add $45 billion in Treasury
purchases per month to the central bank’s mortgage-bond buying
of $40 billion a month. Policy makers are discussing how long
they will keep buying bonds as part of efforts to boost growth
and bring down a 7.8 percent  unemployment rate .  The Fed last month linked its interest-rate outlook to
economic thresholds, saying borrowing costs will stay low “at
least as long” as joblessness exceeds 6.5 percent and if
projected inflation won’t go beyond 2.5 percent one or two years
in the future.  Adverse Effects  “There is a risk, given the Fed’s cumulative share of the
Treasury and MBS markets, that at some point securities
purchases could have adverse effects on market functioning and
financial stability,” Lockhart said to the Rotary Club of
Atlanta. In addition, as rates rise, “the Federal Reserve’s net
income and its remittances to the Treasury could be
significantly affected during the period of policy
normalization.”  Lockhart told reporters after his speech he didn’t see any
new threats to financial stability, though “there has been some
discussion” by other Fed officials of surging farmland prices.  “On my radar screen I see no immediate threats,” he said.
“The concern I expressed in my speech is admittedly a more
abstract one and a more visceral one. It is longer term. That
is, how far can you take the balance sheet before you invite
problems that are hard to pinpoint today?”  Lockhart, giving his annual forecast, predicted “growth in
the range of 2 to 2.5 percent” and said at the current pace of
 job creation , it could take “almost three years to reach an
unemployment rate of 6.5 percent.”  Inflation Target  The Atlanta Fed chief told reporters he expects inflation
“a little below the FOMC’s target” of 2 percent this year. “I
do think we will make some progress” in lowering the
unemployment rate, he said.  The housing sector will “continue to improve” this year
and rising prices have bolstered confidence, Lockhart told his
audience in response to questions. “The  auto industry  will
continue to have a good year” because of an aging fleet of cars
that must be replaced over time, he said.  The Atlanta Fed president spent much of his speech urging
Congress and the president to take actions to give clarity to
the outlook for U.S. fiscal policy. That would result in greater
investment and hiring by business, he said.  “The tools of monetary policy remain at work in support of
continued recovery and an acceleration of growth and hiring,”
Lockhart said. “But monetary policy simply cannot offset the
effects of failing to resolve today’s fiscal crisis.”  Lockhart has been overly optimistic in his forecasts made
to the Atlanta Rotary in January in each of the past two years.
He forecast 2.5 percent to 3.0 percent growth in 2012, while
growth averaged 2.1 percent in the first three quarters. A year
earlier, he forecast 2011 growth would exceed that of 2010, when
instead the expansion lost steam.  U.S. Economy  The  U.S. economy  may expand at a 2 percent pace in 2013
after a 2.3 percent gain last year, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month.  Lockhart, who has never dissented from an FOMC decision,
doesn’t vote on the policy-making body this year.  A former
Georgetown University professor, Lockhart has led the Atlanta
Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes  Alabama ,
 Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and
 Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  