-- Hogan Lovells, White & Case, McDermott: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-14T12:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hogan-lovells-white-case-mcdermott-business-of-law.html
Two lawyers who shared leadership of
UnitedHealth Group’s legal department are rejoining  Hogan
Lovells  LLP in  Minneapolis , where the law firm plans to open a
new office.  Corporate lawyer Christopher J. Walsh was executive vice
president and general counsel as well as executive vice
president and chief legal officer of Optum, the company’s
health-services businesses.  Mitchell E. Zamoff served as executive vice president and
general counsel and executive vice president and chief legal
officer for UnitedHealthcare, the company’s health-benefits
businesses.  As co-leader of the company’s legal department, Zamoff was
responsible primarily for government and internal
investigations, litigation, and compliance and regulatory
matters. Walsh was responsible primarily for Securities and
Exchange Commission reporting, mergers and acquisitions,
corporate governance, capital markets and employment, the firm
said. They led the UHG legal department during the debate over
health-care reform and the passage of the Affordable Care Act.  Walsh, who was a partner in the Denver office of
predecessor firm Hogan & Hartson from 2000 to 2007, joins the
corporate practice group. Zamoff was a partner in the  Washington 
office and formerly director of the litigation practice group
and deputy chairman of the firm’s white-collar and government
investigations group. He joins the litigation, arbitration and
employment practice group. In addition,  Norm Coleman , a
Minnesota senator from 2003 to 2009, currently in the Washington
office, will also be resident in the new Minneapolis office.  “We are focused on Minneapolis because it is a dynamic
market, and home to more than a dozen Fortune 500 companies as
well as several of our largest clients,” the firm said in an e-
mail. “While we don’t yet have an office in the city, we are
exploring space and expect to secure a more permanent location
in the coming months.”  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,400 lawyers in more than 40
offices.  SNR Partner Richardson Appointed to Los Angeles Superior Court  Former SNR Denton LLP litigation partner Tony L. Richardson
was appointed to the Los Angeles County Superior Court.
Richardson was sworn in on Dec. 31.  Richardson was a litigation and arbitration partner in SNR
Denton’s Los Angeles office. He was in private practice for more
than 25 years following a clerkship for U.S. District Judge
David W. Williams.  SNR Denton voted to combine with international law firm
Salans and Canadian law firm Fraser Milner Casgrain to create
Dentons, an international law firm with more than 2,500 lawyers
and professionals in 79 locations in 52 countries. The new firm
will start in the first quarter of 2013.  Jackson Lewis Names Valentino Managing Partner in Long Island  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that Christopher M. Valentino
assumed the role of  Long Island  office managing partner,
succeeding Mark L. Sussman. Sussman will maintain his legal
practice as a partner in the Long Island office and continue to
represent employers in employment and labor matters.  Valentino joined Jackson Lewis in September 2000 as an
associate. He has represented companies in traditional labor,
equal employment opportunity, employment litigation and related
matters. He also counsels clients in the development and
implementation of preventive labor and employee relations
programs.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys practicing in 49 U.S.
locations.  Moves  White & Case  Hires in  Europe : International Partner Round-Up  White & Case LLP added to its global mining and metals
industry group and global financial restructuring and insolvency
practice with the appointment of two new partners in Europe. In
 London , Rebecca Campbell joins the mining and metals group from
global resources company  BHP Billiton  where she was in-house
counsel and responsible for acquisitions, dispositions and joint
ventures in the Northern Hemisphere. Celine Domenget-Morin joins
the restructuring and insolvency practice in Paris, where she
will lead the group alongside partners Philippe Metais and
Raphael Richard. Domenget-Morin was a financial analyst at
Lazard before joining the firm.  Also in London, Ashurst LLP hired Derwin Jenkinson as
partner in the securities and derivatives group. He was
previously at Clifford Chance LLP where he advised on  capital
markets  and structured-debt products, with a focus
infrastructure sector transactions, the firm said.  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired Matthias Kampshoff as a
partner in the restructuring and insolvency practice, based in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . Kampshoff, who joins from Taylor Wessing,
counsels clients on corporate and bankruptcy-law related issues,
and specializes in the energy, pharmaceutical and automotive
sectors, the firm said.  International arbitration lawyer Yu Jin Tay is joining DLA
Piper LLP as a partner this month. Yu Jin, who was responsible
for leading Shearman & Sterling LLP’s international arbitration
practice in  Asia , joins DLA Piper’s Asia Pacific litigation and
regulatory practice and will be based in the firm’s Singapore
office.  Movie Lawyer Moves to Katten, IP at Fish: U.S. Partner Moves  Former Columbia Tri-Star Motion Picture Cos. President Fred Bernstein joined Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP as a partner in the
entertainment and media practice. He was head of Edwards Wildman
Palmer LLP’s Los Angeles office, according to a recent firm
biography, and a partner at Proskauer Rose LLP. In his former
position at Columbia, he oversaw the business and operations of
 Columbia Pictures , TriStar Pictures,  Sony Pictures Classics ,
Sony Pictures Releasing and Columbia TriStar Film Distributors
International, Katten said in a statement.  Fish & Richardson PC announced that R. David Hosp and Mark S. Puzella, previously partners at Goodwin Procter LLP, joined
the firm’s Boston office as principals in the IP litigation
group. Among their clients are Aereo Inc., Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt Publishing Co., New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.,
Monotype Imaging Inc., and Iconics Inc. They recently served as
lead counsel for the copyright litigation suit brought by the
major television networks over technology that enables consumers
to access over-the-air television broadcast signals, make copies
of the programming, and watch it anytime on Internet-enabled
devices, the firm said.  Pryor Cashman LLP hired Avram E. Morell, former special
immigration counsel at Proskauer Rose LLP, as a partner in the
immigration group in  New York . Morell brings with him an
associate and a paralegal, the firm said.  The  Dallas  office of K&L Gates LLP hired Mary R. Korby and
T. Gregory Jackson as partners in the firm’s corporate and
commercial disputes practices. Korby joins the firm from Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP. Jackson arrives from Geary, Porter &
Donovan PC.  Also in Dallas, retired appellate Justice Joseph B. Morris,
who sat on the Dallas 5th District Court of Appeals from 1992
until his retirement in December, has joined Hankinson LLP as of
counsel.  John P. Englert, formerly of K&L Gates, has joined Saul
Ewing LLP’s Pittsburgh office as a partner in the energy,
environment and utilities department.  News  Google Didn’t Lobby White House Over FTC Case, Lawyer Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  didn’t lobby the White House to persuade the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission to close its antitrust case, a
lawyer for the world’s biggest search-engine operator said,
countering suggestions by a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  lawyer that
political influence had played a role.  “I am completely confident that there was no request that
the White House intervene with the FTC,” the lawyer, Jonathan Jacobson of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, said during an
American Bar Association panel discussion of the case Jan. 11 in
Washington in response to a question from the audience.  The FTC voted 5-0 on Jan. 3 to close its 20-month
investigation into whether  Mountain View , California-based
Google unfairly skewed its search results. The company said it
would voluntarily remove restrictions on the use of its online
search-advertising platform and offer companies the option of
keeping their content out of Google’s search results.  The decision to close the probe without any enforcement
action was a blow to competitors including Microsoft,  Yelp Inc. (YELP) 
and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  An alliance of such e-commerce and Web-search
companies pressed the agency to bring a lawsuit, claiming
Google’s dominance of Internet search, combined with the company
favoring its own services in answers to consumer queries,
violated antitrust laws.  Charles “Rick” Rule, a lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham &
Taft LLP who represents Microsoft, said during the discussion
Jan. 11 that the decision, including the FTC’s “unprecedented
and extraordinary reliance on unilateral commitments,” was “so
inconsistent with antitrust precedent that it raises questions”
about whether political influence was a consideration.  Rule, who said Congress should consider looking at the
decision, also called on the antitrust division of the U.S.
 Justice Department  to “pick up the job of investigating
Google.” The Justice Department prosecuted a monopoly case
against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft in 1998.  Former FTC Commissioner Tom Rosch, who voted with the other
four commissioners to close the probe without taking action on
the search-bias allegations, said during the panel discussion
that he “was not contacted or lobbied by the White House or
lobbyists.” Rosch left the FTC Jan. 11 upon the swearing-in of
his successor, Joshua Wright.  For more, click here.  McDermott Partner on Private Equity’s Carried Interest  The preferential tax rates that private-equity managers pay
on some profits survived Congress’s Jan. 1 budget deal. That
victory may not last.  “It’s still alive,” said Andrea Whiteway, a partner at
Chicago-based McDermott Will & Emery LLP who works in
Washington. “Carried interest is still an issue that’s on the
table as far as possible revenue raisers, loophole closers.”  For private-equity managers, changes in the tax treatment
of so-called carried interest may affect them more than tax
increases now on the books. Congress faces a series of deadlines
in the next few months over spending cuts, the debt ceiling and
the annual budget. Democrats including President  Barack Obama 
want to raise more revenue, and carried interest is an obvious
candidate.  The share of profits in buyout deals, known as carried
interest, is often taxed as  capital gains , which receive
preferential rates under the  tax  code compared to levies on
wages. In the budget deal, lawmakers increased the top rate on
long-term capital gains to 20 percent from 15 percent and the
maximum rate on ordinary income to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.  The big rate differential between capital gains and
ordinary income makes it likely that carried interest could lose
its tax treatment, said Whiteway, who heads the practice dealing
with partnerships for the McDermott law firm.  People who receive carried interest are still bracing for
changes, said  Jim Brown , partner in the tax group at Willkie
Farr & Gallagher LLP in New York.  “They fear that it is on the table and they’re hopeful
that it won’t come to pass,” said Brown, who specializes in the
interests of investors and funds. “I would expect it would be
part of the negotiations of any tax reform effort.”  For more, click here.  Video  Above The Law’s Lat: Law Firms Must Get Big, Profitable or Lost  David Lat, founding editor of Above the Law, speaks with
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the prospects for big law
firms in 2013.  While Lat sees many challenges in the  U.S. economy , he is
cautiously optimistic that the industry is turning a corner. Lat
also talks about the recent spate of merger activity among large
law firms and whether the trend will continue through 2013.  Terminal Users: Click here to play now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  