-- Oil Industry Beats Buffett in Railroad Investments Surge: Energy
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-14T21:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/oil-industry-beats-buffett-in-railroad-investments-surge-energy.html
North American energy companies are
starting to invest more in railroad terminals than the railroads
themselves.  A group of oil and natural gas pipeline operators led by
 Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  announced plans just in the past
three months to spend about $1 billion on rail depot projects to
help move more crude from inland fields to refineries on the
coasts.  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC, the
largest U.S. railroad, spent $400 million on terminals in 2012.  For the first time, energy companies that traditionally
rented rail capacity are buying the assets because swelling
output from Alberta’s oil sands and shale fields in North
Dakota’s Bakken region and Eagle Ford in Texas has overwhelmed
pipelines. Producers and refiners such as  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  and
Irving Oil Corp. say they’ll turn even more to rail to get
domestically pumped crude to the highest-paying refineries.  “If a refiner in Philadelphia is paying $110 for Nigerian
crude and could replace it with cheap Bakken crude, they’ll be
willing to pay up to $109.99 to replace that,” said  Bradley Olsen , an analyst with Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston.  With domestic crude at least 20 percent cheaper than
imports, the profit potential is obvious.  Refiners on the coast pay prices linked to Brent, the
benchmark grade for more than half the world’s oil. Brent
futures averaged $110.13 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  during the fourth quarter, while the U.S. benchmark
grade, West Texas Intermediate, averaged $88.23.  Record Discount  Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands crude,
averaged $61.23 on the  spot market  in the fourth quarter, down
as much as $42.50 below WTI in December, a record discount.  More than 200,000 train cars of oil will be shipped in
2012, the most since World War II, according to forecasts from
the  American Association  of Railroads. About 1 million barrels a
day of rail-unloading capacity is being built in the U.S., Olsen
wrote in a note. That’s more than double the current level of
shipments, which averaged about 456,000 barrels a day in the
third quarter, according to the Railroad Association.  Burlington Northern, which handles about 35 percent of U.S.
oil shipments, itself plans to spend “a couple hundred million
dollars” on capital improvements to help haul 40 percent more
crude in 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Matt Rose  said Jan. 8.
The carrier was bought by Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
about two years ago for $36 billion including debt.  Urban Advantage  While rail transport is more expensive than pipelines, it
already reaches into metropolitan areas like  Los Angeles  and
Philadelphia, where new pipes are hard to lay and refineries are
paying the highest price.  Rail transport is set to become cheaper as infrastructure
expands. The system relies on 1.2-mile trains of tank cars that
carry as much as 762 barrels each. At 120 cars per train, each
shipment can be worth $8 to $10 million.  “Rail used to be a stopgap for the short term,” said
Kevin Goins, president of Strobel Starostka Transfer, a closely-
held company that builds and operates rail terminals. As
drilling pushes into new places, rail “can get into different
areas where pipelines never existed before.”  Higher Profit  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , based in Calgary, earned an
extra $10 a barrel by shipping some of its Saskatchewan oil to
the U.S. Gulf Coast, Chief Executive Officer Scott Saxberg said
in an Oct. 18 interview. It pipes most of its oil to the
Midwest.  Canadian railroads moved 35 percent more petroleum and
refined products in November than the same month of 2011.  Plains bought four oil-handling terminals, plus a terminal
under construction and shipping contracts across the U.S. in
December for $500 million. Pipeline company  Inergy Midstream LP (NRGM) 
spent $425 million in November to buy a North Dakota terminal
from Rangeland Resources LP.  Rail is “effectively a pipeline on wheels,” filling the
gaps in the transportation system, Plains CEO Greg Armstrong
said at a Nov. 29 conference. Plains shares rose 23 percent last
year, beating the 1.2 percent decline in the period of the
 Alerian MLP index  of energy master limited partnerships that
includes pipeline companies as members.  Plains competitor  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and Canopy Prospecting Inc.
are building a $68 million terminal that will be able to
transfer 80,000 barrels a day onto rail cars starting in the
third quarter, for delivery to Philadelphia-area refineries, the
companies said in a statement.  Enbridge, which is expanding pipeline capacity out of the
Bakken, plans to take its oil as far east as possible by pipe
and use rail for the end of the journey, Vice President Vern Yu
said in an interview.  Plains fell 1.2 percent to $49.30 at the close in New York.
Enbridge lost 0.1 percent to C$44.02 in Toronto. Plains gained
23 percent in 2012 and Enbridge gained 13 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refiners’ Investment  Irving Oil is accepting more than 90,000 barrels a day from
the Bakken and Canada by rail at its Saint John, New Brunswick
refinery, Canada’s largest, a person familiar with the plans
said on Dec. 26.  Phillips 66 (PSX) , whose Bayway refinery in New
Jersey is the second-biggest on the East Coast, is building an
unloading station to increase train deliveries, CEO Greg Garland
said on a Dec. 13 conference call.  “We’re buying 2,000 railcars so we’re using rail, pipe,
ships, barge, trucks, you name it,” Garland said.  Oil production in the U.S. is projected to increase about
24 percent to 7.9 million barrels a day by 2014, the most since
1988, according to the U.S. Energy Department. Canadian oil
output will rise 57 percent to 4.7 million barrels a day by
2020, according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers.  Bottleneck Surplus  Much of the production comes from places such as Alberta’s
oil sands and North Dakota’s Bakken formation, far from refining
centers. A lack of pipelines to carry the crude to market has
created bottlenecks that pushed down the price of oil from those
regions.  The higher prices fetched on the coast justify the higher
cost of shipping by rail. Sending Bakken oil through a pipeline
to U.S. Midwest markets costs about a third of the $15 a barrel
expense of carrying it by train to the East Coast,  Tudor
Pickering ’s Olsen said in a note.  Rail has carved out a role alongside pipe over the long
haul, said Chris Seasons, the president of Devon’s Canadian
unit. While pipelines are cheaper and more efficient, it’s
faster to build the tracks, unloading terminals and storage
tanks to expand rail capacity, he said.  “On the rail side of the business, you can effect change
quite quickly,” Seasons said. Devon, which moves 4,000 barrels
of heavy oil a day by rail from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast,
plans to buy more rail cars, he said.  Environmental Hurdles  Some landowners and environmental groups such as the  Sierra
Club  may further slow pipe projects over the risk of spills and
air pollution from Canadian crudes.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone
XL from Alberta to the U.S. Gulf Coast and Enbridge Inc.’s
Northern Gateway from Alberta to the British Columbia coast
already face delays from protests and increased regulatory
scrutiny.  TransCanada expects U.S. regulators to decide Keystone XL’s
fate in early 2013, the line’s original start time. Another
half-million barrels a day in new rail capacity may be built if
Keystone XL is blocked, estimates Steven Paget, an analyst at
FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary.  Railroads will become more efficient crude handlers as
producers and refiners build a system that moves oil from hub to
hub around the continent, Paget said. Once planned new
infrastructure is built, coastal markets should be able to
absorb the increases in production from the Bakken and the
Niobrara field in Colorado for several years, Olsen wrote in a
Jan. 2 note.  Slowing Growth  Railroads face their own constraints, in addition to higher
costs. A shortage of rail cars capable of carrying crude is
slowing growth in the sector, with delivery times of new cars
two years out, Seasons said.  Spills are a bigger risk with trains than pipes, according
to the  Manhattan Institute , a New York-based policy research
organization. A U.S. railway is about 34 times more likely to
spill hazardous materials, including oil, than a pipeline
transporting the same volume an identical distance, according to
the Institute’s June analysis of data from the U.S.
Transportation Department and the Pipeline and Hazardous
Materials Safety Administration.  Railroads have an accident rate just two to three times
higher than pipelines, Patti Reilly, a spokeswoman for the
American Association of Railroads trade group, said in an
interview. Railroad spills tend to involve smaller amounts in
each incident, since trains carry far smaller amounts of oil
than pipelines, she said.  Solidifying Role  Still, trains’ ability to reach higher-priced markets more
quickly has solidified their role in crude transportation. There
are already existing tracks serving areas where pipelines are
harder to build, such as the congested urban areas surrounding
Philadelphia and California, the most populous U.S. state.  “It’s probably unlikely that somebody’s going to build a
big new pipeline from North Dakota to LA or  San Francisco ,”
Ethan Bellamy, an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in Denver,
said.  That advantage could make it attractive to build a rail
link from booming production fields in Texas to California,
Chris Keene, Chief Executive Officer of terminal operator
Rangeland Energy LLC, said in an interview.  “It’s definitely here to stay,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  