-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise, Erase Last Week’s Loss, on RQFII
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-14T08:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hong-kong-stocks-rise-paring-last-week-s-loss.html
Hong Kong  stocks  advanced, with the
Hang Seng Index erasing last week’s decline, as mainland shares
surged after a regulator said China can boost by 10 times quotas
for foreign investment in its financial markets.  Li & Fung (494)  Ltd.,
which supplies Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp., plummeted
15 percent.  Gains by  China Life Insurance Co. (2628)  and China Construction
Bank Corp. helped boost share gauges as  Guo Shuqing , chairman of
the country’s securities regulator, spoke at a conference in
Hong Kong.  Citic Securities Co. (6030) , a mainland brokerage, jumped
6.2 percent as companies that may benefit from inflows of
foreign funds into markets surged. Li & Fung reported operating
income slumped 40 percent in 2012.  The benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 0.6 percent to
23,413.26 at the close, with about three stocks climbing for
every two that fell. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies increased 1.4 percent to 12,003.75, its
highest close since August 2011.  “Guo’s comments are very significant as it shows the
government is trying to get bullish on stocks and it’s a policy
signal as well,” Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based China strategist at
Bank of Communications, said in a phone interview. The  Shanghai 
Composite Index  surged  3.1 percent after Guo spoke.  Hong Kong  stocks are benefiting from a gradual improvement
in  China’s economy , according to Francis Lun, Hong-Kong based
managing director at Lyncean Securities Ltd.  Exports jumped 14 percent during December from a year
earlier, according to a Jan. 10 report. Data last week showed
inflation in China accelerating faster than expected as cold
conditions in the north of the country pushed food prices higher
last month.  Inflation Bogey  “The economic data is showing growth is rising again,
especially in the rise of exports in December,” Lun said. “The
only bogey is really the rise in the food prices again,
especially the price of pork.”  The sudden jump in overseas shipments prompted renewed
concern about the accuracy of the country’s statistics from
analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  More than two stocks increased for each that retreated on
the  Hang Seng Composite Index (HSCI) , which climbed 0.8 percent, led by
financial shares and developers.  China Life Insurance gained 2.9 percent to HK$26.75, while
China Construction Bank advanced 0.9 percent to HK$6.52. Citic
Securities jumped 6.2 percent to HK$20.15.  “The risk on trade is continuing as the overall economic
environment is fairly stable,” said  Yoji Takeda , who oversees
about $1.2 billion as Hong Kong-based head of Asian equities at
RBC Investment Management ( Asia ) Ltd. “Inflation in China is
still at an early stage. I don’t think it should be a big
concern right now.”  Relative Value  Hong Kong’s benchmark index surged 23 percent last year as
China’s economy showed signs of improvement and as central banks
around the globe added stimulus. Shares on the measure traded at
11.3 times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 13.3 for
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 12 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s stocks are poised to rise 20 percent this year,
bolstered by government efforts to boost domestic spending and
accelerate urban development, according to David Li, UBS’s  China 
chairman and country head.  The “uptrend” for equities remains unchanged even after
the slide for the nation’s benchmark gauge on Jan. 11, Li said
in an interview in Bloomberg’s Shanghai office. Shanghai’s
Composite Index fell the most in three months on Jan. 11 after
the inflation report signaled limited room for monetary easing
to support an economic recovery.  Individual Investors  China has started preparations for a trial program that
would allow individuals to invest in overseas  capital markets ,
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange said Jan. 11.  In 2007, China unveiled a so-called “through-train”
program, in which citizens could invest directly in Hong Kong
stocks. That drove a 55 percent rally in the city’s shares
through to Oct. 30, 2007, when the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  closed at a
record 31,638.22. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange
scrapped the plan in January 2010.  The  HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  climbed 2.5 percent to 14.27,
indicating traders expect the benchmark to swing 4.1 percent in
the next 30 days.  Li & Fung dropped 15 percent to HK$11.74, its biggest
decline since Aug. 10, with trading volume 12 times its five-day
average. A slower-than-expected recovery at the U.S. unit
contributed to the profit decline, Li & Fung said in a
preliminary earnings statement on Jan. 11.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , a maker of polysilicon and
solar wafers, dropped 4.3 percent to HK$2.03 after saying it
expects a “substantial loss” for the year ended December 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  