-- Mongolia Economic Growth Moderates to 12.3% as Coal Exports Slow
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-01-14T09:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mongolia-economic-growth-moderates-to-12-3-as-coal-exports-slow.html
Mongolian economic growth slowed
last year to 12.3 percent after moderating expansion in  China 
curbed demand for its exports of coal.  Gross domestic product, as measured by production, grew
last year to 13.9 trillion tugrik ($10 billion), the National
Statistical Office of Mongolia said on its  website today . The
country’s exports fell 9 percent to $4.38 billion and imports
rose 2.1 percent to $6.74 billion, resulting in a trade deficit
of $2.35 billion, according to the statistics office.  A mid-year decline in the price of coal, the nation’s
biggest export product, was the largest reason for the slowdown
from 2011’s record 17.3 percent pace of expansion, said Coralie
Gevers, the  World Bank (CBW) ’s country director for Mongolia. Slower
economic growth in China, which buys 92 percent of  Mongolia ’s
exports, also contributed.  “There was a global slowdown which they could not avoid,”
particularly a drop in coal exports to China, Gevers said in a
telephone interview from Ulan Bator. The growth rate “is along
the lines of what was expected by the IMF and the  World Bank .
It’s still among the highest rates in the world. GDP growth is
not going to be a problem over the next few years.”  Measured by expenditures, Mongolia’s GDP expanded 12.2
percent to 14.6 trillion tugrik, according to the statistics
bureau. Gevers said the World Bank uses GDP figures measured by
production for its analysis.  Mining Boom  Mongolia’s economic growth has been driven by a mining boom
and influx of capital to bankroll major projects, such as the $6
billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine operated by  Rio Tinto
Group. (RIO)  A milestone was reached in December when the mine’s
concentrator was turned on, starting a process that will allow
the mine to export copper concentrate later this year.  Mongolia’s other flagship project has not fared as well.
Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC, which is developing the nation’s
largest coal field, has had to delay its initial public offering
because of weak  capital markets . In addition, the Mongolian
government’s talks to bring in foreign investors including St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and China’s Shenhua Group Corp.
to develop the coal deposit have stretched 17 months without an
agreement.  Last year’s GDP growth rate is a concern, Dale Choi, an
analyst at private equity company Origo Partners, said in a
telephone interview from  Ulan Bator . “A lot of this is from
investment stalling, a weak external environment and a weak
internal environment as well,” Choi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  