-- Morgan Stanley Said to Pare Asia Investment Bank Jobs by 15%
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-01-15T11:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/morgan-stanley-said-to-pare-asia-investment-banking-jobs-by-15-.html
Morgan Stanley plans to trim about
15 percent of its investment banking positions in  Asia  as it
starts a round of job cuts this week, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  The cuts would involve 55 to 60 bankers in Asia-Pacific
excluding Japan, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. Xu Li, a Beijing-
based spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The job reduction in Asia investment banking will be deeper
than the 6 percent cut to be made across the broader
institutional securities group, which includes fixed-income and
equity sales and trading, research and investment banking, the
person said.  Asian Managing Directors Saul Raccah and Leon Guo are among
the investment bankers who will leave New York-based  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the people said. Raccah, based in Hong Kong, is Asia-
Pacific head of oil and gas on the investment-banking team,
while Guo is managing director for real estate, focusing on
 China .  Another managing director, Zhang Jianyong, 48, who
primarily advised power and utility clients in China, has
already left, the people said. Raccah and Zhang declined to
comment, and Guo didn’t return three calls to his mobile phone.  The 15 percent cuts will mainly affect country bankers and
staff in the mergers and acquisitions and global capital market
units in the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan, one of the
people said.  Share Sales  Morgan Stanley was ranked fourth in underwriting equity,
equity-linked and rights offers in Asia excluding  Japan  last
year, slipping from No. 2 in 2011 and No. 1 in 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Share sales in the region slumped to
a four-year low in 2012, the data show, as China’s slowing
economy dissuaded companies from tapping equity markets.  The U.S. bank ranked third in advising on mergers and
acquisitions in Asia ex-Japan last year, unchanged from 2011,
the data show. It ranked 10th in underwriting euro, yen and U.S.
dollar bonds in the region, the data show.  Globally, Morgan Stanley is eliminating about 1,600 jobs
from its investment bank and support staff in coming weeks, with
half the reductions in the U.S., a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said on Jan. 9. The cuts will total about 6
percent of the global institutional securities group, the person
said.  The bank will inform its staff in Asia about their bonus
payments for 2012 this week, the people said.  Citigroup said last month it would eliminate 11,000 jobs
and pull back from some emerging-market nations. UBS AG
announced in October that it would fire 10,000 workers and
largely exit fixed-income trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  