-- Mortgage Delinquencies Jump in Areas Hit Hard by Sandy
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-01-14T17:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mortgage-delinquencies-jump-in-areas-hit-hard-by-sandy.html
Mortgage  delinquencies  have jumped
about four times the U.S. average in areas of New York,  New
Jersey  and Connecticut that were damaged by  Hurricane Sandy ,
according to  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)   The share of loans with late payments rose 3.7 percent
nationwide from August to November, the Jacksonville, Florida-
based company said in a report today. In ZIP codes hit hardest
by the storm, delinquencies surged 15.4 percent in Connecticut,
15.2 percent in New Jersey and 14.8 percent in New York.  Sandy made landfall on Oct. 29, killing more than 100
people, inundating New York City’s subway system and destroying
waterfront properties from New Jersey’s Atlantic City to
Greenwich, Connecticut. While many homeowners fell behind
because of brief disruptions, such as difficulty retrieving mail
after the storm, some people lost homes and jobs that won’t be
replaced easily, said  Keith Gumbinger , vice president of
HSH.com, a Pompton Plains, New Jersey-based mortgage-information
website.  “A good portion of these are probably temporary,” he said
in a telephone interview. “However, there are people who did
suffer from catastrophic loss, whose houses are not habitable.”  Delinquency timelines in the three states, which require
judicial review of  foreclosures , were already among the longest
in the nation before the storm struck.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  said on Nov. 9 that they would
suspend evictions and foreclosure sales for 90 days in storm-
disaster areas. The government-backed housing-finance agencies
will allow firms that service their loans to extend forbearance
plans for as long as 12 months.  The U.S. mortgage-delinquency rate was 7.12 percent in
November, up from 7.03 percent the previous month, Lender
Processing Services said. Florida, New Jersey, Mississippi,
Nevada and  New York  had the highest percentage of non-current
home loans, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  