-- Mortgage Bonds Slump as Fed’s Buying Boost Fades: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-14T16:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mortgage-bonds-slump-as-fed-s-buying-boost-fades-credit-markets.html
After posting their worst returns
since 1999, government-backed mortgage bonds are starting 2013
with losses on speculation the end of Federal Reserve purchases
is in sight and as homeowner refinancing roils the market.  The slump spans from new low-coupon securities the U.S.
central bank is targeting to bonds backed by higher-rate loans
more damaged by refinancing, the biggest portion of the $5.3
trillion market. A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index has lost
0.19 percent this month after returning 2.59 percent in 2012.  “The start of the year has been weak across the board,”
 Mahesh Swaminathan , the head of residential mortgage-bond
strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , said in a
telephone interview.  The declines show the risks to investors from the Fed’s
effort to hold borrowing costs at record lows by adding $40
billion a month of mortgage debt to its balance sheet, as well
as from President  Barack Obama ’s bid to help more homeowners
lower their bills. Prepayments on Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
Ginnie Mae bonds trading for more than face value damage holders
by returning their principal faster at par and curbing interest.  Minutes of a December meeting of Fed policy makers released
Jan. 3 showed their debt-buying program may end this year.
That’s depressing the values of low-coupon agency mortgage
securities that became inflated by the purchases.  Fannie Mae  High-coupon securities fell on Bank of America Corp.’s plan
announced Jan. 7 to sell contracts to service almost $200
billion of loans. Investors speculated the move added to the
risks of more  refinancing  through the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program, or HARP, which helped boost replacement loans
by 34 percent to $1.75 trillion in 2012, Mortgage Bankers
Association estimates show.  Fannie Mae ’s 3.5 percent securities fell last week to 106.1
cents from 106.6 cents on the dollar at year-end, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt finished 2011 at less than
103 cents. The guarantor’s 5.5 percent securities declined to
108.5 cents from 108.6 cents on Dec. 31.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. climbed for a second
day. The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.4 basis point3 to
a mid-price of 88.6 basis point5 as of 11:07 a.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark has
climbed from 84.9 on Jan. 7, the least since Sept. 14.  Bondholder Protection  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.12 basis point to 13.56 basis
points as of 10:53 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Transocean Ltd. are the most active dollar-
denominated corporate securities today, accounting for 3.5
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 11:08 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  has acquired a 1.56 percent
stake in the world’s largest offshore rig operator and is
seeking more, according to a statement posted yesterday on
Transocean’s website.  Pimco Outperforms  Average returns on U.S. agency home loan bonds in 2012 were
the least since a 1.6 percent gain in 1999, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Mortgage-Backed Securities
index. The measure returned 6.14 percent in 2011.  Pacific Investment Management Co. was among investors that
outperformed the index by acquiring the same types of securities
that the Fed started accelerating purchases of in September. The
central bank’s buying sent rates on new 30-year fixed mortgages
to a record-low 3.31 percent in November, according to Freddie
Mac.  This month, that low-coupon debt is struggling. Losses
accelerated after the minutes of the Fed’s Dec. 11-12 meeting
showed “several” members of the policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  said it would “probably be appropriate to slow
or stop purchases well before the end of 2013.”  ‘Relatively Safe’  Bets on the low-coupon notes, while “relatively safe,”
are “over in terms of  capital appreciation ” because their
yields have fallen so low,  Bill Gross , manager of the $285
billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual
fund, said in a Jan. 4 interview on Bloomberg Television. The
fund, which has been overweight mortgages, has returned 9.4
percent in the past year to beat 93 percent of competitors,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Investors are overreacting to the Fed’s statement because
the central bank is unlikely to end its purchases without
sustained job growth and probably will slow the buying first,
Credit Suisse’s Swaminathan said. The  unemployment rate  has  held 
at or above 7.8 percent in the last four months.  While the Bank of America transfers of servicing to
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. and  Walter Investment (WAC) 
Management Corp. will boost prepayments on high-rate mortgages,
that risk is also being exaggerated, Swaminathan said. The loans
will be moved gradually, and the transactions differ from shifts
that caused surges in recent months, he said.  Loan Prepayments  The servicing  sale  is important to higher-coupon securities
because the lender oversees about 25 percent of loans
potentially eligible for the HARP initiative and has been “slow
relative to their peers” to use the program, Barclays Plc
analysts led by Nicholas Strand wrote in a Jan. 7 note.  “Incorporating today’s development, HARP speeds are likely
to remain sustained throughout 2013, if not higher,” they said.  Prepayment data released Jan. 8 showed speeds for 30-year
Fannie Mae loans rising 4 percent last month to a pace that
would erase 30.8 percent of the debt in a year, conflicting with
“expectations of flat to lower prepays,” according to Nomura
Securities International. HARP-eligible loan speeds advanced to
about the highest since the program began in 2009.  HARP helps borrowers granted Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
mortgages before mid-2009 tap lower rates even if they have no
home equity. Obama pushed for a revamp of the program at the end
of 2011, which was followed by further tweaks.  Varying Incentives  The BofA sales probably won’t spur prepayment jumps as
large as the spikes created by shifts in the past to so-called
sub-servicers, outsourcers that don’t own long-term contracts,
Swaminathan said. The buyers have “different economic
incentives” because they would lose money as those contracts
get erased along with profiting on originations, he said.  Speeds on loans sub-serviced by Walter Investment’s
GreenTree unit remained at about an annualized 70 percent in
December after the company turned to Quicken Loans Inc. to help
refinance its borrowers, according to Nomura analysts.  Refinancing demand helped Quicken originate $70 billion of
mortgages last year, up from $30 billion in 2011, as its
workforce has climbed to about 8,900 from less than 5,400 a year
ago, Chief Executive Officer Bill Emerson said.  The lender generally grew much more comfortable using HARP
with loans it doesn’t service after changes in September that
reduced the danger that appraisal errors could force it to later
repurchase soured debt, he said.  “A big bunch of that risk has now been mitigated,”
Emerson said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in
New York. “That was a line of demarcation for us to really get
involved.”  Subprime Debt  The reduced returns in the  bond market  last year as
refinancing rose contrasts with how hedge funds that invest in
mortgage debt beat all other categories. The $1.5 billion
Metacapital Mortgage Opportunities fund topped Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s rankings by rising 38 percent through October, as the
Pine River Fixed Income fund finished second at 33 percent.  In 2011, Obama had said he wanted to boost homeowner
refinancing and “if you did listen to that and took it
seriously, you found good ways to take prepayment risk,” said
Steve Kuhn, manager of $3.6 billion Pine River fund.  One was securities tied to borrowers with little or no  home
equity  who refinanced under HARP already, and can’t use the
program again, he said in a telephone interview.  The funds also benefited from non-agency bond gains that
averaged about 21 percent in 2012, according to Amherst
Securities Group LP. Some subprime debt, which advanced more
than 40 percent, returned about 4.6 percent through Jan. 11,
Barclays index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  