-- Mortgage-Bond Sales Rise as Redwood Leads U.S. Issuance Revival
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-14T16:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/mortgage-bond-sales-rise-as-redwood-leads-u-s-issuance-revival.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold bonds tied
to $398 million of U.S. home loans without government backing
and is working on a second deal this month as the real-estate
investment trust leads a revival in sales of the securities.  Redwood’s latest offering tied to so-called jumbo mortgages
was underwritten by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and included $368.8 million of
debt granted top grades by Moody’s Investors Service, Kroll Bond
Ratings Inc. and Fitch Ratings, according to a person familiar
with the transaction who declined to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak about the sale.  Deals tied to new loans reached $3.5 billion last year,
from less than $700 million in 2011 when Redwood was the only
issuer. Volumes are rising after the size of mortgages that
government-supported  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac can finance fell
and their bond-guarantee fees increased, while investors flock
to assets with potentially higher returns as the Federal Reserve
suppresses yields on notes with less default risk. As banks seek
 loans  for their portfolios, that’s limiting bond issuance.  “Banks simply do not have enough financial incentive to
securitize,” FTN Financial strategists led by Walt Schmidt
wrote in a 2013 outlook published Jan. 3. “However, for non-
bank entities, such as REITs, the same deal has the potential to
make economic sense.”  The latest sale by Mill Valley, California-based Redwood
followed its six last year that packaged almost $2 billion of
jumbo mortgages, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  joined it as the only other issuer in the
market, with three deals in 2012.  Separate Offering  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  may begin marketing a
separate Redwood offering it’s been hired to underwrite as soon
as this month, according to a person familiar with that deal,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Michael McMahon, a Redwood spokesman, declined to comment.  Sales of so-called non-agency  home-loan bonds  peaked at
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as their
prices tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and plunging  real-
estate  values. JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts $20 billion to $30
billion this year.  EverBank (EVER)  Financial Corp., which originated 36.9 percent of
the loans in the latest Redwood deal, according to Moody’s, has
said it may also become an issuer, along with Lewis Ranieri’s
Shellpoint Partners LLC and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , a
REIT.  Banks including Everbank, which retains the new adjustable-
rate jumbo mortgages it makes, prefer to sell off fixed-rate
debt as they use variable rate funding such as deposits,Joseph B. Long, an executive vice president, said last month.  Fannie, Freddie  Issuance of home-loan securities backed by Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, which are financing about
90 percent of new lending, totaled $1.7 trillion last year. The
Fed last year bought about $500 billion, driving rates on
typical new mortgages to record lows to bolster the economy.  The muted gains in non-agency volumes contrast with the
$52.2 billion of new securities backed by widely syndicated U.S.
speculative-grade corporate loans last year and about $40
billion of U.S. commercial-mortgage bonds, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Non-government securitizations froze in late
2008 amid the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  Jumbo mortgages are those larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. Limits range from
$417,000 to $625,500 for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans with
the lowest costs for borrowers using 20 percent down payments.  Better Rates  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s upper limits fell from
$729,750 in 2011, even as the Federal Housing Administration
retained that cap. The companies last year also increased how
much they charge to guarantee bonds by an average of 0.2
percentage point, almost doubling the costs.  Redwood is now able to offer better rates on some loans
they can finance, McMahon said in November. It may become even
more competitive this year because the companies’ regulator has
pledged further fee increases, he said. A $217.2 million top-
rated portion of its latest deal with a 1.86 percent coupon
priced at par, according to the person familiar with the
offering.  Moody’s assigned top grades to less of the Redwood
transaction than in its previous deal, a step that can lower the
REIT’s returns on the junior-ranked slices it typically retains,
according to a pre-sale report.  Loan Reviews  Risks included dangers created by a concentration of loans
from San Francisco and the deal’s structure, such as it having
two sets of senior bonds that are each linked to separate pools
of mortgages, according to the report. Third-party due diligence
firms’ reviews of loan files also showed potential issues with a
“few” of them.  The ratings firm said the securities were backed by
mortgages with “strong credit characteristics and underwritten
pursuant to strong underwriting guidelines.” Loan-to-value
ratios averaged 66.7 percent, with credit scores of 760 out of a
possible 850.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  