-- Most German Stocks Rise as Evans Backs Continued Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-14T09:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/most-german-stocks-rise-as-evans-backs-continued-stimulus.html
German stocks  advanced as Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said the U.S.
central bank should keep policy accommodative to support the
world’s biggest economy.  Fresenius Medical Care AG increased 1.4 percent as
Berenberg Bank upgraded its recommendation on the stock.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rose 1.6 percent as a gauge of banking stocks
advanced in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  Volkswagen AG added 0.9
percent after saying deliveries rose 11 percent last year.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  climbed 0.6 percent to 7,762.10 at 10:27 a.m.
in Frankfurt. The measure has gained 2 percent since the start
of the year as U.S. politicians agreed on a compromise budget to
prevent most scheduled tax increases and delay spending cuts.
The broader HDAX Index also rose 0.6 percent today.  “The two industries which could draw the most attention on
the trading floor are the banking and automotive sectors,”
Roger Peeters, chief executive officer at Close Brothers Seydler
Research in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note. “The Detroit Motor Show
starts today, and with the impressive figures role model
Volkswagen has released this morning, a lot of attention for
this cyclical industry is likely.”  The U.S. government should put “in place policies that
slowly but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into
balance with future spending,” Evans said in remarks in Hong
Kong today. ”Under this scenario, monetary policy has an
important contribution to make.”  Federal Open Market Committee minutes, released Jan. 3 in
 Washington , showed a split on how long the $85 billion monthly
bond-purchase program should last. Participants who provided
estimates were “approximately evenly divided” between those
who said it would be appropriate to end the purchases in mid-
2013 and those in favor of continuing beyond that time.  Fresenius Upgrade  Fresenius Medical Care gained 1.4 percent to 48.88 euros as
Berenberg Bank raised the stock to buy, saying a recent selloff
in the shares has created a good buying opportunity.  Investors have ignored the underlying quality of the
Fresenius Medical Care business and the earnings potential,
according to Berenberg Bank.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, rose 1.6
percent to 1.67 euros.  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer, added 1.8 percent
to 137.65 euros as Barclays Plc raised its rating on the stock
to overweight from equal weight.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest automaker, gained 0.9 percent
to 177.65 euros. Deliveries in 2012 rose 11 percent to 9.07
million vehicles, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said in a
statement today. With last year’s gains, the maker of VW, Audi
and Porsche vehicles has increased annual deliveries 44 percent
since 2009.  Last year “was the best sales year ever,” Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  