-- Otsuka Can Block Generic Abilify as Court Rejects Appeal
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-14T14:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/otsuka-can-block-generic-abilify-as-court-rejects-appeal.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a
ruling that lets  Otsuka Holdings Co. (4578) ’s pharmaceutical unit block
generic competition to its schizophrenia drug Abilify in the
U.S. until April 2015.  The justices today turned away an appeal by Canadian
generic-drug maker Apotex Corp. The company challenged the
patent for Abilify’s active ingredient, contending it would have
been obvious to scientists based on known research. A U.S.
appeals court rejected that argument.  The drug generates sales of more than $5 billion a year,
making it the fourth largest-selling drug in the U.S., Otsuka
said, citing data from researcher IMS Health. New York-based
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , which markets the drug with Otsuka,
reported its share of Abilify sales was $2 billion in the first
nine months of last year, or 15 percent of its revenue.  Apotex said the active ingredient aripiprazole belongs to a
class of compounds that have been known since the early 1980s
and were covered by a patent that expired in 2005.  The legal standard for deciding that question is too broad
and “permits pharmaceutical companies to obtain or maintain
patent monopoly rights over large portions of what belongs in
the public domain,” Apotex argued in its high court appeal.  Tokyo-based Otsuka said the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, which heard the case, doesn’t use such a
standard.  “Apotex simply failed to prove that a person of ordinary
skill” would have revised known ingredients “to arrive at the
claimed compound aripiprazole with predictable results,” Otsuka
said.  The case is Apotex Inc. v. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.,
12-571, U.S. Supreme Court.  The appeals court case is Otsuka Pharma Co. v. Sandoz Inc.,
2011-1126 and 2011-1127, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The trial court case is Otsuka
Pharmaceutical Co. v. Sandoz Inc., 07cv1000, U.S. District Court
for the District of  New Jersey  (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  