-- Louisiana Barges Idled by Drought Upstream on Mississippi
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-14T17:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/louisiana-barges-idled-by-drought-upstream-on-mississippi-river.html
Matt Lagarde manages a fleet of
towboats in  Louisiana  and watched with dread as a drought last
year seared crops across the farm belt 1,000 miles upstream on
the Mississippi River.  Now the effects of the worst dry spell in 70 years are
making their way to the river’s delta, said Lagarde, 41, who has
worked on the nation’s busiest waterway for half his life.  “Things just look fairly dismal over the next couple of
months,” said Lagarde, with AEP River Operations LLC in
Convent, 57 miles west of New Orleans. “In the next couple of
weeks, you’re really going to see things start to tighten out.”  Though rain has been plentiful in Louisiana, operators all
along the Mississippi have lost work as diminished crops sap
export tonnage and low water narrows the channel and jams up
barges. AEP, a unit of  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) , has had to
shift workers around as it idled boats. It is working through
January without the usual profit from the previous year to tide
it over, Lagarde said.  Louisiana, a state sustained by river commerce, is braced
for the impact as barge traffic slows in the shallow water.
About 7,000 jobs in the state -- more than any other -- would be
at risk if record-low water forced shipping to halt, according
to the American Waterways Operators, an Arlington, Virginia-
based industry group.  Grain Shipments  About $2.8 billion worth of cargo, including coal,
fertilizer and crude oil, moves along the river in a typical
January, the group estimates. Barges carried about 388,000 tons
of grain on the river in the week ended Jan. 5, a 24 percent
drop from a year earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
reported Jan. 10.  “Many shippers moved product in early December,
anticipating navigation difficulties due to low flows,” the
agency said in its weekly “Grain Transportation Report.” An
unusually large amount of grain is traveling to New Orleans by
rail or being stored in silos until the river rises, it said.  While grain shipments have declined, barge owners have had
enough residual work from the harvest and shipments of other
commodities to keep business afloat, said Lagarde.  “There’s no question that this has the potential to be a
crisis,” John Little, terminals manager in the New Orleans area
for International-Matex Tank Terminals, said in a phone
interview. The company, which stores liquid products including
vegetable oil that are delivered by barge, has no plans to
dismiss workers for a “short-term blip like this,” he said.  9 Feet  If the current situation lasts beyond May, it will cease to
be short-term, he said.  The National Weather Service on Jan. 9  forecast  that the
river at St. Louis will fall to about 9 feet by the end of the
month, a level most towboats can’t navigate safely, according to
the Waterways Operators. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has
completed the first phase of emergency work to keep the river
open, excavating rock obstacles near southern  Illinois .  “If the Corps can maintain a 9-foot navigation channel
through the spring, the shipping industry is grateful for the
news,” Debra Colbert, senior vice president for the Waterways
Council Inc., a public policy group that includes shippers and
ports, said in an e-mail. The expedited rock removal and the
possibility of precipitation “may just have averted a closure
of the nation’s busiest waterways transportation artery.”  Cargo conditions on the  Mississippi  River are far from
normal. American Commercial Lines Inc. can’t send barges from
Louisiana to St. Louis to fetch 200,000 tons of coal because the
vessels can’t reach the docks there, according Doug Faust, a
licensed towboat captain who manages marine operations for the
company in New Orleans.  Not Hiring  “If the water falls out and shuts down the river, they’re
trapped,” Jeff Kindl, vice president of Gulf operations for
American Commercial and chairman of the local port safety
council, said in an interview after a council luncheon at the
New Orleans Yacht Club on Lake Pontchartrain.  The company, based in Jeffersonville,  Indiana , has lost
about $27 million in revenue and foregone business since the
drought began and has idled boats and workers, he said.  “We’re not hiring where we normally would be hiring,”
Kindl said.  Canal Barge Co. in New Orleans may consider restricting
bonus pay and raises if conditions persist, Chief Executive
Officer Merritt Lane said in an interview at the company’s
downtown headquarters. He said he wants to avoid furloughs that
would cost him experienced workers.  The barge operator, which transports oil to refineries
upriver for companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,
 Texas , has experienced shipping delays, according to Lane.  Disrupted Business  “It hurts our customers because it’s completely disrupting
their business,” he said. “Ultimately it’s clear that the
consumer gets hurt. There’s going to be either scarcity or
higher prices.”  Unlike in New York and New Jersey, where cargo handling is
clustered among a handful of waterfronts, the work in Louisiana
is spread among an array of complexes dotting the river for more
than 100 miles (161 kilometers) north of the Mississippi River
delta.  Much agricultural cargo is unloaded with the help of
machines at the  Port of South Louisiana , which stretches for 54
miles along the river between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. There
the goods are transferred to grain elevators operated by
companies including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  of Decatur,
Illinois.  Cargo in 20- and 40-foot-long shipping containers goes
through the Port of New Orleans. Longshoremen arrive at a hiring
yard near the wharves there at 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. daily seeking
work.  “The stevedores haven’t been affected yet because there’s
a lot of inbound cargo” from the Gulf, said  Frank Morton,
director and founder of Turn Services Inc., an affiliate of
stevedoring company  Associated Terminals Inc.  which manages and
repairs barge fleets.  “The problem is the uncertainty,” Morton said. “How long
are we going to be able to do this?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  