-- Toyota Supplier Wins First India Order, Pursues China Customers
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-01-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/toyota-supplier-wins-first-india-order-pursues-china-customers.html
Aisin Seiki Co.,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s second-largest supplier, said it clinched its first
order from  India  and is in talks with Chinese carmakers as the
company seeks to cut its reliance on one customer.  The company won an order to supply engine parts to India’s
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , Aisin President Fumio Fujimori, 64,
said last week in an interview at the company’s headquarters in
Kariya, Japan. He declined to give more details on customers.  For Aisin, which gets most of its revenue from Toyota, the
orders are part of plans for the company to double sales to
other carmakers in the decade to 2020, Fujimori said. That means
the company may step up its pursuit of customers outside of
 Japan , in markets ranging from China to  Brazil .  “We have been very proactive in exploring emerging market
opportunities in the past year,” Fujimori said. “Chinese and
Indian carmakers will be our new clients, while we will also
strive to win more contracts from Japanese and European makers
in markets such as Brazil.”  The company, the world’s biggest maker of auto
transmissions, plans to increase total sales 46 percent to 3.3
trillion yen in its 10-year projection. It is targeting to
generate more than half of its sales from overseas by 2020,
compared with 30 percent a decade earlier, as its home market
faces deflation and a shrinking population.  In  China , the company will start local production of auto
transmissions in Suzhou this year, with an annual capacity of
200,000 units. Another 400,000-unit plant in Tianjin will start
operation in 2014, the company has said. Aisin also produces
transmissions in the U.S.  Tumbling Yen  On the yen, which fell to as low as 89.35 last week -- its
lowest level against the dollar in more than two years --
Fujimori said the “appropriate” value of the currency should
be at 90 to 100.  “The yen is moving toward the right direction,” he said.
“Our determination to expand overseas will not be swayed by the
weakening of the currency.”  The company may pursue mergers and acquisitions as a means
to aid its expansion, Fujimori said.  “We have been doing everything all by ourselves in the
past,” he said. “As we targets overseas growth, we realized
it’s impossible to invest all on our own. A more efficient way
is to find a partner that has something we need in the local
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  