-- HP Retakes Top Spot From Lenovo as PC Shipments Decline
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-15T00:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hp-takes-top-spot-back-from-lenovo-as-pc-market-shipments-fall.html
Hewlett Packard Co. (HPQ)  probably
sacrificed profit margin to win market share in the fourth
quarter, when it retook its spot as the top personal-computer
maker from  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said.  While Lenovo’s sales growth of 8.2 percent from a year
earlier was the fastest of the top five computer makers, Hewlett
Packard’s dominance in professional PCs helped it retake top
spot, market researcher Gartner said in a report yesterday.
Hewlett-Packard shipped 16.2 percent of PCs last quarter
compared with 15.5 percent a year earlier.  Meg Whitman ,  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard’s
fourth chief executive officer in two-and-a-half years, is
fighting to reverse declines as customers eschew computers for
tablets and smartphones. Globally, PC shipments dropped 4.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to 90.4
million units.  “Tablets have dramatically changed the device landscape
for PCs, not so much by cannibalizing PC sales, but by causing
PC users to shift consumption to tablets rather than replacing
older PCs,” Mikako Kitagawa, an analyst at Gartner, said in the
report. “This transformation was triggered by the availability
of low-cost tablets in 2012.”  Hewlett-Packard’s adjusted earnings per share will probably
drop to $3.30 for the fiscal year ending Oct. 31 from $4.05 a
year earlier, according to the average of analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is considering the sale of
underperforming units as it works to mitigate the effects of
botched acquisitions and declining revenue.  The PC-maker rose 4.9 percent to close at $16.95 in  New
York  trading yesterday.  Regional Shipments  Lenovo’s PC market share grew to 15.5 percent in the fourth
quarter from 13.6 percent a year earlier, Gartner said. The
Beijing-based company outsold Hewlett-Packard in three months
ended September, breaking its competitor’s six-year reign as top
PC maker. It held the lead for one quarter.  “We remain confident that our strategy, products and
business momentum will ultimately enable us to achieve clear
leadership in the PC space,” Jeffrey Shafer, a Lenovo spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “We continue to gain share and steadily
improve overall profitability.”  Shipments in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa took the
biggest hit, falling 9.6 percent last quarter to 28.1 million
units, the second consecutive decline, Gartner said. In those
markets, Lenovo was the only one of the top five computer makers
to report growth, increasing shipments by 29.4 percent from a
year earlier.  In the U.S., shipments fell 2.1 percent to 17.5 million
units.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Lenovo and Hewlett-Packard reported growth
while Dell, the No. 2 U.S. computer maker, and Acer Group
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  