-- Pakistan Ousts Regional Government as Shiites Demand Bombing End
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-01-14T06:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/pakistan-ousts-regional-government-as-shiites-demand-bombing-end.html
Pakistan ’s prime minister dismissed
the government of Baluchistan province as the region’s Shiite
minority protested the failure to prevent a series of militant
attacks by refusing to bury victims of last week’s bombings.  Premier Raja Pervez Ashraf announced the administration’s
removal after meetings with Shiite Muslim elders ended this
morning and following demonstrations in other cities. After twin
strikes in Quetta, the provincial capital, on Jan. 10 killed at
least 86 people, Shiites demanded the government’s dismissal and
the deployment of the army to bolster security.  “Our society is in the grip of terrorism and the entire
nation is fighting against it,” Ashraf told leaders of Quetta’s
Shiite Hazara community, which has been repeatedly attacked by
Sunni militants, part of a wider offensive against the sect by
guerrillas who consider it heretical. “Who are these people who
raise the issue of Shiite and Sunni and talk about tribes? We
have to defeat this mindset.”  At least 400 Shiites died in attacks in 2012 in Pakistan,
according to a statement issued Jan. 10 from New York-based
 Human Rights Watch . More than 120 were killed in Baluchistan,
most of them Hazara, the advocacy group said, condemning
Ashraf’s government over its response to the violence.  Ashraf’s ousting of the local government came after several
thousand people, including women and children, staged a three-
day protest against the attacks, sitting alongside the coffins
of blast victims and vowing that no burials would take place
until their demands were met.  Baluch Insurgency  Sit-ins to support Quetta’s Shiites were held in several
Pakistani cities over the weekend. In Karachi, mobile-phone
services were suspended twice as thousands of people occupied
some key highways, a step routinely taken in Pakistan to stop
the remote detonation of bombs.  Baluchistan, where security forces are also confronting a
separatist insurgency, will be run by the province’s governor,
who reports to President Asif Ali Zardari.  The Lashkar-e-Jhangvi Sunni militant group claimed
responsibility for the double bombing last week that targeted a
billiards club in a Hazara-dominated part of Quetta. A third
bomb the same day in the city killed 11 people. The group is
named after Haq Nawaz Jhangvi, who founded militant anti-Shiite
movements in the 1980s, a decade when army ruler General
Muhammad Zia ul-Haq rolled out his campaign to build a more
explicitly Islamic state in Pakistan.  Pearl Killing  Lashkar has conducted scores of bombings and shootings
against Shiite minority in Pakistan. The U.S. State Department
in 2003 listed it as a terrorist group, saying it had links to
al-Qaeda and was involved with the 2002 kidnapping-murder of
Wall Street Journal correspondent Daniel Pearl in Pakistan.  Following the prime minister’s move to oust the local
government, Hazara leaders said funerals would begin at 10 a.m.
local time today, according to the Geo television channel.  Those responsible for the carnage “should be given
exemplary punishment and no one will be spared,” Ashraf said
today, adding that the paramilitary Frontier Corp has been
drafted in to improve security.  The governor of Baluchistan, Nawab Zulfiqar Ali Magsi, was
twice elected chief minister of the province in the 1990s,
according to his official website.  The leader of Quetta’s 500,000-strong Hazara community,
Qayyum Changezi, told Ashraf 188 people were wounded in the
nighttime strike last week on the Alamdar Road, a neighborhood
heavily populated by the Hazaras. He said about 1,100 Hazaras
had been killed in attacks in the last five years. Shiites
account for about 15 percent of Pakistan’s 200 million people.  Pakistan’s security challenges, which include a fight with
the country’s Taliban movement and allied groups in the
northwestern region, come as the government prepares to end its
term ahead of a general election due by mid-year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  