-- Pennsylvania Considers Handing Lottery to Camelot Services
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-14T22:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/pennsylvania-considers-leasing-state-lottery-to-camelot-services.html
Handing the management of
 Pennsylvania ’s $3.48 billion lottery to the company that runs
Britain’s National Lottery would give the state predictable
revenue and $50 million in new funds next fiscal year, said
Revenue Secretary Dan Meuser.  Pennsylvania would be the third state, after Illinois and
 Indiana , to have its lottery privately run. The state Jan. 11
issued a notice of award to Camelot Global Services PA LLC, a
precursor to a contract with the firm, which is part of U.K.-
based Camelot Group Plc. Unions and some Democratic lawmakers
have criticized the plan.  Meuser told legislators at a state senate committee hearing
today that if the manager doesn’t achieve the annual profit
guarantee from lottery sales, it will draw on a $150 million
fund to make up the shortfall to the state.  Pennsylvania’s sales last fiscal year set a record for the
lottery, which was created in 1971. Profits, which totaled $1.06
billion, go to services for elderly residents such as low-cost
drugs and transit and senior centers.  Turning over management will ensure that funding for senior
services remains secure as the population grows, said Governor
Tom Corbett, a first-term Republican. By 2030, nearly a quarter
of the state’s population will be over 60, according to his
office.  Stressed System  Meuser said the forecast growth in sales under state
management is “frankly nowhere near” what’s needed. While the
lottery is not broken today, “it’ll likely be broken
tomorrow.”  Camelot, operator of the National Lottery in the U.K. and a
consultant to  California ’s game, was the sole bidder in
November. It said it will  guarantee  $34 billion in profits over
20 years.  Two other companies that had been interested, Australia-
based Tatts Group and GTECH Corp., a Rhode Island subsidiary of
 Italy ’s Lottomatica Group, didn’t submit bids, said Pete
Tartline, executive deputy secretary in the budget office.
Camelot’s contract would be extended to a maximum of 30 years if
it hits incentive benchmarks, he told the senators.  While about 48 percent of the British populace play the
National Lottery a week, only 10 percent to 30 percent of
Keystone State residents play the Pennsylvania games, said Alex
Kovach, president of Camelot Global Services PA. The company
plans to attract “infrequent” and “lapsed” players, he told
the senators.  Organized Opposition  The proposal has been criticized by Democrats and by the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
which represents most of the lottery’s 230 employees. The union,
seven Democratic legislators and four lottery employees on Dec.
17 sued the governor in Commonwealth Court, saying he can’t
lease the lottery without legislative approval.  The federation is the largest union in the state.
representing more than 65,000 employees, according to its
website.  Treasurer Rob McCord, a Democrat, said in a  letter  Jan. 9
to Meuser that he may block payments to Camelot if the firm’s
proposed expansion of games, such as video-gaming terminals,
isn’t authorized under state law.  At the hearing, Senator John P. Blake, a Democrat from
Archbald, called it either “arrogant” or “political” for
Corbett to lease the lottery without a vote of the legislature.  “It’s not the governor’s lottery,” he said. “It’s the
people’s lottery. It’s the people’s assets.”  The case is American Federation of State County and
Municipal Employees Council 13 v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
706 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  