-- Peru’s Central Bank Buys Most Dollars in Five Months to Tame Sol
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-14T20:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/peru-s-central-bank-buys-most-dollars-in-five-months-to-tame-sol.html
Peru ’s central bank bought the most
dollars since August to stem a sol rally as tax payments and
accelerating economic growth spurred demand for local currency.  Banco Central de Reserva del Peru  bought  $350 million in
the spot market today, the most since Aug. 16, and said on its
website it paid an average 2.5379 soles per U.S. dollar.  The central bank bought a record $13.9 billion last year
and raised reserve requirements five times as investors moved
money into South America’s fastest-growing economy. The annual
pace of economic activity unexpectedly accelerated to 6.8
percent in November, led by construction, the national
statistics agency reported today.  “The rationale for inflows coming into the country, more
investors interested in diversifying into Peru, is still in
place,”  Alejandro Cuadrado , the head of Latin American currency
strategy at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said in a phone
interview from New York. “Resistance from the central bank”
won’t reverse gains in the currency though further increases in
reserve requirements are possible.  The sol appreciated 0.3 percent to 2.5375 per U.S. dollar
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the
currency’s strongest closing level since October 1996,  data  from
Peru’s financial regulator show.  Companies bought local currency before an annual deadline
for income tax payments while banks reduced their dollar
holdings after meeting higher reserve requirements announced
Dec. 30, Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader at the local unit of
Banco Santander SA, said in an e-mailed note to clients.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 6.85 percent sol-denominated
bond due in February 2042 dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 4.87 percent at 2:46 p.m. in  Lima ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 2.13
centimos to 130.31 centimos per sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  