-- Pfizer Said to Weigh Purchase of Strides Agila Unit
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-01-15T04:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/pfizer-said-to-weigh-purchase-of-strides-unit-agila-specialties.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, is among companies weighing a purchase of the
injectable-medicines unit of Indian drug supplier  Strides
Arcolab Ltd. (STR) , said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Pfizer began due diligence last week for a possible
acquisition of the Bangalore-based company’s division known as
Agila Specialties, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the process is private. The unit may be valued at about $2
billion, two of the people said.  Strides provides Pfizer with generic versions of off-patent
drugs through a partnership announced in 2010. Agila has also
drawn interest from Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan Inc.,
Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN) , and Fresenius SE, which is based in
 Bad Homburg ,  Germany , two of the people said. A deal could be
reached in the first quarter, they said.  Large drugmakers are seeking acquisitions to offset a
potential decline in revenue as U.S. patents expire. With drugs
losing patent protection this year and last, New York-based
Pfizer may lose as much as $2.75 billion in sales in 2013, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strides rose as much as  3.9 percent  to 1095 rupees in
Mumbai today, the most since Dec. 24. Representatives for
Pfizer, Mylan and Novartis declined to comment, while a
spokesman for Strides didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Cancer, Antibiotics  “As a market leader, Fresenius is very often brought into
contact with companies that potentially may be for sale,”
Fresenius spokesman Matthias Link said in an e-mail. He declined
to comment on any potential deal with Strides.  Strides started trying to sell Agila last year, three
people with knowledge of the matter said in August. Agila, which
makes cancer treatments and antibiotics, accounted for 74
percent of Strides’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the nine months through
September, a company  release  from October shows.  Agila’s sales jumped to 10 billion rupees ($183 million) in
the nine-month period, from 7.4 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to the statement.  In May 2009, Novartis paid about 4.7 times sales for
Unterach, Austria-based Ebewe Pharma’s injectable-drug unit in a
$1.2 billion purchase. Mylan acquired closely held injectable-
drug business Bioniche Pharma Holdings Ltd. for $550 million in
2010, paying about 4.2 times annual revenue.  The same year,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  announced the
acquisition of Mumbai-based Piramal Healthcare Ltd.’s branded
generic-medicine unit for $3.72 billion, paying about 8.7 times
sales. The deal was worth more than Piramal’s $2.5 billion
market value at the time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strides’s profit will more than quadruple to 9.2 billion
rupees this year, according to the average of nine analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company has 14
manufacturing facilities in six countries.  Strides sold Ascent Pharmahealth Ltd., its Australian and
Southeast Asian unit, to  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  in January
2012 for A$375 million ($396 million) in cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  