-- TPG Starts Venture to Invest $100 Million in New Media
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-01-14T17:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/tpg-starts-venture-to-invest-100-million-in-new-media.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
run by  David Bonderman  and  James Coulter , formed a joint venture
with Evolution Media Capital LLC to invest at least $100 million
in young media and entertainment companies as buyout firms
broaden their deal making.  TPG will commit the money from its growth-equity business,
which oversees $3.7 billion of assets, according to William McGlashan, the group’s managing partner. The venture, Evolution
Media Growth Partners, has made three investments, taking stakes
in online-gaming company Sleepy Giant Entertainment Inc., travel
news provider Matador Network and Base79, the Peter Chernin-
backed online-video network.  TPG and competitors such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group LP (CG)  are seeking investments beyond traditional leveraged
buyouts. LBO returns have fallen for  Fort Worth , Texas-based
TPG, which last year raised $2 billion for its latest growth-
equity fund.  “We plan to invest capital in the kind of investments we
wouldn’t do directly as TPG but are investments that through
this platform will allow us to really add a unique value to
these businesses,” McGlashan, a founder of TPG’s growth
business, said in a telephone interview. The perspective the
firm gets as an investor “is important for us strategically.”  TPG’s latest buyout fund, TPG Partners VI, produced a net
internal rate of return of 2.5 percent as of June 30, according
to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , an
investor in the 2008 pool. The fund’s predecessor, raised in
2006, was generating a negative 4.9 percent return rate, the
Calpers  data  show.  More Deals  Evolution Media Capital, which provides investment-banking
services in media and sports, was formed in 2008 with backing
from  Creative Artists Agency , the Hollywood and sports talent
company. TPG acquired a 35 percent stake in CAA in 2010.  The media and entertainment venture, known as EMGP, is in
the late stages of five additional deals, according to
McGlashan. TPG, whose investment committee approves the
venture’s investments, would consider committing more than the
initial $100 million if it sees additional opportunities.  “Our expectation is that we will make very attractive
returns or we wouldn’t be doing this,” McGlashan said.  The venture combines TPG Growth’s investing prowess with
“the deep media and sports relationships of EMC,” said Rick
Hess, co-managing partner of Evolution Media Capital, which has
offices in  Los Angeles  and New York.  TPG’s growth-equity business sold stakes last year
including plastic-bag maker Hilex Poly Co., vitamin maker Schiff
Nutritional Inc. and wedding-gown retailer David’s Bridal Inc.
The deals netted TPG 2.8 times, 6.5 times and 2.2 times its cash
investments, respectively, according to a person familiar with
the deals, who requested anonymity because the details are
private.  TPG, founded in 1992 as Texas Pacific Group, has
participated in some of the industry’s biggest buyouts,
including the record 2007 takeover of TXU Corp. for $43 billion.
The firm, which in 2008 raised an $18.9 billion fund, oversees
$54.5 billion of assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  