-- Philippine Bonds Rise on Supply Outlook; Peso Surrenders Gains
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-14T02:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/philippine-bonds-rise-on-supply-outlook-peso-surrenders-gains.html
Philippine bonds advanced as a
government decision to hold fewer debt auctions this quarter
spurred investors to buy in the secondary market. The peso
retreated from its highest level in more than four years.  The government will borrow twice a month in the first
quarter instead of weekly, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said in a
memo to dealers last month. The  Philippines  will next sell 25
billion pesos ($492 million) of seven-year notes due 2020 on
Jan. 22. Optimism the nation will edge closer to an investment-
grade credit rating will support Philippine bonds, said Jan Briace Santos, a debt trader who helps manage the equivalent of
$17 billion at BPI Asset Management Inc.  “No auction this week; those looking to invest they’re
into the secondary market,” Manila-based Santos said. “The
 bond market  is bullish because we’re still looking forward to
the rating upgrade.”  The yield on the government’s 5 percent notes due August
2018 fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4
percent as of 10:40 a.m. in Manila, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. That was the biggest drop since
Jan. 3.  The Philippines is assessed at the highest junk rankings by
 Fitch Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .
S&P raised its outlook to positive on Dec. 20, hours after
President  Benigno Aquino  enacted higher taxes on tobacco and
liquor.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 40.645 per dollar in Manila,
compared with 40.605 at the end of last week, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency reached 40.55 earlier, the
strongest level since March 2008.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 10 basis points
to 4 percent today.  The central bank will continue to maintain its presence in
the currency to curb excessive volatility, Governor Amando
Tetangco said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  