-- Poland Resumes Plan to Sell Property Group to Help Budget
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-01-14T09:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/poland-resumes-plan-to-sell-property-group-to-help-budget.html
Poland resumed plans to sell  Grupa
PHN SA , a Warsaw-based property group, in an initial public
offering as part of its asset-sale program aimed at helping
finance the budget deficit.  The government will offer as much as 25 percent of PHN in
an IPO in the first quarter before selling a “significant”
stake to a strategic investor, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. PHN’s properties are mainly in Warsaw and its
biggest clients are state-owned Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA and
the Polish Post.  The sale of PHN, whose assets were valued at 2.34 billion
zloty ($759 million) in September, will be among the biggest
state offerings this year. Poland plans to sell at least 5
billion zloty of assets in 2013, which may also include stakes
in utility Energa SA, PKO Bank Polski SA and insurer PZU SA.  “Investors will probably seek to buy PHN shares at a
significant discount as the company has lots of low-quality
assets while carrying out its development project will take a
lot of time,” Jaroslaw Lis, who helps manage the equivalent of
$900 million at BPH TFI SA in Warsaw, said by phone today.  Stocks Rebound  Warsaw’s  WIG Developers Industry Index (WIGDEV)  rebounded 9.6
percent last year after a 51 percent slump in 2011, while the
benchmark WIG20 Index advanced 20 percent last year.  PHN had a net loss of 142.9 million zloty in the first
first nine months of 2012, “driven mainly by loss from the
change in the fair value of investment property,” the company
said today. Revenue stood at 141.1 million zloty in the period.  Citigroup Inc., UBS AG, Societe Generale SA and Deutsche
Bank AG will help manage the IPO as joint global coordinators
and joint bookrunners. BRE Bank SA, Bank Zachodni WBK SA, Wood &
Co. and PKO Bank are joint bookrunners.  Grupa Radius, the real-estate developer controlled by
Polish investor Robert Szustkowski, is seeking to gain control
over PHN, it said last week. Mennica Polska SA, a Polish coin
maker, is also interested in the sale, PAP reported on Jan. 11,
citing Chief Executive Officer Grzegorz Zambrzycki.  Poland’s Treasury Ministry sold 9.2 billion zloty of assets
in 2012, according to data on its website. The  budget deficit  is
planned at 35.6 billion zloty this year, compared with 31
billion zloty in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  