-- Poland May Pause Cuts as Crisis Eases, Rate Setter Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-01-14T15:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/poland-may-pause-cuts-as-crisis-eases-rate-setter-says.html
Poland  may put monetary easing on
hold before resuming any rate cuts as a better “mood” in the
crisis-hit euro area may boost the European Union’s biggest
eastern economy, central banker Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said.  Polish  economic  growth is poised to slow to about 1.5
percent in 2013 from an estimated 2 percent last year, while
 inflation  may have decelerated in December “even below” the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target, according to rate-setter
Chojna-Duch, who spoke in an interview on Jan. 11 in Warsaw.  “That means interest-rate cuts were and are justified and
monetary policy remains biased toward easing,” Chojna said.
“However, a pause is likely as the Monetary Policy Council may
need to see if the crisis in the euro zone really is heading
toward the end.”  Poland’s exports to the 17-nation euro region, its main
market, shrank an annual 2.3 percentage points in the 11 months
through November, the  Central Statistical Office  reported Jan.
11. In addition to weaker foreign demand, domestic consumption
is falling with unemployment probably reaching a 10-month high
of 13.3 percent in December, according to the Labor Ministry.  Still, the single-currency region is showing signs that the
debt crisis that began more than three years ago in  Greece  may
be easing. Last month, economic confidence in the euro area
reached a five-month high and in  Germany , which buys a quarter
of Polish exports, business sentiment rose more than economists
had estimated.  The zloty traded at 4.12 per euro at 4 p.m. in Warsaw, down
0.3 percent from Jan. 11. The yield on the government’s two-year
zloty bond fell 4 basis points to 3.41 percent.  Slowing Growth  Poland’s economy, the only one in the 27-nation EU to avoid
a recession in 2009, probably expanded 2.2 percent to 2.3
percent last year, below the government’s forecast, Deputy
Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said on Dec. 31. While the government
predicts an expansion of 2.2 percent this year, Chojna-Duch’s
1.5 percent growth forecast matches the central bank’s outlook
and would be the slowest pace since 2002.  “The mood is better in the euro region, but the hard data
to support that is missing,” Chojna-Duch said. “A pause in our
rate cuts could be taken to assess whether prospects for Poland
and the euro zone are better.”  Following a third straight rate cut that lowered the
 benchmark  by a combined 75 basis points to 4 percent on Jan. 9,
Governor  Marek Belka  didn’t rule out another reduction next
month or in March. He said “a certain round” of monetary
easing may be coming to an end as “you can’t go on in the same
policy mode forever.”  ‘Exaggerated’ Expectations  Poland’s monetary-easing cycle is at an end or will cease
after next month’s rate meeting, MPC member  Adam Glapinski  was
quoted today as saying by PAP newswire.  “If we have more easing, it will be a maximum of one
cut,” PAP cited Glapinski as saying. “Analysts’ expectations
for the benchmark at around 3 percent are exaggerated.”  Investors are betting on more rate reductions. Six-month
forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on official borrowing
costs, gained 29 basis points today to 3.32 percent, indicating
three quarter-point cuts by June, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Still, comments by policy makers such as Chojna-Duch
suggest that MPC “may hold rates in February and await a new
inflation projection and another set of weak economic data
before resuming cuts,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist at ING
Bank Slaski in Warsaw, said in an e-mailed comment.  Misunderstood Signal  Chojna-Duch, who has been among the most outspoken
supporters of rate cuts, said that at the moment, “a deeper
reduction could be misunderstood and taken as a signal that the
economy is in worse shape than it actually is.”  Chojna-Duch and Andrzej Bratkowski were the only two
members of the 10-member MPC to object to last May’s rate
increase, the only one by a central bank in the EU last year.
She has since always backed cuts, including two motions for a
half-point reduction, according to available voting tallies.  “The slowdown is a fact, but the risk of a recession in
Poland is very low,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  