-- Postal Delay in Congress Hastens Risk of Mail Stoppage
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-01-15T19:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/postal-delay-in-congress-hastens-risk-of-mail-stoppage.html
(Corrects Collins committee status in third paragraph
after ‘Spending Binge’ subheadline in story published Jan. 14.)  The U.S. Postal Service, set to run
out of operating cash in October, still can’t get Congress to
act with any urgency to help solve its problems.  Competing Senate and House proposals to help resolve Postal
Service finances expired when the old Congress left Jan. 3, and
a senator who led the push for a postal overhaul retired. The
post office now must persuade lawmakers focused on broader
fights on the deficit and spending to pass a law to let the
agency cut costs and plug losses.  “We have a just-in-time Congress that waits until the very
last minute before doing things, and I think that will be the
likely scenario with regard to postal reform,” Rob Atkinson,
president of the Information Technology and Innovation
Foundation, said in a telephone interview.  The post office’s fortunes continue to worsen, with the
latest estimate pegging losses at $25 million a day. Mail volume
is down 26 percent from its 2006 peak. To pay its bills and keep
the mail moving, it has had to skip $11.1 billion of required
payments over the past two years for future retirees’ health
costs. It exhausted its $15 billion borrowing authority last
September.  The service says it will run out of money in October even
after ignoring this year’s retiree health obligation. If it
can’t pay employees or buy fuel for trucks, Americans looking
for their bills, magazines and catalogs could find empty
mailboxes.  ‘Urgent Priority’  The Postal Service and unions representing its workers have
been looking for ways to shore up its finances by getting back
surplus contributions to government retirement plans. A
Government Accountability Office  report  last month said those
surpluses aren’t as large as previously estimated, making that
plan less feasible.  Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe, in a Jan. 3 statement,
urged the new Congress to make postal legislation “an urgent
priority.”  “We are on an unsustainable financial path,” Donahoe
said. “The Postal Service should not have to do business this
way.”  The service’s board met last week in Phoenix and called on
the agency to move faster to cut costs, the Postal Service said
today in an e-mailed statement. The service didn’t list the
board’s recommendations and spokesman David Partenheimer
declined to elaborate.  Early Retirement  About 5 percent of the service’s 525,000 employees last
week accepted a cost-cutting early retirement offer. The service
says it has already cut about 60,000 full-time jobs in the past
two years. If it were a U.S.-based publicly traded company, the
post office’s workforce would rank as the nation’s second-
biggest, behind only  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The service and the National Association of Letter
Carriers, whose members deliver mail in cities, announced a new
contract on Jan. 11 after binding arbitration. The Postal
Service failed to win the ability to fire workers without cause.
The contract freezes wages for two years, pays new hires less
than more senior workers, and lowers employer payments toward
employee health insurance premiums.  Donahoe and Deputy Postmaster General Ron Stroman declined,
through a spokesman, to comment about the post office’s
financial plans beyond Donahoe’s Jan. 3 statement. Stroman, a
past staff director of the House committee overseeing postal
operations, was hired two years ago to beef up the service’s
presence on Capitol Hill.  Cutting Delivery  The Postal Service has a five-year plan for profitability
that it revised last year after objections from lawmakers,
including opposition to closing rural post offices and mail
processing plants that provide jobs and government services in
their districts.  It wants to end Saturday mail delivery, close hundreds of
letter-sorting facilities and thousands of post offices, and has
said it would consider breaking union contracts to fire
protected employees. The plan would let it set up an independent
health plan, more easily raise rates, and enter new businesses,
such as delivering wine and liquor.  The Senate, on a 62-37 vote, passed a measure last April
that would have authorized the Postal Service to provide non-
postal products and services, revise benefit payment
obligations, and offer retirement incentives. The bill, however,
would have made it more difficult to quickly close facilities
and delayed for at least two years any move to deliver mail five
days a week instead of six.  ‘Spending Binge’  The House didn’t take up that measure. It never scheduled a
floor vote on its own postal overhaul bill, which would have
created an independent commission to oversee closings, modeled
on the Defense Department process for shutting military bases.  Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who
sponsored the House bill, called the Senate measure a “special-
interest spending binge” that would keep unneeded facilities
open and wouldn’t avert financial collapse.  The House and Senate have to start from scratch with new
legislation in the new Congress, which began Jan. 3. The Senate
measure’s biggest backers won’t be leading the charge.
Connecticut independent Joe Lieberman, who headed the panel that
oversees the post office, retired this month and the senior
Republican,  Maine ’s Susan Collins, left the committee.  Issa and Delaware Democratic Senator Tom Carper, who
replaced Lieberman as chairman of the Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee, issued a statement Jan. 3
pledging to work together this year to pass postal legislation.  Last-Minute Deal  Emily Spain, a spokeswoman for Carper, said the senator
“expects postal reform to be a top priority.” Ali Ahmad, a
spokesman for Issa’s committee, said nothing has changed since
that statement.  Representative Blake Farenthold, a Texas Republican, takes
over this year as chairman of the subcommittee overseeing the
Postal Service.  Atkinson predicted that lawmakers will be forced into a
last-minute deal later this year, as the Postal Service comes
closer to running out of money and the public hears more about
the prospect of an end to mail delivery. Until then, he said the
House and Senate probably will reprise their earlier proposals
with few changes.  “I would assume when the ‘postal cliff’ gets very close,
or they actually go over the cliff, that that would motivate
Congress to be able to get over the different positions they
have on what should actually happen,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  