-- Gilts Rise Second Day as Euro-Area Production Drops; Pound Falls
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-14T16:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/pound-weakens-to-9-month-low-versus-euro-amid-debate-on-eu-role.html
U.K. government bonds rose for a
second day as euro-area industrial production unexpectedly
declined in November, underpinning demand for safer assets.  Two-year  yields  dropped to the lowest level in more than a
week amid concern U.S. lawmakers will struggle to reach
agreement to increase the nation’s debt limit, potentially
slowing growth in the world’s largest economy. U.K. 10-year
yields have fallen around 10 basis points since climbing to the
highest since April this month. The pound weakened against all
except one of its 16 major counterparts before the government
releases inflation data for December tomorrow.  The gain in gilts is “a sign that for all the optimism at
the start of the year and the rally in risk assets, there’s
still a lot of question marks,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.
“The scale of the jump in yields at the start of the year all
looked a bit premature.”  The  10-year gilt  yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.04 percent at 4:50 p.m. London time after
climbing to 2.14 percent on Jan. 4, the highest since April 30.
The 1.75 percent bond due September 2022 rose 0.39, or 3.90
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,606) face amount, to 97.50.  The  two-year yield  declined one basis point to 0.38 percent
after dropping to 0.36 percent, the least since Jan. 2.  Euro-area output slid 0.3 percent from October, when it
declined 1 percent, the European Union’s statistics office said.
Economists forecast an increase of 0.2 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Italian production declined 1 percent
from October, the national statistics office said in  Rome .  Debt Ceiling  The U.S. reached its debt ceiling on Dec. 31 and without an
extension the Treasury will exhaust measures to finance the
government as early as mid-February, the Congressional Budget
Office has said.  Gilts have handed investors a loss of 1.8 percent this year
through Jan. 11, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. They
returned 2.8 percent in 2012.  The pound dropped the most in a week against the dollar as
economists forecast data tomorrow will show retail price
inflation held at 3 percent last month, while consumer prices
inflation was at the quickest since May for a third month.  ‘Quite Poor’  “The outlook for growth in the U.K. is quite poor over
2013 and on top of that you have a situation of slightly higher
inflation, certainly than the rest of  Europe ,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London. “That’s normally not a good combination for a
currency and as a result you’re seeing sterling weaken
significantly.”  Sterling also fell against the euro as Prime Minister David Cameron told BBC Radio 4 today he’s in favor of U.K. membership
of the European Union, while wanting a changed relationship that
he would put to British voters for consent.  “Right now there’s not a lot of good news out of the U.K.
and foreign investors don’t understand what the prime minister
is trying to do vis-a-vis Europe,” said Yannick Naud, a London-
based portfolio manager at Glendevon King Ltd. who helps oversee
about $160 million in assets. He spoke on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and Guy Johnson.  The U.K. currency declined 0.4 percent to $1.6072 after
falling as much as 0.6 percent, the biggest decline since Jan.
3. The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 83.16 pence per euro
after dropping to 83.25 pence, the weakest since April 4.  The pound depreciated 1.1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro strengthened 1.4
percent while the dollar weakened 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  