-- Rand Snaps Five-Day Losing Streak as Yields Fall to 4-Year Lows
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-14T14:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/rand-falls-sixth-day-as-workers-plan-to-intensify-strike-action.html
The rand gained for the first time
in six days as investors gauged that last week’s biggest rout in
emerging-market currencies was overdone. Bond yields fell to the
lowest in more than four years.  The rand climbed as much as 0.4 percent, and traded 0.1
percent stronger at 8.7084 per dollar as of 4:04 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 7.10 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since
December 2008.  South Africa ’s currency dropped to its weakest level since
Dec. 6 on Jan. 11 after  Fitch Ratings  cut South Africa’s credit
rating by one level to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
citing slowing growth, a widening budget deficit and rising
unemployment. The rand’s weekly slide of 1.8 percent came even
as foreign investors purchased a net 2.7 billion rand ($311
million) of South African bonds in the period.  “These rand losses are quite large so some players could
be positioning for a pullback,”  John Cairns , a currency
strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments. “The global environment remains quite
supportive as the start of the year has seen a sharp rotation
into risk assets.”  The rand’s gains today were fueled as stocks and
commodities advanced after a rally in Chinese shares boosted
demand for high-yielding assets including commodities and
emerging-market debt.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rebounded from its first
weekly drop in two months and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
advanced as prices of metals including copper, platinum and gold
rose. Mining accounted for 61 percent of South Africa’s exports
in the first 11 months of 2012, according to government data.  “An extension of gains in Asian equities this morning to
other markets could provide support for the local currency
today,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, and colleagues wrote in e-mailed
comments. “After Friday’s sell off related to the Fitch
downgrade, bonds are finding some support this morning recouping
most losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  