-- Transocean Says Icahn Acquired 1.6% of Shares, Seeks More
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-14T21:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/transocean-says-icahn-acquired-1-6-of-shares-seeks-more.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, said billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
and his affiliates have acquired a 1.56 percent stake and are
seeking to expand that to more than 3 percent.  Icahn notified the company that he’s seeking regulatory
approval to potentially acquire shares worth more than $682.1
million, Transocean said in  a statement  yesterday on its
website. The move came 10 days after Transocean said it agreed
to pay $1.4 billion in penalties for its role in a 2010 spill in
the  Gulf of Mexico , the worst such U.S. maritime disaster.
Transocean shares lost more than half their value in the months
following the spill and were 41 percent below their pre-spill
price at the close of Jan. 11.  Transocean fell 0.3 percent to $53.93 at the close in  New
York . The shares have climbed 21 percent this year. Shares in
Zurich  rose  2.9 percent to 50.80 Swiss francs.  “The occurrence of the famous billionaire activist
investor Icahn is likely to be a game changer for the firm,”
Michael Romer, an equity analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie AG in
Basel, said in an e-mail. We expect Icahn “to put management
under pressure.”  Transocean is looking forward to “engaging in dialogue”
with Icahn, Brian Maddox at FTI Consulting, said in an e-mailed
statement on behalf of the rig contractor. The company is
focused on its plan to improve operations and the quality of its
rig fleet, while the recent Macondo legal agreement put
Transocean on a path toward more  shareholder value , he said.  Messages left at Icahn’s office weren’t immediately
returned.  Activist Shareholder  Icahn is known for buying stakes in companies he considers
to be underperforming and then pushing for change. Last year he
acquired large stakes and drove for new board members at
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , an Oklahoma City-based natural gas
producer, and  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , a  Sugar Land , Texas-based oil
refiner.  “The timing definitely does not seem coincidental,” Trey Stolz, an analyst at Iberia Capital in  New Orleans , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. He rates the shares at
overweight, which means investors should buy the stock, and owns
none.  Shareholders  The decline in shares following the April 2010 blowout has
left Transocean undervalued and “highly attractive” at current
prices, James West, a New York-based analyst at  Barclays
Capital , said Jan. 3 in a note to clients. The stock was trading
at the time of his note at about 75 percent of the company’s
net-asset value, compared with the 10-year average of 115
percent for the industry group, he said.  Icahn’s planned additional purchase of Transocean shares
would amount to at least 3.4 percent of the company based on the
Jan. 11 closing share price of $54.09, and would make Icahn one
of the top two  shareholders .  Capital Group Companies Inc. is the largest shareholder
with a 4.92 percent stake worth $995.7 million and  Franklin
Resources (BEN)  is second with $524.6 million of shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the amount Icahn is trying to acquire is more than
the $682.1 million threshold established under the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, it’s less than 25 percent of
outstanding shares, the Vernier, Switzerland-based company said
in its statement.  Earlier this month, the company agreed to plead guilty to
one misdemeanor count of violating the  Clean Water Act  as owner
of the Deepwater Horizon rig that drilled  BP Plc (BP/) ’s ill-fated
Macondo well off the Louisiana coast, according to a filing in
federal court in New Orleans.  Criminal Fine  Transocean will pay a $400 million criminal fine and $1
billion in civil penalties plus interest for the explosion that
killed 11 workers, destroyed the Macondo well and spewed
millions of barrels of crude into the Gulf of Mexico.  Transocean shares surged the most in 28 months after the
settlement was announced Jan. 3, and yields on company debt
fell, signaling rising investor demand.  Since the disaster, the company has continued to dominate
the Gulf of Mexico’s deep-water drilling market. Fourteen of the
37 rigs actively drilling in Gulf water depths of at least 1,000
feet (305 meters) are owned by Transocean, more than any other
operator, according to  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX) ’s Rigzone, which
tracks global offshore rig data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  