-- Treasuries Rise Second Day as Lawmakers at Debt Impasse
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-14T22:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/treasuries-hold-gain-as-consumer-prices-may-hold-in-check.html
Treasury 10-year notes gained for a
second day as investors sought the safest assets on speculation
a disagreement among U.S. political leaders over the nation’s
debt ceiling will derail the economy.  Yields on the benchmark note touched a one-week low before
President  Barack Obama  warned “markets could go haywire” if
the debt limit isn’t raised. Republican leaders responded by
calling for spending cuts. U.S. government debt extended gains
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the benefits
of quantitative easing may vary through time and the central
bank is continuing to monitor the impact of its bond purchases.
The central bank purchased $1.47 billion of Treasuries in the
first of daily buybacks this week.  “The debt-ceiling agreement will also weigh down economic
growth,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “We could
continue to move higher from here.”  The 10-year  yield  dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield earlier
touched 1.83 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 3. The 1.625
percent note due in November 2022 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 1/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell two basis
points to 3.03 percent.  ‘No Loopholes’  The U.S. reached the  statutory limit  of $16.4 trillion on
Dec. 31, and the Treasury began using extraordinary measures to
finance the government. It will exhaust that avenue as soon as
the middle of February, according to the Congressional Office.  Republican lawmakers “will not collect a ransom” if they
delay increasing federal borrowing authority, Obama said.
“There are no magic tricks here. There are no loopholes. There
are no easy outs.”  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement that voters “do not support raising the debt ceiling
without reducing government spending at the same time.” Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell said the debt ceiling debate
is the “perfect time” to address spending.  Treasuries also rallied as economists said U.S. reports
tomorrow will show retail sales rose at a slower pace in
December and producer prices declined from the previous month.  Inflation may at times run modestly above the Fed’s 2
percent target, Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans said
today in Hong Kong.  ‘Main Driver’  “The Fed is still the main driver of Treasuries,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “We should see Treasuries continue to grind lower in
yield.”  The difference  between yields  on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the debt, was 2.53 percentage points. The average
over the past decade is 2.19 percentage points.  The Fed purchased Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to
November 2042 as part of the $85 billion of government and
mortgage debt it is buying each month to spur the economy by
putting downward pressure on interest rates.  Policy makers on the Federal Open Market Committee are
debating how long to push forward with this third round of bond
purchases, which for the first time are linked to unemployment
and inflation levels.  Bernanke said he isn’t aware of any new stimulus tool for
the central bank to use to try to boost growth. “As far as I’m
aware, there’s no completely new method that we haven’t”
already tapped, Bernanke said today in Ann Arbor,  Michigan .  Fed Presidents  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John
Williams said earlier that the Fed will need to keep buying
assets “well into” the second half of the year to combat
unemployment.  Fed Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said that,
while he’s supported the central bank’s open-ended bond
purchases so far, further expansion of a record stimulus could
complicate the eventual shrinking of the balance sheet.  “Open-ended does not mean without bound,” Lockhart said
in a speech in Atlanta. “I do think the growth of the Fed’s
balance sheet could have longer-term consequences that are
worrisome.”  U.S. government debt rose earlier as a Bloomberg News
report that Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may consider a
fund to buy as much as 50 trillion yen ($558 billion) of foreign
securities drove the yen to the weakest level versus the dollar
in 2 1/2 years.  Investors are betting Abe, who has called for raising the
nation’s inflation goal to 2 percent from 1 percent, will select
a central bank chief who will expand monetary easing,
accelerating the currency’s decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  