-- Repsol Said to Expect $2.7 Billion LNG Sale by February
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a ,   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-01-15T15:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/repsol-said-to-expect-2-7-billion-lng-asset-sale-by-february.html
Repsol SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s largest energy
company, expects to sell liquefied natural gas assets for about
2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) by early February, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The sale price excludes debt, said the person, who declined
to name the buyer or be identified as the deal hasn’t closed.
Repsol said in November it planned to agree on a sale, including
assets in Peru, Trinidad and Spain, by the end of last year. A
company official in  Madrid  declined to comment on its progress.  The oil driller is trying to keep its investment-grade debt
rating by selling 4.5 billion euros of assets by 2016 and paying
down borrowings. Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating to one
level above junk and gave the company a negative outlook after
 Argentina  seized its YPF business in April without compensation.
YPF made up almost half of Madrid-based Repsol’s oil reserves.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, the biggest buyer of gas in  Europe , was
“looking” at Repsol’s LNG assets, the French company’s Chief
Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said in an interview in
October. Asked last week about the assets, Mestrallet said the
question was “very relevant,” declining to comment further.  The Paris-based company is in talks on buying at least some
of the assets, said a person familiar with the situation, who
asked not to be identified as discussions are private. The
utility has to balance any acquisitions with a pledge to sell 11
billion euros of its own assets in 2013 and 2014.  Shares Gain  Repsol climbed 0.8 percent to 16.56 euros by 4:27 p.m. in
Madrid, as the Euro Stoxx Oil & Gas index rose 0.3 percent.  Selling LNG assets “will prove enough” to keep Repsol’s
investment-grade rating and “avoid the need to sell treasury
shares immediately or convert the preference shares,” Barclays
Plc’s Lydia Rainforth and Rahim Karim wrote in a Dec. 14 note.  The  credit rating  was also reduced to one level above junk
by  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s , which set the company’s
debt outlook at negative and stable, respectively. Repsol
reported net debt dropped 1.9 percent in the third quarter to
12.9 billion euros compared with the second quarter.  Repsol’s debt has rallied, even as it considered swapping
preference shares into mandatory convertible bonds to reduce
interest payments, helped by about 1.9 billion euros of asset
sales so far and stronger Spanish sovereign debt. The disposals
include a 5 percent sale of treasury stock, gas assets in  Chile 
and the partial sale of an offshore producing block in Ecuador.  Preference Shares  Repsol’s 4 7/8 coupon euro bonds due in 2019 have risen,
shrinking the spread with similar-term benchmark German bonds.  The spread has narrowed 343 basis points, to 235 yesterday,
since Repsol revealed plans to sell LNG assets in July, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap in yields widened to about
241 basis points today, according to Bloomberg bond prices.  Among assets offered for sale were a stake in a
liquefaction plant in Pampa Melchorita, Peru, with an annual
 capacity  of 4.4 million metric tons, and the Atlantic LNG plant
in  Trinidad and Tobago , in which GDF already owned a  stake .  They also include the Bahia de Bizkaia regasification plant
in Bilbao, Spain, and the Canaport facility in  Canada , which
pipes natural gas to markets in northeast  North America .  The company reported that operating  profit  from its LNG
business, which stretches from Canada to Peru, more than tripled
in 2011 to 386 million euros, or 8 percent of the total.  China Investment Corp., which bought a  stake  in the
exploration and production business of GDF Suez last year, was
planning to meet Repsol to discuss the sale on Dec. 19,
according to a report on Spanish news website El Confidencial
that cited unidentified people.  LNG is natural gas cooled to minus 160 degrees Celsius
(minus 256 degrees Fahrenheit) so it takes up about 600 times
less space for transportation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net 
 Todd White  in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  