-- Rogers Will Buy Shaw Spectrum, Cable Unit for C$700 Million
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-15T21:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/rogers-to-pay-c-700-million-for-shaw-s-spectrum-cable-unit.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  Canada ’s
largest mobile-phone company, agreed to buy wireless spectrum
and a local cable business from  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  for
C$700 million ($712 million).  Rogers will buy Shaw’s Mountain Cablevision Ltd. unit based
in Hamilton, Ontario, the companies said yesterday in a joint
statement. In return, Calgary-based Shaw will acquire Rogers’s
one-third interest in  the TVtropolis network , the companies
said.  Rogers is acquiring Shaw’s unused wireless spectrum to meet
growing demand for bandwidth from data-hungry smartphone users.
At the same time, the Toronto-based company wants to use
Mountain Cablevision to bolster its cable business in
southwestern Ontario, Canada’s most populous region.  The deal “gives Rogers more tools to continue to grow its
wireless business unencumbered” and “secures precious wireless
spectrum,”  Maher Yaghi , a Desjardins Securities analyst, wrote
in a research note today. Yaghi, based in  Montreal , rates both
Rogers and Shaw a hold.  The price for the cable business is about C$400 million,
putting the price for the rest of the assets at about C$300
million, Rogers Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed said in a
phone interview.  “The wireless business is defined by what I would describe
as an explosion in terms of usage,” he said. The new spectrum
“will help us meet that demand in terms of capacity and
speed,” Mohamed said.  Airwave Auction  Shaw, a cable-television provider, spent about C$190
million on wireless spectrum in the last Canadian government
auction in 2008 before canceling plans in 2011 to build a
mobile-phone business. The Canadian government will hold an
auction in the first half of this year to sell new wireless
airwaves.  Rogers may issue as much as C$800 million in debt this year
to buy new spectrum, according to Andrew Calder, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  Mohamed declined to say how much more Rogers is willing to
spend on new airwaves in that auction. “What I can tell you is
I think this transaction really fits well into our strategy and
is a great opportunity,” he said.  Rogers gained 1.2 percent to C$44.92 at the close in
Toronto, while Shaw rose less than 1 percent to C$22.99.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  