-- Rory McIlroy Joins Tiger Woods in Nike Golf Sponsorships
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-14T21:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/rory-mcilroy-joins-tiger-woods-as-sponsor-of-nike-golf-equipment.html
Top-ranked Rory McIlroy signed an
agreement to use  Nike Inc. (NKE)  golf equipment after ending his five-
year relationship with Titleist, the company announced.  McIlroy, a 23-year-old from  Northern Ireland , will use
Nike-branded clubs and balls and wear the company’s apparel
during his season debut this week at the European PGA Tour’s
World Golf Championship HSBC Champions event in  Abu Dhabi , Nike
disclosed in a press conference.  The two-time major tournament winner joins  Tiger Woods , No.
2 in the Official World Golf Ranking, as the most high-profile
players using the Beaverton, Oregon-based company’s equipment.
Nike also signed U.S. PGA Tour players Kyle Stanley and  Nick Watney  and Denmark’s Thorbjorn Olesen to endorsement deals this
month.  “It’s a company and a brand that really resonates with
me,” said McIlroy, who emerged onto a smoke-filled stage lit by
circling spotlights for the announcement. “It’s young. It’s
athletic. It’s innovative. They are committed to being the best,
as am I.”  McIlroy and Woods, 37, were shown together in a television
commercial during the announcement.  Terms of the contract weren’t disclosed by Nike or McIlroy.
McIlroy’s agent Conor Ridge didn’t immediately return phone
messages and e-mails seeking comment on the contract.  Irish Report  The Irish Times reported on Oct. 20 that McIlroy, who
captured his second major title with an eight-stroke win at the
 PGA Championship  in August, signed a 10-year pact worth as much
as $250 million. The report didn’t cite a source for its
information.  “He is the epitome of a Nike athlete,” Cindy Davis,
president of Nike Golf, said in a statement. “We are looking
forward to partnering with him to take his remarkable career to
the next level.”  Jumeirah Group LLC ended its five-year partnership with
McIlroy on Jan. 8. McIlroy had worn a hat featuring the logo of
the closely held luxury hotel and resort operator since age 18.
Nike-sponsored athletes rarely endorse other companies on the
course.  McIlroy, who also won the 2011  U.S. Open  and defeated Woods
in a head-to-head exhibition match in  China  on Oct. 28, had been
sponsored by  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660) ’s Titleist and FootJoy brands since
turning professional in 2007. Under the agreement, McIlroy said,
he’ll use only Nike clubs, even replacing his Titleist-branded
putter, typically the last club high-ranked players change.  Equipment Change  His equipment swap follows similar moves by successful
players in the peak of their careers.  Nick Faldo , who won six
major titles with the same brand of clubs and then failed to win
another tournament after switching equipment sponsors in 1998,
called the move a “risk.”  “It’s the classic example of if it’s not broken don’t fix
it,” Faldo said in a telephone interview. “It sure isn’t
broken. You’ve got to be very careful. You’d rather have
trophies in the cabinet because that leads to a fortune rather
than having a fat bank balance and nothing in the cabinet.”  Nike shares were up nine cents today to $53.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  