-- Rupiah’s Onshore Rate at Biggest Premium to Offshore Since 2011
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-14T07:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/rupiah-s-onshore-rate-at-biggest-premium-to-offshore-since-2011.html
Rupiah quotes within  Indonesia  are
near the biggest premium to an offshore fixing in almost 16
months, fueling speculation policy makers are asking local banks
to limit the rate at which they sell dollars.  The currency fell 0.4 percent today to 9,670 versus the
greenback as of 2:10 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local lenders compiled by Bloomberg. An average of 18 global
lenders’ quotes calculated by The Association of Banks in
Singapore and used to settle non-deliverable forward contracts
was 2.1 percent weaker than the onshore level at 9,877. The gap
was 2.6 percent on Jan. 11, the most since Sept. 22, 2011.  “It seems there are now two rates for the rupiah,” Perry
Kojodjojo, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in an interview from  Singapore  today. “What
is clear is that the market isn’t functioning well. There is a
shortage of dollars onshore. The market is still functioning,
but it is increasingly difficult to trade.”  The rupiah sank 5.9 percent in Jakarta last year, the worst
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies, as the
nation’s current-account deficit swelled. The shortfall reached
2.4 percent of gross domestic product, the most since 1996, Bank
Indonesia estimates. The central bank will intervene “if
needed” to reduce the rupiah’s volatility, spokesman Difi
Johansyah said in an e-mail today, adding that the monetary
authority will not restrict trading beyond certain levels.  ‘Unofficial Ceiling’  The last time the rupiah’s onshore rate exceeded the
offshore fixing by more than 2 percent was in May 2012, when
analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. said  Bank Indonesia 
has set an “unofficial ceiling” for the currency and asked
local lenders not to quote beyond that level. Johansyah declined
to comment on the reason for the latest disparity between the
rupiah rates.  The monetary authority may not need to intervene directly
in the market if they have other measures to persuade banks,
Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore, said in an interview today. “Moral suasion can be a
powerful tool, which is one way they can act without depleting
reserves,” she said.  Indonesia’s  foreign-currency reserves  increased for a sixth
month to $112.8 billion in December, the biggest stockpile since
April. The central bank continues to safeguard the rupiah as it
takes steps to respond to “out of proportion” concerns about
the current-account deficit, Governor Darmin Nasution told
reporters in Jakarta on Jan. 11.  ‘Highly Regulated’  One-month forwards for the rupiah are trading at 9,905 per
dollar and have lost 2 percent in the past month, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 2.4 percent weaker than the
spot rate, which has fallen 0.3 percent over the same period.  “The forwards market is a plainer reflection of the market
view for the rupiah, while the spot price is more highly
regulated,” Thio said. “The question is how much longer Bank
Indonesia hopes to trap the rupiah within a tight range, when
confidence will become weak and lead to more flight out of the
currency.”  The “two-tiered market” for the rupiah may result in
companies hoarding dollars and Indonesians preferring to hold
foreign currencies, worsening the shortage onshore, HSBC
analysts led by  Paul Mackel  in  Hong Kong  wrote in a research
note released Jan. 11. Overseas investors may more actively
hedge their rupiah-denominated bond holdings, which may prompt
the forwards price to decline further, they wrote.  “With Bank Indonesia yet to show a willingness to step
into the market to provide meaningful dollar liquidity, we see
the risk of further rupiah weakness,” the report said. “For
the time being we think that the rupiah at 10,000 remains a
sensitive level onshore and if we push closer towards this then
we could see stronger Bank Indonesia selling pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  