-- Russia, Bangladesh to Discuss $1 Billion Loan to Fund Arms Sales
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-01-14T15:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/russia-bangladesh-to-discuss-1-billion-loan-to-fund-arms-sales.html
Bangladesh  is seeking a $1 billion
loan from  Russia  to finance arms exports, the Asian country’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs said a day before Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina Wajed meets President Vladimir Putin in Moscow.  The country is targeting a loan deal known as a state
export-credit agreement, according to a ministry statement
released today. Russia also plans to sign an accord tomorrow to
lend Bangladesh $500 million to build a nuclear power station,
the Kremlin said in an e-mailed statement today.  Putin, who returned to the presidency last year, has
spearheaded Russia’s efforts to expand arms sales in Asia and
fend off competition from the U.S. and  Europe . Russia, the
world’s second-biggest weapons exporter after the U.S., sealed
$2.9 billion of arms contracts with  India  last month during
Putin’s visit.  “They want MiG-29 fighter jets, armored personnel carriers
and Mi-17 transport helicopters,”  Konstantin Makiyenko , a
deputy head of the Moscow-based Center for the Analysis of
Strategies and Technologies, said by phone today.  Russian defense-industry exports exceeded $14 billion
billion last year, higher than the government’s target, with new
contracts worth $15 billion signed in 2012, Putin has said.  No arms deals will be signed tomorrow as the two sides
first discuss the loan request, Interfax reported, citing an
unidentified Russian defense official.  Russia and Bangladesh plan agreements that will allow the
countries to move toward a “practical dimension” of their
military and nuclear cooperation, the Kremlin said in the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  