-- ARMZ Seeks Rest of Uranium One for $1.3 Billion; Won’t Raise Bid
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-01-14T16:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/russia-s-armz-to-buy-balance-of-uranium-one-for-c-1-3-billion.html
JSC Atomredmetzoloto, a Russian
state-owned uranium miner, said it plans to buy the shares it
doesn’t own in  Uranium One Inc. (UUU)  for C$1.3 billion ($1.32
billion) and take the company private.  Atomredmetzoloto , which together with units owns 51.4
percent of Uranium One, and its Effective Energy NV affiliate
offered C$2.86 a share, the Vancouver-based target said in a
statement today. The offer from the Moscow-based company, known
as ARMZ, is a 32 percent premium to Uranium One’s 20-day
weighted average price in Toronto, it said. It won’t be
increased, ARMZ Chairman Vadim Zhivov said.  ARMZ aims to build a company covering the full nuclear
cycle, from mining uranium to building reactors, said Leila Kulbayeva, mining and industrials research director at Visor
Capital in Almaty,  Kazakhstan . ARMZ may be seeking to gain from
reduced uranium prices following the Fukushima nuclear disaster
in  Japan , and its offer for Uranium One is low, she said.  “We are confident that the company will be able to deliver
sound production growth and continue enjoying one of the lowest
costs of uranium production in the world,” Kulbayeva said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Our target price is C$5.03 per
share and we do not recommend shareholders accept the offer.”  ARMZ will arrange funding from state-owned shareholder
Rosatom Corp. to fund the transaction, Zhivov said today. The
buyout offer is “friendly” and “optimal,” and won’t be
increased should minority shareholders vote it down, he said.  Development Strategy  The Russian company is seeking to consolidate its ownership
of Uranium One so that it can remain among the world’s largest,
low-cost producers, Zhivov told reporters in Moscow in a video
linkup from Toronto. A closely held ownership will allow ARMZ to
better pursue its strategy for developing assets.  Japan’s strongest earthquake on record in March 2011 and a
subsequent tsunami damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant run by  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , releasing
radiation and causing the evacuation of 160,000 people.  A Japanese general election held Dec. 16 brought to power
the  Liberal Democratic Party , which has vowed to decide within
three years whether to return all the country’s nuclear power
stations to production. Uranium for delivery in July was
unchanged at $42.40 per 250 pounds on the  New York  Metals
Exchange, down 22 percent from a year earlier.  “We recommend that shareholders vote in favor of the plan
of arrangement,” Ken Williamson, chairman of an independent
committee appointed to evaluate the bid, said in Uranium One’s
statement. A  shareholders’ meeting  on the bid is planned for
March.  Uranium One  gained  as much as 18 percent to C$2.85, its
highest level in eight months on an intraday basis, in Toronto.
The  stock  jumped 15 percent in Johannesburg. The company owns
uranium mines in Kazakhstan and explores for the metal in the
U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  