-- RXR Said to Buy 99-Year Leasehold at 75 Rockefeller Plaza
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-01-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/rxr-said-to-buy-99-year-leasehold-at-75-rockefeller-plaza.html
Scott Rechler’s RXR Realty LLC, one
of the most aggressive buyers of  New York  City offices since the
financial crisis, agreed to acquire a 99-year leasehold interest
in 75 Rockefeller Plaza, a person familiar with the deal said.  RXR will take control of leasing and management of the 33-
story tower, gaining rights to collect rent from tenants,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the deal is private. The company plans a complete renovation
that could cost more than $100 million, said the person, who
didn’t disclose the lease-payment terms.  The transaction brings the size of RXR’s  Manhattan 
portfolio to 6.5 million square feet (604,000 square meters),
all of it acquired since 2009. The Uniondale, New York-based
company is the second-biggest buyer of New York office
properties by dollar amount in that time, trailing only  SL Green
Realty Corp. (SLG) , according to data from Real Capital Analytics
Inc., which tracks commercial real estate sales globally.  “They have been super-active,” said  Joseph Harbert ,
eastern regional president of Colliers International, a
commercial-property brokerage that isn’t involved in the deal.
“They seem to be the kinds of guys who want to hold onto these
assets and not flip them. They’re buying long-term projects.”  The 75 Rockefeller Plaza tower is owned by a company
connected to the family of Mohamed Al Fayed, 79, the Egyptian
businessman who once owned Britain’s Harrods Ltd. The entity
will retain ownership of the tower, the person said.  Closing Conditions  The transaction hasn’t yet been completed and there are
certain conditions that have yet to be met, according to another
person with knowledge of the negotiations who asked not to be
identified because of the transaction’s private nature.  Edmund Tagliaferri, an RXR spokesman, declined to comment
on the deal. Al Fayed also declined to comment, according to
Kate Lovell, his spokeswoman, as did Nicholas Derasmo, a
spokesman for  Cushman & Wakefield , the brokerage for the seller.  Leasing the entire property to RXR for 99 years enables the
Al Fayed entity to hold onto the building and receive steady
income from RXR while someone else takes on the cost and risk of
modernizing the building, said Harbert, whose company does
business with RXR.  The 630,000-square-foot tower at 75 Rockefeller, the
youngest building at the Rockefeller Center complex, is entirely
leased by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  The media company moved out when the
Time Warner Center near Columbus Circle was completed in the
early 2000s, and sublet the building, including leases to Warner
Music Group and  NBC Universal .  Limestone Exterior  All will vacate by September 2014, after which RXR intends
to reconstruct the interiors and restore the limestone exterior,
a city landmark, one of the people familiar with the deal said.
The project should be completed by the third quarter of 2015.  RXR is in the process of hiring the architectural firm Kohn
Pedersen Fox Associates PC as the designer for the renovation,
the person said.  The building, completed in 1947, sits across West 51st
Street from the rest of the Rockefeller Center complex, which is
owned by Tishman Speyer Properties LP. Its southern windows
offer views of the plaza’s skating rink and the Rockefeller
Center Christmas tree each holiday season. The tower was built
for the Rockefeller-owned Esso Oil Co. and was known as the Esso
Building, according to Emporis.com, a website that keeps data on
skyscrapers.  Slower Leasing  While the Sixth Avenue-Rockefeller Center corridor contains
some of Manhattan’s best-known skyscrapers, demand for space
weakened in the past year. About 423,000 more square feet were
put up for lease than were taken in 2012, the second-most
“negative absorption” of  midtown  Manhattan’s 10 submarkets,
according to data compiled by Cushman & Wakefield.  A partnership led by RXR acquired the nearby 1330 Sixth
Ave., a 40-story tower across from the Hilton New York, in late
2010 for about $400 million. A year later, Rechler paid about
$920 million for Chelsea’s Starrett-Lehigh Building, a former
freight terminal whose tenants include  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc. That was the biggest single-asset real estate
purchase in the U.S. in 2011, according to Real Capital.  In September, RXR paid about $668 million for 450 Lexington
Ave., near Grand Central Terminal, according to Real Capital.
That deal, like 75 Rockefeller, is structured as a net-lease of
the property, city records show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  