-- Saint-Gobain’s Sale of Jars Unit Still Faces Acid Test
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-01-15T08:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/saint-gobain-s-sale-of-jars-unit-still-faces-acid-test.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ’s disposal
of a U.S. glass-bottle business for $1.7 billion, cheered by the
company as a “milestone,” leaves the French homebuilding
products maker with European assets it may struggle to sell.  The sale of the U.S. unit to packaging company Ardagh Group
SA topped the valuation of the Verallia bottle business in a
failed 2011 share sale attempt, Saint-Gobain said yesterday. The
remaining assets, mostly based in  Europe  and maybe worth twice
as much as the U.S. unit, will be sold on the stock market or to
investors, the company said.  “Saint-Gobain has sold the easiest bit,” said Arnaud Palliez, an analyst at Raymond James in Paris. The rest, which
may be worth 2.75 billion euros ($3.7 billion) to 2.9 billion
euros, “doesn’t offer very dynamic growth prospects” and
“will be tougher to sell” because the only likely buyers are
private-equity funds, he said, adding that an initial public
offering could also be an option.  The European deal is key for Saint-Gobain Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar as he exits packaging to focus
Europe’s biggest supplier of building materials on its other
three main sectors. The proceeds will allow Saint-Gobain, based
in Courbevoie near Paris, to pursue targets in Asia and other
 emerging markets  and strengthen its balance sheet, he said
yesterday, adding that the sale of the U.S. bottle business is a
“new milestone.”  Rising Debt  The remaining part of Verallia, with production facilities
in France, Spain, Italy and  Germany ,  Poland , Ukraine and North
Africa, had annual sales of more than 2.5 billion euros and
Ebitda of more than 500 million euros in 2011.  Fetching a good price for the European Verallia assets will
be important as analysts including Caroline Brugere, a Paris-
based analyst at Credit Agricole, said the proceeds need to be
used to pay down debt. Saint-Gobain’s net debt amounted to 9.8
billion euros at the end of the first half in 2012, up 8.5
percent from a year earlier.  “At this stage, we assume that 100 percent of the
disposals will be used for debt reduction,” Brugere said. “We
expect management to prioritize the maintenance of the mid-BBB
rating over acquisitions.”  Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s, which rate
Saint-Gobain at Baa2 and BBB respectively, have said they may
downgrade the French company whose earnings have been hurt by
Europe’s construction slump in 2012.  U.S. Recovery  In July, Saint-Gobain had decided to put new acquisitions
on hold, and to reduce capital expenditure and financial
investments by 200 million euros and 350 million euros,
respectively, in the second half.  The deal with Ardagh, which has clients such as brewer
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  and cosmetics maker  L’Oreal SA (OR) , comes amid signs of
recovery in retail spending in the U.S. A housing-market
rebound, higher stock prices and an improving job market are
helping sustain consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  The transaction values Verallia North America, the second-
largest glass container maker in the U.S. with estimated revenue
of $1.62 billion in 2012, at 6.5 times 2012 earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the company said
yesterday.  In 2011, Saint-Gobain tried to sell 40 percent of Verallia
in an initial public offering, only to be prevented by a market
slump amid the sovereign debt crisis. The 2011 IPO would have
valued Verallia between 5.8 times and 6.4 times Ebitda, and
transactions in the industry have been made at between 5.5 times
and six times earnings, according to de Chalendar.  Several Options  “This transaction is positive news, especially at this
current multiple,” said Sven Edelfelt, an analyst at Bryan,
Garnier & Co in Paris.  Saint-Gobain shares  dropped 0.5 percent to 31.68 euros in
Paris as of 9:19 a.m., giving the company a market value of 16.8
billion euros. The stock gained 8.6 percent in 2012, while the
CAC 40,  France ’s leading stock-market index, rose 15 percent.  Saint-Gobain now wants to grow in energy-efficiency
products, as well as consolidate its positions in building
materials distribution, de Chalendar said yesterday.  For the remaining Verallia assets, all options are open,
including an IPO at some point, though European markets don’t
allow for a share sale “today,” the CEO said.  Owens-Illinois
Inc. (OI) , the world’s largest maker of glass bottles and jars ahead
of Verallia, is unlikely to be interested in Verallia’s European
assets, according to de Chalendar.  Debt Crisis  Emmanuel Soupre, a fund manager who helps manage $4 billion
at Neuflize Private Assets in Paris, including shares in Saint-
Gobain, said the company needs to act carefully until the
economy picks up again.  “An all-out acquisition strategy might leave the company
in a difficult situation if the environment were to remain tough
longer than expected,” said Soupre. “By reinforcing its
equity, the company may reduce the cost of debt.”  The  European debt crisis  may also prompt Saint-Gobain to
review its 2015 growth targets, said Phil Roseberg, a London-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  In December 2010, de Chalendar said revenue would reach
about 55 billion euros in 2015, with the assumption that its
glass packaging unit would be sold by then to fund acquisitions
in faster growing areas such as energy-savings construction
products. He banked on a combination of 6 percent organic sales
growth per year, and 3 percent to 4 percent of additional
revenue per year stemming from acquisitions.  Target Update  An update regarding Saint-Gobain’s 2015 goals may come when
annual earnings are  released  next month, de Chalendar said
yesterday.  “The 2015 targets today are unachievable. They were
announced in 2010 with a different picture of the world, but
recovery has been much slower since then,” Sanford C.
Bernstein’s Roseberg said. “I don’t think investors are holding
the company to these numbers, and certainly would not like the
company to buy its way to growth through its bad acquisition
habits of before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  