-- Sandy Aid Shouldn’t Pay for Bad Beach Building
-- B y   R o b   Y o u n g
-- 2013-01-14T23:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/sandy-aid-shouldn-t-pay-for-haphazard-beach-building.html
The U.S. House of Representatives is
preparing to resume discussion this week on the second part of
an emergency spending bill to provide for recovery from
 Hurricane Sandy . Clearly, a significant amount of aid will be
needed to repair the storm damage and help many people put their
lives back together.  Unfortunately, the bill under consideration goes far beyond
this immediate need. The House will vote on the legislation in
two stages: $17 billion in largely emergency spending, then an
additional $33.6 billion -- in an amendment offered by Rodney Frelinghuysen, a  New Jersey  Republican -- for a variety of
projects.  Of greatest concern is the proposal in the amendment to
fund a massive coastal engineering effort that is not based on
the best science or wise planning. It would give the  Army Corps 
of Engineers about $3.5 billion to spend on any construction
projects related to flood control and risk reduction that the
Corps determines to be cost-effective. Projects would not need
to have been previously authorized or reviewed, and
environmental impacts would not be addressed in any meaningful
way.  This is in addition to $821 million requested to repair
Corps projects damaged by Hurricane Sandy (beach and dune
building in New Jersey, for example).  Rebuilding Beaches  Even more troubling, the bill would allow the Corps to
rebuild the New Jersey and  New York  beaches to their “design
profile.” In other words, put them back in the condition they
were in before the storm.  Coastal experts across the country have implored local and
federal leaders to take a more enlightened approach to replacing
buildings, roads, beaches and other public structures damaged by
Hurricane Sandy -- to look for opportunities to change the
footprint of a community to reduce its exposure to the next
storm. This bill disregards that ideal in favor of putting every
grain of sand right back where it was (and add more). We are to
replace the entire coast.  On the positive side, the legislation includes $500,000 to
evaluate the degree to which pre-existing beach and dune
nourishment projects protected property during Hurricane Sandy.
Although anecdotal evidence suggests that communities with
engineered beaches fared better during the storm than others,
this assertion has not been scientifically evaluated. Nor does a
project’s success at reducing property damage automatically
imply that it is cost-effective for federal taxpayers.  The paradox is that even as the bill recognizes the need to
understand the effectiveness of these very expensive projects,
it authorizes spending billions on new ones before the answers
are in.  This is the wrong approach. Helping those displaced by a
storm is urgent. Developing a long-term plan for reducing storm
and flood risk along a heavily developed shoreline, on the other
hand, requires time, good science and thorough evaluation. The
current legislation invites a rush of bad decisions with little
to no accountability. This is especially true for those projects
authorized outside of the Hurricane Sandy impact area, which are
not emergencies in any sense.  The vulnerability and viability of coastal resort
communities, such as those along the New Jersey shore, is a
deserving topic for a real debate, not a quick, emotional
response. The shore protection projects proposed in this
emergency bill are temporary fixes. In the long run, as the  sea
level  continues to rise, the federal government will not be able
to hold every beach in America in place. The costs are
tremendous today, and they will only go up.  Louisiana Model  If we are going to authorize spending almost $4.5 billion
for shore protection, we should do it fairly, from a national
perspective. We should use the best science to assess which
projects are likely to provide the most benefit and do the least
environmental harm.  The folks in  Louisiana  have given us a model. Louisiana’s
2012 Coastal Master Plan evaluated hundreds of potential coastal
restoration and protection projects in a scientific and unbiased
manner. Projects were then prioritized based on their potential
outcomes and benefits, not on expediency or politics. There were
winners and losers, but the process was fair and organized.  If federal taxpayers are going to be asked to spend
billions on beach and dune engineering projects to protect
private property and infrastructure, we need to know that the
money will be allocated wisely. The proposed Emergency
Supplemental Spending Bill now in Congress does not provide that
assurance.  (Rob Young, a professor of coastal geology at Western
Carolina University and director of the Program for the Study of
Developed Shorelines, is a co-author, with Orrin Pilkey, of “The
Rising Sea.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rob Young at  ryoung@email.wcu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 