-- Saudi Arabia Says Oil Production Cut Not to Boost Price
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-01-14T13:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/saudi-arabia-says-oil-production-cut-not-designed-to-boost-price.html
Saudi Arabia denied what it said
were suggestions that it cut oil production in December to push
crude prices higher and accused unidentified media of
misinterpreting the kingdom’s response to weaker demand.  The world’s biggest crude exporter is “strongly committed
to a stable oil market” and is “optimistic that economic
uncertainties will pass and growth will resume in 2013,”
Ibrahim Al-Muhanna, an adviser to Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi ,
said today in a statement e-mailed to energy journalists.  Saudi Arabia reduced output in December by 4.9 percent to
9.025 million barrels a day, the lowest level in 19 months, a
Gulf official with knowledge of the country’s energy policy said
last week. The kingdom is the largest member of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the only one with
significant unused capacity to produce more.  Some recent media reports were “categorically wrong” for
interpreting the decrease in Saudi output last month as a
“deliberate attempt” to push oil prices higher, Al-Muhanna
said. “Production is primarily driven by customer requirements,
not by price levels. It is the market which sets the price of
oil.”  Crude Prices  February contracts of Brent crude, the benchmark for more
than half of the world’s oil, were at $111.24 a barrel, up
60 cents, at 1:20 p.m. on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Brent gained 3.5 percent last year and has risen 0.1
percent this month.  Saudi production “fluctuates month to month and depends on
a range of domestic, regional and international factors,” he
said. Demand weakened in  Saudi Arabia (SABIC)  in the fourth quarter of
last year after peaking in the summer, he said. International
demand for Saudi oil also fell, because of slower growth in the
euro-area and concerns about budgetary challenges in the U.S.,
he said.  OPEC forecasts published in a monthly report on Dec. 11
indicate the group will need to lower output this year to align
supply and demand. OPEC’s 12 members estimated that demand for
the group’s crude will average 29.5 million barrels a day in the
first quarter, or about 1.2 million less than it pumped in
November.  The statement from Al-Muhanna, an unusual communication by
an adviser at the Ministry of Petroleum & Mineral Resources,
didn’t say which media companies’ reports made an incorrect
assertion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  