-- Saudi King Asks Saud Bin Nayef to Run Oil-Rich Province
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-01-14T15:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/saudi-king-asks-saud-bin-nayef-to-run-oil-rich-province.html
Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah
appointed Prince Saud bin Nayef as the governor of the kingdom’s
 Eastern Province , home to the world’s largest onshore oil field.  Former governor Mohammed bin Fahad resigned at his own
request, the  Saudi Press Agency  reported today, citing a royal
decree. Prince Saud is the older brother of Prince Mohammed bin
Nayef, who was named Interior Minister by King Abdullah in
November. They are sons of late Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdulaziz.  Abqaiq, the world’s largest oil processing plant, the
Ghawar oilfield and the kingdom’s Shiite minority are all
located in the Eastern Province. Shiite protesters have clashed
with security forces in the village of Awwamiya, al-Qatif and
other eastern towns this year and last.  “The appointment signals a new phase in  Riyadh ’s approach
to tackling the problem in the Eastern Province,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai. “The appointment is part of
the expansion of the Nayef family’s role in the future of Saudi
Arabia’s internal security.”  The appointment comes as Abdullah seeks to keep Saudi
Arabia free from the unrest that swept the Arab world last year,
leading to civil war in  Syria  and continuing protests in Saudi
neighbor Bahrain. The king’s medical condition has raised
questions about the line of succession, after he underwent back
surgery in November in Riyadh.  Prince Saud served as a special adviser and the chief of
the Court of the Crown Prince, the news service said. He also
served as the  Saudi ambassador to Spain  from 2003 until 2011.  King Abdullah  appointed Prince Faisal bin Salman as the
governor of Medina area, the Saudi Press Agency reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  