-- Scientology Plays Cupid for Tom Cruise, Wright Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/scientology-plays-cupid-for-tom-cruise-wright-says.html
Lawrence Wright’s “ Going Clear:
Scientology, Hollywood and the Prison of Belief ” is a colossus
of documentation, with 42 pages of endnotes, plus quite a few
on-the-page footnotes, often in spots where a subject or a
lawyer has disagreed with something the author reports.  No doubt  Wright  and his publishers want to be in a strong
position if the  Church of Scientology  comes after them. When
Paulette Cooper published “ The Scandal of Scientology ” in
1971, she was sued 19 times. That wasn’t all, as Wright
recounts:  “One day, when Cooper was out of town, her cousin, who was
staying in her  New York  apartment, opened the door for a
delivery from a florist. The deliveryman took a gun from the
bouquet, put it to her temple and pulled the trigger. When the
gun didn’t fire, he attempted to strangle her. Cooper’s cousin
screamed and the assailant fled.  “Cooper then moved to an apartment building with a
doorman, but soon after that her 300 neighbors received letters
saying that she was a prostitute with venereal disease who
molested children.”  It may be just a coincidence, but a 1977 FBI raid on
Scientology offices turned up a file devoted to “Operation
Freakout,” whose goal was to get Cooper “incarcerated in a
mental institution or jail,” Wright says.  Official Response  In an email to  Bloomberg News , Scientology spokeswoman
Karin Pouw called the book “a rehash of tabloid allegations
about Scientology going back many decades” and wrote that the
factual allegations in the book, in particular the “salacious
and false allegations concerning violence,” were “disproven long
ago.”  The Church of Scientology was founded by L. Ron Hubbard
(1911-86), a prolific writer of pulp science fiction who in 1950
turned to self-help with “ Dianetics ” (18 million copies sold,
according to the church).  Religion was next. “That’s where the money is,” he’s
reported to have said, though Wright doesn’t think his motives
were entirely venal.  Hubbard told his followers that some 75 million years ago
the earth became a prison for billions of disembodied spirits
from a faraway galaxy. These “thetans” attach themselves to
human beings and impede spiritual progress; the methods of
Scientology can not only expel them but also enhance physical
powers (like eyesight) amazingly.  Setting Sail  As doctrines go, it’s probably no wackier than believing
that God walked on water, or that an angel bestowed golden
plates of revelation on a prophet in upstate New York, or that
(as Jared Diamond put it in his recent “The World Before
Yesterday”) “a supernatural being gave a chunk of desert in
the  Middle East  to the being’s favorite group of people, as
their home forever.”  Hubbard became increasingly paranoid, according to Wright.
In 1967, he began leading his flock from a small fleet of ships,
to evade the reach of governments. In 1973, he conceived
Operation  Snow White , under which “as many as 5,000
Scientologists were covertly placed in 136 government agencies
worldwide” to purge their files of incriminating documents and
evidently, according to Wright, to collect potential blackmail
material.  Among the anticipated victims Wright names: Governor  Jerry Brown  of  California , Mayor  Tom Bradley  of  Los Angeles  and  Frank Sinatra .  Punish, Redeem  Meanwhile, Wright says, Hubbard developed an interest in
punishment and imprisonment as a road to spiritual redemption.  He came up with some imaginative torments, according to
Wright, such as ordering three miscreants to “race each other
around the rough, splintery decks while pushing peanuts with
their noses. ‘They all had raw, bleeding noses, leaving a trail
of blood behind them,”’ a witness recalled.  According to Wright, the abuses have continued under
Hubbard’s successor, David Miscavige. More than two dozen people
told Wright they had been slapped, punched, kicked or choked by
Miscavige, or had witnessed him abusing others.  The punching bags don’t, of course, include the church’s
two most famous boosters,  John Travolta  and  Tom Cruise , both of
whom Wright writes about extensively. He admires Travolta,
recounting, for example, a story about the star verbally
slapping down a dinner guest who used the word “faggot.”  Cruise’s Girlfriends  Cruise creeps him out. (I have exactly the same response to
both actors onscreen.) The church, Wright reports, has been
intimately involved in finding Cruise girlfriends, and at the
end he charges him with some of the “moral responsibility” for
the sect’s abuses. (The church has said that Cruise has no
trouble getting his own girlfriends and doesn’t need its help.)  For a book so bursting with weirdness, “Going Clear” is
meager on drama. It’s a little flat. Of course, florid writing
would do Wright no favors in court if the church decided to sue
him. But his fanaticism about facts diverts him from asking more
interesting questions:  Why did Hubbard’s followers swallow it? Were they stupid?
Were they cowed? Or were they sad, empty products of a consumer
society who found no answers in established faiths and needed
something to believe in? Is that why newly minted religions
flourish in America?  The further I got into “Going Clear,” the more I wondered
what use I could make of all these carefully documented facts
about the Church of Scientology. I didn’t need them to make me
wary of it. I was wary before I began.  “Going Clear” is published by Knopf (430 pages, $28.95).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 