-- Scottish Independence Poll Shows More Voters Undecided Over U.K.
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-14T09:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/scottish-independence-poll-shows-more-voters-undecided-over-u-k-.html
Voters in  Scotland  are becoming more
undecided over whether the country should gain independence from
the U.K., with support for going it alone unchanged and
opposition to it declining, a new poll showed.  Backing for independence is 28 percent, the same as three
months ago, according to a TNS-BMRB poll published in today’s
Glasgow-based Herald newspaper. Those wanting to stay in the
U.K. represented 48 percent, down from 53 percent, as the
proportion of people who haven’t made up their mind rose five
percentage points to 24 percent of respondents.  Independence is the cornerstone policy of Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  and his  Scottish National Party . The poll
shows that support for independence hasn’t changed since Salmond
signed an agreement with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
October to hold a referendum in the fall of 2014.  The 20 percentage-point lead in favour of the status quo is
more than double the nine points a year ago, according to the
pollster. The inclusion of 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds, who
get to vote in the referendum, in the latest survey hasn’t had
any effect on the findings, TNS-BMRB said.  The referendum will contain a single “yes” or “no”
question. Cameron said he will consider enhanced powers for the
Scottish parliament in the event of a “no” vote.  More Scrutiny  The Scottish government, the semi-autonomous administration
in Edinburgh, faced questions over the past three months over
whether it hadn’t sought legal advice about its claim that an
independent Scotland would automatically become a member of the
European Union. Its proposals that the new state would keep the
British pound and use the  Bank of England  as lender of last
resort came under increasing scrutiny from U.K. lawmakers.  The level of support for independence is in line with other
polls. An Ipsos MORI survey published in the London-based  Times
newspaper  in October showed 30 percent backing for quitting the
status quo with 58 percent opposed.  The Herald didn’t publish the size of the sample, dates or
margin of error for the latest TNS-BMRB poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  