-- Serbia Signs Russia Loan, Abu Dhabi Investment for Growth
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-01-14T11:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/serbia-signs-russia-loan-abu-dhabi-investment-for-growth.html
Serbia  signed a Russian loan and an
Abu Dhabi investment pledge worth more than $1 billion to the
Balkan country as it seeks to support construction and
agriculture, the two worst-performing industries in 2012.  Farming output fell more than 17 percent and construction
activity declined 9.9 percent in the third quarter of 2012,
helping push gross domestic product down an estimated 2 percent.
The five-month-old Cabinet of Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  is
trying to attract industrial investments, bolster growth and add
jobs at a time when one in five is out of work.  The investments will “contribute to accelerating economic
growth and significant improvement of Serbia’s foreign trade
balance,” Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic ’s press office said
in a Jan. 13 statement.  Dinkic toured  Russia  and Abu Dhabi on the weekend and
signed an $800 million, five-year loan with Russia to upgrade
its obsolete rail network. He also met with the head of NPO
Uralvagonzavod OAO, the sole bidder for its steelworks in
Smederevo, and expects the company to make a binding offer
within a month, according to the statement.  In the  United Arab Emirates , Dinkic signed a preliminary
pact with Al Dahra Agricultural Co. worth 100 million euros
($133.5 million) to acquire an 80 percent stake in eight farming
enterprises and invest just as much in the Serbian irrigation
network and a port, to create infrastructure for more exports,
Dinkic’s press office said on Jan. 13.  Abu Dhabi  The  Abu Dhabi Fund for Development  will consider financial
support while  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign investment fund Mubadala
Development Co. is considering a multi-billion euro information
technology factory.  Mubadala is “interested in considering investments in an
entirely new factory” in Serbia, at a cost of around 4 billion
euros, which would employ 1,000 top engineers, Dinkic said,
according to the statement.  The semiconductor plant would exceed a third of total
investments Serbia attracted between 2005 and 2011, according to
central bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  