-- Sexual Violence Forcing Syrians to Flee Abroad, IRC Says
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-14T11:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/sexual-violence-forcing-syrians-to-flee-abroad-irc-says.html
Rape and other forms of extreme
sexual violence in Syria, often committed in front of family
members, is a major reason for increasing numbers of people to
flee their homeland, the  International Rescue Commission  said.  “Many women and girls relayed accounts of being attacked
in public or in their homes, primarily by armed men,” according
to the 28-page report from the New York-based refugee assistance
agency. “Sexual violence was consistently identified by Syrian
women, men and community leaders as a primary reason their
families fled the country.”  Cases described in the report included attacks by armed
rapists, especially at the roadblocks that have proliferated
across Syria. The IRC was told of a nine-year-old girl who had
been brutally raped, of a man whose genitalia were destroyed by
attackers and of a father “who shot his daughter when an armed
group approached to prevent the ‘disgrace’ of her being raped.”  More than 600,000 Syrians have fled the country to seek
refuge in countries including Lebanon, Jordan and  Turkey  since
the conflict began in March 2011, the United Nations estimates.
Another 200,000 are awaiting registration or are unaccounted
for, and about 4 million Syrians are in dire need of assistance,
the IRC said.  The last four months of 2012 saw a “dramatic spike” in
Syrian refugee numbers which would strain the already limited
resources in host countries and threaten to increase political,
ethnic and sectarian tensions throughout the region, it said.  Humanitarian Emergency  “The  Middle East  is once again facing a human displacement
tragedy,” the IRC said. “The magnitude of the crisis demands a
decisive response from the international community.”  The group proposed a six-point plan to address the crisis
that includes increasing humanitarian aid and preparations for a
protracted humanitarian emergency.  In addition, the IRC recommends opening borders, expanding
assistance inside  Syria  and offering additional assistance to
women and girls in and outside refugee camps.  Victims of sexual violence need medical and counseling
services in the countries to which they have fled to help them
recover, the IRC said. They also need help in face of unsafe
conditions in camps and increased levels of domestic violence.  The stigma around the “dishonor” of rape means the crime
is rarely reported, the IRC said. Many of those interviewed said
they feared retribution or were afraid of being killed by family
members for bringing shame to the family if they spoke out, it
added. As a result, reports of early and or forced marriage of
women and girls are increasing, it said.  IRC was founded in 1933 after  Albert Einstein  called for an
American branch of the European International Relief
Association. It works in more than 40 countries, according to
its website.  -- Editors: Francis Harris, Digby Lidstone  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  