-- Shanks Signs Deal Worth 750 Million Pounds for U.K. Waste Plant
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-14T13:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/shanks-signs-deal-worth-750-million-pounds-for-u-k-waste-plant.html
Shanks Group Plc (SKS) , a U.K. waste
management company, signed a deal with a local council worth
about 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) to build a treatment
plant in the country’s north that will include a facility to
turn trash into electricity.  The 25-year contract with Wakefield Council has been funded
by the U.K. Green Investment Bank and a group of institutions
including Barclays Bank Plc, BayernLB Holdings AG, and Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., according to a  statement  on the website of
Milton Keynes-based Shanks today. It will recycle waste,
generate energy from waste and produce compost.  Businesses and organizations are being motivated to find
alternative methods to dispose of waste after the government
brought in a landfill tax that makes it increasingly costly to
bury trash. The tax that started in April was 64 pounds a ton
and it’s set to increase by 8 pounds-a-year until at least 2014.  The facility at South Kirkby includes a 3-megawatt
anaerobic digestion plant. It will process organic waste into
biogas that can then be used for renewable energy generation.
This will power the treatment plant itself and feed electricity
into the grid. It’s expected to produce enough clean energy for
about 3,000 homes, Shanks said in the statement.  Britain’s Green Investment Bank, which officially started
on Nov. 28 with an initial 3 billion pounds of capital, has
identified about 6 billion pounds of bioenergy projects. The
bank already has provided 100 million pounds to  Drax Group Plc (DRX) 
to help fund its plan to convert the nation’s biggest coal-fired
power plant to burn wood pellets.  Building of the plant will begin in March, and the facility
is expected to start working in the second half of 2015, Ian Goodfellow, Shanks U.K. managing director, said today by e-mail.
The capital cost of the project is about 125 million pounds.
Shanks is providing 25 million pounds of equity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  