-- Djokovic, Sharapova, Ferrer Win at Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-14T14:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/sharapova-races-into-australian-open-round-two-with-6-0-6-0-win.html
Novak Djokovic began his bid for a
third straight Australian Open title with a straight-set victory
and  Maria Sharapova  won 6-0, 6-0 to race into round two of the
season-opening tennis Grand Slam tournament in  Melbourne .  Top-seeded Djokovic of Serbia, who’s trying to become the
first man to win the championship three years in a row since the
professional era began in 1968, beat Frenchman Paul-Henri Mathieu 6-2, 6-4, 7-5 yesterday on Rod Laver Arena, where he
broke through for his first major title in 2008.  “Any achievement, especially if it’s part of history,
would mean a lot to me,” the 25-year-old Djokovic, a three-time
champion at Melbourne Park, said in a news conference. “We’ll
see how far I can go. It’s too early to speak eventually about
the title because there are many contenders.”  Second-seeded Sharapova, the 2008 champion and runner-up 12
months ago, sent 18 winners past fellow Russian Olga Puchkova.
Sharapova, who pulled out of a lead-up tournament in Brisbane
earlier this month with a collarbone injury, is seeking her
fifth major championship after completing the career Grand Slam
by winning last year’s French Open.  “Overall, I was happy with the way I started, considering
I didn’t play any matches coming in,” said Sharapova, 25.
“It’s tough to feel completely satisfied. You always want to
improve on things and work on certain things that you feel will
help you in the later rounds.”  Murray, Federer  U.S. Open winner  Andy Murray  of Britain starts his first
major as a Grand Slam champion today against  Robin Haase  of the
Netherlands, while four-time winner  Roger Federer  of Switzerland
faces France’s Benoit Paire. Defending women’s champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus meets Romania’s Monica Niculescu while
 Serena Williams  of the U.S. starts her quest for a third
straight Grand Slam singles title against Edina Gallovits-Hall,
also of Romania.  Venus Williams, the No. 25 seed, routed Kazakhstan’s Galina Voskoboeva 6-1, 6-0.  “It’s nice to spend less time on the court, and not be in
long sets,” said the 32-year-old, who missed last year’s
Australian Open for health reasons.  Williams, a runner-up in 2003, was diagnosed two years ago
with Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune disease.
After dropping out of the top 100 at the start of last season,
she recovered to make the London Olympics, winning doubles gold
with her younger sister Serena.  Hewitt Knocked Out  No. 5 seed Tomas Berdych from the Czech Republic, whom
Djokovic is projected to meet in the quarterfinals, defeated
 Michael Russell  of the U.S. 6-3, 7-5, 6-3 as the tournament
began under a clear sky and temperatures in the low 20s Celsius
(70 degrees Fahrenheit). Fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of Spain,
who tuned up by winning a third straight Heineken Open title in
Auckland last weekend, also advanced in straight sets.  Two-time Grand Slam champion  Lleyton Hewitt  of  Australia 
was knocked out by No. 8 seed Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia, 7-6
(7-4), 7-5, 6-3. Hewitt, making his 17th straight appearance in
Melbourne, had his best performance in 2005, when he lost in the
final to Marat Safin of  Russia . Australia hasn’t had a homegrown
champion in the men’s draw since 1976.  “I was pretty happy with my ball-striking,” Hewitt told
reporters. “Moved pretty well. Just frustrated with the
result.”  Juan Monaco  of Argentina became the first seeded player to
be eliminated, the No. 11 losing 7-6 (7-3), 6-1, 6-1 to 79th-
ranked Andrey Kuznetsov of Russia.  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus,
runner-up seven years ago, beat Spain’s Albert Ramos in a five-
set match that ended 43 minutes past midnight local time.  Querrey Advances  The only seed to lose on the women’s side was Mona Barthel,
the No. 32 from Germany, who was beaten in three sets by Ksenia
Pervak of Kazakhstan.  Sam Querrey , at No. 20 the highest-seeded American man in
the singles draw, advanced to the second round with a four-set
win over Spain’s Daniel Munoz-De La Nava.  John Isner  of the
U.S., the world No. 13, withdrew from Melbourne last week with a
knee injury while former world No. 1  Andy Roddick  retired last
season.  Women’s No. 4 Agnieszka Radwanska earlier extended her
winning streak in 2013 to 10 matches. Sixth-seeded Li Na of
China beat Kazakhstan’s Sesil Karatantcheva, 6-1, 6-3. No. 9
Samantha Stosur of Australia also advanced.  Fourth-seeded Radwanska, who didn’t drop a set in tuning up
by securing her 11th and 12th WTA Tour titles in Auckland and
Sydney, beat Australia’s Bojana Bobusic 7-5, 6-0. No. 15
Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia rebounded from her 6-0, 6-0 loss
to Radwanska in the Sydney final four days ago by fighting back
to beat local wild card Ashleigh Barty 3-6, 6-0, 6-1.  Stosur’s Relief  Stosur, the 2011 U.S. Open champion, won a first-set
tiebreaker before overpowering Taiwan’s Kai-Chen Chang in
straight sets. The victory ended Stosur’s run of five straight
losses on home soil stretching back to last season.  “I feel very happy, a little bit relieved,” Stosur, 28,
told reporters. “From here, hopefully I can loosen up a little
bit and keep playing better and better.”  Other women’s seeds to win in straight sets were No. 5
Angelique Kerber of Germany, No. 11 Marion Bartoli of France and
No. 13 and former French Open winner  Ana Ivanovic  of Serbia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at  at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  