-- Shoprite Declines on Weaker December Growth: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-01-14T15:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/shoprite-six-month-sales-advance-14-percent-on-domestic-demand.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  South
Africa ’s largest retailer by market value, fell the most in more
than six years after reporting Christmas sales growth below that
of last year.  The  stock  retreated 5.9 percent to 188 rand in
Johannesburg, the biggest drop since November 2006. The shares
are on a five-day falling streak, the longest since Sept. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shoprite is the second-
worst performing stock on the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share index
this year, having declined 8.1 percent.  December sales grew 11 percent compared with last year, the
Cape Town-based company said in a statement today, against a 16
percent gain in the corresponding month a year earlier and a 14
percent increase over the second half of 2012.  “It is the disappointing sales growth in the festive
season and that’s probably the main reason driving the share
price down today,” said Michael McLeod, an analyst at Avior
Research, in a phone interview from Johannesburg today.  Shoprite said revenue advanced 14 percent to 46.7 billion
rand ($5.37 billion) in the six months through December, driven
by a 12 percent gain in its core South African market and a 28
percent increase in supermarkets outside the country.  Non-South African operations were helped by a weaker rand,
which retreated 7.4 percent against the dollar in the period
amid a slowdown in economic growth caused in part by widespread
strikes in the  mining industry . Food prices for Shoprite climbed
on average 4.3 percent in the six months, lower than the
“official figure” for food inflation of 5.9 percent, the
company said.  Shoprite’s update “was weaker than expected,” said
Jeanine Womersley, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital , in a phone
interview from  Cape Town . “This was largely driven by weaker
performance of its core South African businesses.”  Furniture sales advanced 4.8 percent during the half year,
“remaining more negatively impacted by the present economic
conditions,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  