-- Singapore’s Limits on Land, Labor to Constrain Growth, Ng Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-01-14T05:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/singapore-s-limits-on-land-labor-to-constrain-growth-ng-says.html
Singapore ’s land and labor limits
will “increasingly constrain” its economic expansion and the
city state must adjust to lower  growth  rates as compared to the
last two decades, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said.  The island’s citizen workforce will begin shrinking
starting in 2020 for the first time in its history, and the
nation needs to improve social services and health care programs
to help a larger elderly population, Ng said in prepared remarks
for a speech in  Parliament  today. He spoke as Leader of the
House.  “Singapore is at the cusp of transition as we face
impending and difficult challenges, particularly from the
effects of an aging population coupled with low fertility
rates,” Ng said. The island’s Southeast Asian “neighbors with
their younger populations, abundant labor and natural resources
will grow faster than us and give Singapore stiff competition
for investments,” he said  A government push to limit the intake of foreign labor has
led to a rising shortage of workers and higher business costs,
contributing to price pressures that led Singapore to tighten
monetary policy last year by allowing faster currency gains.
Hiring constraints, coupled with weak growth in advanced nations,
damped last year’s expansion, and the export-dependent economy
remains at risk from an uneven U.S. recovery and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The external environment remains uncertain with weak U.S.,
Europe and Japanese economies,” Ng said. “The peace and security
of our region is worrisome as tensions continue in the  South
China Sea ,  East China Sea  and beyond.”  Parliament is due to appoint Halimah Yacob as its new
speaker today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  