-- Slovenian Stock Index Drops Most in World on Early Vote
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-14T13:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/slovenian-stock-index-drops-most-in-world-on-early-vote.html
Slovenian  benchmark stock index 
dropped the most in the world as the prospect of early elections
prompted investors to sell.  The SBITOP index of the seven most-traded stocks slumped
3.9 percent, the most among the gauges tracked by Bloomberg, to
633.93 at 1:35 p.m. in Ljubljana.  Appliance maker Gorenje Group d.d., state-owned phone
company Telekom Slovenije d.d. and insurer  Zavarovalnica Triglav (ZVTG) 
d.d. led the decline.  Political turmoil erupted last week when the Slovenian
anti-graft agency accused Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  of failing
to declare his assets, prompting his coalition partners to
demand he quit and increasing the prospect of an early vote.  “The political uncertainty increased the risk of investing
in Slovenia, especially for those stocks that rose in the past
months on speculation the government may sell its holdings,”
said Saso Stanovnik, the head of research at brokerage Alta
Invest d.d. in Ljubljana, in an e-mail.  The Adriatic nation may see its economic overhaul derailed
by an early vote and push the euro-region member to seek
international assistance as the banking industry struggles with
surging bad loans and the  economy  slides into its second
recession in three years.  Jansa’s administration, in power less than a year, passed
legislation to clean up banks’ balance sheets to restart lending
and create a sovereign wealth fund that is meant to ease the
sale of state assets.  Both measures were challenged by a referendum that was
prevented by the ruling of the country’s Constitutional Court on
Dec. 19.  Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said the government is
ready to sell its stakes in state-owned enterprises, including
Telekom Slovenije and Triglav insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  