-- Small Firms to Keep Lagging Back in U.S. Expansion: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-01-14T21:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/small-firms-to-remain-missing-link-in-u-s-expansion-economy.html
Small companies will probably remain
a missing element of the current U.S. expansion as their role in
driving growth continues to wane, according to economists at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   Payrolls at firms with fewer than 500 employees accounted
for less than 50 percent of the total workforce for the first
time in 2008 during the recession and have barely recovered,
according to their  research . After hovering close to 50 percent,
small businesses’ share of gross domestic product began dropping
in 2001 to reach about 45 percent in the latest available data.  In contrast to the gains in confidence for their larger
counterparts, sentiment among smaller companies remains at
recessionary levels, reflecting a confluence of obstacles,
including globalization and a lack of credit as local banks
consolidate. That means the world’s largest economy will lose
support from the businesses that helped boost growth and
productivity through innovation.  “Small businesses are going to be under pressure for quite
some time to come,” Nathan Sheets, the New York-based global
head of international economics at Citigroup, who conducted the
research, said in a telephone interview. “Competing globally
means establishing networks of distribution, communication,
transportation, and it’s easier to do that as a large firm.”  Most U.S. shares fell today as Apple Inc. tumbled amid a
report it cut orders for iPhone components. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.1 percent to 1,470.68 at the close in
 New York  after trading last week near the highest level in five
years.  European Production  Elsewhere today, euro-area industrial production
unexpectedly fell in November, adding to signs the 17-nation
currency bloc’s recession deepened in the fourth quarter.  After peaking at 55 percent in 1987, small-businesses’
share of the U.S. workforce began declining in the 1990s.
Citigroup’s analysis of Census Bureau data shows the slump was
exacerbated by the 2007-2009 recession, the deepest and longest
in the post-World War II era. The figures cover the period
through 2010, the latest available.  Hiring by small companies still accounts for the lion’s
share of gains in payrolls. Nonetheless, even that dominance is
fading as the jobs they created accounted for 61 percent of the
total in the 10 years through 2007, down from 65 percent in the
decade ended in 1997 and 77 percent in the similar period to
1987, according to Citigroup’s research.  The total number of small businesses is also falling,
decreasing to 4.9 million in 2010 from a peak of 5.3 million
three years earlier.  Sentiment Slumps  More recent figures from the National Federation of
 Independent Business  indicate little has changed since 2010. The
group’s small-business  sentiment index  in December hovered
around an almost three-year low reached the previous month,
according to a report last week. The net share of respondents
 projecting  the economy will improve over the next six months
held at the lowest level since monthly records began in 1999.  “The environment for small businesses is not good,” said
 William Dunkelberg , NFIB’s chief economist and a professor at
 Temple University  in Philadelphia. “Sales are weak, there’s
regulatory bombardment, tax changes, all the uncertainty about
the economy. People are thinking the odds are not as good as
they might have been at other times, and so they’re not going to
put their money on the table.”  A survey  of 1,482 small businesses by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce confirmed the bleak outlook. More than half of
respondents in the fourth quarter projected the economic climate
for their firms will worsen over the next two years, according
to a report last week. Less than 20 percent said they added
employees last year, and the same share said they planned to
hire in 2013.  Larger Companies  Conversely, a survey of chief executive officers’ outlooks
conducted by the  Business Roundtable , which represents larger
companies like Chevron Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc., showed its
index rose above its pre-recession peak in 2011 and continued to
show expansion as of December, even as it cooled in the second
half of last year.  To combat the small-business slump, Sheets said policy
should aim to spur entrepreneurship, which he says is the real
source of job creation and invention.  The  Small Business Administration  under President  Barack
Obama  has made strides, said Karen Mills, the agency’s head. SBA
initiatives include providing more access to capital, supporting
innovation through research programs and simplifying application
processes, she said. Her group has focused on manufacturers,
helping small businesses become exporters and prompting American
multinational corporations to use home-grown suppliers.  SBA Initiatives  “As the economy now has momentum and small businesses are
looking at growth opportunities, we have a really rigorous and
dynamic agenda going forward to drive small business success,”
Mills said in an interview.  Citigroup’s Sheets isn’t as optimistic. Large firms account
for about 66 percent of U.S.  exports , which means they benefit
more from global growth and a cheaper dollar, he said.  Matt Crooks, chief executive officer of  Carbi-Tech Inc. ,
which specializes in die design, tool building and production
stamping for manufacturers, knows the situation well. His
company, based in Vandergrift,  Pennsylvania , about 35 miles east
of Pittsburgh, employs 20 people and has been in business since
1995.  Less Competitive  “We face larger competitors, 10 to 100 times our size,”
said Crooks, who said that even as his company would benefit by
having some work done by firms in Canada and  Mexico , like some
larger competitors, he’d still rather keep it in-house. He said
the pressures from globalization and larger companies’ ability
to mass produce can make competing difficult. “We lose the
economies of scale.”  Becoming an exporter requires overcoming “frictions,”
like learning to navigate cultural differences and setting
communications, said Therese Flaherty, director of the  Wharton
Small Business Development Center  at the  University of
Pennsylvania . While that doesn’t mean small companies will not
be able to export, the initial costs for a small business are
larger relative to its sales, she said.  The next challenge comes as small companies try to secure
financing. The value of commercial and industrial loans for less
than $1 million, which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
counts as borrowing by small businesses, has changed little
since 2004, data show. Loans for larger amounts are up 75
percent.  Local Lenders  The share of lending by small banks, the traditional
funders of small firms, has simultaneously shrunk. Around 20
percent of loans under $100,000 come from institutions with less
than $1 billion in assets, down from 40 percent a decade ago,
according to Sheets, who attributed the slide to the
 consolidation  of the U.S. banking system.  The recession also made it more difficult for small
companies to borrow as banks feared taking additional losses.  “One of the after-effects was the tightening of lending
standards,” said James Kunkel, executive director of the Small
Business Development Center at St. Vincent College in Latrobe,
Pennsylvania. “Small businesses struggle with  cash flow . They
just aren’t as well capitalized.”  Data on startups confirm Americans are reluctant to begin
new companies, which represent the biggest share of  job creation 
among small firms.  Fewer Startups  The number of establishments less than 1 year old has
declined each year to about 505,000 in 2010 from a peak near
665,000 in 2006, according to the most current data available
from the Labor Department. Citigroup found that the birth rate,
or number of new small firms created in a given year relative to
the total number of such firms, has dropped from 12 percent in
the mid-1980s to around 8 percent.  Citigroup’s Sheets says that’s where policy makers should
focus their efforts to boost the economy.  Research  by economists
Teresa Fort, John Haltiwanger, Ron Jarmin and Javier Miranda
found that while employment at startups accounts for 3 percent
of the workforce, hiring by these firms represents 20 percent of
total job creation, according to a November paper.  “I would prefer to focus on the start-ups, on making sure
the U.S. is an attractive place to start business,” Sheets
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  