-- Smaller Payday Trims Workers’ Splurges as U.S. Tax Breaks Expire
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/smaller-payday-trims-workers-splurges-as-u-s-tax-breaks-expire.html
Phoenix high school teacher Kenny
Williams said he’s cutting back on his “family splurge fund”
for movie and sports outings after the reinstated  U.S. payroll
tax  lowered his first paycheck of the year by $30.  The 46-year-old single dad of two was shopping at the 99
Cent Only store in Phoenix last week to save money on groceries
and partly offset the $60-a-month cut he expects in his take-
home pay. Dinners out also will go, he said.  “I don’t normally shop here for food, but I am now,”
Williams said, as he struggled to find healthful items in an
aisle he said was filled with high-fructose corn syrup. “You
have to make up for it somehow. When you already are on a tight
budget, something has to be done.”  By tomorrow, most Americans will have experienced the hit
to their checks firsthand after Congress let a two-year-old
payroll tax break expire while averting bigger automatic cuts
that were to take effect this month. The 2 percentage point
increase in taxes will take $125 billion from consumers’ pockets
this year, estimates  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which in October lowered its forecast for
first-quarter economic growth to 1 percent from 1.5 percent.  The increase in tax, to 6.2 percent of wages, will be used to
pay for  Social Security . It was reduced to a 4.2 percent rate in
2011 and 2012 to help ease the effects of the recession.  The bump will range from about $4.50 a week for a single 
person earning at the poverty level to $46.64 a week for
someone making the maximum $113,700 subject to the tax in 2013.
Any additional earnings beyond that amount won’t be affected.  ‘Little Decisions’  While the reductions are small relative to paychecks,
workers eventually will cut back, said Meir Statman, the Glenn
Klimeck Professor of Finance at the  Leavey School of Business  at
Santa Clara University in  California .  “It will be in the little decisions people make, small
amounts,” said Statman, who wrote a 2011 book that studied how
emotions and other factors influence investor behavior. “Things
like whether you eat at McDonald’s are most likely. People still
have to pay for housing and food and they aren’t going to give
up their phones.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index posted its biggest
one-week drop since August in the seven days ended Jan. 6,
falling to minus 34.4 from minus 31.8 the prior period.  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP) , which handles paychecks for
about one out of every six workers in the U.S., said about 75
percent of its clients pay employees either every two weeks or
twice a month. Most of the rest pay weekly and a very small
number pay monthly, said Michael Schneider, a spokesman for
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP.  “I’m thinking I need to stop eating out as much,” said
Ana Smith, 24. She works for a consulting firm in Philadelphia
and doesn’t get paid until this week. “It’ll affect my ability
to shop.”  Paycheck Surprise  Smith was one of several diners in the food court at the
Shops at Liberty Place, a retail complex in Philadelphia
populated by many office workers who as of last week said they
weren’t aware their paychecks were about to shrink.   Most of the 134 million Americans who are on corporate
payrolls will likely change their spending habits in similar
ways to Williams and Smith, and that can add up to hundreds of
millions of dollars across the economy, said Jerry Davis, a
professor of sociology at the University of  Michigan   Ross School
of Business  in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  “Most Americans don’t bother to save much, so many people
are living paycheck to paycheck and so small changes will
quickly change behavior such as skipping meals or movies,” said
Davis, who is also the Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor
of Management.  Paycheck to Paycheck  About 3.7 percent of an average American’s income is spent
on recreation including things such as sporting events, movies
and trips to the museum, according to November 2012 data from
the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Another 5 percent goes
toward food bought on the go, such as dining out, the data show.  A single person who makes $11,702, considered the poverty
line in the U.S., will have $234 less in take-home pay a year. A
family of two adults and two children at the poverty limit earns
$22,811, subject to $456 more a year in taxes.  Even if the change seems small, Leslie Martinez said she
worries the increased tax will affect her ability to pay bills
on time or afford activities such as a movie night with her
kids. The 32-year-old mother of two makes $17,000 a year working
at a central Phoenix dry cleaner.  By the time she gets paid, there is already as little as
$40 left, and the costs for her 12-year-old daughter to play
soccer have been adding up recently. The changes will probably
cut about $6.54 from her pay each week.  “When you live paycheck to paycheck, every penny counts,”
Martinez said. “When I get my paycheck, it’s already spent.”  Cheaper Beer  Brandon Croud, a mortgage underwriter for the  Federal
Housing Administration , doesn’t see the higher  tax rate  making a
big dent in his lifestyle. He said his Jan. 4 paycheck was about
$30 less than usual.  “I don’t plan to change anything because it’s not that
much money,” said Croud, 30, who was drinking a Captain Morgan
rum and Coke and munching on potato skins and onion rings at the
24 Seconds Bar & Grill in Berkley, Michigan, on a Friday
evening. “If it were like $100 a paycheck, then I might switch
to a cheaper beer or something.”  For the family earning the  median U.S. income  of $64,293,
the return to the higher tax withholding rate translates into
$1,286 for the year. Taxpayers with a salary of $113,700 or more
face an annual increase of about $2,425.  Working for Free  Higher-earning consumers may not alter behavior right away,
said Statman, the Santa Clara University professor. The initial
loss of income will probably first show up in higher reliance on
a charge card, he said.  “Many of those people aren’t going to look at their
paychecks and be shocked because they are doing well enough and
these aren’t huge numbers,” Statman said. “But eventually what
will likely happen is it will begin to constrain people.”  Williams, the Phoenix schoolteacher, said the reduction in
pay makes it feel as though he’s working a couple hours each
week for free.  “You work the same amount of hours and are taking home less
money,” Williams said. “I don’t like it. We’ve all given more
than our fair share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  