-- SocGen Deal May Presage Alternatifbank Decline After Gains
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-01-14T14:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/socgen-deal-may-presage-alternatifbank-decline-after-stock-soars.html
Investors in  Alternatifbank AS (ALNTF)  may
be setting themselves up for declines after driving up the stock
more than 60 percent since Anadolu Group started talks to sell
the lender to  Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC , according to
analysts at Garanti Securities and Arqaam Capital Ltd.  The Istanbul-based lender, 96 percent owned by Anadolu,
jumped 16 percent on Dec. 24 when the news was announced. It’s
since surged a further 43 percent to give it a market value of
1.01 billion Turkish liras ($570 million). It trades at a price-
to-earnings ratio of 13, compared with 11.05 for the 16-member
 Istanbul Stock Exchange National Banks Index. (XBANK)   The share surge is reminiscent of gains at  National Societe
Generale Bank SAE (NSGB)  in  Egypt , a unit of Paris-based  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , which soared about 24 percent after  Qatar National
Bank SAQ (QNBK)  said it was interested in buying the bank in August.
The stock plunged 9.9 percent on the day of the sale on Dec. 13
after the French bank agreed to sell it for below market value.  A similar event may occur at Alternatifbank, said Recep Demir, an analyst at Garanti Securities in Istanbul.  “With only 4 percent of the bank in free float, we have to
think about how much of an indicator market value really is,”
Demir said by telephone. “I would expect a downwards movement
of the share when more becomes known about the sale.”  Relative Strength  The talks with Commercial Bank of Qatar may last about two
and a half months, Anadolu Group Chairman Tuncay Ozilhan said
last month.  Commercial Bank of Qatar  may also lowball any offer for
Alternatifbank because it will probably need a large capital
increase to buy the company, said  Jaap Meijer , director of
equity research at Dubai-based Arqaam.  The Doha-based bank had a Tier 1 capital ratio of 15.6
percent at the end of September, compared with an average of
18.4 percent for Qatari banks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income dropped 1 percent annually to $150.5
million in the third quarter.  “Alternatifbank’s current share price should not dictate
any price tag,” Meijer said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “CBQ could offer less than the current market price
given its low structural returns and poor capital position.”  Shares Rise  Abank rose 0.8 percent to 2.43 liras on the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange  at 3:48 p.m. today. The ISE National Banks index traded
two percent higher.  Abank reached a record high of 2.61 liras on Dec. 27 and
traded at 1.46 liras on Dec. 21 before the sale talks. The
lender is ranked 13th of 16 listed Turkish banks in terms of
market value and has 63 branches nationwide.  Overseas lenders are likely to seek Turkish bank
acquisitions this year, to benefit from a strong economy and
banking industry,  Fitch Ratings  said in an e-mailed report in
 London  today, citing Anadolu Group’s talks with CBQ.  Turkey ’s economic growth will probably accelerate to 4.0
percent this year from an estimated 3 percent in 2012, according
to the average of 22 analyst estimates on Bloomberg.  Investors from the  Middle East ,  Russia  and the  Far East  are
seeking to boost their presence in Turkey, attracted by rising
profit and growth in loans.  Abank reported a nine-month profit of 57.4 million liras in
2012, five times greater than the year-ago figure. Net interest
income more than doubled to 330 million liras in the same
period.  ‘Performing Well’  “Both the bank and the parent are performing well so this
is not an obligatory sale,” Bulent Sengonul, manager of equity
research at Is Investment Securities, Turkey’s biggest broker by
trading volume, said by telephone. “Abank is a smaller bank
with improved profitability and the multiple might be larger
than, for example, Denizbank’s.”  Russian  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  bought Turkish bank  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  from
Belgium’s  Dexia SA (DEXB)  in June last year for $3.53 billion, or 1.33
times book value. Qatar National Bank said last month it may
target stakes in the country’s major lenders.  Bank of Tokyo-
Mistubishi UFJ Ltd , a unit of  Japan ’s biggest financial company
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , is in the final stages of
its license application and may begin operations early this
year, Mukim Oztekin, head of the industry regulator, said in
December.  Total profit at Turkish banks rose 19 percent annually in
the first 11 months of last year to 21.8 billion liras, the
regulator in Ankara said on its  website  on Jan. 8. Loans grew 16
percent to 805.7 billion liras in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  