-- Starz Shares Rise in First Trading Day
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-14T21:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/starz-shares-rise-in-first-trading-day.html
Starz, a rival to HBO and Showtime
in the premium-cable channel market, rose 9.8 percent on its
first day of trading after being broken off from Liberty Media
Corp. in a spinoff.  Starz’s Class A stock  gained $1.39 to $15.59 at the close
in  New York . Shares of the Englewood, Colorado-based company
trade under the ticker STRZA on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The company, which owns the Starz, Encore and Movieplex
channels, has a total of about 55 million TV subscribers, who
typically pay an additional monthly fee. Like its premium-cable
rivals, Starz began as a movie network and then added original
programming, including the gladiator series “Spartacus.”  Liberty Media Chief Executive Officer Greg Maffei, who
remains a director on Starz’s board, signaled in September that
he sees it as a takeover candidate. He said a bigger cable
network group, with its own distribution channels and content,
“might be able to do more” with Starz.  The spinoff makes a deal more probable, helping maximize
the business’s value for investors,  John Tinker , an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in a note to clients. He has a
buy rating on the shares, with a price target of $21.  Still, the company didn’t renew a contract for Walt Disney
Co. film rights beyond 2015, potentially crimping the supply of
movies that air on its channels. That has hurt Starz’s takeover
prospects, Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in
New York, said in a note last week. Disney is opting to work
with Netflix Inc. instead.  Deal’s Likelihood  “The growth outlook has weakened, and the probability of
Starz being acquired has lessened,” said Kraft, who values the
company at $10 a share.  In the wake of losing the Disney contract, Starz is
refocusing on original programming -- a strategy that makes the
business model riskier, Kraft said. The company canceled its
heavily promoted Kelsey Grammer series “Boss” after ratings
declined.  Liberty Media, also based in Englewood, owns a range of
media, communications and entertainment assets, including stakes
in Sirius XM Radio Inc., Live Nation Entertainment Inc. and
Barnes & Noble Inc.  Liberty Media shares  fell less than 1
percent to $109.60 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  