-- Summers Says Yuan Isn’t as Undervalued as It Was Five Years Ago
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-14T06:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/summers-says-yuan-isn-t-as-undervalued-as-it-was-five-years-ago.html
Lawrence Summers, the former top
economic adviser to U.S. President  Barack Obama , said China’s
 yuan  is no longer as undervalued as it was five years ago.  “The  renminbi  is not saliently, strikingly undervalued in
the way it was five years ago,” Summers said today at the Asian
Financial Forum in Hong Kong.  The comments are in line with tempered criticism from
abroad of China’s control over its currency, even as the U.S.
Treasury Department reiterated in November that the yuan
“remains significantly undervalued.” The yuan has appreciated
about 17 percent against the dollar since the end of 2007.  China “has substantially reduced the level of official
intervention in exchange markets since the third quarter of
2011,” the Treasury said in a statement accompanying its semi-
annual currency report to Congress in November.  Summers was Obama’s adviser from 2009-10 and served as
Treasury secretary from 1999-2001.  The International Monetary Fund in July repeated an
assessment that the yuan was “moderately” undervalued while
omitting a previous estimate of the magnitude of the gap.  China 
disputed the assessment and said the yuan was “now close to
equilibrium or, at most, slightly undervalued,” according to an
IMF report.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in May
that further appreciation in the yuan is important to aid a
reshaping of China’s economy as significant as the nation’s
opening of its markets in the 1970s.  Summers also said U.S. gross domestic product growth was
probably about 1 percent last quarter. The median estimate of
analysts surveyed this month by Bloomberg News was for an
annualized rate of 1.5 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  