-- Swan Says RBA’s Stevens Done ‘Superb’ Job as Term End Nears
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-01-14T05:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/swan-says-rba-s-stevens-done-superb-job-as-term-end-approaches.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said
central bank Governor Glenn Stevens has the support of the prime
minister and the country, while stopping short of saying the
government will reappoint him this year to another term.  “He’s done a superb job. He certainly has the strong
confidence not only of the Australian government but I believe
broadly across the Australian people,” Swan told Bloomberg
Television in an interview today in Hong Kong. “His term’s
still got a little way to run, so I’m not going to speculate
about that.”  Stevens’s term as Reserve Bank of  Australia  chief ends in
September, around the time when Prime Minister Julia Gillard may
call an election, and her government hasn’t openly endorsed his
reappointment. Under the Reserve Bank Act, the treasurer names
the governor and his No. 2 for terms of as many as seven years.
Deputy Governor Philip Lowe was appointed in February last year.  “Regarding the appointment or reappointment of Governor
Stevens, I don’t speculate about those matters,” Swan said.
“But I can say, very clearly, that he has the strong support
and confidence of the Australian government.”  The Australian dollar bought $1.0562 at 3:44 p.m. in Sydney
compared with $1.0547 before Swan’s remarks.  Inflation Record  Stevens himself hasn’t said publicly whether he wants to
extend his tenure. Since taking the helm in September 2006, he
has presided over annual inflation that’s averaged 2.8 percent -
- within the RBA’s target range of 2 percent to 3 percent -- and
unemployment near 5 percent as the world’s 12th-largest economy
extended a recession-free era to 21 years.  “Markets would welcome an early confirmation that he’d be
staying on,” said Saul Eslake, chief Australia economist for
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division. “He has the
confidence of markets, and by comparison with almost all of his
peers, he’s got a pretty good track record.”  Stevens, 54, was one of six central bankers given a top
grade in a 2012 ranking by Global Finance magazine based on
their ability to control inflation, achieve growth goals,
maintain a stable currency and manage interest rates. It was the
fourth straight year he received an ‘A’ in the evaluation.  Even so, he was drawn into a controversy last year as
corruption allegations at the central bank’s note-printing units
prompted a day of testimony to a parliamentary panel on the
biggest scandal at the RBA since it gained independence in 1996.  Bribery Allegations  Eight former managers and employees at the central bank’s
Note Printing Australia Ltd. unit and Securency International
Pty face charges in relation to the alleged bribing of officials
in  Malaysia , Indonesia and  Vietnam  from 1999 to 2004 to win
bank-note printing contracts.  Stevens said in the Oct. 8 testimony that while he believed
officials who reported to him acted appropriately, there should
have been more questioning and “skepticism” of both companies.  Gillard and Swan expressed support for the RBA governor
during the controversy.  They also spent much of last year encouraging the central
bank to lower rates and stimulate the economy as they budgeted
for a A$44 billion ($46 billion) swing back to the black in time
for an election due by late this year. The government is seeking
to benefit from lower borrowing costs in an economy where 90
percent of mortgages have floating rates.  The RBA lowered the cash rate to 3 percent on Dec. 4,
matching a half-century low after 1.75 percentage points of cuts
since Nov. 1, 2011. On Dec. 20, Swan announced that the
government was unlikely to meet its pledge to deliver the
surplus this fiscal year as weaker growth and a strong local
currency curb tax receipts.  In today’s interview, Swan also said  China ’s economy has
stabilized, Australia’s prospects remain strong and the U.S
needs to do address its fiscal problems to alleviate risks to
the global recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  