-- Swiss Insurers, UPS Takeover, Dragon Systems: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-14T14:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/swiss-insurers-ups-takeover-dragon-systems-compliance.html
Switzerland’s implementation of new
solvency rules ahead of the European Union may reduce the appeal
of Zurich as a base for reinsurers and insurers, the canton’s
economy and labor office said.  Switzerland introduced stricter solvency rules known as SST
in January 2011, requiring insurers to provide a mark-to-market
valuation of assets and liabilities that for the first time
takes into account their investments. Lobbying by German,
British and French insurers has delayed this year’s planned
implementation of the EU’s Solvency II rules that seek to align
capital reserves with the risks companies take.  Zurich, home to  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  and  Zurich Insurance Group
AG (ZURN) , is concerned the rules threaten the role of insurers in
creating a more diversified based for the canton’s bank-
dominated financial industry. Record-low interest rates and a
shortage of skilled workers provide other challenges to Zurich’s
insurance industry, the canton said.  Compliance Policy  BOE Proposes Power to Target Risks in Mortgages, Derivatives  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee proposed
powers to alter the amount of capital banks hold against real-
estate assets as well as derivatives and bonds as it seeks to
strengthen the financial system.  While the FPC will seek to act at the “highest level,” it
also sees a potential need to target capital at a “more
granular level,” it said a draft paper published in London
today. “Such an approach might help to tackle threats to
stability before they spread, particularly by leaning against
exuberance in specific subsectors,” it said, noting high loan-
to-value mortgages as an example.  The FPC has sought powers over so-called sectoral capital
requirements -- along with countercyclical capital buffers and
leverage ratios -- from the government as the Bank of England
prepares to take over the role of ensuring financial stability.
The committee, led by BOE Governor  Mervyn King , is currently
operating on an interim basis as legislation passes through
Parliament.  The FPC said the use of the countercyclical capital buffer
and the sectoral capital requirements “will improve the ability
of the financial system to withstand shocks.” King is due to
appear at a Parliament hearing in London tomorrow to answer
lawmakers’ questions on the BOE’s semi-annual Financial
Stability Report. FPC members  Andrew Haldane  and Michael Cohrs
will also attend the hearing.  For more, click here.  Obama to Join Talks on Financial-Services Trade Barriers  President Barack Obama is set to notify Congress early next
week that the U.S. plans to participate in trade talks to lower
national barriers to financial services, telecommunications and
express delivery, according to people familiar with the
decision.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk ’s office is preparing a
90-day notification to Congress that it will take part in so-
called trade in services negotiations at the World Trade
Organization in Geneva, the people said. They declined to
discuss the process on the record before a formal announcement.  Services are a growing portion of international trade,
accounting for about $8 trillion in 2011, according to WTO
statistics. The countries involved in the talks account for
about 70 percent of global commerce.  Discussions probably will cover the cross-border movement
of financial data, information and communications services,
maritime, environmental and energy services and government
procurement.  Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman for the USTR in Washington,
declined to comment, saying by phone, “We haven’t notified
Congress, and when we notify Congress, we’ll notify Congress.”  It would be the first new trade negotiation since Obama was
re-elected in November.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  UPS Abandons TNT Express as EU Moves to Reject $6.9 Billion Bid  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s biggest package-
delivery company, said it scrapped a 5.16 billion-euro ($6.9
billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  after European regulators moved
to block the deal.  Antitrust officials told the companies last week that the
latest remedies were insufficient, according to TNT, which fell
as much as 51 percent in Amsterdam. TNT will get a 200 million-
euro termination fee from Atlanta-based UPS following formal
rejection of the combination, the biggest to fail in Europe
since BAE Systems Plc and EADS called off a merger in October.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  will reach a
decision on the case by Feb. 5, spokesman Antoine Colombani
said.  UPS Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said he was
“extremely disappointed” by the failure of a deal that would
have been the biggest in his company’s history, giving it a
European market share similar to  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the
region’s top express operator.  The deal will be formally terminated once the
“inevitable” prohibition ruling has been received, TNT said.
The Dutch company added that it “regrets this situation, having
believed the merger was feasible and beneficial for all
stakeholders.”  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank’s Management Questioned by Bafin on Libor, HB Says  German financial watchdog Bafin is interviewing nine
managers at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  including co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain, co-CEO  Juergen Fitschen , Chairman  Paul
Achleitner  and head of legal Richard Walker, Handelsblatt
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Jain will be interviewed in January, according to
Handelsblatt.  The investigation of top management should be terminated by
end of February and the special investigation results should be
published around the end of March, according to Handelsblatt.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert declined to
comment on the report and referred questions to Bafin.  AIG Fined $6 Million by California Over Marketing, Claims  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that repaid
a U.S. bailout, has agreed to a two-year monitoring period and
been fined $6 million by a California watchdog for claims and
marketing violations.  The penalty was assessed against New York-based AIG’s
National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh, according to a
statement Jan. 11 from California Insurance Commissioner  Dave
Jones .  “We are pleased that this agreement is now effective,”
Jon Diat, a spokesman for AIG, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are firmly committed to regulatory compliance.”  Deutsche Bank Libor Probe Result Should Be Public, Lawmakers Say  Deutsche Bank AG and Germany’s finance regulator are under
pressure to publish findings of a probe into whether the lender
rigged interest rates, with lawmakers saying a rule meant to
protect banks is crippling efforts to explore what’s wrong with
financial markets.  Unless a bank allows publication, German law bans the
regulator, known as Bafin, from disclosing facts from reviews if
it would be contrary to the lender’s interest. Lawmakers claim
the practice, aimed at protecting business secrets, hinders
effective controls.  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks including Deutsche Bank,
Barclays Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  colluded to rig the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark for more than $300
trillion of securities.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, was
fined $1.5 billion by U.S. and U.K. regulators for manipulating
interest rates including Euribor. Barclays Plc was fined 290
million pounds ($467 million) in June last year for manipulating
Libor and Euribor.  The U.S. Justice Department is conducting a criminal probe
in parallel with civil investigations by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  Deutsche Bank denies any wrongdoing by its executives.
Christian Streckert, a company spokesman, declined to comment on
whether the bank will allow the Libor probe results to be
disclosed.  For more, click here.  China Stocks Rise Most in Month on Market Access for Foreigners  China’s stocks  rose the most in a month after the head of
the securities regulator said the nation can increase by 10
times the size of two investment programs that allow foreign
investors to buy securities.  China can raise quotas to allow foreigners as well as
offshore yuan holders in Hong Kong to buy stocks and bonds in
the mainland, said  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission. Citic Securities Co. led a rally for
brokerages on the prospect that increased demand for equities
would boost profit.  China can raise the level of quotas for the Renminbi
Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors and the Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investors programs, Guo said at a
conference in Hong Kong today.  The government scrapped a ceiling on investments by
overseas sovereign wealth funds and central banks in its capital
markets last month, part of government efforts to encourage
long-term foreign ownership and shore up slumping equities.  China has also started preparations for a trial program
that would allow individuals to invest in overseas capital
markets as the nation seeks a greater role for its currency in
global finance.  For more, click here.  Courts  Deutsche Postbank Sues UBS Over $100 Million Securitization Deal  UBS AG (UBS)  was sued by  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB) , a unit of Deutsche
Bank AG, over allegations the Swiss lender didn’t honor a 75
million-euro ($100 million) securitization deal.  Postbank says in a London lawsuit that UBS failed to
convert leveraged asset-backed securities into collateralized
notes under the terms of a contract that required the action if
UBS’s credit rating was downgraded. Postbank says the Zurich-
based lender is in default because it didn’t convert the assets
after it was downgraded along with 14 other banks in June 2012.  UBS denies the allegations and will defend itself
vigorously, according to a statement from Richard Morton, a
spokesman for the bank.  The Postbank press office in Bonn, Germany, didn’t respond
to e-mails requesting comment.  Postbank is demanding early repayment of the full amount
under the notes, according to the lawsuit. The court documents
released last week contain only a one-page summary of the claim
and further details haven’t been disclosed.  The case is Deutsche Postbank AG v. UBS AG, High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, 12-1628.  FTC Sues Over Alleged $220 Million N.Y. Telemarketing Scam  The Federal Trade Commission sued to shut down an alleged
$220 million telemarketing scheme operating out of the  Empire
State Building , saying it has victimized thousands of people,
including the elderly and disabled.  The Tax Club Inc. has duped victims interested in working
at home or setting up Internet businesses, charging them
thousands of dollars for nonexistent small-business development
services, according to court papers filed Jan. 10 in federal
court in Manhattan by the FTC and the attorneys general of New
York and Florida.  The Tax Club began in Utah and expanded to comprise at
least 12 companies controlled by four individuals and run from
the 60th floor of the landmark Manhattan office tower, the FTC
and states said in court papers. They asked for an order
shutting down the businesses, freezing their assets and
appointing a temporary receiver.  The scheme has been in operation since at least 2008, they
said.  Judith Archer, who represents all but one of the
defendants, declined to comment on the allegations. Michael
Hartmere, who represents an individual defendant, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Tax Club Inc.,
1:13-cv-00210, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Goldman Sachs Says Dragon Rushed Toward Doomed $580 Million Deal  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  portrayed speech recognition
pioneer Dragon Systems Inc. as rushing to close a $580 million
deal without sufficiently vetting its buyer in a doomed union
that triggered a negligence suit and landed the bank in Boston
federal court.  Beginning its defense at the trial of the case this week,
Goldman Sachs made its case to jurors who have spent weeks
hearing how the 2000 all-stock deal was quickly followed by an
accounting scandal that led to the collapse of suitor Lernout &
Hauspie Speech Products NV. Goldman Sachs, which advised Dragon
on the deal, called witnesses to counter allegations by Dragon
founders Jim and Janet Baker that its negligence cost them their
life’s work.  Testifying Jan. 9 for Goldman Sachs, former Dragon
president John Shagoury agreed with a bank attorney that
Dragon’s board of directors was focused on “speed and
certainty” in the months leading to the deal. In response to a
question, Shagoury acknowledged he didn’t blame Goldman Sachs
that the stock options became worthless in the merger.  Dragon’s founders, who are seeking hundreds of millions of
dollars in damages, claim that four Goldman Sachs bankers
assigned to the transaction committed gross negligence by
failing to pursue questions about Belgium-based Lernout &
Hauspie’s finances that should have led them to avoid the deal.  They alleged in court papers that they lost their company
and access to the technology they had spent their careers
developing, including Dragon NaturallySpeaking dictation
software, when Lernout & Hauspie filed for bankruptcy in
November 2000. The deal closed in June of that year.  Goldman Sachs claimed its team gave Dragon competent advice
and said it urged company management to press their accountants
at Arthur Andersen LLP to probe Lernout & Hauspie’s finances.  The Bakers, who started Dragon in 1982, claim the bankers
failed to do due diligence and never advised them to back away
from the sale despite lingering questions about L&H’s unusual
revenue spikes in Asia.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Interviews  UBS’s Li Says China Capital Markets to Improve in 2013  David Li, head of UBS AG’s operations in China, talked
about the outlook for the country’s financial markets and
growth.  Li, who spoke with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move,” also discussed the impact of
China’s business regulations on its economy.  For the video, click here.  Former FDIC Chief Bair Says Bank Leverage Still High  Sheila Bair, a former chairman of the U.S. Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said we “still haven’t fixed the problems”
that led to the U.S. financial crisis. Bair talked with
Bloomberg’s Tom Keene and Sarah Eisen on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.”  They were joined by Robert
Albertson, principal and chief strategist at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Goldman Said to Weigh Delaying U.K. Bonuses From Prior Years  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is considering whether to delay
delivery of some bonuses due from prior years for U.K. employees
until after top income-tax rates fall on April 6, according to a
person briefed on the matter.  The postponement would affect incentive compensation
deferred from 2009, 2010 and 2011 and benefit those whose tax
rates are set to decline to 45 percent from 50 percent, said the
person, who requested anonymity because a decision hasn’t been
made. The delay wouldn’t affect bonuses awarded for 2012, the
person said.  New York-based Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank
by assets, typically delivers executives’ restricted stock
during January.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment. The Financial Times reported Jan. 12 that the bank was
weighing whether to defer the bonus payments.  Wright Becomes FTC Commissioner Following Senate Confirmation  Joshua D. Wright was sworn in as a commissioner of the
Federal Trade Commission Jan. 11 for a term that will end Sept.
25, 2019, according to a statement by the commission on its
website.  Wright was unanimously confirmed by the senate Jan. 1. He
will replace J. Thomas Rosch, who became a commissioner in
January 2006.  Prior to becoming a commissioner, Wright was a professor of
law at George Mason University School of Law. He has also served
as a scholar in residence at the agency’s Bureau of Competition,
the FTC said in the statement. His areas of expertise include
antitrust and economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 