-- Swiss Stocks Rise, Extending a Four-Year High
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-14T16:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/swiss-stocks-rise-extending-four-year-high-swatch-gains.html
Swiss stocks  rose, extending a four-
year high, as  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  rallied and Federal Reserve Bank
of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said that the central bank
should continue to support the  U.S. economy .  Swatch gained 4.2 percent after agreeing to buy the Harry
Winston watch and jewelry brand for about $1 billion.  Transocean (RIGN) 
Ltd. increased 2.9 percent after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
acquired a 1.56 percent stake in the world’s largest offshore-
rig contractor. Givaudan SA and  Clariant (CLN)  AG fell after HSBC
Holdings Plc recommended selling the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  climbed 0.2 percent to 7,202.52 at
the close in Zurich, paring a rally of as much as 0.6 percent.
The equity benchmark still rose to its highest level since Sept.
12, 2008. The gauge advanced 1.8 percent last week amid optimism
that U.S. companies’ earnings would beat estimates. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also added 0.2 percent today.  “What’s very supportive of the Swiss market is Swatch’s
rally after the acquisition as investors see it as a well-
positioned company that has more potential,” Alessandro Fezzi,
a senior market analyst at LGT Bank Schweiz AG in Zurich, said
in a telephone interview. “The Fed comments surely help  market
sentiment  on a day without much newsflow. Generally it looks
like a positive day without a special driver.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the SMI was 12
percent greater than the average of the past 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. government should put “in place policies that
slowly but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into
balance with future spending,” Evans said in Hong Kong today.
“Under this scenario, monetary policy has an important
contribution to make.”  FOMC Minutes  Federal Open Market Committee minutes, released on Jan. 3,
showed policy makers had split on how long their $85 billion
monthly bond-purchase program should last. Members were evenly
divided between those who wanted to end the purchases in the
middle of 2013 and those who supported continuing them after
that time.  Swatch jumped 4.2 percent to 513 Swiss francs, its highest
price since at least July 1993. The biggest maker of Swiss
watches agreed to buy  Harry Winston  in its  largest-ever
acquisition . Swatch will pay  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW)  $750
million and assume as much as $250 million in debt.  “The acquisition of the Harry Winston luxury brand is a
great fit to the Swatch Group as it fills the gap of the high-
end jewelry watches and adds a well known jewelry brand,” Rene Weber, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Transocean Rises  Transocean gained 2.9 percent to 50.80 francs, its highest
price since April 2012. Icahn notified the company that he’s
seeking regulatory approval to acquire more than $682 million of
shares -- a stake of 3 percent -- Transocean said in a
 statement . The oil-rig supplier said on Jan. 3 that it agreed to
pay $1.4 billion in penalties for the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon platform in the Gulf of Mexico. The subsequent blowout
led to the world’s worst accidental spill.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed 2 percent to 25.60 francs.
Mediobanca SpA raised  Switzerland’s second-biggest bank  to
outperform, the equivalent of buy, from neutral.  Cytos Biotechnology AG (CYTN)  surged 16 percent to 3.90 francs,
extending its 12 percent gain on Jan. 11. The maker of
biopharmaceuticals has posted its largest two-day advance in
more than 11 weeks.  Givaudan (GIVN) , the maker of flavors and fragrances, declined 0.5
percent to 983.50 francs and Clariant, a chemical maker, slipped
2 percent to 12.15 francs after HSBC cut both stocks to
underweight from neutral, meaning investors should sell the
shares. HSBC cited the European chemical industry’s performance
in 2012 and said the companies will probably not grow at the
same pace in 2013 unless macro data improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  