-- Synovus Sea Island Settlement Bars Board Loan Approvals
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2013-01-14T18:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/synovus-sea-island-settlement-bars-board-loan-approvals.html
Synovus Financial Corp. (SNV)  settled a
shareholder lawsuit over more than $200 million in bad loans to
 Georgia  luxury resort Sea Island Co. that the investors say were
approved with a “golf course handshake” between executives of
the two companies.  The bank’s shareholders sued in federal court in Atlanta in
2009 after the real estate market collapsed and tourism
declined, damaging Sea Island’s business. The 85-year-old resort
filed for bankruptcy the following year. The investors accused
current and former Synovus directors and executives of gross
mismanagement in their handling of the loans and of making false
and misleading statements to investors.  Under the settlement, which was given preliminary approval
Jan. 9, the Synovus board will no longer be allowed to approve
loans and agreed to adopt other policies to prevent “excessive
risk.”  “What is especially interesting is that the directors
won’t be able to participate in the approval of any loans,
whether large or small,” said Mark Chen, an associate professor
of finance at  Georgia State University  who specializes in
corporate governance. “That does seem to be unusual.”  James Blanchard, the former chairman of Columbus, Georgia-
based Synovus, owned a house on Sea Island and was also a friend
of resort Chief Executive Officer Bill Jones III, according to
the investors’ complaint, which said the pair were hunting and
golfing partners. Blanchard was on the Sea Island board and
Jones was a Synovus director until 2008. Both men were named as
defendants in the shareholder suit and, in the settlement, deny
any wrongdoing.  ‘Pebble Beach’  Privately held Sea Island was attempting to transform
itself into the “ Pebble Beach  of the East” in the mid-2000s,
when it turned to Synovus for loans to update its signature
Cloister Hotel and other properties, the shareholders said in
court documents.  With tourism and the real estate market declining in 2007,
Synovus officers “said next to nothing about  Sea Island  and,
when asked about Sea Island generally assured investors it was
not a problem,” the shareholders alleged.  The Sea Island loans are also the focus of securities fraud
lawsuits against Synovus by three pension funds accusing the
bank of providing false information to investors. While the
shareholder suit was a so-called derivative case filed against
directors and executives on behalf of Synovus, the pension fund
suits were filed against the bank, as well. The pension fund
cases are still pending.  ‘Worst’ Allegations  In July, U.S. District Judge J. Owen Forrester called the
complaints in those suits “probably the worst set of
allegations I’ve ever seen in a securities case.” He urged the
attorneys to “think about mediation as soon as you can.”  Under the terms of shareholder settlement, the Synovus
board “shall not approve loans” while it will have “oversight
of management’s lending and credit policies.” The bank will pay
$900,000 in shareholder attorney fees. Forrester set another
settlement hearing for Feb. 26.  Synovus also agreed to consolidate 30 of the company’s bank
charters into one. The Sea Island loans were made by various
banks owned by Synovus with each bank having its own board,
making oversight of the Sea Island loans more difficult,
according to court documents.  Eight Synovus directors, including Blanchard, have left the
company and new members with expertise in risk management and
auditing have been added, according to court documents.  Neither Corey Holzer, an attorney for the shareholders, nor
John Latham, an attorney for the defendants in the case,
immediately returned phone calls seeking comment on the
settlement. Synovus spokesman Greg Hudgison declined to comment.  Howard Coffin  Sea Island , on the southeast coast of Georgia just north of
the Florida border, began as a small hotel built in 1928 by
automobile executive and engineer Howard Coffin. Today, the
Cloister Hotel features villas with ocean views and a spa that
is larger than an American football field.  Sea Island was the site of the Group of Eight Summit in
2004 that brought then-President  George W. Bush  and dignitaries
including Afghanistan President  Hamid Karzai  to the resort.  In August 2010, Sea Island Co. filed for bankruptcy and was
sold that year to  Oaktree Capital  Management LP, Avenue Capital
Group, Anschutz Corp. and Starwood Capital Group for
$212.4 million, according to court documents.  In 2008, Synovus received $968 million from the federal
Troubled Asset Relief Program. It remains TARP’s largest single
bank investment, according to the U.S. Treasury Department. The
company hopes to return the TARP funds no later than the fourth
quarter of this year, Hudgison said.  The case is City of Pompano Beach General Employees’
Retirement System v. Synovus Financial Corp., 09-cv-01811, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  