-- U.K. Offshore Wind Link Licences May Push Up Consumer Prices
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-01-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-k-offshore-wind-link-licences-may-push-up-consumer-prices.html
A U.K. government program that will
pay 17 billion pounds ($27 billion) to companies which operate
power transmission assets linking offshore wind farms to the
onshore grid may push up consumer prices, lawmakers said.  The system run by energy regulator Ofgem awards licences to
companies which own and operate the infrastructure for 20 years,
receiving steady revenue. It’s too skewed to attracting
investors rather than lowering prices for consumers, the
Committee of Public Accounts said today in a report.  Britain introduced the competitive licencing process in
2009 to ensure the offshore wind farms its promoting to meet
renewable energy targets were not delayed by lack of grid
connection. It also sought to ensure the infrastructure was
built at competitive prices to prevent hikes in consumer bills.
About 8 billion pounds of investment in the assets, including
cables and substations, is needed to bring electricity from wind
farms at sea to the grid, according to the report.  “Not only is it unlikely that this new licensing system
for bringing electricity from offshore wind farms onto the
national grid will deliver any savings for consumers, it could
well lead to higher prices,”  Margaret Hodge , a lawmaker in the
opposition  Labour Party  who chairs the committee, said.  Operators receive revenue from the National Grid which
recovers the costs from electricity suppliers and generators,
ultimately passed on to consumers. Future payments will amount
to 17 billion pounds, the report said.  Investor returns of 10 percent to 11 percent on the initial
licences awarded were too generous given the limited risks they
bear operating the links, according to the committee. Penalties
if operators fail to provide the assets are too low while the
government failed to ensure that gains made when assets are
refinanced are shared, the committee report found.  The report also found four of the first six licences were
won by one company, Transmission Capital Partners LP. “This
risks the creation of a monopoly supplier,” the report said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  