-- U.K. Stocks Drop From a 4 1/2-Year High; Lloyds Advances
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-14T16:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-at-4-1-2-year-high.html
U.K. stocks  fell from a 4 1/2 year
high, as British business confidence declined in December,
outweighing a U.S. central banker’s recommendation of  continued
stimulus to support the country’s economy.  Sage Group Plc lost 1.2 percent after Barclays Plc
recommended that investors sell the shares.  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  gained 1.6 percent after a report that its chief executive
officer beat targets tied to a turnaround plan.  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) 
climbed 1.1 percent after Middle East Economic Digest said the
company made the lowest bid for a contract in Abu Dhabi.  The FTSE 100 dropped 13.72 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,107.86 at the close in  London . The equity benchmark rose to
its highest level since May 2008 last week amid optimism that
U.S. companies’ earnings would exceed analysts’ estimates. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also lost 0.2 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index decreased 0.4 percent.  “After such a good run in global equities, one would
expect a correction at some point before markets go higher once
again,” said Richard Scrope, who helps manage 100 million
pounds ($161 million) as fund manager at Oriel Asset Management
LLP in London. “The U.K. economy is in poor shape and without
some growth, it’s likely to struggle.”  The volume of shares changing hands in  FTSE 100 (UKX)  companies
was 12 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Business Confidence  An index of business confidence in the U.K. fell to 90.3 in
December from 91.4 in November, accounting firm BDO LLP said in
a report in London. A gauge of output dropped to 93.1 from a
reading of 93.4, below the 95 mark that signals positive growth
in the quarter ahead.  “The U.K. may experience further contraction in the first
quarter of 2013, potentially resulting in a triple-dip
recession,” BDO said.  The U.S. government should put “in place policies that
slowly but surely bring the prospects of future revenues into
balance with future spending,” Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans said at the Asian Financial Forum in
Hong Kong today. “Under this scenario, monetary policy has an
important contribution to make.”  Sage Group (SGE)  slid 1.2 percent to 310 pence after Barclays
lowered its recommendation on the shares to underweight, the
equivalent of sell, from equal weight. The company has taken too
long to develop cloud-based applications, analysts led by
Gerardus Vos wrote in a note today.  Imagination Declines  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  slumped 6.4 percent to
435.3 pence after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Samsung
Electronics Co. has used a competitor’s technology in its new
range of smartphones.  “Anecdotal evidence suggests that Samsung Electronics’
next-generation smartphone chip contains plenty of intellectual
property from ARM Holdings,” analyst Simon Schafer wrote in a
note dated Jan. 12. “This removes upside potential to our
market-share forecasts.”  Lloyds advanced 1.6 percent to 54.9 pence after the Sunday
Times reported that CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio may get a 4.4
million-pound bonus because he beat targets tied to the
company’s strategy and customer complaints. A Lloyds spokesman
declined to comment. The shares surged 85 percent last year,
their biggest annual gain since at least 1989.  Petrofac, ITV  Petrofac gained 1.1 percent to 1,696 pence. A group of
companies including Petrofac submitted the lowest bid for a
contract to develop an oil field off the coast of Abu Dhabi for
Zakum Development Co., MEED reported on its website citing
unidentified people close to the process.  ITV Plc (ITV)  added 1.6 percent to 111.7 pence after the
Telegraph reported that the company may return cash to
shareholders when it publishes its annual results in February.
The newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  rose 3.5 percent to 334
pence after Credit Suisse Group AG upgraded the shares to
outperform, the equivalent of buy, from neutral, saying that the
company’s outlook for 2013-14 has improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  