-- U.K. Opposition Lawmaker Accuses Government of Cutting CCS Funds
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-01-14T17:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-k-opposition-lawmaker-accuses-government-of-cutting-ccs-funds.html
The U.K. government was accused of
“stringing along” carbon capture and storage developers after
a lawmaker in the opposition Labour Party said a 1 billion-pound
($1.6 billion) fund for the technology was cut by 80 percent.  Tom Greatrex, Labour’s Shadow Energy Minister, said cabinet
office documents showed the sum agreed to by government for CCS
projects has been reduced to 200 million pounds in the current
spending review period through 2015.  “Despite claiming that 1 billion pounds in support is
available, this secret government document confirms that in fact
available funding has been slashed by an astonishing 80 percent
to just 200 million pounds,” Greatrex said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The government has been caught out stringing
the CCS industry along.”  The U.K., seeking to curb pollution, had pledged to support
CCS with a 1 billion-pound funding contest because it traps
emissions from power stations and industry for burial
underground. British CCS projects earlier failed to win any
funds in the first phase of a separate European Union-run
contest.  “This decision will likely slow down projects in the
U.K.,” said Kieron Stopforth, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. “The document indicates that only 200 million
pounds will be available until 2015, which may see projects
start construction later than developers had hoped for.”  A spokesman at the Department of Energy and Climate Change
said today there was a government commitment to the CCS contest.
Funds will be available when projects need it, probably split
across spending review periods depending on which ventures win,
he said by e-mail. Prime Minister David Cameron said Dec. 11 the
U.K. was putting “serious money” into CCS.  Spending Review  The Project Assessment Review document, e-mailed from
Greatrex’s office, said the 1 billion pounds agreed to with
Treasury was retained “although only 200 million pounds is, at
present, available for the current spending review period.” The
document details a project review period of Feb. 27 to March 2,
2012.  The government in October selected four out of eight bids,
including SSE Plc, Alstom SA and Progressive Energy, for its 1
billion-pound contest. The next announcement on the contest is
planned for spring, the DECC spokesman said today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  