-- U.S. East Coast Cold to Provide Energy Markets With Demand Boost
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-14T14:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-s-east-coast-cold-to-provide-energy-markets-with-demand-boost.html
Frigid Arctic air may clamp down on
the U.S. East Coast and Midwest next week, increasing demand for
heating fuels.  Computer models show that temperatures across the regions
will be 5 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 Celsius) below normal from
Jan. 19 to Jan. 23, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “Over the weekend, the models held to delivering an
impressive piece of Arctic air into the U.S.,” Rogers said in a
note to clients. “Some debate continues as to how much of this
cold also reaches the South.”  The cold air may provide the season’s strongest boost to
natural gas prices. Futures for the fuel, used to heat about 50
percent of the nation’s households, rose to a two-week high
today on forecasts for cold weather.  Gas-weighted heating degree days may show that next week
will be the season’s peak so far for energy use, according to
 MDA Weather Services  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The values are calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy demand.
Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy being used to
heat homes and businesses. Gas-weighted values concentrate on
population centers that use the fuel for heating.  Lingering Cold  Forecasters are split how long the low temperatures will
remain in the large eastern cities. MDA and Rogers predict the
cold will start to fade by the end of the month.  The U.S. Climate Prediction Center said there is a 60
percent chance that below-normal temperatures will persist at
least until Jan. 27. Last week, Jon Gottschalck, the center’s
head of forecast operations, said there is a chance the cold may
linger into February.  Natural gas for February delivery rose 6.4 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $3.391 per million British thermal units at 9:09
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures are up 27
percent from a year ago, when the U.S. was in the middle of the
fourth-warmest winter on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Austin at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  