-- U.S. May Provide Logistics, Intelligence Support in Mali
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-14T18:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-s-may-provide-logistics-intelligence-support-in-mali.html
U.S. military assistance to French
troops fighting Islamic militants in  Mali  is likely to be
limited to logistics and intelligence support, Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said.  “I don’t want to go into all the particulars, but it
suffices to say that it’s basically in three areas we’re looking
at,” Panetta told reporters today en route to Lisbon, where is
beginning a visit to European capitals. “One is, provide
limited logistical support; two, provide intelligence support;
and three, provide some airlift capabilities.”  A 550-strong contingent of French air and ground forces has
been fighting in Mali since Jan. 11 to beat back militants based
in the north of the country after they went on the offensive
last week. The situation is “evolving favorably” even though
the militants are “extremely well-armed,” French Defense
Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said today.  “I commend  France  for taking the steps it has,” Panetta
said. “We have promised that we’ll work with them and cooperate
with them.”  Panetta declined to say if the U.S. intelligence support
will be in the form of satellite imagery or use of drones. He
also didn’t elaborate on what kinds of airlift will be provided.  The U.S. is in discussions with France on providing
refueling capabilities as well as airlift, a senior Pentagon
official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because
the talks are continuing. No decisions have been reached yet,
the official said.  Militant Group  The U.S. is concerned that allowing al-Qaeda in the
Maghreb, or AQIM, an affiliate of al-Qaeda, to establish bases
in North Africa will let the militant group eventually plan
attacks on the U.S. and  Europe , Panetta said.  “We have got to make sure that AQIM doesn’t have that kind
of traction,” he said.  The Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas,
plans to meet Jan. 16 to discuss deployment of about 2,000
African soldiers to Mali, a plan that was backed by the  United
Nations Security Council  in a resolution last month. The
intervention had been planned for September.  The U.S. plans to contribute to training and financial
support for the Ecowas force, State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said today in  Washington .  She said the U.S. won’t restart training programs for
Mali’s military until democracy is restored in that country.  Mali is led by interim President Dioncounda Traore and
Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was appointed last month
after the leader of the March coup, Captain Amadou Sanogo,
forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  Panetta’s Travels  Panetta plans to visit Lisbon,  Madrid ,  Rome  and London on
this trip, which is probably his last international travel
before stepping down as defense secretary.  “It’s been three years since a U.S. defense secretary
traveled to European capitals,” Panetta said. In meetings with
his counterparts, Panetta said he will discuss their post-2014
plans for troop contributions and training of Afghanistan’s
military forces as part of the  International Security Assistance
Force  in that country.  Panetta said he also plans to discuss the future of NATO at
a time when both the U.S. and European countries are facing
budget constraints.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam en route to Lisbon at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  