-- U.S. Gun Control Efforts Get Support From Mexico Amid Drug War
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-01-14T18:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/u-s-gun-control-efforts-get-support-from-mexico-amid-drug-war.html
U.S. efforts to limit gun purchases
are winning approval in  Mexico  as President  Barack Obama 
considers measures to stem violence that could also restrict
weapons access for drug cartels south of the border.  Eduardo Medina Mora, Mexico’s incoming ambassador to
Washington, said last week that there’s a link between the end
of the U.S. assault-weapons ban in 2004 and the arming of
cartels whose war with the government has left more than 58,000
dead since 2006. The comments echo those from former President
Felipe Calderon, who left office last month after a six-year
term in which he repeatedly blamed U.S. guns for the surge in
Mexican violence.  Medina Mora, who served as Calderon’s attorney general and
ambassador to the U.K. before being confirmed as President
Enrique Pena Nieto’s envoy to Washington last week, said he
hopes last month’s school massacre in  Connecticut  will spur the
U.S. to overhaul gun regulations.  The shooting “opens a window of opportunity for President
Obama,” Medina Mora said at a press conference last week. “The
Second Amendment and the regulation adopted in the U.S. is not,
never was and never should be designed to arm foreign criminal
groups.”  Obama said today at a White House news conference that he’s
reviewing a list of proposals to reduce gun violence and plans
to begin announcing the specifics of his plan later this week.
He listed strengthening background checks, banning assault
weapons and limits on high-capacity ammunition magazines as
initiatives that “make sense.”  ‘Politics Aside’  “We’re going to have to come up with answers that set
politics aside,” Obama said. “And that’s what I expect
Congress to do.”  U.S. Congress hasn’t passed major gun-related legislation
since the 1994 assault weapons ban that expired a decade later.
It didn’t enact new legislation after the 1999 Columbine High
School shooting in  Colorado  that was the first in a series of
killings at schools and universities in the past decade.
National Rifle Association President David Keene said yesterday
on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program that a White House push
for an assault weapons ban won’t succeed.  Mexico’s Congress on Dec. 27 called on the U.S. to tighten
gun control laws, saying drug cartels fill their arsenals with
weapons bought north of the border. The “freedoms” of the U.S.
weapons industry are destroying Mexico and the U.S., Ricardo
Mejia Berdeja, a Mexican lower house lawmaker, said in the
Congressional statement.  100,000 Weapons  At a prayer vigil in Newtown, Connecticut on Dec. 16, Obama
pledged to use “whatever power this office holds” to prevent
another mass shooting after 20 children and six adults died at
the hands of a gunman wielding semi-automatic weapons Dec. 14.  Calderon in a May 2011 interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York  said Mexican authorities had seized
more than 100,000 weapons in the previous four years, and that
85 percent of them came from the U.S.  U.S. production of rifles surged 70 percent to a record
2.25 million in 2009, according U.S. Department of Justice data.
Homicides in Mexico doubled in the same period, according to the
nation’s statistics agency.  Mexico has only one legal retailer for firearms, run by the
Ministry of National Defense, compared with thousands of
federally licensed firearms outlets in U.S. border states.  ‘Beneficial Spillover’  Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1, hasn’t spoken publicly
about U.S. gun laws since the Sandy Hook Elementary School
shooting in Newtown. In an interview with the PBS NewsHour
program broadcast on July 3, two days after his election, Pena
Nieto said U.S. ineffectiveness in stopping the flow of guns to
Mexico had resulted in thousands of deaths.  Vice President Joe Biden is heading up an administration-
wide anti-gun violence task force. Biden and his advisers have
signaled that the White House intends to push a package of
proposals that includes expanding background checks, limiting
high-capacity ammunition magazines, and a renewal of the
assault-weapons ban.  “Policy issues don’t stop at the border,” Joy Olson,
executive director of the  Washington  Office on Latin America, a
human rights and social justice group, said in a telephone
interview. “There are policies that we could undertake in the
United States that would be good for the U.S. and have a
beneficial spillover in Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 