-- Hulk Hogan Wrestles With Laser Spine Center in Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-14T21:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hulk-hogan-wrestles-with-laser-spine-center-in-lawsuit.html
Professional wrestler Hulk Hogan
claims in a medical malpractice lawsuit that a Florida-based
surgery company that advertises on the Internet and television
persuaded him to undergo a half-dozen “unnecessary and
ineffective” spinal operations, worsening his back problems.  Hogan, whose real name is Terry G. Bollea, seeks $50
million for lost work opportunities during a 19-month period
when he was a patient at Laser Spine Institute, according to the
lawsuit filed today in Florida state court in Clearwater.  The for-profit  institute , based in Tampa, bills itself as
one of the largest outpatient spine centers in the world, once
touted Hogan as a success story in its marketing materials.  Hogan alleges his name was used without his permission and
that in March 2011, his lawyer ordered the spine center to stop
using his likeness. He said a quote attributed to him in a
marketing brochure came from a photo he signed as a personal
favor to a Laser Spine employee on the day of his first surgery.  In an e-mailed statement, the institute declined to discuss
Hogan’s allegations. Laser Spine “cares about its patients and
their outcomes, and is proud to have helped thousands of
patients achieve a better quality of life,” the company said in
the statement.  The wrestler said in his lawsuit that he became aware that
the surgeries he underwent at Laser Spine may have been
unnecessary or performed negligently after reading a 2011
Bloomberg News report that detailed complaints that the care
offered at the center is expensive and ineffective.  High-Volume Centers  The Laser Spine Institute is one of a growing number of
high-volume, doctor-owned surgery centers that recruit patients
through sophisticated direct-marketing campaigns on Google
Inc.’s search site and others. More recently, the center began a
national television advertising campaign with spots on cable
news operator  CNN . It also conducts seminars in hotel meeting
rooms across the country.  The center promises patients a less-invasive,
technologically advanced option to major back surgery. It has to
include outpatient facilities in Philadelphia; Scottsdale,
 Arizona , and Oklahoma City. Laser Spine’s website says it
performs more than 400 surgeries per month and employs 450
people.  Hogan alleges he was unaware that the institute doctor who
urged him to have surgery there also had a substantial ownership
interest in the center. He said his health insurer was billed
“multiple six figure sums” for the procedures.  Bloomberg reported the for-profit center generated a 34.3
percent profit margin from 2006 through 2009.  Stopped By  The wrestler was scheduled to have a more traditional back
surgery -- known as anterior inter-body fusion -- at a local
hospital when a friend told him he should consider the Laser
Spine Institute, according to the lawsuit. The founder of the
institute, James St. Louis, was a neighbor of Hogan’s on a
street of multimillion-dollar homes in Belleair,  Florida , near
St. Petersburg.  Hogan says he stopped in at the Laser Spine Institute
without an appointment and met with St. Louis. He said the
doctor talked him out of getting surgery at the hospital and
instead persuaded him to undergo less invasive measures at the
outpatient center.  His complaint echoes the experience of several other
patients interviewed by Bloomberg News as well as allegations
made in more than a dozen other malpractice complaints against
the facility or its doctors.  Short-Term Relief  Hogan says he underwent six procedures over the next 19
months, getting short-term relief of two to three weeks after
each one. The temporary alleviation of symptoms was the result
of doctors there using a laser to burn nerves that eventually
regenerate, he says in the complaint.  He claims in the lawsuit that the procedures performed at
Laser Spine Institute are of limited benefit and unable to
correct his back problems, including scoliosis, or the abnormal
curving of the spine; spondylolisthesis in which vertebrae slip
out of position; and spinal stenosis, a condition in which the
spinal column narrows.  Laser Spine’s marketing campaign is intended to “scare”
patients away from more traditional treatments while failing to
tell them that its procedures only temporarily treat symptoms,
Hogan alleges in his complaint.  After his treatment at Laser Spine failed, Hogan eventually
underwent the traditional fusion surgery performed by doctors at
the University of South Florida. His lawsuit says he was able to
return to his professional activities three months after the
December 2010 fusion surgery.  The case is Terry G. Bollea v. Laser Spine Institute LLC,
13-389CI021, Circuit Court of Pinellas County (Clearwater,
Florida).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  