-- Lululemon Drops as Outlook Signals Possible Slowdown
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-01-15T21:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/lululemon-drops-as-quarterly-outlook-trails-analysts-estimates.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU)  slid after
forecasting fourth-quarter sales that trailed analysts’
estimates amid investor concern the Canadian yoga-wear
retailer’s extraordinary growth may be leveling off.  The shares fell 3.9 percent to $69.47 at the close in New
York, the lowest closing price since Dec. 5. The Vancouver-based
company gained 63 percent in 2012.  Lululemon, which has  posted  double-digit gains in same-
store sales for 13 straight quarters, yesterday said a high
single-digit percentage rise in such sales prompted its
forecast. While the company’s current store productivity is one
of the strongest in retail, it isn’t sustainable as Lululemon
expands, and its products may not resonate with customers in the
15 countries it’s entering, John Zolidis, an analyst at
Buckingham Research Group in  New York , said in a note today.  “The multi-year string of upside to analyst forecasts is
coming to an end,” Zolidis wrote, citing slowing same-store
sales, weak performance in new locations and costs tied to
international growth.  The stock is “much too expensive,” he said. He estimates
that Lululemon has an enterprise value of about 20 times
projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this year, compared with the 6.7 times ratio at
other specialty retailers. Zolidis cut his recommendation on the
stock to underperform from neutral.  New Locations  Revenue for the fiscal fourth-quarter ended Feb. 3 will be
at the “high end” of an original forecast of $475 million to
$480 million, based on same-store sales, Lululemon said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts had projected  $489 million , the
average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While the stock is likely to retrench as investors
“digest” the single-digit increase in same-store sales,
Lululemon’s revenue growth is still healthy, bolstered by its
U.S. and online businesses, Sharon Zackfia, an analyst at
William Blair & Co. in  Chicago , said in a note yesterday.  Lululemon, with 201 stores at the end of the fiscal third
quarter, has almost doubled locations from three years ago, as
it expands in the U.S. and  Australia .  “It is important to remember that Lululemon’s quickly
growing e-commerce business is not included in reported comps,
and we estimate the business grew more than 80 percent in 2012,
to 14 percent of sales from 10 percent in 2011,” said Zackfia,
who has an outperform recommendation on the stock.  Express Gain  Lululemon made the announcement ahead of a Jan. 16
presentation at a conference held by ICR Inc. in Miami.
Lululemon has announced its fourth-quarter outlook ahead of the
conference for the past two years, Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst
at Robert W. Baird & Co. in Chicago, wrote in a Dec. 20 note.  Profit for the  period  will be 74 cents a share, up from a
previous forecast of a maximum of 73 cents. That matched the 74-
cent average of analysts’ estimates. The period, which includes
holiday sales, is the company’s biggest quarter.  Lululemon’s forecast doesn’t indicate any slowing demand
for the brand as it made some “fixable” missteps with gift
cards and faced an unusually long holiday selling season,  Edward Yruma , an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets in New York wrote
in a note today, boosting his  recommendation  on the shares to
buy from hold. In the long-term, the company will operate more
than 300 stores and get more than 25 percent of its sales from
the Web, he wrote.  Express Inc. (EXPR) , the apparel retailer targeting 20- to 30-
year-olds, boosted its fourth-quarter profit forecast to as much
as 74 cents a share from a maximum of 68 cents and said same-
store sales were better-than-expected, according to a statement
from the Columbus, Ohio-based company yesterday. Analysts had
estimated 65 cents.  The shares soared 23 percent to $17.23, the biggest
intraday gain since the company’s market debut in May 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  