-- UN’s Figueres Says Self-Interest Must Drive Climate Laws
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-14T13:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/un-s-figueres-says-self-interest-must-drive-climate-laws.html
Climate laws should be governed by
national self-interest rather than a desire to save the planet,
the United Nations diplomat guiding treaty negotiations said.  Domestic action is needed to spur on global talks that are
progressing “too slowly,” UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change Executive Secretary Christiana Figueres said today in a
speech to lawmakers from more than 30 nations in London.
Legislators should mix “carrots and sticks” to incentivize
carbon reductions and punish polluters, she said.  “Nothing is going to be agreed internationally until
enough is legislated for domestically,” Figueres said. “We’re
not doing it from an altruistic point of view, to save the
planet. We will save the planet also, but climate legislation at
the domestic level must be absolutely grounded in national
reality, and it must be for the purpose of national benefit.”  Figueres is trying to guide governments of more than 190
nations toward a legally binding deal to cut  greenhouse gases  by
2015 that will enter force in 2020. That effort requires
balancing the interests of countries from small island nations
at risk from rising seas to Middle Eastern oil producers whose
economies depend on fossil fuels, as well as closing gaps
between the two biggest emitters: the U.S. and  China .  Figueres was speaking at a meeting of Globe International,
an alliance of lawmakers from 70 nations who gather to share
experiences and learnings from passing environmental
legislation. Globe today issued a study of energy and climate
laws in 33 economies accounting for 85 percent of global
emissions that showed 18 made “significant” progress in 2012
while only one,  Canada , regressed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  