-- Hungary Inflation Rate Was Probably Unchanged in December
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-14T11:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hungary-inflation-rate-was-probably-unchanged-in-december.html
Hungary’s  inflation rate , the
highest in the European Union, was probably unchanged last month
after dropping to an 11-month low in November, spurring policy
makers to continue interest rate cuts.  The inflation rate was 5.2 percent in December, matching
the November level, according to the median estimate of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The statistics office will
publish the data at 9 a.m. in Budapest tomorrow.  Outgoing central bank President Andras Simor, who on Dec. 7
urged the bank to act “much more firmly” against inflation,
has been outvoted along with his two deputies on rate cuts by
non-executive members who want to spur an economy battling its
second recession in four years. The bank lowered the  two-week
deposit rate  to 5.75 percent on Dec. 18 in the fifth quarter-
point cut in as many months even as price-growth was projected
to exceed the bank’s 3 percent target in the mid-term.  “The majority on the board clearly has an agenda to take
rates lower, and we continue to think that the MPC will cut
rates to a historic low of 5 percent by the summer or possibly
even earlier,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at
Morgan Stanley, said in a report today.  The forint, the second-best performing currency last year
after rising 9.2 percent against the euro, has dropped 3.4
percent since the last rate decision to 298.15 per euro by 9:30
a.m. today, a seven-month low. The forint’s 2.3 percent fall
between the November and December rate decisions failed to end
the easing cycle.  ‘Traditional’ Models  The currency’s drop accelerated last week after Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , which news website Index reported is
the favorite to succeed Simor in March, said Hungary should
reject “traditional” economic models including policies to
fight inflation that kept the forint strong.  “Unconventional” monetary policy is probably the “most
significant idiosyncratic risk in 2013 for Hungarian assets,”
Diana said.  Hungary’s Economy Ministry today blamed Nouriel Roubini,
co-founder of Roubini Global Economics LLC, for the currency
drop, citing a recommendation last week to sell the forint in
the absence of an International Monetary Fund backstop. Calls to
Roubini’s London office seeking comment weren’t answered.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban is looking to use monetary
stimulus to boost growth before the 2014 elections after his
“unorthodox” policies helped drive the economy into its second
recession in four years, damaging investment, lending,
consumption and growth.  Industry Taxes  The policies included special levies on the banking,
energy, retail and telecommunications industries, as well as the
nationalization of private pension fund assets to keep the
budget shortfall below 3 percent of economic output to avoid
losing EU development funds.  The new central bank head should follow the European
Central Bank and the Federal Reserve in providing monetary
stimulus, “bravely” using unorthodox tools as part of a
“strategic alliance” with the government, Matolcsy said on
Dec. 22.  The central bank’s quarterly staff report last month
lowered the inflation forecast for 2013 to an average 3.5
percent from 5.8 percent in September, as a result of the
government cutting household energy prices by 10 percent from
January and delaying an increase in excise taxes. The bank sees
the economy growing 0.5 percent this year after an expected 1.4
percent contraction in 2012.  The four non-executive policy makers, appointed by Orban’s
ruling party in 2011, have pointed to the resilience of the
currency and falling risk premium for supporting monetary
easing. They have also argued that the inflation rate may drop
to the bank’s target in 2014 as cost shocks from energy and food
prices fade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  