-- Tunisia Protesters Call for Change on Ben Ali Exile Anniversary
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-01-14T16:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/tunisia-protesters-call-for-change-on-ben-ali-exile-anniversary.html
Thousands of Tunisians protested
against the Islamist-led government today in a show of force
spotlighting the tensions that remain two years after the
nation’s autocratic president went into exile.  More than 7,000 people, representing a broad spectrum of
Tunisia’s secularist political groups, chanted in front of the
 Interior Ministry , calling for the fall of the government led by
the moderate Islamist Ennahda Party. Nearby, a smaller group of
Ennahda supporters gathered in a counter-rally also celebrating
the second anniversary of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali’s
flight into exile.  Against a backdrop of the country’s red and white flag, the
secularists chanted “Ennahda, leave,” and “the government is
celebrating while the country is burning,” their calls echoing
on the same main street on which tens of thousands had gathered
in 2011 calling for Ben Ali’s ouster.  “We are here once again to protest, not celebrate,” said
Ahmed Nejib Chebbi, a leading member of Jumhuri party. “The
youths who started the revolution have not tasted its fruit of
employment and development.”  The dueling rallies came as the government signed a
“social contract” with  Tunisia ’s Industry, Trade and
Handicrafts Union in a bid to appease workers demanding greater
economic opportunities and jobs.  The protests that led to Ben Ali’s toppling from power and
subsequent exile in  Saudi Arabia  triggered a wave of similar
uprisings across the Arab world. New governments are contending
with the weight of stagnant economies and populations angered by
what they maintain are few tangible gains.  Economic Change  Ennahda’s critics argue the Islamist group has failed to
deliver on any of its promises of social justice since being
elected. Compounding the nation’s challenges is a struggle with
ultraconservative Salafis pushing for a greater role for Islamic
law in a country that has long prided itself on its secular
traditions and  women’s rights .  Party officials argue the country’s development is being
undermined by supporters of Ben Ali who they say work from
within the Nidaa Tunis party.  “We are the true sons of the revolution,” Amer Larayedh,
a senior Ennahda member, told supporters in the capital. “We
will work against the former party members who try to circumvent
the revolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  