-- Hunky Drifter Stirs Local Biddies in ‘Picnic’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-01-14T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/hunky-drifter-stirs-local-biddies-in-picnic-review.html
We never get to the picnic that
plays the title role in William Inge’s 1953  Pulitzer Prize -
winning potboiler.  But we sure do see the ants-in-the-pants that bestir the
lonesome ladies in a Kansas backyard when a handsome drifter
shows up looking for work.  No sooner has Hal Carter sauntered in, gleaming with sweat
and eager to doff his denims, than jaws drop and eyes pop.  Especially the widow Helen Potts, played by  Ellen Burstyn 
with a delicious pheromonal glint.  Helen has taken Hal in as a boarder in exchange for yard
work. The space joins two humble clapboard dwellings in Andrew
Lieberman’s postcard-perfect setting of Sam Gold’s Broadway
revival for the  Roundabout Theatre .  Next door lives Flo Owens (Mare Winningham) and her
daughters: Madge (Maggie Grace) the elder, pretty one, and
Millie (Madeleine Martin), the younger, smart one. Guess who Hal
(the beefcakey Sebastian Stan) sets his sights on?  Madge is a goner. Never mind her wealthy beau Alan (Ben
Rappaport), who can only watch as nature and Hal have their way.  Labor Day  The voltage is higher in Joshua Logan’s 1955  film  --
starring a smoldering Kim Novak and a feral William Holden --
than it is in this earnestly detailed but sexless revival.
Sebastian and Grace look the parts, but an essential element of
palpable desire is missing.  Still, if there’s any justice in the world, a special  Tony
Award  for most intense duet would go to Reed Birney and
Elizabeth Marvel, who play Howard and Rosemary, the owner of a
dry-goods store and a school teacher.  “You were awful nice to me tonight, Rosemary,” Howard
says, and there’s no doubting what he means by that.  Rosemary has marriage on her mind; Howard’s fine with the
status quo. But when these two people -- so comfortable with
each other that the line between them can blur -- confront a
grim, solitary future, “Picnic” rises above its pulpy plot to
become a more incisive and moving portrayal of small-town
isolation and loneliness.  Marvel and Birney suffuse the show with an electricity
that’s otherwise absent. They’re well worth your time.  Through Feb. 24 at the American Airlines Theatre, 227 W.
42nd St. Information: +1-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Elin
McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 