-- UPS Said to Shift Focus to Smaller Deals With TNT Failure
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-14T21:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ups-said-to-shift-focus-to-smaller-deals-with-tnt-failure.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  will
pursue smaller European acquisitions and growth in its own
business after its 5.16 billion-euro ($6.9 billion) purchase of
 TNT Express NV (TNTE)  fell apart, people familiar with the matter said.  The world’s biggest package-delivery company learned in a
Jan. 11 meeting with the European Commission that the deal would
be rejected, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plans aren’t public. That triggered a weekend of
planning sessions in which Atlanta-based UPS decided to abandon
the transaction, the people said.  Seeking targets smaller than Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based
TNT may help UPS avoid regulatory challenges like those that
thwarted what would have been the biggest deal since its
founding in 1907. UPS has operated in Europe for 35 years and is
spending $200 million to expand its air hub in Cologne,  Germany .  “They will probably look to doing smaller tuck-in
acquisitions or growing in Europe on their own,” said  Helane Becker , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New York , who
recommends holding UPS shares. “Not as rapidly as the TNT
Express acquisition would have done, but the growth is there.”  UPS has no immediate purchases planned in Europe, according
to one of the people familiar with the company’s strategy. The
TNT acquisition had been announced in March, and UPS proposed
concessions three times to the European Commission in hopes of
winning approval, the person said.  Regional Purchases  The U.S. company’s previous acquisitions in the region
include Brussels-based business-to-consumer delivery firm Kiala
in 2012 and Italian pharmaceuticals-logistics provider Pieffe
Group in 2011. In 2009, UPS bought a majority stake in a joint
venture with  Turkey ’s Unsped Paket Servisi San ve Ticaret AS to
boost operations in the  Middle East  and Central Asia.  TNT will get a 200 million-euro termination fee from UPS
following formal rejection of the combination, the biggest to
fail in Europe since BAE Systems Plc and European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. called off a merger in October.  The payout probably will go to strengthen TNT’s balance
sheet rather than being distributed as a special dividend to
shareholders, said Cyrille Gibot, a company spokesman.  UPS rose 1.7 percent to $79.24 at the close in New York,
while TNT, which was spun off from PostNL in 2011, fell 41
percent to 4.84 euros in Amsterdam.  EU Deadline  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  will reach a
decision on the case by Feb. 5, said Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman. The rejection of takeovers is rare, and since taking
up his role in 2010, Almunia has blocked only the $9.5 billion
takeover of NYSE Euronext by Deutsche Boerse AG and a bid by
Aegean Airlines SA to merge with Olympic Air SA.  “I’m surprised that the deal is not going through,” said
Philip Scholte, an analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht,
the Netherlands. “There’s quite a bit of competition in the
express market and still the European Union continues to be very
strict.”  UPS Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said he was
“extremely disappointed.” TNT would have doubled UPS’s
European business and given it a regional market share similar
to  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the region’s top express operator.  UPS had revised its proposed concessions twice, most
recently in the first week of January, to include the sale of
assets and access to its air network for competitors, one person
familiar with the matter said. The initial remedies package was
submitted to the European Commission in late November, with the
first revision happening just before Christmas, the person said.  TNT Replacement  The European Commission sought to create a company of a
similar size to TNT to fill the void being left by a UPS
takeover, Almunia told reporters last week.  The deal will be formally terminated once the
“inevitable” prohibition ruling has been received, TNT said.
The Dutch company added that it “regrets this situation, having
believed the merger was feasible and beneficial for all
stakeholders.”  Deutsche Post was “quite relaxed” about whatever the
European Commission decided, Chief Financial Officer Larry Rosen
said today in an interview at Bloomberg world headquarters in
New York. “We’re focusing very much on our business and organic
growth. We’ve been successful in gaining market share in  Europe 
in recent quarters and feel very good about our position.”  UPS Proposal  UPS had agreed to buy TNT for 9.50 euros a share on March
19 last year after sweetening its bid from the 9 euros turned
down the previous month. TNT stock closed at 6.34 euros on Feb.
17, the last day of trading before the talks were made public.  Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
unit were financial advisers for UPS. TNT Express worked with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Lazard Ltd. advised the Dutch
company’s supervisory board. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP
was UPS’s legal adviser and Allen & Overy LLP worked with TNT.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the second-largest package-delivery company,
was briefly regarded as a potential suitor for TNT after the
rejection of UPS’s initial offer, and the  Memphis , Tennessee-
based business’s interest may now be reignited, said Andre Mulder, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Amsterdam.  “As a matter of policy, we do not comment on corporate
development matters,”  Jess Bunn , a FedEx spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  