-- UPS’s Failed TNT Offer Wipes Out $55 Million in Bank Fees
-- B y   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/ups-s-failed-tnt-offer-wipes-out-55-million-in-bank-fees.html
Investment banks advising  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  on their blocked deal
will miss about $55 million they were set to earn on the deal,
which collapsed almost a year after the offer was first made.  UPS advisers Morgan Stanley,  UBS AG (UBSN) , and  Bank of America 
Corp. were set to reap as much as $30 million in fees if the
company completed its acquisition of the Dutch parcel delivery
service TNT, according to New York-based research firm Freeman &
Co. Sellside advisers including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  were slated to earn as much as $25 million.  “It’s just more bad news for the banks,” said  Peter Hahn ,
a lecturer at Cass Business School in  London  and a former
managing director at Citigroup Inc. “It also suggests a greater
amount of regulatory scrutiny on consolidation strategies.”  The banks will have to settle for about 10 percent of those
fees, or about $5.5 million altogether, after the European
Commission told UPS and TNT that it would block the deal. The
5.16 billion-euro ($6.9 billion) acquisition was set to be the
largest ever for UPS, as well as the 14th-largest cross-border
deal announced last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Now it joins the ranks of major deals that have
foundered on demands made by the commission.  Unrealistic Timeline  The commission told UPS on Jan. 11 that it was planning to
oppose the TNT takeover and the U.S. firm decided soon after to
pull the plug, according to a person familiar with the matter.  UPS, based in Atlanta, didn’t believe further concessions
would win over the EU after offering remedies in more than a
dozen countries and access to its air network, the person said.  “The merger between UPS and TNT had an unrealistic
timeline given the size and complexity of the transaction,”
 Helane Becker , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in  New York ,
wrote yesterday in a research note. “The EC continually stated
it had concerns about the competition of overnight delivery
parcels in  Europe .”  Financial Advisers  Morgan Stanley’s team included James Runde, who has been at
the bank for about 39 years and helped it win the lead role on
UPS’s $5.5 billion share sale in 1999. Mark Eichorn, the global
co-head of  investment banking , and Peter Krowinkel, who oversees
M&A for  Belgium , the Netherlands and  Luxembourg , led the group.  Bank of America’s team included Justin Anstee, head of
European transport and services. UPS also got advice from UBS
AG’s Charles Otton, a managing director on the Swiss bank’s
transport team, and James Robertson, a managing director in its
investment bank unit in the U.K.  TNT worked with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Gordon Dyal and
Richard Govers, while Wouter Han, head of Lazard Ltd.’s Benelux
business, advised TNT’s supervisory board. Deutsche Bank AG’s
Nicholas Aperghis advised TNT’s largest shareholder,  PostNL NV (PNL) ,
which owns a 30 percent stake.  Vetoed Deals  The last time the European Union vetoed a major deal was in
February last year, when it ended Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE
Euronext’s $9.5 billion plan to create the world’s biggest
exchange after concluding the merger would hurt competition. In
January 2011, the EU blocked the plans of  Aegean Airlines SA (AEGN)  to
merge with unprofitable Olympic Air SA in  Greece . Ryanair
Holdings Plc will make further concessions to rescue its bid for
Aer Lingus Group Plc, the EU said yesterday.  In the parcel-services industry, the commission has been
seeking to create a player in the market of a similar size to
fill the void left by TNT, the EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters Jan. 11.  UPS focused on selling European assets to La Poste SA’s DPD
parcel-distribution unit as it tried to convince the EU it would
create a viable competitor, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Termination Fee  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP served as legal adviser
to UPS while Allen & Overy LLP advised TNT. UPS will pay TNT a
termination fee of 200 million euros once the commission
officially prohibits the deal. Sellside advisers may receive a
portion of that payment in addition to their normal fees,
Freeman said.  Global mergers and acquisitions fell 7 percent to $2.24
trillion last year, the lowest level since 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  UPS and TNT shares have drawn arbitrage interest since the
transaction was first announced in February, and the deal’s
collapse may have a major impact on some  hedge funds ’
performance.  Shares Fall  TNT shares fell 51 percent after the companies said this
morning the deal would be blocked. TNT’s market capitalization,
which was 4.5 billion euros at the market close on Friday, lost
as much as 2.3 billion euros in value yesterday in Europe,
falling as low as 4.05 euros in Amsterdam yesterday. The shares
closed at 8.25 euro on Friday, compared to UPS’s bid of 9.50
euros per share. TNT shares closed at 4.84 euros yesterday.  Leverage among hedge funds that speculate on rising and
falling shares climbed to the highest level to start any year
since at least 2004, according to data compiled by  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  Margin debt at New York Stock Exchange firms rose in
November to the most since February 2008, data from NYSE
Euronext show. UPS is listed on the NYSE, and TNT on Euronext
Amsterdam.  “It’s a big blow to TNT,” said Joel Ray, a Wiltshire,
England-based Transport Intelligence analyst. “Are they going
to retrench and become a purely European road operator? The air
business is in decline and is the most expensive part of the
business. If that is the case, then the EU have effectively
reduced competition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  