-- Uranium One Surges After ARMZ Buyout Offer: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-14T13:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/uranium-one-surges-after-armz-buyout-offer-johannesburg-mover.html
Uranium One Inc. (UUU)  rose to its highest
level in 10 months in Johannesburg trading after JSC
Atomredmetzoloto said it plans to buy the shares it doesn’t own
in the Canadian company for C$1.3 billion ($1.32 billion).  The company  gained  14 percent to 24.51 rand, the highest
since March 15 as of 2:39 p.m. and the biggest intraday jump
since Dec. 27. About 248,500 shares changed hands, more than
nine times the daily average for the last 90 days.  Atomredmetzoloto , which together with units owns 51.4
percent of Uranium One, and its Effective Energy NV affiliate
offered C$2.86 a share, the Vancouver-based target said in a
statement today. The offer from the state-owned, Moscow-based
company, known as ARMZ, is a 32 percent premium to Uranium One’s
20-day weighted average price in Toronto, it said.  “We are confident that the company will be able to deliver
sound production growth and continue enjoying one of the lowest
costs of uranium production in the world,” said Leila Kulbayeva, mining and industrials research director at Visor
Capital in Almaty,  Kazakhstan . “Our target price is C$5.03 per
share and we do not recommend shareholders accept the offer.”  ARMZ aims to build a company covering the full nuclear
cycle, from mining uranium to building reactors, said Kulbayeva
in an e-mailed response to questions. ARMZ may be seeking to
gain from reduced uranium prices following the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, and its offer for Uranium One is low, she said.  Japan’s Earthquake  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on record in March 2011 and a
subsequent tsunami damaged reactors at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant run by  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , releasing
radiation and causing the evacuation of 160,000 people.  A Japanese general election held Dec. 16 brought to power
the  Liberal Democratic Party , which has vowed to decide within
three years whether to return all the country’s nuclear power
stations to production. Uranium for delivery in July was
unchanged at $42.40 per 250 pounds on the  New York  Metals
Exchange, down 22 percent from a year earlier.  “We recommend that shareholders vote in favor of the plan
of arrangement,” Ken Williamson, chairman of an independent
committee appointed to evaluate the bid, said in Uranium One’s
statement. A  shareholders’ meeting  on the bid is planned for
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  