-- Vanguard Drops Hansberger Global From International Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-14T17:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/vanguard-drops-hansberger-global-from-international-fund.html
Vanguard Group Inc. the world’s
biggest mutual-fund company, has dropped Hansberger Global
Investors as one of the managers of its $6.8 billion
 International Value (VTRIX)  Fund.  Vanguard removed about $1.2 billion from Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida-based Hansberger and reallocated the money to two
existing advisers,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Edinburgh Partners Ltd., the
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based firm said today in a statement.
Hansberger is an affiliate of French bank  Natixis (KN)  SA.  “After careful evaluation, we determined that the new
investment-advisory arrangement will better serve shareholders
over the long term,” Vanguard’s Chief Executive Officer William McNabb said in the statement.  Vanguard, the $2 trillion manager best known for its index-
linked mutual funds and exchange-traded products, oversees $223
billion in actively-managed stock funds. It contracts with
outside firms known as subadvisers to invest most of those
assets, and routinely evaluates and switches managers. Vanguard
dropped AllianceBernstein LP, the New York-based investment unit
of French insurer  Axa SA (CS) , from the same International Value fund
in August.  International Value trailed 68 percent of rival funds over
the past three years as it returned an annual 2.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund rebounded in
the past year, returning 21 percent and beating 73 percent of
competitors. Vanguard doesn’t release performance figures for
individual managers in multi-manager funds.  Under the new arrangement, Hamilton, Bermuda-based Lazard
manages about 39 percent of the fund, Edinburgh Partners handles
34 percent and Stamford, Connecticut-based Arga Investment
Management LP runs 24 percent, Vanguard said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  