-- Vilsack to Stay as USDA Secretary to Face Drought and Farm Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-01-14T22:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/vilsack-to-stay-as-agriculture-secretary-for-obama-2nd-term.html
Tom Vilsack is staying on as
agriculture secretary during President  Barack Obama ’s second
term, when he’ll be dealing with the effects of the worst
drought since the 1930s and a Congress that hasn’t been able to
pass a new five-year farm bill.  In a speech today to an American Farm Bureau Federation
conference in Nashville,  Tennessee , Vilsack said he’s honored
“to have another opportunity to continue this work.” Matt
Paul, the Department of Agriculture’s communications director,
said Obama asked Vilsack to stay on and Vilsack accepted.  During his first four years in office, Vilsack, 62, pushed
for expanded export markets as U.S. farmers earned near-record
profits and enjoyed the highest land values ever. Should he
serve until 2017, the former Iowa governor would be the first
person to head the Department of Agriculture for two terms since
Orville Freeman led the agency under presidents  John Kennedy  and
 Lyndon Johnson  in the 1960s.  Vilsack, a former Iowa governor, faces a difficult agenda,
as farmers grapple with the drought, now in its third year in
some parts of the country. Vilsack has said he’ll also continue
to push Congress to pass a new five-year farm bill. The previous
law was extended to September 30 after expiring last year. Farm
bills guide U.S. agriculture policy and authorize spending for
USDA programs including  food stamps  and crop subsidies.  Farm Prosperity  Vilsack’s continued tenure will be good for exporters such
as Cargill Inc. and ethanol producers including  Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. (ADM) , Mark McMinimy, an analyst at Guggenheim Washington
Research Group in Washington, said in an interview.  The secretary has consistently supported expanded U.S.
shipments overseas, and he “has been at the forefront of
efforts to position the Obama administration four-square behind
initiatives that support the development and diffusion of
biofuels and renewable energy,” he said.  Still, building consensus in an environment of cost-cutting
will be difficult, said Chuck Conner, a former acting
agriculture secretary under President  George W. Bush . “Programs
are just going to get reduced significantly,” he said.  Additionally, Vilsack will “need to prepare to implement a
farm bill without knowing what or when it is. That’s a
challenge,” said Conner, now president of the National Council
of Farmer Cooperatives in Washington.  USDA Budget  The USDA has a budget of about $150 billion and is the
third-biggest cabinet agency in spending after Defense and
 Health and Human Services . Food stamps for needy families
account for about half of the department’s spending, with the
remainder taken up by other nutrition programs and subsidies for
farmers such as insurance for crops including corn, wheat and
cotton.  Vilsack was elected as  Iowa ’s governor in 1998, the first
Democrat to win the office in 32 years. He was re-elected in
2002. His wife, Christie Vilsack, unsuccessfully ran for the
U.S. House of Representatives seat held by Republican Steve King
of Iowa in last year’s campaigns.  In a brief bid for the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination, Vilsack offered his life story as an example of
overcoming adversity to rise to high public office. The
Pittsburgh native was orphaned at birth and adopted from a
Catholic orphanage. He moved to Mount Pleasant, Iowa, his wife’s
hometown, to practice law and raise their two sons.  He was elected the town’s mayor in 1987 after his
predecessor was shot and killed during a city council meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  