-- Vodafone to Cut Jobs in Spain as Recession Hurts Revenue
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-01-14T11:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/vodafone-plans-to-reduce-workforce-in-spain-as-revenue-declines.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
second largest mobile-phone company, plans to reduce the
workforce at its Spanish unit as unemployment exceeding 25
percent in the recession-plagued country causes sales to drop.  Executives will meet with representatives of labor unions
early tomorrow to present a plan to cut jobs, a spokeswoman in
 Madrid  for the unit, who declined to be identified citing
company policy, said in a phone interview today.  Vodafone may cut as many as 1,000 jobs, or about 25 percent
of its staff in Spain, according to a spokesman at the UGT
union, who declined to be identified citing the labor group’s
policy. Last year, the Newbury, England-based company cut
variable salaries in  Spain  by 10 percent and reduced the number
of working days by 15 days to boost savings, he said.  “The plan shows how Vodafone seeks to cut costs as the
business continues to suffer from weakening consumption amid the
macroeconomic crisis,” Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-based analyst
at Banco de Sabadell, said by phone today. “The job cuts should
be positive for the stock, although I wouldn’t expect that to be
a significant catalyst, as Spain is less and less important
within the whole company.”  Vodafone fell as much as 0.4 percent to 164.5 pence and was
trading at 164.6 pence at 10:39 a.m. in  London . The stock has
decline 6.4 percent in the past 12 months. Europa Press newswire
reported yesterday on Vodafone’s job-cut plans in Spain.  Service revenue at Vodafone’s existing businesses in
southern  Europe  slumped 9.8 percent to 4.98 billion pounds
($8.03 billion) in the six months through September, led by
Spain, Portugal and  Italy . Service revenue at the Spanish unit,
which employs more than 4,000 people, dropped 11 percent in the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  