-- Volatility Will Deter Rotation Into Stocks, Kostin Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-14T15:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/volatility-will-deter-shift-into-stocks-kostin-says.html
Volatility will deter investors from
moving into stocks from bonds in 2013 even as dividend returns
exceed fixed-income yields, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s U.S. equity strategist.  “It’s the drawdown risk that is inhibiting investors from
reducing bond holdings and increasing equity holdings,”  David Kostin  said at a presentation in London today. “You need to
have more stable markets. I do not anticipate flows into
equities from bonds. It should happen; it won’t happen this
year.”  The forecast is at odds with Goldman Sachs Asset Management
Chairman Jim O’Neill’s comment this year that funds may see a
“great rotation” into equities. Investor deposits into global
equity mutual funds in the first week of January were higher
than any other period except one, a sign they may be returning
to stocks after withdrawing cash for the past six years,
according to data from EPFR Global.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  ended last year with a
dividend yield that was 56 basis points, or 0.56 percentage
points, higher than the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury,
according to Bloomberg data. The spread reached a record weekly
high of 1.16 percentage points in 2009 in favor of equities.  Most investors will probably sell U.S. government bonds if
losses push the 10-year Treasury  yield  to 3 percent from 1.85
percent currently, Kostin said today. Sustained higher yields,
negative 5 percent bond returns and reduced uncertainty are
needed for retail investors to change their psychology, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou said on Jan 9.  2012 Advance  While the S&P 500 ended last year with a 13  percent  gain,
it fell as much as 9.9 percent in the two months starting in
April. Investors had to weather a 7.7 percent decline in the
equities benchmark between September and November. The index
tumbled 19 percent between April 2011 and October 2011 as the
U.S. lost its top credit rating.  About $22 billion flowed into equity funds around the world
in the week ended Jan. 9, according to data compiled by EPFR
Global going back to 1996. The MSCI All-Country World Index
jumped 3.1 percent in the first week of 2013 and the S&P 500
reached a five-year high this month on signs the global economy
is gaining momentum.  The flows represent a turnaround for investors who have
pulled more than $600 billion from mutual funds that invest in
American stocks since 2007, according to data from the
Investment Company Institute. The worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression and the slowest economic recovery since
World War II kept individuals from buying stocks, even as the
S&P 500 more than doubled since March 2009.  Investors have piled into less volatile securities during
the past six years, adding more than $1.1 trillion to bond
funds, based on data from Washington-based ICI. About $150
billion was withdrawn from mutual funds that invest in American
stocks in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  