-- Ruble Tsunami Cuts Rates Most Since 2010: Russia Credit
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-01-14T14:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/vtb-sees-end-to-cheaper-cash-after-mosprime-rate-plunges.html
The  biggest plunge  in Russian
interbank borrowing costs since 2010 will peter out as banks are
forced to unload cash for taxes and repay government loans,
according to VTB Group and Nordea Bank AB.  A flood of government money into the banking system that
spurred the overnight MosPrime rate’s steepest drop in two years
will abate as lenders face repayments to the Treasury of 207
billion rubles ($6.84 billion), Maxim Korovin and Anton Nikitin,
analysts at VTB Capital in Moscow, said in a report last week.
As much as 480 billion rubles in taxes is also owed this month,
said Dmitry Savchenko, a Nordea analyst in Moscow.  “The effect won’t last long, perhaps until around the
February tax period,” VTB’s Korovin said by e-mail on Jan. 10.
“Rates will likely start to rise even earlier.”  The overnight  MosPrime rate  fell three basis points to 5.20
percent today, declining a fourth day and adding to the 87 basis
point drop Jan. 10, the steepest one-day fall since Dec. 31,
2010, according to National Foreign Exchange Association data.
Ruble bonds have outperformed their peers in  Brazil  and  China 
amid the surge in liquidity, trailing  India .  Spending Wave  The government released a “tsunami” of 1.7 trillion
rubles last month as the regional and federal governments rushed
to complete spending last year, according to VTB. The amount of
cash held at the central bank in deposits and correspondent
accounts, a measure of banking system liquidity, surged to 1.97
trillion rubles on Jan. 9, the most on record.  The government cash helped drive down bond yields as  Russia 
prepares to broaden access for international investors to the
local  debt market  through settlement systems including Euroclear
Bank SA, according to Konstantin Nemnov, a  money manager  at TKB
BNP Paribas Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg .  Ruble bonds have returned 1.12 percent this year, compared
with 0.39 percent for Brazil’s debt, 1.36 percent for India’s
and minus 0.03 percent for China’s, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes. The yield on Russia’s domestic ruble bond due in
June 2017 fell 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, from
the end of last year to 6.21 percent today.  “The effect was quite apparent,” Nemnov said by e-mail on
Jan. 11.  Rates Meeting  The central bank will leave its main  interest rates 
unchanged tomorrow, including the 5.5 percent overnight and one-
week repurchase rates most used by banks to manage their
liquidity, according to a survey of analysts. Bank Rossii seeks
to contain short-term market rates between the overnight deposit
rate, now at 4.5 percent, and the 6.5 percent for fixed repos
and swap operations.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.2420 per dollar as
of 6:18 p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide
a guide to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble
at 30.6683 per dollar in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 fell
14 basis points to 2.440 percent. The yield on Russia’s
international ruble bond due in March 2018 dropped three basis
points to 5.759 percent.  Russia is rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings , the second-lowest
investment-grade ranking. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russian government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries
fell four basis points to 159, according to JPMorgan indexes.
The difference compares with 158 basis points for debt of  Mexico 
and 144 basis points for Brazil.  Cost Protection  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 125
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
default swaps cost four basis points more than  Turkey , which is
rated one level lower at BBB- by Fitch. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The record funds parked in the central bank reached about 1
trillion rubles more than the required reserves, VTB’s Korovin
and Nikitin said in a research note Jan. 11.  The level of liquidity will return to the December average
by the end of the month after the inflow of budget money,
according to Nordea’s Savchenko.  “By February the situation will return to normal, with a
deficit of liquidity,” he said by phone on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  