-- Wall Street Returns to Property CDOS in Yield Hunt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-01-14T17:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/wall-street-returns-to-property-cdos-in-yield-hunt.html
What’s old is new again on  Wall
Street  as banks tap into soaring demand for commercial real
estate debt by selling collateralized debt obligations,
securities not seen since the last boom.  Sales of CDOs linked to everything from hotels to offices
and shopping malls are poised to climb to as much as $10 billion
this year, about 10 times the level of 2012, according to  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  Lenders including Redwood Trust Inc.
are offering the deals for the first time since transactions
ground to a halt when skyrocketing residential loan defaults
triggered a seizure across credit markets in 2008.  The rebirth of commercial property CDOs comes as investors
wager on a real estate recovery and as the  Federal Reserve 
pushes down borrowing costs, encouraging bond buyers to seek
higher-yielding debt. The securities package loans such as those
for buildings with high vacancy rates that are considered
riskier than those found in traditional commercial-mortgage
backed securities, where surging investor demand has driven
spreads to the narrowest in more than five years.  “Investors are willing to go further afield in their quest
for yield,” Ed Shugrue, Chief Executive Officer of Talmage LLC,
who oversees $2 billion of commercial property debt in  New York .
“With demand rich, Wall Street is scouring the cupboards to
find anything with a  cash flow  that can be securitized.”  Underwater Borrowers  The deals could help borrowers owing more than their
properties are worth who would otherwise be unable to refinance,
said  Richard Hill , a debt strategist at RBS in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . About $450 billion in debt that was arranged before
markets tumbled in 2008 matures through 2017 and commercial
property values are still 22.4 percent below the 2007 peak.  CDOs pool loans or bonds into new deals with varying levels
of risk and return. In the residential market before the credit
crunch, that included securities backed by subprime home loans,
which helped inflate the U.S. housing market and fueled more
than $2 trillion of losses and writedowns at financial
institutions globally.  Commercial real estate CDO issuance peaked at $65 billion
in 2006 before the market collapsed in 2007. While CDOs tied to
commercial mortgages typically fared better than those linked to
residential, certain types performed better than others,
according to Hill.  ‘Valuable Tool’  “There is no doubt that CRE CDOs were abused prior to the
crisis,” Hill said. “If done appropriately, CRE CDOs provide a
very valuable financing tool.”   Redwood (RWT) , which has also led a revival in selling securities
tied to home loans without the backing of the U.S. government,
sold $172 million of bonds linked primarily to commercial
mezzanine loans in November, the first sale of its type in five
years.  The transaction, arranged by  UBS AG (UBSN) , includes 30 loans on
buildings ranging from the Gansevoort Hotel in  Manhattan  to the
RiverTown Crossings shopping mall in Grandville,  Michigan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mezzanine debt is
repaid after the first mortgage and can bridge the gap between
how much a landlord owes and how much the property is worth.  The deal “increases our ability to make additional
investments in commercial real estate in an industry where there
is more capital needed than there is capital” available,
 Michael McMahon , a managing director at Redwood, said in a
telephone interview.  Jumbo Deals  The  Mill Valley , California-based firm kept the so-called
subordinate tranche, which is first in line to incur credit
losses. “We are certainly standing behind the deal which is
consistent with Redwood’s strategy as a credit investor,” he
said. Redwood this month sold bonds tied to $398 million of so-
called jumbo mortgages, following six sales last year that
packaged almost $2 billion of the loans, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  NorthStar Realty Finance Corp. (NRF) , a New York-based commercial-
property lender and investor, issued $351 million of securities
linked to so-called transitional properties in October. The
mortgages were taken out on the expectation that income from the
buildings will increase, with vacancy rates as high as 40
percent, according to deal documents.  At the  Cherry Hill  mall in Cherry Hill,  New Jersey , the
value of the property is forecast to climb to $115 million by
December 2014 from $100 million as of June, the documents show.  Representatives from NorthStar didn’t respond to e-mails
and phone calls seeking comment.  Labeling Deals  Firms aren’t marketing the new deals as CDOs, Hill said,
even as the securities contain the same type of collateral found
in CDOs completed prior to the crisis. Some are seeking to label
them collateralized loan obligations, which are typically linked
to corporate loans often used to fund leveraged buyouts.  Issuers are attempting to draw greater distinctions between
different types of offerings, said Tad Philipp, an analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service.  “During the boom, CDO was the umbrella term for
everything,” Philipp said in a telephone interview. “That’s
not the case now.”  Bond buyers are latching on to the debt as property values
stage an uneven recovery across the U.S., with large cities such
as New York and  San Francisco  recording the biggest gains,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Commercial real estate
prices have climbed 27.7 percent since bottoming in November
2009, according to the Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price
index.  CMBS Sales  Traditional CMBS sales are poised to climb 50 percent in
2013 to $60 billion as demand soars, according to Deutsche Bank
AG, and lenders are set to issue $8 billion in deals this month,
the highest monthly volume in five years. The $550 billion
market shut down in 2008 after a record $232 billion was sold in
2007.  Money managers putting new investment mandates to work this
year have contributed to increased trading and a “sharp
tightening in spreads,” Barclays Plc analysts Keerthi Raghavan
and Aaron Haan wrote in a report last week.  “Cash inflows into fixed income funds have remained
elevated over the last year and despite the significant
tightening, CMBS remains attractive” compared with similarly
rated assets, such as corporates, they wrote.  The extra yield investors demand to own top-ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has narrowed to
1 percentage point from 2.23 percentage points at the end of
2011, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, about
the narrowest level since July 2007.  Shrinking yields on CMBS are pushing investors to look for
higher-yielding assets, said Hill of RBS. “CRE CDOs are the
next frontier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  