-- War on Terror Should Focus on Captures, Not Killings
-- B y   J o s h u a   F o u s t
-- 2013-01-14T15:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/war-on-terror-should-focus-on-captures-not-killings.html
The debate over U.S. President
 Barack Obama ’s nomination of John Brennan to be director of the
Central Intelligence Agency has become a debate on how to run
the war on terrorism.  The focus right now is on Brennan’s role, as the White
House’s counterterrorism adviser, in the government’s “targeted
killing” strategy, carried out mostly by drones but also in
special operations such as the one that caught Osama bin Laden.  Although this is a crucial part of the counterterrorism
mission, it can’t be discussed without  addressing  a critical
component: creating a legal, effective detainment policy to
arrest, hold and, one hopes, put on trial those suspected of
committing or planning actions of terrorism. This means shifting
the priority from targeted killings to targeted captures.  In the early days of the  terrorism war , the U.S. government
relied on a process called extraordinary rendition to capture
suspected terrorists and move them either to CIA “black sites”
or to countries known to abuse inmates. The thinking was that
harsher interrogation techniques would generate intelligence
about future attacks. These interrogations led to a global
outcry, and in 2009 Obama signed an executive order ending the
practice. Yet aspects of it have  continued  under Obama,
including the transfer of prisoners to countries known to abuse
inmates and the indefinite detainment of suspects without trial.  ‘Disposition Matrix’  If the U.S. had a clearer, more accountable detainment
policy, it might not have to resort as much to drone operations.
In  Pakistan , for example, the U.S. targets terrorists through
drone strikes because it has no other options for opposing the
militants. The Pakistani government declines to sweep known
terrorist redoubts, and even if militants could be captured,
Pakistanis would prevent their extradition to the U.S. for
trial.  Last year, the Washington Post  reported  that U.S. officials
were trying to institutionalize a “disposition matrix” to
determine how the government could handle suspected terrorists.
Brennan has spearheaded the development of this “playbook,”
which would link the names of suspected terrorists with the
methods the government can use to track them down and either
capture or kill them. These target lists “were regarded as
finite emergency measures after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,”
wrote Washington Post reporter Greg Miller. Now, Miller said,
they are “fixtures of the national security apparatus.”  Critics say this matrix indicates the U.S. is adopting a
permanent war footing to address terrorism and still includes
the option for summarily killing suspects. But codifying the
process of how names are added to the kill-capture lists, and
determining standard practices and policies for how those names
are handled, seems like a step in the right direction. The
problem is that it might not go far enough.  Right now, the incentives of the global counterterrorism
mission favor the kill missions. Although few policy makers
really think their countries should just kill people around the
world, the process of capturing suspects, and then transferring
them either to a partner country or even to U.S. custody, is
rarely simple.  In Somalia, the U.S. doesn’t have a policy of holding the
militants it captures -- they are handed over to Somali prisons
that subject prisoners to hellish conditions. In Yemen, too, the
U.S. passes suspected terrorists on to the local prisons. In the
early 2000s, at least one Yemeni prison held a network of al-
Qaeda members who radicalized other inmates. A better option
would have been to move them elsewhere and hold them in more
secure conditions.  No, this isn’t easy, either. Last year, Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame, a Somali militant suspected of having ties to
terrorists, was captured in international waters aboard a
fishing boat. The U.S. held him on a Navy vessel for two months,
interrogating him before transferring him to the U.S. for trial.  Congressional Resistance  That transfer sparked criticism from members of Congress,
such as House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck”
McKeon, who wanted Warsame kept at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, under a
military commission. In 2011, the House passed a bill preventing
the president from moving detainees to civilian courts for
trial.  At the same time, because of the international outcry,
prisoners are no longer sent to Guantanamo. They are transferred
to foreign prisons. Because Guantanamo can’t be feasibly shut
down and new prisoners can’t be sent there, it’s unclear how the
U.S. can process the suspected terrorists it captures.  A U.S. solution should have three parts: changing the
threshold for taking action to capture terrorists, building
domestic political support for holding and trying them in U.S.
federal courts, and establishing an international legal
framework to manage detainees.  The first one would involve accepting some risk to U.S.
personnel. If an intelligence agency identifies a member of al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, there aren’t the people or
assets in place to fly out to the Yemeni desert and capture him.
The mission to capture the target would be risky and politically
complex.  If it failed, or if some Americans died in the attempt,
there could be a political backlash for the administration,
making future attempts less likely. No leader wants to risk
American lives, but if the U.S. is to shift from its dependence
on targeted kills, these risks have to be taken.  Once the suspect is captured, there aren’t legal provisions
for the immediate transfer to U.S. custody and trial. Current
procedures would have him transferred to Yemeni custody. A
bilateral agreement with  Yemen , and other countries where
terrorists operate, could address that.  Ultimately there needs to be a treaty governing how
suspects can be transferred to U.S. custody. Modifying
traditional extradition treaties to allow specific exemptions
for terrorists would address part of the challenge. But for
countries that don’t have such agreements with the U.S. -- such
as the United Arab Emirates or Yemen -- a bilateral pact
governing the capture and transfer of suspected terrorists to
U.S. custody is a first step.  Civilian Courts  Most important, Obama needs to make the case for civilian
courts more forcefully. It won’t be easy: Polls suggest a
majority of Americans favor military tribunals for these
suspects. Those tribunals are fraught with legal issues and have
a relatively low conviction rate compared with federal courts,
and few politicians have been willing to expend political
capital to force the issue.  But the continued  existence  of Guantanamo and military
tribunals makes other countries less likely to agree to
extradite terrorism suspects. Obama should appoint a high-level
White House official to be responsible for building
Congressional support for closing Guantanamo.  There must also be a bipartisan effort to convince Congress
and the public that trying suspected terrorists in a U.S. court
would make the country safer by convicting more -- while costing
far less -- than the current system.  A civilian-court alternative would not only ensure more
oversight for the suspect’s treatment during detention. It would
also make the U.S. legal process more open and more likely to be
perceived globally as legitimate, strengthening the case for a
global agreement on detainees.  If the U.S. shifts from killing suspected terrorists to
capturing them, it will create a counterterrorism policy that is
not only more ethical and legitimate, but also more effective
and sustainable for the long war.  (Joshua Foust is a fellow at the American Security Project,
and a contributor to the Atlantic. He writes a weekly national-
security column for PBS’s “Need to Know” newsmagazine. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joshua Foust at  Joshua.foust@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 