-- Will Obama Ruin the Economy to Ruin the Republicans?
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-01-14T18:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/will-obama-ruin-the-economy-to-ruin-the-republicans-.html
With both the 14th Amendment and platinum coin options to defuse a debt-limit
crisis (apparently)  off the table , only two possible outcomes are left: a debt-
ceiling increase or the government's missing required payments and  economic
chaos ensuing . This is exactly the choice President  Barack Obama  laid out in his
news conference this morning. Politico reported today that top Republican staff members believe “ more than
half ” their conference is prepared to push the government into default on some
payments rather than cave on their demands for further spending cuts. This isn’t because Republicans are reckless, as such. Many conservatives are
sincerely convinced that excessive  government spending  poses a dire risk to the
 U.S. economy , and that even if missed payments have severe negative short-term
economic consequences, they will be worth it if the long-term outcome is a
smaller government. The conviction that everything is about to come apart in the U.S. if the
government maintains its current economic-policy course -- through tremendous
inflation, a debt crisis, and/or all of the productive members of society  Going
Galt  -- animates the huge Republican resistance to anything Obama proposes, even
if that’s just the government paying the bills it has already run up. They’re
trying their very hardest to save the country from a madman. This sincere outlook is also insane, as you can see from how the stock and
bond markets have behaved in recent years in response to various policy actions.
The markets like fiscal expansion, monetary expansion and deals that keep the
government operating as usual without drastic policy change. They do not cry out
for massive disruption in pursuit of smaller government. But the conservative worldview is robust because of its imperviousness to
evidence. Economic data, like polling data or climate data, cannot get in the
way of the narrative. Conservatives are sure that the Obama presidency will lead
to an economic calamity, and they will prove it, if necessary. Mike Konczal of the Roosevelt Institute has a  good rundown  of the game
theoretical implications of the White House’s choices to take the coin and the
14th Amendment off the table. By removing the options to hit the debt ceiling
without economic disaster, maybe the White House will force Republicans to give
the White House the policy it most wants: a clean debt-ceiling increase. Or
maybe we’ll hit the debt ceiling anyway. But there is another explanation for the White House’s choice that is missing
from Konczal’s analysis. If Obama had minted the coin, he would have taken the
blame for whatever problems ensued, real or imagined. He might have saved the
economy while bearing the political cost of ruining it. Foreclosing that option
has an indeterminate impact on the economy, but it will ensure that Republicans
get all the blame for whatever bad economic events happen in the next few
months. By creating an object lesson of how unfit the  Republican Party  has become to
govern, Obama can ensure himself a political “win.” But with a new recession
sparked by a government payments crisis, the country would lose -- and Obama,
whose second-term plans would be hampered by the need to manage yet another
recovery, would lose, too. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .