-- Twitter’s $1 Billion Target Helped by Turkey as IPO Nears
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-01-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/twitter-s-1-billion-target-helped-by-turkey-as-ipo-nears-tech.html
Turkish pop sensation  Murat Boz  is
closing in on 2 million followers on Twitter Inc., a sign that
the U.S.-based microblogging service is gaining popularity
overseas as growth slows in its home market.  Boz -- and Twitter -- began getting added attention in
 Turkey  after the San Francisco-based company reached a deal with
wireless carrier  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  that lets users
send short Twitter messages, or tweets, from their handsets at
no charge.  The pact represents a central ingredient of Twitter’s push
for new users while preparing for an initial public offering.
The company is targeting expansion in areas such as Asia,  South
America  and the  Middle East , where many people access the Web
over inexpensive devices known as feature phones, rather than
high-priced smartphones. By developing simpler versions of its
application and landing deals with mobile carriers and device
makers, Twitter is making its service cheaper and easier to use.  “We need to deliver a more compelling product for low-end
devices,”  Dick Costolo , Twitter’s chief executive officer, said
in an e-mail.  It’s harder to get applications onto feature phones than it
is to deliver them to smartphones, whose users can easily
download new software onto Apple Inc. iPhones and Google Inc.
Android devices through an online store. Putting Twitter on
less-advanced phones requires tweaks to the software and
navigating a thicket of regional players, Costolo said in an
interview in November.  250 Carriers  By promoting Twitter, operators such as Turkcell are
getting customers to spend more time on the Web and paying more
for mobile data. In return, Twitter is adding new users, helping
it sell advertising to marketers around the world.  “Our number of mobile Twitter users has increased
threefold” since the partnership, said Emre Sayin, chief
consumer business unit officer at Tepebasi, Turkey-based
Turkcell. “These users have also generated revenue by clicking
on photos and visiting other links that were shared in tweets.”  Twitter has partnered with about 250 operators in more than
100 countries, including  India ,  Pakistan ,  Mexico ,  Brazil , and
the  Philippines . In some cases, customers can freely read and
post tweets without incurring data charges. In other deals,
operators just waive text-messaging charges.  Jana Messerschmidt, the Twitter vice president of business
development and platform relations who’s leading the global
effort, said Twitter’s international popularity is a selling
point in negotiations.  ‘Sticky Services’  “They are looking for compelling, sticky services that are
going to drive users to use either Internet on their phone for
the first time or use more data services than they used
before,” Messerschmidt, a veteran of Netflix Inc. and DivX LLC,
said in an interview. She declined to discuss any deal terms.  Messerschmidt arranged in July with Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia Oyj to get a Twitter app pre-installed on the handset
maker’s Asha line of phones, which are designed with stripped-
down features to make them more affordable for buyers in India
and other  emerging markets . The companies worked together on the
app’s look and functionality, Seppo Aaltonen, Nokia’s head of
mobile-phone strategy, said in an e-mail.  “As a result of this close collaboration, we’ve delivered
something perfectly tailored for consumers in fast-growth
markets who are often cost-constrained but still want to have
fun, new mobile experiences,” Aaltonen said.  Nokia is the largest maker of feature phones, which make up
just more than half, or 3.2 billion, of the world’s mobile
phones, according to research firm Gartner Inc. That share is
set to decline as competing Android-based smartphones become
cheaper and more prevalent.  Advantages Limited  That may limit the benefits of courting feature-phone
makers and operators, said John Jackson, an analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  “It’s not obvious to me that getting distributed across
the fragmented landscape of feature phones is a worthwhile
exercise at this point,” Jackson said. Forging such
partnerships are a “lot of work” and Twitter’s efforts would
be “better served chasing Google” to get apps featured on
Android phones, he said.  Another challenge: Twitter is competing with Facebook Inc.
to add users globally. Facebook expanded feature-phone offerings
with its 2011 acquisition of Israeli startup Snaptu Ltd., which
develops a stripped-down version of the site’s application for
more basic handsets.  Smarter Chips  For now, signing users in developing markets will give
Twitter a more attractive platform to sell advertising and reach
its target of $1 billion in revenue in 2014. A widespread global
audience may also attract more potential investors in the
company’s anticipated initial public offering.  In addition to carriers and phone manufacturers, Twitter is
also working with chipmakers to get its app bundled onto more
handsets. Last July, it announced a deal with Hsinchu, Taiwan-
based MediaTek Inc., which produces processors that go into
about 500 million phones each year in emerging markets,
including India and Southeast  Asia .  MediaTek has begun including Twitter in software installed
with its mobile chips. The handsets using these chips have the
option of “enabling” the app right out of the box, said Sharon Lo, a spokeswoman for MediaTek.  “We strive to add more value to the phone,” Lo said. “If
the end users are a group of Twitter users, then the handset
maker can preload Twitter,” said Lo, who added that the company
has similar deals with Yahoo! Inc., Facebook, and Gameloft SE.  U.S. Slowdown  Gaining users abroad is increasingly crucial as growth in
the U.S. slows. Twitter will expand its U.S. audience 14 percent
this year, to 36.3 million users, from 31.8 million in 2012,
according to EMarketer Inc. That’s a slowdown from 2012, when
the service grew 27 percent.  As Twitter pushes into more markets, Messerschmidt said she
enjoyed seeing the many new ways the site is being used, from
people checking cricket scores in India to farmers checking
agricultural product prices in  Africa .  “The Twitter service is so simple it should be able to
reach anybody on the planet,” she said. “There’s lots of room
for growth for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  