-- Yen Drops to 120 Versus Euro as China Stocks Surge, Corn Climbs
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-14T08:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/yen-weakens-amid-stimulus-speculation-corn-wheat-advance.html
The yen weakened to a 20-month low
against the euro as traders prepared for more monetary stimulus
from the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  Chinese stocks rose the most in a month
as regulators said foreign-investment quotas can increase 10-
fold. Corn and oil led commodities higher.  The yen touched 120.13 against the euro before trading at
119.44 as of 8:15 a.m. in London.  China ’s Shanghai Composite
Index jumped 3.1 percent, boosting the  MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index. (MXAPJ)  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.2
percent and futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent. Corn climbed 1.9 percent as U.S. stockpiles shrank more
than forecast and oil rose 0.6 percent.  Japan ’s financial
markets are shut today.  Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa will address a
meeting of branch managers tomorrow after Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe said he is seeking a “bold policy leader” as the next
central bank chief. China can expand quotas for foreign
investment in the country’s financial markets by 10 times, said
China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing .
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks today before
data this week that may show the recovery remains fragile.  “It’s a step in the right direction as greater foreign
participation is always good for the market,” said Ng Soo Nam,
chief investment officer at Nikko Asset Management, which
oversees about $165 billion. “This market rebound is very well
founded on solid ground given that the China story has been
quite positive and earnings have been resilient. The weakness of
the yen is another positive factor. The impact will be positive
for Japan’s export sector.”  Yen Weakens  The yen fell 0.3 percent against the dollar, trading at the
weakest since June 2010. The Japanese currency last week capped
a ninth weekly loss against the greenback, the longest stretch
since 10 weeks ended in February 1989, after Abe announced a
10.3 trillion ($115 billion) yen spending package to drive a
recovery. The Bank of Japan meets Jan. 21-22.  “Abe announced fiscal stimulus in Japan, which is what
sent the yen lower against the dollar,”  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “We were expecting some sort of
fiscal program, and they basically put some flesh on the bone.”  The dollar touched a more than 10-month low of $1.3404 per
euro as Federal  Reserve Bank  of  Chicago  President  Charles Evans 
said the central bank should keep policy accommodative to
support the economy. Interest rates are expected to stay low
until 2015, Evans said in  Hong Kong  today. Bernanke’s speech
today comes before reports this week that may show growth in
retail sales slowed and manufacturing in the New York region
failed to expand.  Commodities, Corn  Commodities as measured by the S&P GSCI Index climbed 0.5
percent. Oil increased to $94.17 a barrel, silver climbed 0.9
percent to $30.74 an ounce and copper on the London Metal
Exchange rose 0.6 percent to $8,091 a metric ton.  Corn advanced for a sixth day, the longest rally since
February, after the U.S. government said stockpiles in the
world’s largest grower and exporter shrank more than analysts
expected because of drought and rising demand. Futures traded in
Chicago climbed to $7.225 a bushel, near the highest level since
Dec. 1. Wheat increased 1.9 percent to $7.6875 a bushel and
soybeans gained 1.5 percent to $13.9375 a bushel.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  capped the biggest advance
since Dec. 14 after CSRC’s Guo said in Hong Kong today that
China can raise 10 times the amount that foreigners can invest
in Chinese securities under the so-called QFII and RQFII
programs.  China Rally  The CSI 300 Index rallied 3.8 percent before reports on
gross domestic product, retail sales and industrial output due
on Jan. 18 that may show the economy is recovering. China’s
stocks are set to rise 20 percent this year, bolstered by the
government’s efforts to boost domestic spending and accelerate
urban development, according to UBS AG’s chairman and country
head for China, David Li.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., online
auction site  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and General Electric Co. are among the
companies on the  S&P 500  that are scheduled to report earnings
this week. The U.S. equity benchmark last week climbed to the
highest level in five years, capping a second weekly advance.  Of the 27 S&P 500 companies that have posted quarterly
earnings, 81 percent exceeded analysts’ estimates and 67 percent
reported a profit increase, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter earnings at S&P 500 companies grew 2.5
percent, according to analysts’ estimates. That would be the
second-slowest quarterly growth since 2009, the data show.  Asian stocks outside Japan advanced, with about five shares
rising for every three that dropped on the regional gauge.
CapitaLand Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, City
Developments Ltd. and Keppel Land Ltd. declined more than 4
percent in  Singapore  after the government announced additional
cooling measures.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose to a two-year high after
government data showed inflation slowed to the lowest level in
almost a year in December, boosting speculation the central bank
will cut  interest rates  to revive the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  