-- Myriad, Azentus Post Gains as Asian Hedge Funds Beat Peers
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-15T01:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/myriad-azentus-post-2012-gains-as-asian-hedge-funds-beat-peers.html
Myriad Asset Management Ltd. and
Azentus Capital Management Ltd. posted gains in 2012 as a market
rebound in the last four months of the year helped Asian  hedge
funds  outperform global peers.  The Myriad Opportunities Master Fund, a $1.4 billion
multistrategy fund led by Carl Huttenlocher, former Asia head of
Highbridge Capital Management LLC, returned about 7 percent last
year, said two people with knowledge of the performance.
Azentus’s $1.7 billion multistrategy fund reversed earlier
losses to post a gain of about 1 percent for the year, said two
others with knowledge of the returns. The people declined to be
identified because the information is private.  “Investors will always have the debate over whether it is
better to invest with larger funds with size and resources on
their side, or to go with their smaller peers who are more
nimble and can take a more opportunistic approach,” said Fred Ingham, London-based  Asia  head of hedge-fund investments at
Neuberger Berman Group LLC’s alternative-assets division.
“There are certain investors who may accept a slightly lower
return threshold for larger funds in exchange for investing with
a brand name.”  An index tracking Asian hedge funds advanced 9.7 percent in
2012, according to Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte,
as leadership changes in China and  Japan  buoyed markets and the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s low-interest rate policies led investors
to seek higher returns. That beat the 6.2 percent return by
Eurekahedge’s global benchmark, the first time Asian hedge funds
outperformed since 2009. The Asian index returned 8 percent in
the last four months of the year,  triple  the global measure’s
average.  ‘Brand Name’  Assets of the Myriad Opportunities fund, which started
trading in Hong Kong in December 2011, have grown to $1.7
billion, one of the people said. The fund has indicated that it
will soon stop taking additional money after existing investor
commitments take assets to $2 billion, the person added.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index gained 5.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, surpassing the earlier 2012 high in February and
rallying 21 percent from its low for the year in June.  Azentus, Fortress  Azentus’s fund, overseen by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
proprietary trader Morgan Sze, focuses on Asia and employs
strategies including event-driven,  capital structure  and
convertible-bond arbitrage, distressed assets, volatility
trading, private securities and equity long-short.  The Fortress Asia Macro Fund, with more than $500 million,
returned 3.65 percent in December, bringing its 2012 return to
about 21 percent, according to filings by Fortress Investment
Group LLC, a New York-based hedge fund and private-equity firm.  Not all funds saw gains in the year. The event-driven fund
of Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., founded in Hong Kong by former
Citadel LLC executive Nick Taylor and backed by Blackstone Group
LP, pared its loss to about 11 percent last year after four
consecutive positive months, according to an investor newsletter
seen by  Bloomberg News .  Assets of Senrigan Master Fund, which invests in Asian
companies undergoing events such as merger and acquisitions,
increased to $506 million, after falling below $500 million
earlier in 2012 from just over $1 billion in April 2011,
according to investor newsletters seen by Bloomberg News.  York, Tybourne  The $420 million Asian Opportunities fund of New York-based
York Capital Management, which oversees $14.5 billion globally,
returned 11 percent last year, driven by a 6.3 percent gain in
the fourth quarter, according to an investor newsletter seen by
Bloomberg.  Globally, event-driven investments will benefit from an
increase in corporate activity in 2013, as a market less
dominated by macro headlines would improve the ability of
company manage to evaluate strategic deals, York Capital said in
a newsletter to investors dated Jan. 11.  Tybourne Equity Fund, the  Hong Kong  manager founded by
former regional head of Lone Pine Capital LLC Eashwar Krishnan,
returned about 5 percent in 2012, said a person with knowledge
of the matter. The fund started trading on July 2 with $500
million and the ability to draw down another $500 million from
investors, two people with knowledge of the matter said then.  Myriad Chief Operating Officer Scott Gaynor, Azentus COO
Roger Denby-Jones, Senrigan’s investor relations officer
Katarina Bendle and Tybourne COO Tanvir Ghani all declined to
comment. Feng Hsiung, Asia chief executive officer at York
Capital, declined to comment. They cited the confidential nature
of the information and regulatory restrictions on marketing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  