-- Yum, Volkswagen Slammed by Xinhua for Business Practices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-14T11:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/yum-volkswagen-slammed-by-xinhua-for-business-practices.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  and other foreign
companies are “digging their own graves” in China by failing
to ensure quality standards in the nation, the official Xinhua
News Agency said in an editorial.  These companies “risk losing the profits they came to
China to seek if they don’t correct their practices,” Xinhua
said. The government is serious about cracking down on illegal
activities by all companies, including international ones,
according to the editorial.  Yum’s vice chairman apologized on Jan. 10 after the
Shanghai Food and Drug Administration said in December it found
antibiotic levels that didn’t meet prescribed standards in
batches of chicken supplied to the Louisville, Kentucky-based
company between 2010 to 2011. French hypermart chain  Carrefour
SA (CA)  and Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  were also singled out by Xinhua,
which criticized multinational firms for “capitalizing on
loopholes in Chinese law and regulations to escape punishment.”  “Yum’s understated apology is rooted in its arrogance and
propensity for unfairly treating Chinese consumers, who usually
regard foreign brands as being safer and of higher quality than
domestic brands,” Xinhua wrote in the editorial.  Sam Su, vice chairman of the operator of KFC and Pizza Hut
stores, said in a letter posted on KFC’s official microblog the
company’s self-inspection processes and internal communications
had been lacking. Amy Sherwood, Yum’s Kentucky-based
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent by
 Bloomberg News  after regular office hours.  Customer Satisfaction  Christoph Ludewig, Volkswagen’s Beijing-based spokesman,
said in an e-mail that customer satisfaction is the carmaker’s
first priority and the company “always safeguards consumer
rights.” Liu Huanyu, a spokeswoman for Bluefocus, Carrefour’s
external public relations agency in China, could not immediately
comment on the Xinhua editorial.  Chinese companies have also been scrutinized for safety
issues. Xinhua reported on Nov. 22 that the nation’s quality
watchdog had found excessive levels of plasticizer in drink
samples of Chinese liquor-maker  JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799)   In March 2011,  China Central Television  reported that an
affiliate of  Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co. (000895) ,
China’s biggest meat processing company, purchased pigs fed with
a banned additive that induces the growth of lean meat.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  