-- Zegna Says China Luxury Demand Returning After New Leaders Named
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-01-14T10:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-14/zegna-says-china-luxury-demand-returning-after-new-leaders-named.html
Ermenegildo Zegna SpA said Chinese
demand for its luxury products rebounded in the fourth quarter,
boosting 2012 sales growth and easing concern that the Asian
nation’s leadership transition may continue to weigh on revenue.  “We saw a change of trend,” the eponymous chief executive
officer of the Trivero, Italy-based company said in a Jan. 12
interview before Zegna’s fall-winter 2013 fashion show in Milan.
“The slowdown in  China  lasted for about a quarter.”  Decelerating growth in China has been a concern for luxury
companies, who benefited from a boom in demand for watches and
jewelry earlier this decade. Zegna and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  in
September reported weaker gains in the country ahead of a once-
a-decade change by the ruling Communist Party.  While revenue growth is not yet back to where it was a few
years ago, “people came back to buy” in the last three months
of 2012, Zegna said, adding that smaller cities in China
continued to outperform Beijing and  Shanghai . “Overall, I hear
good news from other brands too in China.”  China’s leadership handover, which began in November and
will be completed in March, should provide a more favorable
backdrop for a recovery in gift-giving, even if it comes in a
more temperate manner than in the past, Credit Suisse analyst
 Rogerio Fujimori  wrote in a note last week.  Preliminary figures for 2012 suggest that Zegna’s sales
advanced 11 percent to 1.25 billion euros ($1.67 billion) from
1.13 billion euros a year earlier, the CEO said, adding that
full-year profitability was “pretty good.”  Tourist Spend  A decision to limit discounts in  Europe  and the U.S.
restrained revenue growth in those regions, which nonetheless
benefited from purchases by wealthy visitors from  Asia ,  Brazil ,
 Mexico  and  Russia , the CEO said. Demand from those regions has
continued this month, he said, citing strong sales of Zegna’s
most expensive sportswear as well as leather accessories.  Chinese travellers, motivated by large price differentials
and favorable exchange rates, contribute about a third of luxury
sales in Europe, Fujimori estimates. Overall, tourists account
for 40 percent of global luxury spend, according to Bain & Co.
Zegna said he expects that rate to increase.  The closely-held clothier plans to open about 30 stores in
2013, a third of which will be in China with the rest in  Latin
America , the U.S., Europe and Africa, Zegna said. At least two
of the openings will be in  Australia , where the company is
taking control of its distribution as incomes rise and the
country becomes “the California of Asia,” or a holiday
destination for people from the region, the CEO said.  Conservative Forecast  Zegna is forecasting revenue growth of less than 10 percent
this year, excluding currency swings, a prediction the CEO said
is “conservative.” Worldwide luxury expenditure will advance 7
percent in 2013, according to  Boston Consulting Group .  In China, sales may rise by a low double-digit percentage,
the executive said. Growth in the country is becoming tougher to
achieve, and also more costly, because of greater competition
and an increasingly sophisticated consumer, meaning brands need
to invest more to attract demand, Zegna said.  Retail expansion and the appointment of former Yves Saint
Laurent designer Stefano Pilati as head of design at Ermenegildo
Zegna and creative director of Agnona means Zegna has plenty to
focus on this year without making acquisitions, the CEO said.  “We’ll see,” Zegna said. “We are always open for new
things. We have enough to grow from organic growth.”  Zegna ruled out selling shares in an initial public
offering, saying the company’s cash pile, which increased last
year, means it doesn’t need to raise extra funds to expand.  “We want to remain private,” Zegna said. “We believe in
the force of being an independent company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Milan at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  