-- ‘Taken 2’ Top Movie for Second Weekend With $21.9 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-15T20:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/-taken-2-tops-ticket-sales-for-2nd-weekend-with-22-5-million.html
“Taken 2,” a sequel to the 2009
Liam Neeson action film, was the top-grossing movie at U.S. and
Canadian cinemas for a second weekend, collecting $21.9 million
in sales for  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox.  “Taken 2” held off five new releases, including  Ben Affleck ’s “Argo,” based on the true story of a CIA plan to
rescue U.S. diplomats trapped in Iran during the 1979
revolution, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an
e-mailed statement. “Argo,” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner
Bros ., had sales of $19.5 million.  With the industry’s awards season approaching, studios are
beginning to release movies such as “Argo” that have been
touted by critics as possible Oscar contenders. This coming
weekend, Fox will begin a limited release of the drama “The
Sessions” and  Steven Spielberg ’s “Lincoln” opens on Nov. 9.  “Hollywood is starting to get into Oscar mode,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of BoxOfficeGuru.com, said in a telephone
interview. Once “the summer is over, the studios start rolling
out their Oscar hopefuls.”  In “Argo,” Affleck plays Tony Mendez, a real-life CIA
operative who entered  Iran  at the height of the anti-American
revolution to rescue six diplomats who escaped the takeover of
the U.S. Embassy. With the help of the Canadian government,
Mendez disguised the diplomats as members of a Canadian film
crew scouting locations for a sci-fi film called “Argo.”  Oscar Buzz  The ruse included setting up a fake movie production
company and taking out ads for the film in Hollywood trade
publications. Alan Arkin and John Goodman co-star as the makeup
director and producer who helped make the scheme work.  Affleck directed and co-produced “Argo,” which has been
mentioned by critics as a possible nominee for Oscars, including
best picture, best actor and best director. It was expected to
have opening-weekend sales of $15.3 million, the forecast of
researcher Boxoffice.com.  Sales Potential  “There’s a lot of potential business still piled up
waiting to come in,” said Pandya. “This one has the potential
to possibly get to that $100 million mark by the end of its
run.”  “Taken 2” stars Neeson as a retired CIA agent who uses
his deadly skills to rescue his wife after she is kidnapped. The
original film, released in 2009, generated $226.8 million in
worldwide ticket sales. Famke Janssen and Maggie Grace reprise
their roles in the new picture, which was expected to register
sales of $23 million, according to Boxoffice.com.  “Sinister,”  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s tale about
supernatural terror, was third in its debut with $18 million.
Ethan Hawke plays a crime writer who uncovers the secret behind
the deaths of his home’s previous inhabitants. Vincent D’Onofrio
and James Ransone co-star.  ‘Hotel Transylvania’  Sony Corp. (SNE) ’s “Hotel Transylvania” fell to fourth from
second with $17.2 million. The animated film features the voice
of  Adam Sandler  as Dracula, who invites famous monsters to
celebrate his daughter’s birthday. The gathering is complicated
by the arrival of a human who falls for the vampire’s daughter.  “Here Comes the Boom,” also from Sony, opened in fifth
with $11.8 million.  Kevin James  plays a middle-age, former
college wrestler who moonlights as a mixed-martial-arts fighter.
 Salma Hayek  and Henry Winkler also star.  Two other new films finished in the Top 12.  The crime comedy “Seven Psychopaths” took in $4.2 million
for  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s film unit, finishing ninth, while “ Atlas
Shrugged : Part II” finished 11th with $1.7 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films climbed 57 percent to
$120.7 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said,
registering a third-straight gain.  Domestic film sales this year have risen 3.8 percent to
$8.42 billion, with attendance up 2.6 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Oct. 12 through Oct. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  