-- A Terrifying Threat Obama and Romney Aren’t Talking About
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-14T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/a-terrifying-threat-obama-and-romney-aren-t-talking-about.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
made some alarming predictions during a speech on Oct. 11. Cyber
attacks are looming, he said. They “could be as destructive as
the terrorist attack of 9/11” and might amount to a “cyber  Pearl
Harbor .”  Strong words -- and ones that have the virtue of being both
accurate and necessary. One of the most pressing military
threats facing the U.S. today is one we can’t see, and therefore
is the most difficult to have a sensible discussion about.  Panetta provided chilling details of recent attacks that
disrupted U.S. financial institutions and a virus that
infiltrated the computers of the Saudi Arabian Oil Co. These are
just the latest examples of a disturbing trend. According to
General Keith Alexander, leader of the U.S. Cyber Command,
computer-based intrusions against U.S. infrastructure increased
17-fold between 2009 and 2011, and cyber attacks have led to the
theft of about $1 trillion in intellectual property.  There are two prudent ways the government can respond.  First, because Congress this year failed to pass the
Cybersecurity Act, a bipartisan measure that would have been an
important first step, President  Barack Obama  would be justified
in taking the initiative. He could issue an executive order
directing regulators to require companies operating critical
infrastructure to meet federal cybersecurity standards. The
order should follow the spirit of the legislation: Companies
should have to meet certain goals, but be given free rein to
determine how best to do so. As a partial blueprint, regulators
could use the  Consensus Audit Guidelines , a set of 20 best-
practices developed by government agencies and private-sector
cybersecurity experts.  As we’ve argued before, uniform federal requirements are
the best way to ensure companies spend enough to protect their
networks. A study by Bloomberg Government of 172 organizations
found that cybersecurity spending would need to increase almost
nine-fold to repel 95 percent of potential attacks. Under
current rules, responsible businesses that make such investments
are at a competitive disadvantage to those that don’t. A single
set of requirements would even the playing field and reduce the
chance that one poorly secured company would leave everyone else
vulnerable.  Second, Panetta said that the  Department of Defense  is
drawing up new rules of engagement for the age of cyberwarfare.
In doing so, it should make clear that the U.S. is prepared to
preempt attacks, and to respond with overwhelming force -- in
kind or through conventional warfare -- when facing a serious
threat. Adversaries disrupting essential services, stealing
information or engaging in espionage should know that they can
be targeted for retaliation.  What the Pentagon shouldn’t do is draw “red lines” -- or
describe the specific U.S. response to various types of attacks
or intrusions. If adversaries know precisely what they can’t get
away with, they’ll have an incentive to invent new weapons and
new forms of attack. Red lines could also commit the U.S. to
imprudent reactions. Panetta was right to say that any
retaliation should be a presidential decision: Cyberattacks can
escalate quickly and have unpredictable consequences, and they
should only be undertaken in extreme circumstances.  He was also right to note that more information-sharing
between the government and the private sector -- with adequate
privacy and legal safeguards -- is essential. Establishing
hotlines between countries, much as the U.S. and the  Soviet
Union  did during the  Cold War , would also help. And increased
investment in cyber-intelligence and forensic investigations
should be a priority.  Our digital infrastructure is vulnerable. Yet the
Department of Defense can’t do everything on its own. Companies
that don’t protect themselves are putting both their bottom
lines and national security at risk. Yes, cybersecurity
standards are an imperfect response to a strange and dangerous
new realm of warfare. At the moment, though, they’re the only
thing standing between us and the abyss.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  possible conditions for a
Spanish bailout ; William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will
save Wall Street’s morals ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  whether negative
campaign ads work ;  Simon Johnson  on  the Fed’s new approach to
big banks ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  China’s history as the happy
hegemon ; Sasha Issenberg on  old campaign techniques buoyed by
new science .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 