-- Advent Offers $1.9 Billion to Buy Beauty Retailer Douglas
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-15T17:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/advent-said-to-plan-takeover-offer-for-german-retailer-douglas.html
Advent International Corp., the U.S.
owner of the Gerard Darel fashion brand, bid 1.5 billion euros
($1.9 billion) for  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) , bringing a takeover of
the German retailer closer after almost a year of talks.  The buyout firm offered 38 euros a share in cash, about 9.2
percent more than the last closing price before the bid. The
retailer’s three largest shareholders have a binding commitment
to accept the bid, and Advent has secured 50.5 percent of
Douglas’s stock, the U.S. company said.  Douglas, based in the Ruhr Valley town of Hagen,  said  this
month that earnings before taxes, interest, depreciation and
amortization probably fell in the year ended Sept. 30 as a
consumer shift to buying publications online hurt the Thalia
bookstore chain. Full-year revenue growth of 1.7 percent was
propelled by the Christ jewelry unit and helped by Douglas-brand
perfume outlets.  The takeover’s “main objective is to accelerate the growth
of the perfume and jewelry division jointly with the
management,” Boston-based Advent said today in a separate
 statement . “With regard to the book business, the partners will
actively pursue the restructuring and strategic repositioning to
make the division fit for the future.”  Acceptance Requirement  The Kreke family that founded Douglas will hold 20 percent
in the company, Advent said. The minimum acceptance threshold
will be 75 percent, it said. The buyout firm hopes to have
investor approval and antitrust clearance by the end of 2012,
Ranjan Sen, head of Advent’s operations in Frankfurt, said today
on a conference call with journalists.  Douglas  rose  8.1 percent to 37.62 euros, the biggest
increase since the company said it’s in talks with financial
investors on a possible acquisition on Jan. 12. The stock has
gained 35 percent this year.  “The biggest challenge that Advent faces is Thalia’s
restructuring,”  Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at Silvia Quandt &
Cie. in Frankfurt, said in a phone interview. “It might be
achievable in the mid-to-long-term, but it’s going to be very
difficult. It’s impossible to sell Thalia at the moment.”  Earnings Multiple  Advent is paying a multiple of 7.19 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization based on income
from the last 12 months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a median multiple of 7.58 times
Ebitda in western European retail transactions this year,
according to the data.  A takeover bid with a valuation based on the estimated 2013
price to earnings ratio of 20 times is “an attractive price for
a nearly non-growing retail company with significant
restructuring needs,” said Volker Bosse, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Baader Bank, in a report to investors.  Ebitda for the year through September was at the lower end
of Douglas’s forecast range of 200 million euros to 250 million
euros because of restructuring costs at Thalia, the company said
Oct. 9. That compares with earnings of 292.9 million euros in
the previous fiscal year. Sales  rose  to 3.44 billion euros, led
by gains of 9.6 percent at the Christ chain and 2.4 percent at
the Douglas brand. Revenue at Thalia fell 2.1 percent.  Douglas said in March that a study on Thalia showed the
unit would need to reduce space, including through branch
closings.  The Kreke family and Advent stand behind Thalia
management’s reorganization strategy, Chief Executive Officer
Henning Kreke said on the conference call.  Competing Interest  Advent has outlasted buyout firms BC Partners Holdings
Ltd., Apax Partners LLP and Permira Advisers LLP to reach a
preliminary agreement with the Kreke family, which will retain a
management role, as well as consent from the biggest shareholder
and food producer Dr. Oetker Group and drugstore chain owner
Erwin Mueller.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Advent and JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman are among lenders
providing financing to the buyout firm.  Oetker, a closely held food producer based in Bielefeld,
 Germany , is Douglas’s biggest  shareholder  with a 25.8 percent
stake. Mueller, the owner of the Mueller Grosshandels Ltd.
drugstore chain in Germany, holds 10.8 percent of Douglas stock,
as well as options for more shares, while the Kreke family owns
12.7 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Talks with other financial investors to help the Kreke
family delist Douglas faltered earlier this year amid doubts
about the support of Mueller and Oetker Group, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  Discount Clothes  Advent has experience in the German market after buying the
Takko discount clothing chain in 2007 and selling it in 2010.  Douglas has more than 2,000 stores with a workforce
exceeding 25,000  employees  in 17 European countries, according
to its website. Other brands owned by the company include
AppelrathCuepper fashion stores, which reported a 1.9 percent
decline in fiscal-2012 revenue, and Hussel confectioneries,
which posted a 1.7 percent increase.  Revenue in Germany in the last fiscal year rose 2.7
percent. Sales outside Douglas’s home market, excluding the
effects of a disposal in  Russia , increased 1.3 percent. CEO
Kreke said today that the retailer will grow abroad through
acquisitions “where it makes sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  