-- Al Rajhi Third-Quarter Net Drops 3.5%, Missing Estimates
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-10-14T14:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/al-rajhi-third-quarter-net-drops-3-5-missing-estimates.html
Al Rajhi Bank, (RJHI)  the largest Saudi
Arabian lender by market value, posted a 3.5 percent decline in
third-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates, as expenses
increased.  Net income dropped to 1.87 billion riyals ($499 million)
from 1.94 billion riyals a year earlier, the bank said in a
 statement  to the Saudi stock market today. The mean estimate of
seven analysts was for a profit of  2.1 billion riyals , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil
exporter, will slow to 6 percent this year from 7.1 percent last
year, according to the World Economic Outlook by the
International Monetary Fund. Al Rajhi joins  Saudi British Bank (SABB) 
and  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)  in missing analysts’ estimates.  “Doing a quick calculation shows that they’ve booked
provisions of about 500 million riyals in the quarter, which is
quite steep,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital,
said in a telephone interview. “Other banks have done that as
well, but in the case of Al Rajhi, the leap is huge.”  The nation’s Tadawul All Share Bank Index has gained 0.9
percent in 2012 compared with an advance of 3.8 percent for the
benchmark Tadawul All Share Index.  Al Rajhi shares  fell 1.1
percent to 68.25 riyals in  Riyadh  before the results were
announced. The stock has declined 1.8 percent this year.  Expenses Rise  Operating income climbed 14 percent to 3.64 billion riyals,
while profit from funding and investments increased 5.1 percent
to 2.41 billion riyals, according to the Al Rajhi statement.
Operating expenses increased in the quarter, the bank said,
without giving further details.  “Revenue growth was strong, and ahead of market
consensus,” said Murad Ansari, Riyadh-based vice president of
investment bank at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “However,
provisioning costs appear to have risen sharply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  