-- Asia Knows How to Get Along With a Bigger China
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-10-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/asia-knows-how-to-get-along-with-a-bigger-china.html
Preparing for a recent trip to
 Indonesia  last week, I came across  an article  by Meidyatama
Suryodiningrat, the editor of the feisty Indonesian daily
Jakarta Post, protesting that the Obama administration’s “pivot”
to Asia seemed too much like an attempt to start a cold war
against China, with the help of its neighbors.  America’s “economic intentions and wherewithal” in Asia
should be doubted as much as its attempts to contain China, the
Jakarta Post argued. The U.S. was insincerely using the rhetoric
of democratic values to advance its business interests in such
new Asian economies as Mongolia.  In any case, Suryodiningrat said, “Southeast Asia has dealt
with the powerful Middle Kingdom since the pre- Majapahit  era,
and it has always found a way to persevere without submission.”  Such sentiments are not untypical in much Asian commentary
on the U.S. reassertion of its role in the Pacific. They sound
romantic, even chauvinistic, in their evocation of a pre-modern
Asia unsullied by Western realpolitik.  Trojan Horses  Still, similarly narrow-minded is the Western view in which
 China , bullying its neighbors and forcing them to seek U.S.
assistance, is far from becoming a “responsible stakeholder” in
the international system.  In some extreme versions of Western Sinophobia, China is
always plotting, while talking up its “peaceful rise,” to take
over the world -- a conspiracy insidiously advanced, if we are
to  believe  the U.S. Congress, by such global Chinese companies-
cum-Trojan-horses as  Huawei .  Such scenarios omit the fact that, unlike Britain,  France ,
the Soviet Union and the U.S., among other erstwhile “rising”
powers, China has virtually no record of military interventions
in far-off countries.  Indeed, the history of China’s relationship with its
neighboring states during its long centuries as the supreme
power in East Asia furnishes some remarkable facts: the relative
lack, for instance, of violent conflict between major states
such as China,  Korea , Japan and  Vietnam .  China fought plenty of wars with the nomadic communities on
its western and northern borders. But while the map of Europe
was continuously and often brutally  altered  during the last
millennium, the boundaries of China’s neighbors -- Korea, Japan
and Vietnam -- remained largely stable for nearly seven
centuries. China’s successful intervention on Korea’s side
against a Japanese invasion in the late 16th century, for
example, did not lead to a Chinese military presence abroad.  Its uncharacteristic invasion of Vietnam in the early 15th
century ended in defeat; but the victor, Vietnam’s legendary
rebel-turned-emperor  Le Loi , opted, like his predecessors, to
become a tributary of the Middle Kingdom.  For China was not only the  Greece  of Asia, imparting its
Confucian cultures: Its empires were also at the center of a
 trade  and diplomatic web extending from Nepal to Java, and the
Amur region to  Burma . China’s economy was central to the region;
overseas Chinese merchants and traders were later to become
crucial in the economic development of Southeast Asia.  China’s neighbors benefited both materially and politically
from acknowledging its hegemony; they didn’t seek to “balance”
its power in the European way by forming alliances.  The emperors in Beijing, in turn, seemed content with
recognition of their legitimacy and authority as the dominant
power (no one back then bothered with the nominal “equality” of
our nation-state system that gives Vanuatu as many voting rights
at the United Nations as  India , but allots the greatest power
and influence to the U.S.). Though militarily capable of
enforcing territorial claims on neighboring states, China
refrained from making them.  New Order  European imperialists radically disrupted this integrated
economic and diplomatic order in the 19th century, beginning
with Britain’s  imposition  of the opium trade upon China in 1841,
which inaugurated China’s “century of humiliation.” Within a few
decades,  Japan  broke free of East Asia’s old tribute system and
began its calamitous effort to find a place in the new global
order of competitive empires and nation-states ordained by the
West.  Now, after many self-inflicted disasters, China has
“peacefully” risen, its ascendance coinciding with a major
transformation of its neighborhood. Asia has reverted to being
what it was before the European intrusion -- a dynamic region of
interconnected trade with China at the center.  Trade with their big neighbor anchors the economies of
almost all members of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, which renounced decades of hostility and distrust to
establish close relations with China in the 1980s and 1990s.  Few Asian countries can afford a war with China, even one
fought with enthusiastic U.S. assistance. Also, Asian policy
makers are unlikely to have forgotten how badly the previous
U.S. engagement with Southeast Asia ended in Saigon in 1975,
forcing even  Thailand , an eager facilitator of the U.S. war
effort in Vietnam, to start deferring to China.  Given this, fantasies of militarily balancing China often
appear little more than a desperate attempt by Cold War-era
American think-tanks to keep themselves solvent.  The Jakarta Post columnist is right: the U.S. should not
engage in the futile and counterproductive task of dividing co-
dependent Asian countries into rival camps of friends and
enemies.  China, too, has obligations to its neighbors -- in general
to maintain “harmony,” the Confucian word much loved by Chinese
leaders. No matter what provoked China’s recent stridency toward
Vietnam and Japan -- the troubled leadership transition or the
recourse to nationalism, opium of the modern masses -- it is
deeply disquieting.  War Games  Recent scenes of officially approved anti-Japanese
demonstrations, and a hardening Chinese posture toward Japan,
provoke a serious question: Will Beijing play by the rules of
the modern international order -- in which bellicose posturing
by new stakeholders has been the norm, exemplified by the non-
peaceful rise of Japan in the early 20th century -- or will it
seek to recreate East Asia’s old equilibrium that guaranteed
stability and indeed prosperity in the region for centuries?  Certainly, China will sound less and less convincing as it
blames the U.S. for stirring up trouble in its backyard or
lashes out at Japan. The “century of humiliation” is over. The
upstarts from  Europe  who initiated it will remain preoccupied
with internal problems for years, if not decades; and the lone
Western power in the Pacific, presently running trillion-dollar
deficits, may find itself unable to fund its fresh strategic
investments in Asia.  China may be right to balk at being a stakeholder in
someone else’s global order, or -- what can amount to the same
thing -- cleaning up other peoples’ messes. But Beijing is back
at the center of the East Asian world, and must now assume
responsibility for its continued harmony. Certainly, the angry
Chinese nationalists of today need not look further than their
country’s history for magnanimous precedents.  (Pankaj Mishra is the author of “From the Ruins of
Empire: The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,”
and a Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra,
India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Leon Panetta’s cyberwar
warnings  and on  possible conditions for a Spanish bailout ;
William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will save Wall Street’s
morals ; Albert R. Hunt on  whether negative campaign ads work ;
Simon Johnson on  the Fed’s new approach to big banks ; Sasha
Issenberg on  old campaign techniques buoyed by new science .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 