-- AstraZeneca Expands R&D in China to Boost Drug Discovery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/astrazeneca-expands-r-d-in-china-to-boost-drug-discovery.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , which has the
worst-performing stock this year among  Europe ’s biggest
drugmakers, will work with a research company in China to speed
discovery of new medicines.  The partnership with Beijing-based Pharmaron will add “a
few hundred” scientists to AstraZeneca’s 300-strong team in
China,  Martin Mackay , AstraZeneca’s president of global R&D,
said in an interview in  Shanghai . The move marks the London-
based company’s biggest expansion in research in the world’s
fastest-growing pharmaceuticals market.  AstraZeneca may seek similar tie ups to help bolster its
pipeline of experimental medicines after expiring patents on its
top-selling products caused its share price to fall. Chief
Executive Officer Pascal Soriot suspended share buybacks on Oct.
1, his first day on the job, prompting speculation the company
will embark on larger takeovers.  “This is about flexibility, as suspending the buyback
allows Pascal and the leadership team to be able to invest,”
Mackay said in an interview in Shanghai. “There are some really
good assets to go after.”  AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, fell 0.3
percent to close at 2,860.50 pence in  London  on Oct. 12. The
stock has declined 3.9 percent this year, the  worst performance 
among Europe’s five biggest  drug companies .  The maker of the Crestor cholesterol pill is in talks on
“a number” of deals, Mackay said. AstraZeneca in June agreed
to pay  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  $3.4 billion to co-develop the
diabetes drugs of Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., which Bristol is
acquiring for $5.3 billion.  More Deals?  “We like doing deals in diabetes, and we’d like to do more
in Alzheimer’s’ disease, inflammation,” said Mackay, who left
Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest drugmaker, in May 2010 to
oversee AstraZeneca’s research efforts. “We like to do in-line
and late stage deals -- things that are nearer the market so
that we can gain revenue.”  Mackay declined to give financial details of the
“multiyear” arrangement with Pharmaron, a closely held
provider of research and development services for the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. The companies will
look for treatments in the areas of cardiovascular, respiratory,
gastrointestinal and infectious diseases, as well as cancer,
neuroscience and inflammation, Mackay said.  AstraZeneca’s sales in  China  increased 20 percent to $1.26
billion last year, the fastest-growing market among those for
which the company gives country-specific information, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total revenue increased 1 percent
to $33.59 billion last year.  China Market  Drug spending in China will expand 15 percent to 18 percent
annually through to 2016 to reach as much as $165 billion, IMS
Health Inc. estimated in July.  AstraZeneca has a center in Shanghai focused on cancers
more common in  Asia . Gastric and liver cancers haven’t been a
major focus of Western drugmakers, creating a “huge unmet
need” for treatments for those diseases in Asia, said Steve
Yang, AstraZeneca’s Shanghai-based head of R&D for Asia and
 emerging markets , who followed Mackay from Pfizer.  AstraZeneca’s scientists worked with Chinese partners to
develop diagnostic tools to screen Asian patients for genetic
mutation that’s targeted by the lung cancer drug Iressa, Yang
said.  “In Asia the mutation is between 30-40 percent and in some
sub-populations, for example women of a certain age who are non-
smokers, this percentage is even higher,” Yang said. In
comparison, fewer than 10 percent of U.S. patients have the
mutation. Screening for the mutation “allows us to tailor the
treatment and gives us the best response rates,” he said.  AstraZeneca is looking for other biomarkers, particularly
in cancer, to personalize treatment, Yang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  