-- Aussie Dollar Remains Lower; Kiwi Touches a Month Low
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-15T05:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/aussie-dollar-holds-drop-after-stevens-says-rba-has-room-to-cut.html
Australia’s dollar remained lower
following a decline at the end of last week before the central
bank releases minutes tomorrow of its October meeting, at which
it cut  interest rates  for the first time in four months.  The so-called Aussie was near a three-month low after
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said there is
scope to further lower borrowing costs. New Zealand’s dollar,
known as the kiwi, touched the weakest in a month after a
private report showed the nation’s services industry contracted
for the first time in almost three years.  “In the near term, I’m mildly bearish” on the Australian
dollar, said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender.
“You do have an RBA governor that’s quite dovish.”  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0225 as of 4:57 p.m. in
Sydney after dropping 0.3 percent to $1.0233 on Oct. 12. It
touched $1.0149 on Oct. 8, the lowest since July 13. New
Zealand’s currency slid to 81.30 U.S. cents, a level unseen
since Sept. 11, before trading at 81.49, down 0.2 percent from
the end of last week.  The RBA on Oct. 2 lowered its benchmark lending rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent, having cut it
from 4.75 percent since embarking on a series of reductions last
November.  Australia ’s central bank has “ammunition,” Stevens said
at an Oct. 12 seminar at the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meeting in  Tokyo . “Unusually for an advanced country, we
actually have materially positive interest rates, so if needed,
we have scope to move there as long as inflation is OK, which at
present it seems to be.”  Australian Bonds  Australian bonds gained, with the benchmark 10-year  yield 
falling one basis point to 3.02 percent. It reached 2.91 percent
on Oct. 3, the least since July 27.  China’s imports from Australia dropped 18 percent in
September from a year earlier, the Beijing-based customs
administration said Oct. 13. Overall imports rose 2.4 percent.  “The underperformance of the Australian dollar can be
explained by further colour around RBA Governor Stevens’ Friday
comments and discouraging details in China’s trade data,”
 Michael Turner , a fixed-income and currency strategist in Sydney
at Royal Bank of  Canada , wrote in a research note today. The
“minutes are likely to be suitably dovish.”  Net Longs  Futures traders cut their bets that the Australian dollar
will strengthen against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- slid 38 percent from a
week earlier to 39,814 on Oct. 9, the biggest decline since June
5. It was at 89,562 on Sept. 25, the most since April 2011.  The Bank of  New Zealand  and Business New Zealand said today
that their Performance of Services Index fell to 49.6 in
September. It was the first time since October 2009 that the
gauge was below 50, the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  Demand for the Aussie and kiwi was supported amid
speculation China will introduce more steps to bolster economic
growth as the Communist Party prepares for a once-a-decade
leadership handover starting next month.  “Because of the change in China’s leadership, there are
expectations for stimulus measures,” said Takuya Kawabata, a
researcher at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a
unit of  Japan ’s largest currency margin company. “Stimulus
would be a positive for  China’s economy  as well as Australia, so
it’s a positive for the Aussie too.”  The  producer-price index  in  China  dropped 3.6 percent last
month from a year earlier, the steepest slide since October
2009, the country’s statistics bureau said today. Inflation
eased to 1.9 percent in September, compared with the monthly
average of 3.5 percent in the past year.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  