-- Australia’s Swan Says Global Economy Too Reliant on Asian Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-14T03:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/australia-s-swan-says-global-economy-too-reliant-on-asian-growth.html
The global economy is relying too
heavily on Asia to make up for stagnant growth in the U.S. and
 Europe , said Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan, who urged
international policy makers to do more to bolster expansion.  “It is time for the other players to get off the benches
and start to pull their weight on global economic growth
again,” Swan said in remarks to the International Monetary and
Financial Committee in Tokyo yesterday, according to a
transcript from his office. “Asia alone can’t carry the global
economy.”  Europe’s fiscal crisis, now in its third year, is
constraining growth in Asian exporting nations from  China  to
 South Korea  and Taiwan. The Washington-based  International
Monetary Fund  said Oct. 9 that failure to remedy the region’s
debt problems was contributing to an “alarmingly high” risk of
a steeper slowdown in the world economy, already on course to
expand this year by the least since the 2009 recession.  While policy makers need to contain risks, they must
dedicate themselves to lifting global growth, Swan said.  “Putting fiscal positions on a sustainable footing needs
to be done hand in hand with supporting growth -- this does not
need to be one or the other,” he said.  Swan also called on the U.S. to act to avoid “falling off
the fiscal cliff,” referring to a deadlock in Congress to avert
hundreds of billions of dollars in tax increases and spending
cuts. He said failure to do so would “no doubt” push the
world’s largest economy back into recession.  Budget Surplus  Swan reiterated  Australia ’s plan to return its budget to
surplus this fiscal year. Lower prices for  iron ore  and coking
coal have eroded the nation’s terms of trade -- a measure of
windfall gains from exports that reached a record high last year
-- making it more difficult for the government to achieve its
objective.  “The weaker global outlook and recent decline in commodity
prices will also hit our budget revenues significantly,” Swan
said in an e-mailed weekly note today. “These headwinds mean
we’ll have to find some substantial savings to return the budget
to surplus in 2012-13, but we remain committed to doing just
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  