-- Mayaram Sees India Rate-Cut Room From Rupee Gain, Fiscal Steps
-- B y   A i k a   N a n a o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-14T07:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/mayaram-sees-india-rate-cut-room-from-rupee-gain-fiscal-steps.html
India ’s rupee appreciation and steps
by the government to reduce the fiscal deficit will provide
scope for the central bank to lower  interest rates  before March,
Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said.  Price increases may moderate to within the Reserve Bank of
India’s comfort zone by March as the currency rises and the
government narrows the fiscal gap, Mayaram said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in  Tokyo  today. He said inflation may
ease to 5 percent to 5.5 percent by March. Wholesale prices
increased 7.55 percent in August from a year before.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has opened up to
more investment from abroad and raised subsidized diesel prices
in the past month, part of a burst of policy changes to bolster
growth and shrink a  budget deficit . Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram said two days ago that the nation needs lower
interest rates as an additional force for expansion.  “If the RBI is fully convinced that the steps that are
being taken are credible and will result in something like that,
then we hope that the RBI will be more benevolent with its
policy,” Mayaram said. “It is not necessary for them to wait
until March,” he said, adding they should signal before then
that they will cut rates.  The rupee has surged more than 5 percent against the dollar
in the past three months, the most among major Asian currencies,
paring its drop in the past year to 7.3 percent. Mayaram said he
expects it to strengthen to 50 to 51 per dollar in a couple of
months. It closed at about 52.82 last week.  Widest Gap  India’s  budget deficit  is the widest among major emerging
nations as the nation’s weakening in growth hurt tax receipts
and subsidies fan spending, imperiling the government’s goal of
narrowing the gap to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in
the fiscal year through March, from 5.8 percent the previous
year. The budget gap may be about 5.2 percent to 5.3 percent
this year, missing the 5.1 percent target, Mayaram said.  Singh’s government announced the first increase in diesel
prices in more than a year on Sept. 13, after Chidambaram
pledged to contain a fiscal shortfall that has put the nation’s
investment-grade credit rating in jeopardy.  The administration opened industries including retail and
aviation to more foreign investment the next day, and this month
decided to seek parliamentary approval for more overseas
participation in the insurance and pension businesses.  Economic growth is forecast to weaken to a decade-low of
4.9 percent in 2012 after investment stalled, the  International
Monetary Fund  said last week. The outlook for  Asia ’s third-
largest economy is unusually uncertain, it said.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the
benchmark  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8 percent for a third
meeting in September, after cutting it from 8.5 percent in
April. The central bank has signaled that curbing the fiscal
deficit may boost scope to lower rates.  “The RBI is fully cognizant of the need now to step up
growth,” Mayaram said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Aika Nanao in Tokyo at 
 ananao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  