-- Maybank Says M&A an Option to Access Thai Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A i k a   N a n a o   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-10-15T05:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/maybank-says-m-a-an-option-to-access-thai-growth-southeast-asia.html
Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s
largest lender, is considering options to expand in  Thailand 
including takeovers after raising 3.66 billion ringgit ($1.2
billion) this month to boost its presence in Southeast Asia.  “There are a number of options we are assessing at the
moment,” Chief Executive Officer Abdul Wahid Omar, 48, said
last week in an interview in Tokyo. “Our default position is to
look at opening a branch there by 2014, but if there are other
interesting opportunities we’ll be open to look at them.”  Malayan Banking, also known as Maybank, is competing with
Southeast Asian rivals that are reducing reliance on their home
markets through acquisitions in the region’s faster-growing
countries. The company, which already controls  PT Bank
Internasional Indonesia (BNII)  and owns smaller stakes of lenders in
Vietnam and Pakistan, bought Singapore brokerage Kim Eng
Holdings Ltd. last year.  Maybank earned 28 percent of pretax  income  from overseas
operations in the six months through June 30 and plans to
generate 40 percent of operating profit from abroad by 2015,
Wahid said last year, adding that he wants the bank to enter all
of Southeast Asia’s major markets by then.  “It’s hard to grow organically in Thailand,” Lim Sue Lin,
an analyst at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn., said by phone in
Kuala Lumpur. “It’s better for them to get ready infrastructure
and distribution channels via an acquisition. It helps if the
target has a good local franchise.”  Shares of Maybank have risen 4.1 percent this year,
underperforming a 7.8 percent gain in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa
 Malaysia  KLCI Index. The stock fell 0.1 percent to 8.93 ringgit
at the midday break in Kuala Lumpur.  “It is our intention to have a full presence across all
the 10 countries in Southeast Asia,” Abdul Wahid said in an
interview on Oct. 12. “Within that context, the idea of raising
additional capital is meant to enable us to grow a bit more
aggressive in markets like  Indonesia , the  Philippines  and later
possibly into Singapore.”  Expansion Funding  Abdul Wahid, who was attending the Institute of
International Finance’s annual meeting in Tokyo, reiterated that
proceeds from its Oct. 8 share sale are not meant for making a
bid for  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl  in Thailand.  General Electric Co. (GE)  said last month that it’s reviewing
options for its remaining stake in Bangkok-based Bank of Ayudhya
after selling an initial 7.6 percent. Singapore’s  Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  and Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) 
are considering bidding for the stake, people familiar with the
matter said Oct. 5.  “The lack of interests on GE’s stake is reasonable given
that Maybank would prefer to own a majority stake,” said Cheah
King Yoong, an analyst at  Alliance Financial Group Bhd. (AFG)  in Kuala
Lumpur. “A smaller cap Thai bank, which provides Maybank with a
majority stake and absolute control, could serve as a more
attractive acquisition alternative.”  Other banks on the takeover path in Southeast Asia include
 DBS Group Ltd. (DBS) , the region’s biggest lender. DBS said on April 2
that it offered to buy PT Bank Danamon Indonesia for about $7.2
billion.  CIMB Group, Malaysia’s second-largest lender, in May agreed
to buy a 60 percent stake in Bank of Commerce in the Philippines
after making acquisitions in Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore
over the last seven years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aika Nanao in Tokyo at 
 ananao@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  