-- Bair Says Money Funds Are Systemic Risk SEC Must Regulate
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-14T18:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/bair-says-money-funds-are-systemic-risk-sec-must-regulate.html
Sheila Bair, former chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said the $2.5 trillion money-
market mutual fund industry poses a potential risk to the
financial system and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
should take responsibility for regulating it.  “It’s not stable” and the industry is “a systemic
risk,” Bair told reporters today at a conference in New York
organized by the National Association for Business Economics.
“The SEC is responsible, and they haven’t moved forward.”  SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro in August gave up on a plan to
tighten regulation of the funds, an alternative to bank accounts
for individuals and companies, after three of five commissioners
told her they wouldn’t vote to issue it for public comment.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged “further reform”
of money-market funds in a letter last month to the Financial
Stability Oversight Council, a group of regulators that includes
the SEC and is headed by the Treasury.  The FSOC “should step in to act” if the SEC doesn’t, she
told reporters. Bair, 58, is now a senior adviser to the
Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts.  The regulatory overhaul process “shines as a very bad
example” of the industry’s confrontations with regulators, who
are “still are trying to deal with a very obvious problem”
that destabilized the financial system in 2008, Bair said in
response to an audience question after a speech.  “It needs to be fixed,” Bair told economists. “What
happens is a process, which is still ongoing, which makes
everyone look bad, and I think that feeds into public
cynicism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  