-- Bertelsmann Seen Reviving Buyout Plan for RTL
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-10-15T09:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/bertelsmann-seen-reviving-rtl-buyout-on-luxembourg-takeover-law.html
A Luxembourg law that took effect
this month has removed an obstacle to Bertelsmann SE’s years-
long ambition to win full ownership of Europe’s largest
broadcaster  RTL Group SA. (RTL)   The country’s revised takeover  rules  clarified the
procedures for determining the price at which owners of more
than 95 percent of a publicly traded Luxembourg company can
force remaining shareholders to sell their stock. Bertelsmann,
based in Guetersloh,  Germany , owns 92.3 percent of RTL.  A buyout of minority investors will give Bertelsmann
complete control over RTL’s 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in
annual  cash flow  to finance growth. Europe’s biggest media
company, with assets ranging from magazine publisher Gruner +
Jahr to outsourcing division Arvato, has said it needs to raise
debt and equity for acquisitions to reduce dependence on the
region and accelerate growth.  “The new takeover law introducing a clear rule for the
squeezing out of minority shareholders is a game-changer,” said
Margo Joris, an analyst at KBC Securities in Brussels. “The law
now offers Bertelsmann the possibility to take RTL private.”  Bertelsmann’s biggest unit by revenue, RTL generated about
60 percent of the group’s earnings before interest and taxes in
 2011  and had net income of 696 million euros.  RTL holds 0.76 percent of its own shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, leaving the remaining stock that trade on
the Luxembourg exchange at 6.94 percent. Based on their closing
price on Oct. 12, that stake is valued at 794 million euros.  Funds Needed  Judith Hartmann, the former chief financial officer of
General Electric’s German unit, joined Bertelsmann as CFO today.
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rabe had kept responsibility for
supervising Bertelsmann’s finances after being promoted from the
CFO position in January.  “We are keeping all options open regarding our stake in
RTL,” said  Christian Steinhof , a spokesman for Bertelsmann.  Bertelsmann needs funds for its plans to expand in  emerging
markets  and in businesses such as online education, enterprise
data, content rights and TV production, according to its growth
strategy presented on Sept. 13.  RTL had 701 million euros of  cash  and equivalents at the
end of June. Its parent’s ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was 0.9.  Stake Threshold  Bertelsmann has to buy 1.94 percent plus one share of RTL’s
shares to surpass the 95 percent threshold. The price for the
remaining 5 percent minus one share would be set at “fair
price” by an independent adviser on the basis of an evaluation
report, according to the  revised law .  KBC Securities’ Joris estimates that RTL shares trade at a
20 to 25 percent premium to fair value, reflecting RTL’s better
performance relative to peers and market speculation about a
buyback.  RTL fell 0.1 percent to 73.85 euros at 11:21 a.m. in
Brussels trading, bringing the decline this year to 4.1 percent.
The shares are thinly traded, with an average daily trading
volume of 4,288 in the past six months.  The revised law eliminating the legal concerns about a
buyout of RTL’s minority shareholders may give  Bertelsmann  more
options, said Freddy Thyes, a Luxembourg-based multimedia
consultant and former RTL executive. A full takeover would also
make it easier for Bertelsmann to sell parts of RTL and
facilitate the valuation of Bertelsmann in an eventual initial
public offering, he said, adding that the law is “in no way an
RTL law.”  Previous Attempts  Bertelsmann has made previous attempts to take full control
of RTL.  The media company scrapped a public offer plan in 2002
after Luxembourg shareholder group Investas said the 44 euros-a-
share offer was too low. Bertelsmann also considered taking 100
percent of RTL in 2007.  That was shelved after Bertelsmann
found there was “insufficient certainty” that Luxembourg’s
takeover law would apply to its offer.  While Bertelsmann said after the withdrawal of the takeover
plans in 2007 that taking RTL private remained a “strategic
objective,” it considered the option of selling some of its
shares in the broadcaster.  Bertelsmann CEO Rabe said in 2008, when he was finance
chief, that he could envision reducing the holdings in RTL to 75
percent.  Mohn Family  Putting RTL shares on sale and not squeezing out minority
shareholders would have risks as analysts are betting on a
buyout, according to Joris. “If Bertelsmann decides to sell,
RTL’s shares would fall, reducing the potential cash gains from
throwing the stock on the market.”  In addition to its stake in RTL, Bertelsmann has full
ownership of the publisher Random House Inc., Arvato and 74.9
percent of Gruner + Jahr,  Europe ’s biggest magazine publisher.  The  Mohn  family, descendants of Carl Bertelsmann who
founded the company in 1835, is still in full control of the
conglomerate and has resisted taking it public in the past.  Bertelsmann issued 10-year bonds worth 750 million euros on
July 26. The company had about 3.6 billion euros in debt at June
30.  “Bertelsmann set its strategy and now the question is
really, what is going to be the big move and how are they going
to finance it,” said Christian Aust, an analyst with UniCredit
in Munich. “Markets are impatient and RTL offers a possibility
to at least partly satisfy Bertelsmann’s cash needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  