-- Billionaire Son Bets on Sprint as Softbank Shares Plunge: Tech
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-10-15T08:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/billionaire-son-bets-on-sprint-as-softbank-shares-plunge-tech.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s Masayoshi Son has a
history of picking winners. Investors say his latest choice may
not be a repeat performance.  Son’s $20 million  investment  in Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.
may be worth about $10 billion, and his $1.2 million purchase of
a stake in  Yahoo (YHOO)  Japan Corp. may be worth more than $8 billion.  Those past successes didn’t convince investors that Son’s
strategy of entering the U.S. mobile-phone market by buying
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  makes sense. Softbank shares  plunged  the
most on record, wiping $1.3 billion from Son’s net worth, after
it was first reported to be in acquisition talks on Oct. 11.
Shareholders are concerned the $34 billion company may be
saddled with debt or dilute earnings by issuing new shares to
fund multiple acquisitions announced in the past month.  “Son’s a gambler,” said Hideto Fujino, chief investment
officer at Rheos Capital Works Inc., which manages about 25
billion yen including Softbank shares. “Softbank’s balance
sheet will be damaged, and its earnings may be hit. It isn’t
clear that Son can improve on an unprofitable Sprint.”  Softbank,  Japan ’s  third-largest  wireless carrier, will pay
$20.1 billion for a stake of about 70 percent in Sprint Nextel,
Son’s company said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
today. Softbank will pay $12.1 billion to Sprint shareholders in
the deal, which includes $8 billion of new capital and is
expected to close in the middle of next year.  Acquisition Strategy  Softbank shares fell 5.3 percent to 2,268 yen today in
Tokyo trading.  Son is pursuing an acquisition strategy that counts on
smartphone users migrating to the faster wireless networks owned
by Sprint and Japanese competitor eAccess Ltd. to surf the Web
and download videos and music. Softbank is looking to ride the
fastest growth in mobile communications since 3G started rolling
out a decade ago.  “By buying a telecom company in the U.S., Softbank would
not only have to bear the acquisition cost but also face rapid
changes in the global economy,”  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
the equivalent of about $600 million in assets at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the
announcement. “Softbank’s stock is down on concerns about the
financial burden.”  LTE Subscriptions  Son, 55, also seeks to benefit from long-term evolution
technology’s price premium over current tariffs and a belief
that more devices will be connected wirelessly beyond
traditional smartphones. Operators can charge about 20 percent
more for LTE than current third-generation technology,  according
to   ABI Research .  LTE subscriptions quadrupled this year to 73 million and
are expected to reach 1.2 billion by 2016, according to
 projections  from IHS iSuppli. Having some of the world’s largest
handset makers --  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and HTC
Corp. -- support the technology helps ensure consumer interest.  Yet some investors said Softbank’s pursuit of Sprint may be
flawed, and the company may be overextending itself. Shares fell
a  record 17 percent  to 2,395 yen on Oct. 12, and Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services placed its BBB long-term corporate
credit and senior unsecured debt  ratings  on Softbank on
creditwatch with negative implications.  ‘Market is Different’  “The transaction, if it proceeds, may undermine Softbank’s
financial risk profile, in our view,” S&P said in the
statement.  Softbank had an Ebitda margin, or the percentage of profit
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to sales, of
31.65 percent in the fiscal year ended in March, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. That exceeds  AT&T (T) ’s 24.60 percent,
Verizon’s 27.31 percent and Sprint’s 15.06 percent.  After the decline on Oct. 12, Softbank is valued at 2.65
trillion yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
down 86 percent from its peak of 19.83 trillion yen on Feb. 18,
2000.  “I don’t know why he wants to take such a risk,” Nobumichi Hattori, the former Japan head of mergers and acquisitions at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said before the deal was announced.
“He probably thinks it’s a matter of course. But the market is
different between the U.S. and Japan.”  Yahoo, Alibaba  Son founded the company in 1981 as a software wholesaler --
a “bank” of software -- before focusing his attention on the
rising popularity of the Internet.  He invested $2 million in Yahoo! Inc. in 1995, and the two
companies set up a Japan venture in 1996. Softbank invested 120
million yen for a 60 percent stake, and the company now owns 42
percent of Yahoo Japan, which has a market value of $20.5
billion.  In 2000, Softbank invested $20 million in Alibaba.com, an
e-commerce website. Son called the Hong Kong-based company “one
of the most compelling Internet success stories to emerge from
 China .”  He later said Softbank booked “tens of billions of yen”
in gains from the initial share sale of Alibaba.com Ltd. in
2007.  Softbank now owns about 30 percent of Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce provider and whose chief
executive officer, Jack Ma, sits on Softbank’s board. Alibaba
agreed in May to repurchase about a 20 percent stake in itself
from Yahoo for about $7.1 billion ahead of a potential initial
public offering.  `Always Thirsty'  That deal valued Alibaba at about $35 billion.  “Son is always thirsty,” said Shinichi Sano, whose
biography of the billionaire was published last year. “He
doesn’t feel like living without gambling.”  His biggest deal came in 2006, when he bought Vodafone
Group Plc’s mobile-phone business in Japan for 2 trillion yen.
The company raised 1.45 trillion yen through the sale of asset-
backed debt in September 2006 to fund its purchase, and Son used
107 million of his own shares as collateral, or about 10 percent
of the company’s outstanding stock at the time, according to a
 financial filing .  Softbank lost almost a third of its market value in the
three months after announcing its plan. Analysts questioned
Son’s strategy, citing an increase in debt and the possibility
that he overpaid for Vodafone.  Some of those same questions were raised after the
announcement of the Sprint talks.  “The deal would thus represent a watershed for Softbank’s
balance sheet and mobile telecom strategy, and we think the
uncertainty here could weigh heavily on the share price,” said
Hitoshi Hayakawa, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  