-- Buybacks Tumbling as European CEO Confidence Evaporates
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-10-15T16:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/buybacks-tumbling-as-european-ceo-confidence-evaporates.html
Confidence among European chief
executive officers is declining to the lowest level since the
financial crisis, based on share repurchases falling to a three-
year low and the disappearance of mergers and acquisitions.  Buybacks minus equity sales will fall by 67 percent to less
than 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in 2012 even as cash held by
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  companies climbed to a record last
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg and UBS AG show. That would
mark the smallest total since 2009, when equity offerings
exceeded repurchases. Takeovers slumped to a two-year low of $92
billion last quarter, the data show.  Bears say the refusal to do more to reward investors with
higher share prices means the rally that has added about $1
trillion to European equity values in 2012 will diminish as the
recession worsens. Bulls say the best time to buy is when CEOs
are most pessimistic and that the record 572 billion euros on
corporate balance sheets combined with the lowest borrowing
costs on record will spur buyouts when the economy improves.  “The concern is, what if we go back and we have another
2008?”  Russ Koesterich , chief investment strategist for
BlackRock Inc.’s iShares unit, said in  London  on Oct. 10. The
firm oversees $715 billion in exchange-traded funds. “Having an
excessive liquidity buffer has become the corporate equivalent
of having a safety blanket.”  Ready Cash  The Stoxx 600  fell  1.7 percent to 269.43 last week as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut global growth forecasts. Gross
domestic product in the 17-country euro area economy will shrink
0.4 percent this year, 0.1 percentage point more than predicted
in July, the IMF said on Oct. 9. The recession comes three years
after the global credit crisis spurred a five-quarter European
contraction that erased 5.4 trillion euros of equity value.  Equities have rallied in 2012 even as the economy
sputtered. The Stoxx 600 has gained  10 percent in 2012 , leaving
it 33 percent below its seven-year high in June 2007, after the
 European Central Bank  pledged to buy an unlimited amount of
bonds to stop credit markets from freezing and save the euro.
The gauge rose 0.5 percent to 270.8 at the close of trading
today. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  has also advanced 10
percent and is 23 percent below its record.  Compensation Scope  Executives have never had more scope to compensate
shareholders. Cash at non-financial companies in the Stoxx 600
more than doubled since 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the same time, CEOs can borrow at  interest rates 
almost a full percentage point less than they pay in dividends,
making it more attractive for firms to take on debt to cancel
shares and cut the total payout to stockholders.  The yield on the Barclays Pan-European Aggregate Corporate
index of company debt fell to 2.75 percent last week, compared
with 4.7 percent at the start of the year.  Companies in the
Stoxx 600  pay out about 4 percent of their share price in
dividends.  European companies could raise as much as 560 billion euros
in debt to acquire stock without jeopardizing investment-grade
credit ratings, an Oct. 4 study by Citigroup Inc. showed.  That hasn’t prevented companies from  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  to
Royal KPN NV and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  from stopping share repurchases.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Sept. 27 note that companies
such as  Metro AG (MEO)  in Dusseldorf would benefit from buybacks
because its equity is yielding more than four times as much as
its bonds.  ‘Hesitant’ Boardrooms  “Confidence never reached European executives,” said
Valentijn van Nieuwenhuijzen, who helps oversee $369 billion as
head of tactical  asset allocation  at ING Investment Management
in the Hague. “Unless corporate boardrooms perceive that there
is a genuine probability of strong end-demand, they will remain
hesitant.”  Announced takeovers by western European companies fell to
$95 billion in the three months through September, 11 percent
less than the same period last year, according to Bloomberg
data. The volume peaked at $609 billion in the second quarter of
2007, the data show.  Economic data in  Europe  has worsened. A report on Oct. 8
showed German industrial production declined 0.5 percent in
August after expanding 1.2 percent the month before, while
business confidence in the country unexpectedly fell to the
lowest in more than 2 1/2 years last month, the Ifo Institute in
Munich said Sept. 24.  Record Unemployment  Unemployment in the euro area has held at a record 11.4
percent for three months. In the U.S., it has declined to 7.8
percent from 10 percent in October 2009, according to Labor
Department data. Sales per share in the Stoxx 600 will be 308.15
euros this year, a 3 percent increase from 2011, more than
12,000  estimates compiled by Bloomberg  show. Revenue may grow 4
percent in 2013, the data show.  Buybacks by American companies have also declined, though
at half Europe’s rate. U.S. repurchases slipped 38 percent to
$245.4 billion. Mergers with a U.S. firm as the bidder totaled
$212.6 billion in the third quarter, down 23 percent from a year
earlier.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies  issued $61.1
billion of shares so far in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  AstraZeneca canceled buybacks on Oct. 1 so the company’s
new leaders would have time to prepare a strategy,  Sarah Lindgreen , a spokeswoman, said in a phone interview on Oct. 11.
AstraZeneca kept its profit guidance for 2012 unchanged on Oct.
1. The action is “a prudent step that maintains flexibility,”
CEO Pascal Soriot said in a statement on Oct. 1, his first day
on the job.  Prudent Policy  AstraZeneca had repurchased $2.3 billion of stock this
year, compared with an initial target of $4.5 billion, according
to the Oct. 1 statement. KPN, the largest Dutch phone company,
said on Jan. 24 that it won’t buy back equity in 2012 after last
year’s 1-billion euro program because it needs to balance
investments with a “prudent financing policy in a period of
macroeconomic uncertainty.”  Telefonica in  Madrid , Europe’s second-largest phone
company, canceled its 2012 share buyback plans in July in
response to  Spain ’s three-year debt crisis. The company also
scrapped its dividend and cut compensation for top executives.  The weighted average cost of debt for Metro is 1.5 percent,
compared with a dividend yield of 6.7 percent, Bloomberg data
show. Olaf Koch, the CEO of  Germany ’s biggest retailer, has done
no buybacks and a spokesman who asked to remain unidentified,
citing company policy, said none are planned.  CEO Spending  “People are to some extent sitting on their hands,”
Gervais Williams at Mam Funds Plc in London, whose Diverse
Income Trust Plc has gained 29 percent in 2012, said in an
interview on Oct. 11. “The underlying cash-generative ability
of corporates is probably going to come under pressure. So I can
quite see why a chef executive might be wanting to play it safe
at the moment.” His company oversees $2.8 billion.  Still, spending by CEOs is likely to pick up and investors
should be buying now, said Scott Minerd, who helps oversee $160
billion as managing partner at Guggenheim Partners LLC in  Santa
Monica ,  California . Valuations for Stoxx 600 companies reached
14.3 times forecast earnings in 2007 as executives spent almost
70 billion euros on buybacks and takeovers, Bloomberg and UBS
data show. That’s 19 percent higher than the current ratio.  UBS estimates that equity repurchases net of new issuance
will rise to more than 22 billion euros in 2013.  Market ‘Fuel’  “Once we get past some of the uncertainties that we are
living with today, it will become compelling to start
considering spending money,” Minerd said in an interview on
Oct. 11. “Whether you hand the money back to shareholders or
acquire another company, it provides a lot of fuel to keep the
market going higher.”  CEOs in Europe are finding it easier to raise money and
should consider spending it on their shares, according to the
Goldman Sachs note. European non-financial companies issued $49
billion of bonds denominated in euros and pounds in September,
the highest amount since May 2009 and more than double this
year’s monthly average, Bloomberg data show.  In Europe, “a key ingredient for the next stage of the
recovery is the return of private-sector confidence,” Michael Quach, who helps oversee $19 billion at Smith & Williamson
Investment Management Ltd. in London, said in an interview on
Oct. 12. “We need to see some animal spirits from executives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  