-- Cameron in Scotland to Strike Independence Vote Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-15T15:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/cameron-bets-on-u-k-unity-in-deal-on-scottish-vote.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  signed
an accord with Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  on the terms
of an independence referendum by the end of 2014, setting the
stage for two years of debate on splitting up the U.K.  After a meeting of about an hour today in the Scottish
capital, Edinburgh, Cameron and Salmond put their signatures on
the document and shook hands. The six-page accord consists of 30
points of detail about the rules and timing of the vote.  Polls have shown that more Scots oppose independence than
support a breakaway. The  most recent YouGov Plc survey , carried
out in July, showed 54 percent of respondents against compared
with 30 percent in favor, with 16 percent undecided.  At a news conference after the signing, Salmond
acknowledged the battle ahead and pointed to his  Scottish
National Party ’s growing success in recent elections. He said
he’s sure he can win. “Just as I have believed in independence
all my life, I believe that with all my soul,” he told
reporters.  Salmond insisted independence would be in  Scotland ’s
interest and rejected any similarity between his own proposed
post-independence currency union with  England , using the pound,
and that of the countries in the European single currency.  “The problem with the comparison is the different
productivity in the areas of the  euro zone ,” he said. “That’s
a totally different situation from the parts of the U.K. I would
think that is a pretty false analogy between one that’s an
optimal currency area and one that’s not optimal.”  ‘Home Rule’  The first minister opened by talking about “home rule,”
rather than independence, describing the vote as “a step on the
journey.”  Michael Moore , the Liberal Democrat U.K. Cabinet minister
responsible for Scottish affairs, who supports the union,
replied that he doesn’t want to see another plebiscite in a few
years if Salmond loses this one.  “I’m confident that this referendum now will give us the
decisive outcome will resolve the issue that’s lurked around
Scottish politics for decades,” he told reporters. “Game on.”  According to YouGov President Peter Kellner, referendums
tend to favor the status quo. “Normally it requires a consensus
for change for a referendum to produce a ‘Yes’ majority,” he
said in an e-mailed comment. “No such consensus currently
exists in Scotland and none seems likely.”  Single Question  Cameron’s U.K. coalition government succeeded in narrowing
the referendum to a single yes-or-no question rather than two
options, while acceding to the demands of the SNP for 16- and
17-year-olds to take part and to delay the vote until 2014. The
Scottish Parliament will determine the wording of the question.  The planned date coincides with the 700th anniversary of
the Scottish victory over the English at the Battle of
Bannockburn. Some Scottish politicians had pressed for a
separate question on whether Scotland’s self-governing powers
should be expanded within the union, as well as the yes-or-no
vote on independence.  “What we have is what I’ve always wanted: one single,
simple question,” Cameron said. “That for me was always the
key.”  He said that further devolution of powers to Scotland’s
Parliament would be possible if Scottish voters decide against
leaving the U.K.  Patience Tried  Former Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling, a
Scottish member of the opposition  Labour Party  who is leading
the campaign against independence, told the  BBC ’s “Sunday
Politics” show yesterday that an earlier vote would have been
better.  “I would have preferred to have had this referendum in the
autumn of 2013 because, frankly, a two-year election campaign,
longer than they take to elect the president of the  United
States , is going to try the patience of the public,” he said.
Still, “I’m pleased that we’ve got this agreement, particularly
on there being one question.”  The agreement paves the way for an extended debate on the
economic benefits of Scotland’s membership of the U.K. That may
herald bickering over the ownership of revenues from the oil off
Scottish shores, how Britain’s public debt might be divided if
independence is chosen, what currency the Scots would use,
whether they could remain in the European Union and who might
foot the bill if their banks need another bailout.  Immediate Talks  If Salmond wins, he said, he’d expect independence
negotiations to begin immediately, with a view to elections for
an independent Scottish Parliament in 2016.  The Sunday Times newspaper published a YouGov poll
yesterday showing 29 percent of U.K. voters said England and
 Wales  would be worse off without Scotland, 26 percent reckoned
they would be better off, and 31 percent predicted no
difference. The questioning of 1,902 people Oct. 11 and Oct. 12
also gave Labour 43 percent of the national vote, 10 points
ahead of the Conservatives. The  Liberal Democrats , Cameron’s
coalition partners, had 10 percent.  In a VisionCritical poll of 2,009 people questioned on the
same dates for the Sunday Express, Labour got the same result,
with a 12-point lead over the Conservatives. The Liberal
Democrats had 8 percent. That poll showed only 4 percent of
voters see Scottish independence as the most pressing issue
facing the U.K., rising to 13 percent in Scotland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Edinburgh at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  