-- Campaigns Build a New Humanism, via Direct Mail
-- B y   S a s h a   I s s e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-14T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/campaigns-build-a-new-humanism-via-direct-mail.html
Last spring, the Republican National
Committee  unveiled  its “social victory center,” a  website  that
party leaders said could serve as an online substitute for the
“victory center” field offices it typically seeds nationwide to
enlist and deploy volunteers.  As one Republican official explained at the time, the new
online platform would let stay-at-home supporters be active in a
presidential campaign “without actually having to walk into a
victory center.”  The party has not, however, abandoned the brick-and-mortar
model. Over the summer, Republicans christened dozens more of
those field-office victory centers, running them in coordination
with state parties across the country and  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign, despite having
introduced its own “dashboard” Web interface and a new mobile
canvassing application, has stuck to its Starbucks model of
ubiquitous street-front locations -- 120 are now open in  Ohio 
alone. There Democratic volunteers can sit at phones programmed
to dial selected voters automatically, or be dispatched to
nearby neighborhoods with curated lists of addresses and
specific instructions for how to interact with residents.  After years of fascination with the rise of a digitally
networked politics of mobile apps and social-media platforms,
one could be forgiven for assuming that any remaining campaign
field office would be as relevant as the record store, artifacts
of a vestigial business model gamely indulged by
sentimentalists.  Personalizing Politics  Yet for both parties, brick-and-mortar offices are more
alive than ever.  “It’s about that person-to-person contact,” says Phil
Valenziano, the  director  of Romney’s campaign in New Hampshire,
where Republicans had six field offices four years ago but today
have nine. “Everything we’ve done is geared toward finding
volunteers, getting them into our offices, getting them a walk
sheet, and getting them out knocking on doors.”  In the past decade, there has been a reawakening of
American electioneering practices that had been dismissed as
hopelessly obsolete from the moment television emerged as the
dominant medium for political communication. The  obsession  with
new digital-delivery devices perpetually obscures that the most
important innovations in campaigning have taken place offline.  The high-tech revolution that has transformed elections has
been most felt in a resurgence of lo-fi tactics such as
volunteer canvassing and direct mail. Instead of cruelly
mechanizing our elections at the expense of people, this new
science of campaigns has actually served to introduce a new
humanism to American elections.  A new political communication -- highly personal,
delicately targeted, shaped by a nuanced understanding of the
human brain and behavior -- is the marker of an  epochal change 
in how Americans seek office in the 21st century. This can be
credited partly by advances in computing power and expanded data
collection, but also to the influence of the 2000 elections. It
was after that near-tie that analysts for campaigns realized how
hardened voters’ loyalties had become, and how closely matched
the two parties were. Partisan polarization placed a new premium
on understanding how to mobilize sympathizers, not merely
convert swing voters.  The close margin in  Florida  led an insular profession --
“the only industry in the world where there’s no market
research,” according to Dave Carney,  Rick Perry ’s top political
adviser -- to look outside its ranks for insights. The best
tools came from commercial marketing and from the academic
social sciences.  New Certainty  When applied to politics, they gave campaigns  new certainty 
about which voters to engage, and how. Fresh troves of data,
including information collected by consumer-research firms from
warranties, subscriptions and public records, have allowed
campaigns to know enough about individual voters to confidently
address their personal concerns instead of treating them as part
of a bigger geographic or demographic unit.  With as many as thousands of variables on an individual
voter’s database record, analysts are able to run algorithms
that determine the relative weight of each one in predicting
election-season attitudes and habits. These can include party
registration or age or having a hunting license or whether you
took a cruise in the last six months. In so doing, politics is
effectively borrowing the logic of credit scoring and applying
it to political behavior instead of  financial habits .  When assembling a call list for a phone-bank volunteer or a
walk sheet to hand to a canvasser, Democratic field organizers
are usually working from a series of so-called scores: a zero-
to-100 probability that a voter will identify with one party or
the other, support a particular candidate, turn out to vote, be
pro-choice or own a gun. Republicans typically group like-minded
voters together into segments that are tiered in order of
behavioral probabilities.  The futuristic automation is merely making old-fashioned
campaigning more effective. So-called microtargeting scores have
been most useful in helping candidates decide which doorbells to
push. In many respects, the biggest advances in online
advertising will serve only to make political communication as
precise on the Internet as it is at the mailbox.  It is through the Postal Service that campaigns have
developed their keenest ideas of how exactly to change a voter’s
attitudes or behavior. To isolate cause and effect in the fog of
campaigns, political researchers embraced the randomized-control
trial, the same field experiments that throughout the 20th
century transformed research in everything from medicine to
credit-card marketing and developing-world economics.  Using voters as their unwitting guinea pigs, these
“prescription-drug trials for democracy,” in the words of Rock
the Vote President  Heather Smith , have upended much of what the
political world thought it knew about how voters’ minds work,
and dramatically changed the way that campaigns approach, cajole
and manipulate them.  Making Commitments  The paper flotsam in Obama’s field offices directly attests
to this newly nuanced understanding of the political brain.
Campaign offices are awash in “pledge” cards, on which citizens
sign a promise to either register or vote, a device inspired by
experimental findings showing that reminding people of their
previous commitments can trigger positive behavior.  Obama’s canvassing scripts include the instructions
“[ENGAGE IN CONVERSATION]” -- because other tests have found
that what political operatives now call “chatty” interactions
are more likely to mobilize people to vote. The weekend before
the election, those canvassers will ask voters what time they
plan to cast a ballot and what they will be doing immediately
beforehand, but the questioners won’t write down the answers:
Experiments have found that merely getting someone to rehearse a
future activity in her mind will make him or her more likely
follow through on it.  The most successful experiments have been ones that toy
with voters’ expectations about what is public and private.  Todd
Rogers , a behavioral psychologist at Harvard University,
developed both the turnout-message and plan-making tests, and
then went on to serve as the founding executive director of the
Analyst Institute, a think-tank-cum-secret-society that runs
randomized-control trials for many of the left’s top
institutions, including the Obama campaign.  He has attributed the impact of such socially minded
interventions on changing political behavior to “the basic need
for belonging.” Campaigns are the ones satisfying it.  (Sasha Issenberg, a columnist for Slate and Washington
correspondent for Monocle, is the author of “The Victory Lab:
The Secret Science of Winning Campaigns.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Leon Panetta’s cyberwar
warnings  and on  possible conditions for a Spanish bailout ;
William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will save Wall Street’s
morals ; Albert R. Hunt on  whether negative campaign ads work ;
Simon Johnson on  the Fed’s new approach to big banks ; Pankaj
Mishra on  China’s history as the happy hegemon .  To contact the writer of this article:
Sasha Issenberg at  sashaissenberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 