-- China’s Sovereign Fund Favors Big Hedge Fund Managers, Fan Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-15T04:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/china-investment-corp-favors-big-hedge-fund-managers-fan-says.html
China  Investment Corp., the nation’s
 sovereign wealth fund , favors larger hedge funds when selecting
external managers for investing its capital, said Hua Fan, head
of fixed-income investment at CIC.  CIC, which helps China manage the world’s largest foreign-
currency reserves, will avoid “over-diversification” by
investing in too many funds, Fan said at an annual conference of
the Chinese Finance Association in New York yesterday.  The $482 billion fund posted a 4.3 percent loss on its
overseas investments last year, its worst performance since the
Beijing-based company was set up in 2007, as declines in global
commodity prices roiled the value of its resources-heavy
portfolio.  Alternative investments , which include hedge funds
and private equity, surged almost 40 percent in 2011, according
to the company’s annual report released in July.  “We tend to invest in large market funds because of our
own size; small funds probably cost us the same amount of
work,” Fan said. “With CIC’s unique position, we do have great
access to  hedge funds  and can negotiate for lower fees.”  Investors are facing challenges from volatile markets and
lower returns on investments such as fixed income, prompting
them to diversify in to hedge funds, Fan said.  “We do face growing challenges,” Fan said. “People all
think equities are too volatile. Bonds don’t give you 5 percent
return. So what we do? Lots of funds put money into hedge
funds.”  While CIC’s equity investments suffered losses as global
markets plunged, its bond and credit product holdings generated
“relatively good returns” last year, CIC said in the annual
report, without providing details. Most of its investment
portfolios achieved positive returns and outperformed relevant
benchmarks, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  