-- Chrysler Opens Dealer Orders for Natural Gas Ram Pickup
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-14T22:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/chrysler-opens-dealer-orders-for-natural-gas-ram-pickup.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , is making its natural gas-powered Ram
pickup available for sale to retail buyers, according to the
head of the company’s dealership network.  Chrysler began allowing all dealers to order the Ram 2500
Heavy Duty CNG pickup in September,  Peter Grady , vice president
of network development and fleet, said in an interview.
Chrysler, which initially made the truck available only to fleet
buyers, joins  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  as the only automakers selling
compressed natural gas vehicles to U.S. retail consumers.  “The dealers have been asking for it, they’ve been
clamoring, particularly in the natural gas states and in some of
these places where you’re starting to get infrastructure,”
Grady said in an interview at his office in Auburn Hills,
 Michigan , where Chrysler is based. States where the fuel and
infrastructure are most available include California,  Oklahoma ,
 Louisiana , Texas,  Ohio  and Pennsylvania, he said.  Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Chrysler and
Turin, Italy-based Fiat, has argued that natural gas engines are
cheaper and more viable than plug-in hybrid and electric cars.
The battery-electric Fiat 500, scheduled to start production
later this year, will generate losses of about $14,000 per unit
sold, Marchionne said last week in  London .  “The electric technology just isn’t advanced, it’s not
there, and there’s so much innovation that’s required to make it
viable,” Grady said. “We’ve got to be there in some fashion,
whether it’s hybrids or whatever, but right now, compressed
natural gas is here.”  Fiat’s Standing  Fiat is the market leader for compressed natural gas
vehicles in  Europe , with about 90 percent market share in  Italy .
Sales of vehicles fueled by natural gas and propane surged 90
percent to 114,226 vehicles through August, accounting for 11.6
percent of the market. That’s up from a 4.9 percent share a year
earlier.  Under U.S. fuel-economy standards released Aug. 28, natural
gas-powered vehicles were made eligible for credits aimed at
reducing emissions. Chrysler  testified  to the Senate’s Energy
and Natural Resources Committee in July and advocated for parity
between natural gas-powered cars and trucks and other
alternative-fuel vehicles.  Chrysler’s Ram 2500 Heavy Duty CNG pickup features both
compressed gas storage tanks and a conventional gasoline fuel
tank, the company said in a March 6 statement. The truck, which
starts at $47,500 including a $995 destination charge, is
designed to go 255 miles (410 kilometers) on compressed natural
gas before switching to the 8-gallon (30-liter) reserve tank,
extending the range to 367 miles.  Industry Buyers  “Our strategy on our investment in this product was really
predicated on the natural gas industry,” Grady said. “We came
up with the truck because that’s the one that they said they
would like to do. They’ve embraced the truck.”  Chrysler now is seeing interest beyond buyers in the
natural gas industry, he said. Additional potential fleet and
commercial buyers include waste and transit companies as well as
airport shuttles.  The automaker also is getting demand from states looking to
add the pickup to their fleets. Chrysler said in an Oct. 5
statement that 13 of its Ram truck dealers reached contracts
with 19 states to supply their fleets with the truck.  Honda is the only automaker selling cars with compressed
natural gas engines to retail customers in the U.S., with its
$26,305 Civic Natural Gas sedan. The Tokyo-based automaker last
week said it would offer $3,000 debit cards for customers to use
toward purchasing the fuel in a promotion with  Clean Energy
Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , the largest owner of U.S. natural gas stations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Auburn Hills, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  