-- Citic Seeking Up to 10 Billion Yuan for Merger Fund, Cheng Says
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-15T03:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/citic-seeking-to-raise-5-to-10-billion-yuan-for-fund-cheng-says.html
Citic Securities Co. (600030) ,  China ’s
largest brokerage by market value, is seeking to raise 5 billion
 yuan  ($800 million) to 10 billion yuan for its first private
equity fund, President Boming Cheng said.  Beijing-based Citic intends to start the fund, which
China’s securities regulator has already approved, by mid-
November, Cheng said at an annual conference of the Chinese
Finance Association in New York yesterday. The funds, being
raised from Chinese institutions including government agencies,
will be used to help buy stakes in companies involved in merger
and acquisition transactions, he said.  “Eighty percent of the fund will be used soon after its
inception next month as we have many projects in the pipeline,”
Cheng said in an interview on the sidelines of the conference.
His firm, founded in 1995, is controlled by the state-owned
 Citic (6030)  Group.  Goldstone Investment Co., Citic’s direct investment arm,
had been seeking about $800 million for the fund, two people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Private-equity
fundraising in the Asia-Pacific region fell to a three-year low
of $22.3 billion in the first half of 2012 as managers struggled
to lure commitments amid global economic turmoil, the Asian
Venture Capital Journal said in August.  Citic’s planned $1.25 billion acquisition of CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, the Hong Kong-based securities unit of  France ’s
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , will help the Chinese firm improve return on
equity by making use of foreign funds raised through its Hong
Kong share sale a year ago, Cheng said.  ‘Right Timing’  After the merger, CLSA can contribute with its stronger
marketing and research capabilities and Citic will help bring
investment banking business to CLSA, Cheng said. He added Citic
won’t make big changes to  CLSA ’s management and will allow the
team to remain independent.  “We won’t exclude any possibilities both home and abroad
of more similar purchases,” Cheng said in the interview.
“We’ll choose the right timing in accordance with our managing
and financial abilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  