-- Jeter Won’t Travel With Yankees to Detroit After Breaking Ankle
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-15T05:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/derek-jeter-won-t-travel-with-yankees-to-detroit-after-fracture.html
New York Yankees shortstop  Derek Jeter  won’t travel with the team to Detroit for the American
League Championship Series as he’s scheduled to meet with a
specialist about his fractured left ankle.  Jeter, the Yankees’ 38-year-old captain, was hurt two days
ago while chasing down a ground ball during the 12th inning of
New York’s Game 1 loss to the Tigers. He underwent tests
yesterday that confirmed a fracture and will miss the rest of
the postseason, the Yankees said.  Jeter wasn’t at Yankee Stadium for yesterday’s 3-0 loss to
the Tigers, the franchise’s first postseason game without its
All-Star shortstop in the lineup since Oct. 8, 1995. Jeter has
helped the Yankees win five  World Series  titles since 1996.  “It’s not a player you want to lose,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said yesterday. “He means a lot to this club.”  Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  said he spoke with
Jeter by phone before yesterday’s game and described him as
“devastated and down.”  Jeter, who was replaced on the roster by  Eduardo Nunez ,
will meet with foot and ankle specialist  Robert Anderson  in
 Charlotte , North Carolina, in the next few days. Jeter’s ankle
is in a splint and he’s on crutches, the Yankees said.  Jayson Nix started at shortstop yesterday and went 0-for-3
with a strikeout as the Yankees finished with only four hits.
Jeter was hitting .333 this postseason.  Trials, Tribulations  “We’ve dealt with a lot of trials and tribulations and the
latest one now is Derek,” Rodriguez told reporters in the
Yankees’ locker room yesterday. “We have to step up.”  The Yankees are in Detroit tomorrow for Game 3 of the best-
of-seven Major League Baseball playoff series.  Games 4 and 5 scheduled for the following two days at the
Tigers’ Comerica Park.  The Tigers are the 23rd team in league championship series
history to take a 2-0 series lead since MLB went to a best-of-
seven format in 1985. All but three of the previous 22 advanced
to the World Series.  “We’re not in a good position,” said Yankees first
baseman  Mark Teixeira . “But we have an opportunity to do
something special and win a few games out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  