-- Djokovic Beats Murray in Shanghai Masters; Azarenka, Watson Win
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-10-14T16:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/djokovic-defeats-murray-to-win-shanghai-masters-tennis-title.html
Novak Djokovic saved five match
points before recovering to beat  Andy Murray  in the Shanghai
Masters tennis final yesterday for his second straight
tournament win. Victoria Azarenka also has back-to-back titles.  Serbia’s Djokovic, ranked No. 2 on the ATP World Tour, and
Azarenka of Belarus, the leading women’s player, both won at the
China Open the previous week.  Djokovic, 25, beat the third-ranked Murray 5-7, 7-6 (13-
11), 6-3 in a 3 hour, 21-minute match at the Qi Zhong Tennis
Center. It extended his winning streak to 10 matches since
losing to the Briton in last month’s  U.S. Open  final and boosted
his chances of taking the No. 1 spot from Switzerland’s  Roger Federer .  “I’m trying to focus now on the end of the season,”
Djokovic said in comments on the ATP World Tour’s website. “I
need to try to stay consistent with my results and eventually
get a shot at No. 1 of the world. It’s my biggest objective in
this moment.”  Murray, 25, winner of the title in  Shanghai  the past two
years, edged an opening set that included seven breaks of serve.
 Djokovic  smashed his racket in frustration after losing his
serve to go 5-6 down.  It took until the seventh game of the second set to see
another service break, Murray moving ahead when his opponent
volleyed into the net.  Murray, served for the match at 5-4, but Djokovic saved
match point. Murray was then unable to convert four more match
points in the tie-break, which Djokovic eventually won with a
volley. That prompted another racket-smashing, this time by the
Scot.  Took Control  Djokovic took control of the final set with a break to lead
4-3 and two games later broke again to secure his fifth title of
the year.  “It’s difficult to judge who was better because it was so
close throughout the whole match,” Djokovic said. “When I
faced those match points, I tried to focus on each individually.
He was so close to the victory that I cannot say I was better.”  Azarenka  collected her sixth WTA title of 2012 with a 6-3,
6-4 victory against Germany’s  Julia Goerges  in Linz,  Austria .
The 23-year-old is also unbeaten since the U.S. Open and has a
tour-leading 67 match wins this season.  Azarenka built a 5-0 lead in the second set before losing
the next four games, although held on to complete the win on her
fifth match point.  In Osaka, Heather Watson became the first British woman to
win a WTA title in 24 years with a 7-5, 5-7, 7-6 (7-4) victory
against Chinese Taipei’s Kai-Chen Chang in the HP Open final.  There were 33 break points in the match, with each player
breaking seven times.  Watson, 20, was not even born when Sara Gomer took a title
in  California  in 1988 for the last British success on the tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 