-- Enough Already With the Strict Austerity in Europe
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-14T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/enough-already-with-the-strict-austerity-in-europe.html
Europe ’s economy is likely to shrink
this year and to see little or no growth in 2013. Please note:
That’s if all goes well. The International Monetary Fund’s
dismal new  forecasts  assume -- or let’s say hope -- that
Europe’s plan for restoring stability will soon take effect.
Don’t take this for granted.  Output in the euro area will shrink 0.4 percent this year
and rise by just 0.2 percent in 2013, according to the new
projections. The outlook has worsened since the IMF released its
previous forecasts just three months ago. And the risk is that
it will worsen further.  With lower growth, the region’s troubled economies face
calls for yet more tightening.  Spain  in particular has announced
new spending cuts and tax increases, anticipating the conditions
that the European bailout fund will attach to a rescue package.
These conditions must be in place before the  European Central
Bank  can start its promised purchases of Spanish government
debt.  If the cuts happen, they will further hamper economic
growth. Outright political collapse is a risk in Greece. It’s
none too remote in Spain, either, where separatist pressures are
on the rise.  Enough is enough. Spain has already cut its “structural” or
cyclically adjusted budget deficit from almost 10 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009 to an expected 3 percent in 2013.
Three years ago, Greece had a structural deficit of 18.6 percent
of GDP; the IMF says this will fall to 4.5 percent in 2012 and
1.1 percent in 2013. Italy’s structural deficit was an already
modest 3 percent in 2009; next year, there’ll be a surplus. All
this against the background of shrinking output.  Overdone Austerity  It’s clear Europe has overdone austerity. The IMF says as
much in its new World Economic Outlook, noting that fiscal
tightening has depressed demand (and hence output) more than
previously expected. This has happened partly because, with
 interest rates  close to zero, conventional monetary policy has
been unable to take up the slack.  Better late than never, euro-area governments should
recognize this. They shouldn’t abandon the commitment to
stabilize and then reduce public debt over the medium term. The
question is how to make that promise credible.  At a minimum, they should agree that when fiscal slippage
is caused by slower-than-expected growth and not backsliding on
policy, they will relax the fiscal timetable rather than adopt a
new round of unreachable targets.  There is a danger that financial markets might veto such
forbearance by forcing up interest rates. It’s unlikely, though,
because investors understand that Europe has locked itself into
a vicious circle of slow growth and excess austerity. Patience
on austerity makes the commitment to medium-term consolidation
more feasible -- so long as individual governments aren’t seen
as reneging on their longer-term plans.  The euro-area governments should also remove any doubt
about their commitment to a collective plan for financial
recovery. The EU took a stride in the right direction last month
by announcing its ambition to create a banking union. Done
right, this would lower interest rates for the countries facing
greatest stress, helping to restore fiscal as well as financial
stability. That’s the key. The link between fiscal pressure and
financial panic is the core of Europe’s economic problem, and it
must be broken.  Yet  Germany  and others have now cast doubt on the banking
plan. They argue, for instance, that systemwide deposit
guarantees would mean disguised fiscal transfers.  Troubled Banks  Investors also thought that the  European Stability
Mechanism , the permanent bailout fund, would inject new capital
directly into troubled banks (notably in Spain), rather than
through national governments. Such an approach would avoid
adding to the debts of distressed governments. Germany says no,
that’s not what we agreed to.  Euro-area leaders should clarify and accelerate their plans
for banking support -- in effect, tell investors that the first
optimistic assessments of the plans for banking union were
right, after all. Where new public debt reduction will be
necessary (as in  Greece , beyond a doubt) it should be done
sooner rather than later. And the European Central Bank should
take up its promised new role as lender of last resort to euro-
area governments immediately -- not later, not maybe, and not
after a long list of ever-changing conditions has been met.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Leon Panetta’s cyberwar
warnings ; William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will save Wall
Street’s morals ; Albert R. Hunt on  whether negative campaign ads
work ;  Simon Johnson  on  the Fed’s new approach to big banks ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  China’s history as the happy hegemon ; Sasha
Issenberg on  old campaign techniques buoyed by new science   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 