-- Teva-Clal Biotech Stem-Cell Venture in Europe Review Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-10-14T15:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/teva-clal-biotech-stem-cell-venture-in-european-regulator-talks.html
Gamida Cell Ltd., whose shareholders
include  Clal Biotechnology Industries Ltd. (CBI)  and  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , is in talks with European
regulators to define a review process for its flagship product.  The stem cells developer said the European Medicines Agency
accepted a unit’s stance that positive results from the Phase
III trial of its StemEx product would constitute the basis for
approval, according to a statement to the  Tel Aviv  Stock
Exchange. The unit, Gamida Cell-Teva Joint Venture, expects to
release results of a 100-patient trial this year.  Efforts to advance the treatment in  Europe  come after a
setback in talks with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration . The
FDA told Gamida to update its control group in its Phase III
study and that the regulator is no longer obligated to a Special
Protocol Assessment, according to a Tel Aviv Stock Exchange
announcement dated Aug. 20. Clal Biotechnology said Gamida will
apply for StemEx approval in the U.S. in the beginning of 2013.  “The route with the FDA is not going as smoothly as they
had hoped so they are seeking to advance the product with
another regulator as well,” said Steven Tepper, an analyst at
Harel Finance Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “They are trying a different
strategy.”  Clal Biotech  jumped  as much as 8.1 percent, the biggest
intraday increase since Sept. 24, to 12.18 shekels, before
closing at 12.10 shekels. Teva fell 0.8 percent to 152.20
shekels.  The StemEx technology expands umbilical  stem cells ,
enabling them to be used in cord blood transplants to leukemia
and lymphoma patients who are unable to find bone-marrow donors.
Jerusalem-based Gamida  says  that as many as 35,000 such patients
are candidates for its technology with a market as much as $1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  