-- Ex-Yugoslavs Know Why EU Deserves a Nobel Prize
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2012-10-14T22:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/ex-yugoslavs-know-why-eu-deserves-a-nobel-prize.html
The bile that has poured from so-
called euro-skeptics since the Nobel Committee awarded the Peace
Prize to the European Union is not surprising. To a journalist
who has covered the Balkans for more than two decades, it is
also reminiscent of the nationalism that ripped apart the former
 Yugoslavia . Back then, though, no one spoke of Yugo-skeptics.  Today, if Serbs, Croats or Albanians used the language of
anti-Europeans further west, they would be labeled extreme
nationalists and a threat to stability, without so much as a
blink of an eyelid.  It is a testament to the EU’s conciliating power, one of
the qualities that last week’s prize sought to highlight, that
nationalist Serb, Croat and Bosnian politicians who brayed for
blood 20 years ago would not dream of attacking the EU in the
way their counterparts in “old” Europe so casually do. In
these countries, you have to be pro-European to get elected
because people understand the alternative and are afraid of it.
For all its faults, and they are many, the EU has
institutionalized and tamed the resolution of conflicts and
disputes between  Europe ’s nation states in a way that would have
been unimaginable to leaders a century ago. Too many Europeans
now take that as a given.  Here in the Balkans, such things are not taken for granted.
A few hours after the announcement of the Peace Prize, I was
talking to Vesna Pusic, the foreign minister of Croatia. She
welcomed it.  “The fact is that people here know that the alternative to
peace is a realistic option, and not something abstract,” she
said. Croatia will join the EU in 2013.  Fresh Memories  During the Second World War, Pusic’s ministry building was
used by the Gestapo, to control a quisling Croatian regime. In
1995, Serbian rockets fell but a stone’s throw away. The memory
of conflict is fresh.  As Nikola Popovski, the foreign minister of Macedonia told
me, it’s important to remember that the EU was founded as a
 peace project , “not an organization to mutualize debt.”  Every day, European ministers and officials of policing,
industry, trade and more meet in Brussels or elsewhere to
negotiate the rules that will govern these areas for Europe’s
citizens. Most of this is boring beyond belief, so it doesn’t
get reported. Many people in Europe are therefore ignorant of
what the EU really does, or that most of the time, it benefits
them. It also makes their governments partners, like it or not.  Croatia  recently hosted a gathering of the  European Fund
for the Balkans , which over the past few years has sought to
build networks of young people across the region. A Macedonian
who had worked for his government’s European integration office
took out his phone and explained how the strictures of the EU
accession process meant that whenever he had a problem (and here
he waved his phone), he just texted or e-mailed his opposite
number in Croatia to ask: “How did you do this?” Within
minutes he got the reply. Not many years ago such easy cross-
border cooperation would have been unthinkable.  After Croatia, all of the remaining non-EU Balkan countries
are on track for eventual membership. Farther afield, in the
South Caucasus,  Georgia  has no such commitment. Yet, as in the
Balkans, European flags fly outside every Georgian ministry.
While I was in Tbilisi two weeks ago for the Georgian elections,
Tornike Gordadze, the outgoing state minister in charge of euro-
Atlantic integration said his country’s emphasis on Europe was
not fundamentally about joining, a distant prospect, but “about
values and structures.”  Europhobes in long-established democracies will scoff at
such sentiments, because they regard them as empty words. They
are not. It is no coincidence that, having lost the election,
Gordadze and his colleagues who use this language conceded
defeat and are preparing for opposition. This has never, and I
reiterate the word never, happened in Georgian history.  Looking Back  One hundred years ago this month, war erupted in southern
Europe. I tried to interest various editors in stories about the
Balkan Wars of 1912 and 1913, to mark the moment. The two wars
changed the map of this part of Europe, cost the lives of tens
of thousands of people, saw the eventual displacement of
millions and formed the overture to World War I, which was
sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in
Sarajevo less than two years later. No one was interested.  To me that lack of interest is demonstrative of a
complacency, which in turn makes the work of the europhobes and
the extreme nationalists easier. It means that people in Western
Europe no longer imagine war as something that’s real. That is a
shame, and it is dangerous.  In these troubled times, it is clear that a new Europe is
emerging. Quite possibly it will consist of an inner core of
euro-area members and a peripheral outer zone, to which the U.K.
and other non-euro members will belong -- assuming the U.K.
remains in the EU at all. Another alternative is that the EU
begins to crack up completely, in which case Europeans will be
atomized into their mostly small states, some of which, whether
in the EU or not, may be undergoing a simultaneous process of
Balkanization.  I am thinking here of the possible dissolution of the U.K.
after a Scottish referendum in 2014, the breakup of Spain and,
of course,  Belgium . Some political developments cannot be
stopped, or wished away, but without a larger structure in which
all current and would-be states are members, the chances of
conflict -- armed or by other means -- would be greater.  Hostility to the EU project is especially unfortunate now,
when Europe’s share of the world’s population and economy is
shrinking. It seems obvious that that at such a moment of
decline relative to unpredictable new powers, unity is strength.
Twenty-seven or more countries each standing in splendid
isolation would mean 27 mostly irrelevant countries, of which
only six would have a population larger than the 23 million
strong municipality of  Shanghai .  From Cyprus to Bosnia to  Greece  to the euro, any fool can
point to Europe’s failures. But the award of the Nobel Peace
Prize is the right choice at the right time. The EU is in
trouble, and the prize  reminds us  what the union really stands
for: “peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights.”
To those who say we would be better off without it, I say be
careful for what you wish for.  (Tim Judah is an author and journalist. He writes about
foreign affairs and covers the Balkans for the Economist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Leon Panetta’s cyberwar
warnings  and on  possible conditions for a Spanish bailout ;
William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will save Wall Street’s
morals ; Albert R. Hunt on  whether negative campaign ads work ;
Simon Johnson on  the Fed’s new approach to big banks ; Pankaj
Mishra on  China’s history as the happy hegemon ; Sasha Issenberg
on  old campaign techniques buoyed by new science .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marc Champion in London at 
 mchampion7@bloomberg.net  