-- Fed Should Push to Cut Biggest Banks Down to Size
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-10-14T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/fed-should-push-to-cut-biggest-banks-down-to-size.html
Daniel Tarullo , a governor of the
 Federal Reserve System , spoke for the first time last week about
potentially imposing a size cap on the largest U.S. banks. His
language, naturally, was that of a  central banker .  “To the extent that a growing systemic footprint increases
perceptions of at least some residual too-big-to-fail quality in
such a firm, notwithstanding the panoply of measures in Dodd-
Frank and our regulations, there may be funding advantages for
the firm, which reinforces the impulse to grow,” he said in a
 speech  at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. “There is,
then, a case to be made for specifying an upper bound.”  His point was simple and clear. Creditors to very large
financial institutions believe they receive downside protection
from the government -- primarily through measures that the Fed
would put in place in the event of financial distress. This
gives large bank holding companies and other financial
enterprises the ability and incentive to become even larger,
which in turn increases the perceived subsidy and further lowers
their funding costs.  Financial systems can become unstable in many ways, as
Tarullo points out. And limiting bank size shouldn’t be seen as
a panacea. But speaking of the post-2008 approach to reducing
financial-sector risks, particularly as embodied by the  Dodd-
Frank law  of 2010, Tarullo emphasized:  “To the extent one can fairly induce an underlying
principle, it is that the moral hazard associated with too-big-
to-fail institutions should be counteracted in a variety of
ways.”  Capital Requirements  In this spirit, he also expressed support for “enhanced
capital requirements” for large banks. “These additional capital
requirements,” he said, “can also help offset any funding
advantage derived from the perceived status of such institutions
as too-big-to-fail.” And he further urged a “strong presumption”
that acquisitions by very large financial-sector firms would be
turned down.  Tarullo is the lead Fed governor for many bank regulatory
issues, including equity capital. These statements mark a
significant -- perhaps even dramatic -- shift in thinking at the
central bank. Tarullo looks to Congress to decide on potential
size caps, but lawmakers rely heavily on the expertise of the
Fed in thinking about how to handle such technical matters.  There are five reasons to expect this issue to gain
momentum after the presidential election.  First, there is a deeper understanding of the problems
inherent to very large banks. A new book by former Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , “Bull by the
Horns: Fighting to Save Main Street From  Wall Street  and Wall
Street From Itself,” makes the economics and regulatory politics
abundantly clear. And her compelling points about the political
power of the big banks are affirmed by Jeff Connaughton’s “The
Payoff: Why Wall Street Always Wins,” which takes you inside the
lobbying of government. Why would anyone want our largest banks
to obtain more political power?  Second, there is a growing realization that very large
banks are -- among other things -- too big to manage. Over the
summer, we had repeated evidence of mismanagement within these
huge, complex corporations: Libor fixing; money-laundering
charges against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ;
and the $5.8 billion loss by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s “London
Whale.” Now banks face a fresh round of accusations that they
routinely mismanaged their mortgage businesses and misled
investors during the boom years -- and then mistreated borrowers
when housing prices collapsed.  GDP Share  Third, there has long been a law on the books that
attempted to limit the size of our largest banks. The  Riegle-
Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act  of 1994
established that no bank can have more than 10 percent of total
retail deposits. The flaw in that legislation is that most of
the growth in bank size since 1994 has been due to wholesale
financing, not retail deposits. Tarullo sensibly proposes to
“limit the non-deposit liabilities of financial firms to a
specified percentage of U.S. gross domestic product.”  Fourth, there is already proposed legislation that puts
forward this idea. In 2010, Senator  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and
then Senator Ted Kaufman of  Delaware  proposed an amendment to
Dodd-Frank that would have capped bank size; it received 33
votes and died on the Senate floor. Brown has since reintroduced
this legislation: the Safe, Accountable, Fair and Efficient
Banking Act. The proposed law’s bottom line is that no  bank
holding company  could exceed $1.1 trillion in total assets
(including off-balance-sheet assets) -- a constraint that would
be binding only for JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and Wells Fargo & Co. No non-bank financial company could
be larger than about $400 billion in assets.  Fifth, putting a responsible cap on bank size plays very
well in  Ohio , Brown’s home state -- as well as a battleground
for the presidential candidates this year and probably in the
future. Senator John Sherman, of the eponymous Sherman Act, was
a Republican from Ohio; the state has a history of taking on
concentrated power. (For more on the Sherman Act comparison with
Brown-Kaufman, I recommend this  blog post  by Connaughton, a
former chief of staff to Senator Kaufman.)  Capping bank size is the modern equivalent of trust
busting, and attracts support from across the political
spectrum. People on the right and left don’t understand why
megabanks should get implicit government subsidies and worry
that top executives of very large banks have become too
powerful.  Both concerns are legitimate and need to be addressed. Now
the Fed is pushing in the same direction.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author   of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Leon Panetta’s cyberwar
warnings  and on  possible conditions for a Spanish bailout ;
William D. Cohan on  how Morgan Stanley will save Wall Street’s
morals ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  whether negative campaign ads work ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on  China’s history as the happy hegemon ; Sasha
Issenberg on  old campaign techniques buoyed by new science .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  