-- Fiat Suppliers Turn to VW to Survive Italy’s Crisis
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-10-14T22:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/fiat-suppliers-turn-to-vw-to-survive-italy-s-crisis.html
For almost three decades, Salvatore
Giordano had a stable business supplying plastic parts to  Fiat
SpA (F)  from his small factory in northern Italy’s Asti wine region.
The debt crisis and Fiat’s subsequent decision to retrench in
its home country put that under threat.  As orders from Fiat tumbled, the former Alfa Romeo worker
was forced to cut 18 of his 68 employees. Pushed by his son
Gianluca, Salvatore sought new sources of revenue, including
making furniture, to reduce his reliance on the Italian
carmaker. His latest lifeline is Fiat’s archrival  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “We understood that if we want to get through this grave
crisis, we have to go abroad,” said Gianluca, who was a
university classmate of Fiat Chairman John Elkann. “After a
trip to VW’s headquarters in Wolfsburg in July, we are now in
talks to become a supplier.”  Italian parts makers are sacrificing traditional corporate
loyalties to survive after 75 companies failed last year. With
Fiat’s production down by a third since 2009 and its plan to
invest 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in Italian factories
canceled, expansion abroad is the only option for many of the
country’s component manufacturers.  “German companies are interested in our products,” said
Mauro Ferrari, head of the components division of Italian auto
association Anfia. “Thanks to the exports, the sector managed
to offset a slump in orders from Fiat in  Italy  last year. On the
flip side, small companies, which don’t make high-value
products, are going to die.”  Spending Cuts  While Italy’s sole carmaker can fall back on profits
generated by Chrysler Group LLC, many suppliers are exposed to
the full brunt of the slowdown in the country, where car sales
are poised to drop to their lowest level in 30 years.  Small family-owned businesses like Giordano’s company Elmeg
are most at risk from the slowdown as they have a limited
product range, lack resources and depend on a few key contracts.
Their troubles stems chiefly from Fiat.  The Turin-based manufacturer is cutting production in Italy
to about 420,000 cars this year from 650,000 in 2009, according
to Anfia. Fiat’s goal to increase output to 1.4 million vehicles
by 2014 under its so-called Fabbrica Italia plan is almost
certainly unachievable after the company cut spending in  Europe 
by 500 million euros this year to save cash.  “Any supplier depending on Fiat’s European operations has
to look elsewhere or risk going bust,” Flavio Gussoni, vice
president of global sales at Magneti Marelli, a Fiat unit, said
at a supplier event in Wolfsburg, VW’s home town.  Idle Factory  At Fiat’s main Mirafiori plant in Turin, a giant facility
that covers an area about half the size of New York’s Central
Park, the nearby streets are devoid of the bustle seen in better
times. About 5,500 employees at the factory work just a few days
a month and will produce less than 50,000 Alfa Romeo Mito
hatchbacks this year. The plant’s official capacity is about
250,000 vehicles.  About 8,000 jobs were cut in the Italian auto-parts
industry in 2011 after revenues dropped 13 percent from 2008 to
41.8 billion euros last year, according to Anfia and the Turin
Chamber of Commerce. Another 10,000 of the remaining 179,000
jobs will probably be cut before the end of next year, Anfia’s
Ferrari said. About 75 percent of the companies in the Piedmont
region, Italy’s industrial hub, have furloughed workers to cut
costs as orders dry up.  “The car-parts sector is the epicenter of the crisis,”
said Giorgio Airaudo, head of the auto workers’ unit of Fiom
Cgil union, which is organizing a nationwide rally to highlight
the crisis in the component sector.  Volkswagen Fair  Some workers are independently drawing attention to their
plight. Last week, three laid-off employees of Viberti, a
trailer maker, camped on the roof of the company’s factory in
Nichelino.  To secure high-grade, low-cost parts, Volkswagen held a
fair for Italian suppliers at the headquarters of its Italdesign
unit near Turin in May. Giordano’s Elmeg, one of more than 30
manufacturers presenting their products, showed light-weight
containers for fluids such as windshield cleaner.  VW’s move to attract Italian suppliers comes amid growing
tensions with Fiat. In July, Stephan Gruehsem, Volkswagen’s
communications chief, called on Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne to
resign as president of the European automaker association ACEA
over comments that the Italian executive made suggesting that VW
was behind a price war.  Marchionne, whose efforts to push for industrywide capacity
cuts have been thwarted by VW, dismissed the call and threatened
to quit the organization in protest. VW Chief Financial Officer
Hans Dieter Poetsch in turn said at the Paris Motor Show last
month that carmakers in southern Europe will struggle to survive
the crisis without government help.  Paris Handshake  The Fiat CEO also took issue with VW’s continued interest
in buying the Italian carmaker’s Alfa Romeo unit, telling VW
Chairman Ferdinand Piech to “drop it.” Marchionne and VW CEO
Martin Winterkorn eased the tensions by shaking hands and
smiling for journalists gathered outside an ACEA meeting in
Paris late last month.  The dispute reflects the tough car market in Europe, which
is forecast to shrink for the fifth consecutive year in 2012.
Volkswagen’s financial muscle and profitable operations outside
the region has helped it offer deals to win new customers from
rivals. The German manufacturer’s market share through August
rose to 25 percent from 23.2 percent a year ago. Fiat’s share
slumped to 6.5 percent from 7.3 percent, according to ACEA data.  With Marchionne delaying new models like the Punto
hatchback, Italian authorities are helping suppliers look for
alternatives, including efforts to lure other carmakers to the
country. In the Turin area, where 50 percent of the parts
industry is based, the local chamber of commerce has a project
called “From Concept to Car,” which helps companies get
clients outside of Italy, especially in fast-growing countries
such as Russia and  China .  “Our focus is to help small companies grow abroad and
become suppliers of other carmakers,” said Alessandro Barberis,
a former Fiat CEO who heads the Turin Chamber of Commerce.  The Giordanos have followed this advice, teaming up with
Japanese designer Takahide Sano in 2009 on a line of plastic
chairs. The company’s light-weight fluid containers impressed
VW’s procurement chief Francisco Garcia Sanz in Italy in May,
prompting a visit to the Wolfsburg headquarters in July.
Discussions of a potential supply deal are under way.  “As we saw orders halving in 2009, we understood that we
couldn’t just sit there,” Salvatore Giordano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  