-- Fischer Says Netanyahu’s Election Call a ‘Good Move’ for Israel
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-14T07:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/fischer-says-netanyahu-s-election-call-a-good-move-for-israel.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s decision to
call early elections in response to a budget impasse is a “good
move” that will benefit the Middle East nation’s economy.  Netanyahu, 62, announced Oct. 9 in Jerusalem that he will
“seek a renewed mandate,” citing opposition from partners in
the coalition government to his austerity budget plan.  “It was a good move because in terms of economics, he
could have got a budget through his coalition had it been a very
expansionary budget, distributed money here and distributed
money there,” Fischer, 68, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. “He chose not to do that.”  Netanyahu is trying to push through spending cuts as
government revenue lags behind estimates amid a weakening world
economy. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecasts on Oct. 9 and warned of even slower expansion unless
officials in the U.S. and Europe address threats to their
economies.  The Israeli government’s deficit was 4.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the 12 months through September, more than
double the original target for 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said
Sept. 4.  ‘Budget Problem’  “This was, I see it, as a decision that we’re going to
treat the economy seriously, we’re going to treat the budget
seriously,” said Fischer, who has headed Israel’s central bank
since 2005, accepting a second term in 2010. “I hope that’s
what will come out of the new government when it’s formed.
They’ve already started dealing with the budget problem a few
months ago when they raised the taxes quite significantly.”  The government approved an increase in the value-added tax
that started last month and higher income taxes starting in 2013
to help meet next year’s revised deficit target of 3 percent of
GDP.  A poll published Sept. 28 by the Haaretz daily showed
Netanyahu’s Likud party would win 28 places in the 120-seat
Knesset, one more than it currently holds, making it the largest
faction in parliament. The survey showed 35 percent of Israelis
see Netanyahu as “most suited” to lead, almost double the 16
percent of his nearest contender for the premiership, Shelly Yacimovich of the  Labor Party .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Tokyo at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  