-- Fischer Backs Fed QE3 as World ‘Awfully Close’ to Recession
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-15T02:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/fischer-backs-fed-s-qe3-as-world-is-awfully-close-to-recession.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the world is “awfully close” to a recession, and
backed the  Federal Reserve ’s increase in quantitative easing as
strengthening its policy credibility.  While there has been “a lot of progress made” to improve
the global economy, its impact hasn’t materialized, Fischer said
in an interview in  Tokyo  with Bloomberg Television airing today.
He signaled that by deciding not to set an end date or  total 
amount to its third program of bond buying, the Fed is easing
worries it will run out of ammunition before achieving its goals.  Fischer’s take on global growth added to concern raised at
annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund , with the IMF
cutting its forecasts on Oct. 9 and warning of more weakness
unless the U.S. and Europe address threats to their economies.
As the euro crisis drags on, fiscal tightening and muted demand
in wealthy nations hurts emerging countries from China to Brazil.  “We’re awfully close” to a global recession, said Fischer,
69, who served as the IMF’s No. 2 official from 1994 to 2001 and
was thesis adviser to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology . “It’s pretty slow right
now. Europe is technically in a recession, the U.S. is
predicting less than 2 percent growth for the next few months.”  Weekly Slump  Stocks in Asia were little changed in morning trading after
the meetings in Tokyo, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index down 0.1
percent as of 11:15 a.m. in Tokyo. The MSCI World Index last
week had its biggest weekly slide since June as the IMF
highlighted angst over the global recovery by reducing its world
growth forecast.  The Europeans are making headway with plans for a fiscal
and banking union, and the U.S. is in “pretty good shape”
other than its fiscal position, the former Citigroup Inc. vice
chairman said in the Oct. 13 interview.  “Feelings have improved a lot but it’s a little early to
say we are coming out of it,” said Fischer, who has headed
 Israel ’s central bank since 2005, accepting a second term in
2010.  Fischer declined to comment on the outlook for Israel’s
 interest rates . The Bank of Israel last cut its benchmark in
June. He said that Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s decision
to call early elections in response to a budget impasse is a
“good move” that will benefit the Middle East nation’s economy.
Netanyahu opted against a “very expansionary budget” that
might have resulted from the current coalition, he said.  Fed Program  The Fed in September said it will purchase $40 billion in
mortgage bonds a month and hold the main interest rate near zero
until at least mid-2015. Bernanke that stimulus will be expanded
until policy makers see “sustained improvement” in the labor
market and that the strategy works in part by boosting the
prices of assets such as equities.  “It’s certainly had an impact so far,” Fischer said.
“Instead of saying it will be a given amount, $500 billion or
whatever, saying we will keep doing this at $40 billion a month
until the  unemployment rate  comes down to a level that we regard
as satisfactory, I think that adds to the credibility of these
measures.”  The U.S. jobless rate fell to 7.8 percent in September, the
lowest level since President  Barack Obama  took office in January
2009, a government report showed Oct. 5.  Global Reception  The Fed’s policies have come under scrutiny from government
officials and some business people. Indian Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram told U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  the easing may push commodity prices higher, while
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in Tokyo that QE3
risks aggravating currency problems for  emerging markets .  Bernanke yesterday rebutted concern that QE3 is causing
destabilizing flows to emerging-market economies. “It is not at
all clear that accommodative policies in advanced economies
impose net costs on emerging market economies,” he said in
prepared remarks for a seminar in Tokyo.  Gary D. Cohn, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s president and
chief operating officer, said Oct. 11 the U.S. central bank will
struggle to end its quantitative easing program.  Fischer disagreed.  “You have a bunch of central bankers in the U.S. that know
how to deal with this,” he said. “Selling securities is not
uncharted territory.”  Adding Stimulus  The Fed isn’t alone in easing monetary policy, with the
 European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan (8301)  both adding to stimulus
in the past three months.  The ECB cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of
0.75 percent and pledged to buy the bonds of governments that
agree to austerity conditions. The BOJ last month boosted its
asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) and
abandoned a minimum yield for the bonds it purchases.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has “certainly taken a big
chunk” off the risk of a euro breakup, said Fischer, who also
taught Draghi at MIT. The ECB unveiled details of its bond
program on Sept. 6 and said it will spend as much as needed to
restore confidence to government bond markets, provided
countries sign up to budget consolidation measures first.  “It’s not a complete plan yet because countries have to
request assistance and accept conditions that go with it,” said
Fischer, who sees a bigger probability now that European
governments will accept austerity programs in exchange for ECB
aid. “It could take a while to put in place but it certainly
makes a huge difference to the issue of will somebody deal with
this issue of interest rates that are already too high for
certain countries.”  Euro ‘Mistake’  Fischer said joint euro-area debt, or euro bonds, “will be
a mistake” as there is little in the system that will force
countries to keep their budgets under control. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government has long opposed an imminent switch
to a full-scale common borrowing system using euro bonds.  “If you let everybody sell euro bonds, you don’t have
market discipline on individual countries,” Fischer said. “The
markets have to judge the credit of individual countries and
make those who are not doing what’s needed” pay through higher
borrowing costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Tokyo at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  