-- Flavin, Nauman Light Up Neon Show; Flying Carpets in Rome
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2012-10-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/flavin-nauman-light-up-neon-show-flying-carpets-in-rome.html
The Museum of Contemporary Art of
 Rome , known as Macro, has had the bright idea of looking at neon
art since the 1950s, gathering about 70 works by more than 50
artists including Dan Flavin and Bruce Nauman.  Titled “ Neon:  The Luminous Material of Art,” the show has
a variety of sculptures and installations, as well as several
works linked with words (a common association in the neon of bar
windows).  Giuseppe Ungaretti’s famous 1917 poem “Mattina”
(“Morning”) comprises just the words “M’illumino d’immenso,”
which can be translated as “I flood myself with the light of
the immense.” They stem from a wartime experience, when
Ungaretti saw the sea merge with the sky at daybreak.  The words have become a white neon sign in a 2009 work by
artist Alfredo Jaar.  Pier Paolo Calzolari, a member of the Arte Povera movement,
uses tobacco leaves, tin pieces and neon words in his 1969
“Non.”  Reminding visitors of the natural world in this neon
kingdom, Spencer Finch alludes to how sunlight appears in Rome’s
Pantheon through the roof aperture, using five neon spheres in
his 2011 “Rome (Pantheon, noon effect).”  Before leaving, stroll along Odile Decq’s floating walkway
hanging from the lobby’s roof.  The show, organized with the support of  Enel (ENEL)  SpA to
celebrate the company’s 50th anniversary, runs through Nov. 11
at Via Nizza 138; +39-06-06-08;  http://www.museomacro.org/ .  Paola De Pietri  You can almost feel the fresh air and freedom of open
spaces as you gaze at Paola De Pietri’s photographs of rural
landscapes on the border between Austria and  Italy .  Yet the images on view at the Maxxi National Museum of 21st
Century Arts reflect darker realities, for they are battle sites
from the First World War.  At first glance there are rocky mountain walls, trees,
green forests and grassy hills. Take a second look, and you
discover relics of trenches, excavated tunnels, exploded bomb
craters and shelter ruins.  “In these places, now vacation destinations, it is
difficult to identify beneath one’s feet the echo of the battles
and the drama. As if the ‘innocence’ of today had removed the
violence of history,” De Pietri says.  Framed in wood on a white background, all the photographs
are printed the same size, adding to the apparent harmony.  “Paola De Pietri, To Face: Landscape Along Austrian and
Italian Front of the First World War” runs through Oct. 17 at
Via Guido Reni 4A, Rome; +39-06-322-51-78;
 http://www.fondazionemaxxi.it/ .  Flying Carpets  Hans Haacke’s amusing installation from 1964, consisting of
a blue sail set in motion by a fan beneath it, is probably what
most resembles a flying carpet in “Tapis Volants” at the
Academy of  France ’s  Villa Medici .  Spanning 600 years, the show brings together different
varieties of carpets as well as related films, contemporary-art
installations, paintings, embroidery and religious images.  In “Hannoun,” Taysir Batniji assembles hundreds of pencil
shavings to produce a decorated-carpet effect. Like Haacke,
Zilvinas Kempinas suggests a carpet with a single strand of
videotape that appears to be flying thanks to an electric fan.  Also on view is one of Alighiero Boetti’s renowned world
maps from 1978 and his “Lavoro Postale, Autodisporsi
(Adelina)” in which 14 identical envelopes addressed to the
same person and carefully edged in postage stamps are laid out
with the symmetry and texture of a handmade quilt.  Moon Crescents  The actual carpets come from Persia,  Egypt ,  Turkey ,  India 
and  Iran  and include a stunning silk piece, made between the
16th and 18th centuries, decorated with dark-red moon crescents.  In this mish-mash of associated objects, don’t miss
 “Madonna dell’Umilta e quattro angeli”  by  Benozzo Gozzoli .
From 1440, this small gem depicts a beautiful Virgin Mary with a
young Jesus, surrounded by four angels. Two of them hold a
golden carpet behind her.  “Tapis Volants” runs through Oct. 21 at Viale Trinita dei
Monti 1, Rome; +39-06-676-11;  http://www.villamedici.it/ .  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Jeremy Gerard 
on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in  New York  
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 