-- James Coyne, Bank of Canada Head During Policy Crisis, Dies
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-14T16:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/former-bank-of-canada-governor-james-coyne-dies-cp-says-1-.html
James Coyne, governor of the  Bank of
Canada  during one of the central bank’s most tumultuous periods,
died on Oct. 12, the bank said today in a statement. He was 102.  Coyne’s son, journalist Andrew Coyne, confirmed the death
yesterday on Twitter.  James Coyne led the  Bank of Canada  from Jan. 1, 1955, to
July 13, 1961, when he quit over disagreements with Progressive
Conservative Prime Minister John Diefenbaker on monetary policy
and the governor’s pension. The so-called Coyne Affair led to a
policy review that improved coordination of the central bank,
government and the financial system.  “The Coyne Affair arguably represents the greatest
institutional crisis ever faced by the Bank,” Wilfrid Laurier
University economics professor Pierre Siklos wrote in a 2007
paper. “The Minister of Finance and the Governor would end up
talking, whether in public or in private, at cross-purposes, the
former contradicting earlier positions in the name of political
expediency, the latter seemingly trespassing in fields normally
reserved for ministers.”  Born July 17, 1910, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, James Elliott
Coyne was a Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford and
joined the central bank’s research department in 1938. He left
the next year to work in other posts such as the Foreign
Exchange Control Board and  Canada ’s embassy in  Washington . He
helped draft the Hyde Park agreement between U.S. President
 Franklin Roosevelt  and Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie King in
1941 to coordinate production and trade during World War II.  Wartime Service  Like fellow former governor Gerald Bouey, Coyne served in
the country’s air force during the war, from 1942-44. He
returned to the central bank, as an assistant to then-Governor
Graham Towers and as deputy governor before becoming the second
person to hold the top job.  Coyne and his wife Meribeth had two children together after
their 1957 marriage -- Andrew and actress Susan. His wife was a
widow with three children from a prior marriage, according to
the Manitoba Historical Society.  As governor, Coyne made public comments about the dangers
of budget and current-account deficits while Finance Minister
Donald Fleming made conflicting statements about who had final
responsibility for monetary policy. Coyne went from giving no
public speeches between June 1957 and October 1959 to 14 of them
between November 1959 and June 1961.  ‘False Alternatives’  “There are those who sometimes set out the false
alternatives of either full employment with inflation, or stable
prices with a high level of unemployment,” Coyne said in a
January 1961 speech. “No person in any position of
responsibility could possibly subscribe to that doctrine.”  The governor’s commitment to inflation control came in part
as the economy boomed through 1959. Demand for credit helped
drive the  bank rate  to a record 6.41 percent in August of that
year, up from 1.23 percent in July 1958, according to a
biography by former central bank official James Powell.  Coyne kept the  money supply  little changed for two years
starting in late 1958, even as unemployment rose to the highest
since World War II and the Canadian dollar’s appreciation curbed
exports, Powell wrote. The government responded to signs of
economic weakness by passing a special budget in December 1960,
around the time a group of economists published a letter saying
Coyne should be fired.  ‘Policy Error’  “His view that the high prevailing rate of unemployment
was primarily structural and hence would not respond to lower
 interest rates  was a policy error,” Powell wrote in the
biography.  The economy’s performance through the whole of Coyne’s
tenure was about the same as in other eras, Powell wrote.
Tracking the slowdown was complicated by other changes including
a postwar shift to a manufacturing-based economy fueled by
immigration and the evolution of money markets.  Cabinet ministers of the day were convinced that Coyne was
to blame for the slowdown, according to notes from a then-secret
March 1961 cabinet discussion.  It was partly the fault of the Governor himself if the
Canadian public was making monetary policy into a whipping boy,
the notes said. Coyne also gave the impression he was openly
challenging the government, according to the memo.  Tensions between Coyne and the government escalated after
the bank’s board of directors raised the governor’s pension to
C$25,000 from C$12,000. The increase added to a salary of
C$50,000 that was “several times greater” than pay for members
of Parliament or the prime minister, and came at a time when
officials had asked Canadians for spending restraint, according
to the Siklos paper.  ‘An Adversary’  “Diefenbaker used the pension issue as a convenient excuse
to move immediately against an individual who was widely
perceived within the government as an adversary,” Powell wrote.  After privately asking him to resign in May 1961, seven
months before his term ended, the Diefenbaker government in 1961
passed a 25-word bill in the House of Commons declaring the
governor’s post vacant. The Liberal-controlled Senate rejected
the bill after testimony by Coyne, who then resigned.  Canadians also backed Coyne in the wider dispute, with a
Gallup poll showing 60 percent supporting him versus 9 percent
backing the finance minister, according to the Powell biography.
Coyne was named newsmaker of the year by  Canadian Press  and
Diefenbaker lost his majority government in an election the next
year.  Policy Independence  Coyne’s replacement, Louis Rasminsky, took the job after
pressing the government to define the roles for setting monetary
policy, according to “By All Accounts,” a history published by
the central bank. Since then, the bank has implemented policy
independently, although the government has the right to issue a
written directive saying what policy it wants. No such directive
has ever been issued.  The Coyne Affair helped trigger the 1964 Porter Commission,
which ratified Rasminsky’s requests and also led to deregulation
of commercial banking years before similar moves in the U.S. and
other countries.  The idea of making  price stability  the key anchor of
monetary policy took formal shape in 1991, the start of public
agreements with the central bank and the government to set
inflation targets.  “Mr. Coyne’s legacy has profoundly influenced all of us
who work at the Bank, and has made it a stronger and more
accountable institution,” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said in today’s statement from the central bank.  Bridge, Crosswords  Coyne had another battle after leaving the central bank
that echoed his experience in public service. He was ousted from
the board of directors at the Bank of Western Canada after
refusing to resign from the institution he helped found in 1964.
The bank was liquidated before it became fully operational,
according to the Powell biography.  A Winnipeg Free Press interview around Coyne’s 100th
birthday found him still playing bridge, reading books and
filling out newspaper crossword puzzles.  Bank of Canada officials flew to Winnipeg before Coyne’s
95th birthday in June 2005 to interview him about the
institution at the time and the dispute that cost him his job.  “My speeches were viewed as attacks on the government,
which I didn’t intend them to be,” Coyne said, according to a
transcript of the 2005 discussion. “Diefenbaker thought I was a
convinced Liberal for some reason. But I wasn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  