-- Manning Coasts Through 4th Quarter in Giants’ NFL Rout of 49ers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-15T04:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/giants-top-49ers-26-3-in-nfl-on-3-interceptions-manning-td-pass.html
New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning found himself in an unusual situation during the fourth
quarter of a 26-3 win at the  San Francisco  49ers in a rematch of
last season’s  National Football Conference  championship game.  Manning, who has guided the Giants to 22 fourth-quarter
comeback victories since taking over as New York’s signal caller
in 2004, was able to sit on a big lead yesterday and run down
the clock instead of having to craft another rally.  He threw just two passes in the final period against the
49ers and handed off the ball 12 straight times on a final drive
that lasted more than seven minutes.  “That’s what you want to be able to do,” Manning said in
a news conference. “That’s where the offensive line can take
over the game. That was a drive that ended the game.”  Manning passed for 193 yards for the Giants (4-2), who got
116 yards rushing and a 1-yard touchdown run from  Ahmad Bradshaw . Manning threw a 6-yard scoring pass to Victor Cruz and
 Lawrence Tynes  added four field goals.  Manning, 31, has led the Giants on 26 game-winning drives
in his career. The latest of his comebacks came on Sept. 16
against Tampa Bay when the Giants scored 25 fourth-quarter
points in a 41-34 victory against the Buccaneers in which New
York scored the winning points with 34 seconds left.  Manning also led the Giants to a 20-17 overtime win in the
NFC championship game in January at San Francisco, a game in
which New York trailed 14-10 in the fourth quarter, before
rallying the Giants in the final period to beat the  New England
Patriots  in the  Super Bowl  in February.  Dominating Defense  He was able to relax in the fourth quarter yesterday after
New York’s defense shut down quarterback  Alex Smith  and a San
Francisco team that had beaten its previous two opponents -- the
New York Jets and Buffalo Bills -- by a combined score of 79-3.  “We were just waiting for them to play the way we know
they can play,” Manning said of his team’s defense. “When you
see them play like that, we can be patient offensively. We
didn’t have to force things.”  Antrel Rolle made two of the Giants’ three interceptions,
Smith’s first three-interception game since December 2009. Smith
began yesterday with one interception in five games this season.
He was 19-of-30 passing for 200 yards for the 49ers (4-2).  Smith, who came into the game as the highest-rated
quarterback in the  National Football League  with a mark of
108.7, had a quarterback rating in yesterday’s game of 43.1.  “I could tell at times that we had him a little rattled,”
Rolle said of Smith. “I think this is our most complete game
all year long.”  Rolle’s Interceptions  Rolle’s two third-quarter interceptions led to field goals.
The other Giants interception, by Prince Amukamara, set up
Manning’s scoring pass to Cruz in the second quarter. New York’s
 Jason Pierre-Paul  had two of New York’s six quarterback sacks.  “They don’t give up anything easily,” Smith, 28, told
reporters. “We forced some things. I felt like I forced some
things. We, uncharacteristically, turned the ball over. Any time
you turn the ball over like that, it’s tough to win.”  David Akers ’s 42-yard field goal in the first quarter was
the only score for San Francisco. Akers missed two other field
goal attempts.  “The defensive line finally decided they were going to
play this week,” said Giants coach  Tom Coughlin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at  Candlestick Park  in San Francisco at
   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  