-- Tigers Shut Out Jeter-less Yankees 3-0, Cardinals Defeat Giants
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-15T05:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/tigers-beat-yankees-3-0-for-2-0-lead-in-al-championship-series.html
The  New York Yankees ’ offensive
slump reached a new low in its first postseason game since 1995
without  Derek Jeter  in the lineup.  The Yankees were shut out by the Detroit Tigers 3-0
yesterday at Yankee Stadium as Anibal Sanchez and Phil Coke
combined on a four-hitter. The Tigers have held the Yankees
scoreless in 20 of 21 innings in taking a two-games-to-none lead
in the best-of-seven American League Championship Series.  “They are not going to put it on a tee for us,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  said after the team was held without a run
in a postseason game for the first time since Oct. 18, 2010.
“We are more than capable of scoring runs. We have to make
adjustments.”  The  St. Louis Cardinals  beat the San Francisco Giants 6-4
in Game 1 of the National League Championship Series last night
as  Carlos Beltran  and David Freese hit two-run home runs. The
Giants host Game 2 of the best-of-seven Major League Baseball
playoff series tonight.  The ALCS now shifts to Detroit, where 2011 American League
Most Valuable Player and Cy Young Award winner  Justin Verlander 
is the Tigers’ starting pitcher for Game 3 tomorrow. The
Yankees’ postseason batting average has dropped to .205, with
 Alex Rodriguez ,  Curtis Granderson  and  Nick Swisher  hitting a
combined .133 with 34 strikeouts in 75 at-bats.  Yankees All-Star second baseman  Robinson Cano , who hit .615
(24-for-39) over the final nine games of the regular season, is
hitless in his last 26 at-bats. It’s the longest hitless streak
in the franchise’s postseason history.  Offensive Struggles  “It’s unsettling,” Yankees hitting coach Kevin Long told
reporters in the team’s locker room. “When the offense is
struggling like it is, there’s no sense in pointing fingers and
all that. We just have to get better as a unit.”  The Yankees lost Game 1 of the ALCS 6-4 in 12 innings two
days ago, a game in which they also lost Jeter, their captain,
for the rest of the playoffs with a fractured left ankle.  Yesterday, the Yankees failed to take advantage of a strong
outing by pitcher Hiroki Kuroda, who started on three days’ rest
for the first time in his career and held the Tigers hitless
until the sixth inning.  The Tigers finally broke through in the seventh inning, as
Quintin Berry led off with a ground-rule double and scored on a
groundout by  Delmon Young .  Detroit added two more runs in the eighth inning after a
mistake by second base umpire  Jeff Nelson . Kuroda allowed
consecutive two-out singles to Omar Infante and Austin Jackson.
Television replays showed Infante was tagged out after he dove
back into second base following Jackson’s hit. Nelson ruled
Infante was safe, leading Girardi to get ejected on his 48th
birthday after arguing the call.  Insurance Runs  Pinch-hitter Avisail Garcia followed with a run-scoring
single off Yankees reliever  Boone Logan  and  Miguel Cabrera ’s
single to right off Joba Chamberlain pushed the Tigers’ lead to
3-0. Nelson acknowledged his mistake after the game and Girardi
called for MLB to use replay to ensure calls are correct.  “I am not saying we win the game if the call was right,”
Girardi said. “But in this day and age there is too much at
stake, and the technology is available.”  Former Yankees manager  Joe Torre , MLB’s executive vice
president of baseball operations, said Nelson made the wrong
call and that the mistake gets “magnified” by technology.
Torre said baseball continues to look into using instant replay.  “I understand Joey’s frustration,” Torre said. “You want
everything to be perfect and it’s not perfect. It’s frustrating.
Umpires, players, managers, they’re all human.”  Sanchez Cruises  The Yankees still only had two runners get as far as second
base against Sanchez, who was acquired in a July trade with the
 Miami Marlins  and had allowed seven runs over three innings in
his previous start against New York this season on Aug. 8.
Sanchez scattered three hits over seven innings, with three
walks and seven strikeouts.  A day after scoring four runs in the ninth inning against
Jose Valverde to rally from a 4-0 deficit, the Yankees were
limited to a two-out single by Rodriguez in the final inning
before Granderson struck out to end the game, eliciting another
round of jeers from the home crowd.  “There’s a lot of guys getting booed and certainly that’s
not a fun feeling, so maybe getting on the road will help us,”
Long said with a shake of his head. “I’m not going to use that
as the answer, but who knows.”  The defending World Series-champion Cardinals jumped out to
a 6-0 lead in  San Francisco  by scoring two runs in the second
inning and four more in the top of the fourth.  All six runs came against Giants starting pitcher Madison Bumgarner. The Giants scored four runs in the bottom of the
fourth inning against Cardinals starting pitcher Lance Lynn and
then were held scoreless by the St. Louis bullpen over the final
5 1/3 innings.  “It’s best out of seven and we’ve shown how resilient we
can be,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “We hate to lose at
home, but it happens. We have to wash this one off and come out
and be ready to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  