-- IMF Board Sees Biggest Power Shift Reshuffle in Two Decades
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-14T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/imf-board-sees-biggest-power-shift-reshuffle-in-two-decades.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
executive board is undergoing the biggest reshuffle in two
decades in a shift  emerging markets  including Brazil say remains
insufficient to reflect their rising economic power.  Starting next month, some western European countries are
realigning to give nations such as Turkey and Hungary more say
under a 2010 pledge to give up two seats on the 24-seat board.
Changes are also taking place among emerging markets, with
Colombia leaving Brazil’s group to join  Mexico ’s.  The overhaul reflects “significant economic realignments
at the global as well as regional levels,” said  Eswar Prasad , a
Cornell University professor and a former IMF official. “Small
countries are jockeying for position to make sure their voices
are heard while some of the larger but less dynamic economies
are trying hard to preserve their clout despite their
diminishing economic significance.”  The changes are the largest since the early 1990s, when the
Soviet bloc collapsed and a  flurry  of new countries joined the
fund. The attempt this time is to give more clout to economies
representing a growing share of the world’s economy just as the
IMF’s 188 member countries clash over how to calculate voting
rights in 2014.  “Emerging markets remain concerned about the slow pace of
reforms of the governance structure of the IMF,” Prasad said.  2010 Pact  The 2010 agreement on Europeans’ board representation is
part of a package that also boosts emerging economies’ voting
rights and makes China the fund’s third-largest member country.
It hasn’t yet come into effect, mainly because the U.S., the
IMF’s largest shareholder, has not  ratified  it.  European nations including  Belgium  and the Netherlands are
implementing changes starting Nov. 1. The plan, which partly
relies on a system of rotation between emerging and developed
economies, was called “cosmetic” by Brazilian Finance Minister
Guido Mantega, who says they advantage eastern European
countries and  Europe  as a whole.  “This of course fails to correct the over-representation
of Europe in the board, sending yet another negative signal to
the outside world,” he said in a speech to the IMF’s steering
committee convening in  Tokyo .  The IMF executive board’s two dozen executive directors are
appointed or elected by countries or groups of nations, and
Managing Director Christine Lagarde or her deputies serve as the
chair. The panel typically meets several times a week, making
decisions largely based on the work of the fund management and
staff.  Dutch Shuffle  Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands have said they are
forming their own group, along with countries currently
represented by the Netherlands. That helps  Turkey , the Czech
Republic and Hungary as part of an agreement to rotate with
Austria for executive director.  The chair of Nordic countries will extend its rotation to
Baltic members of the group and Switzerland will rotate with
 Poland  starting in a few years, officials from those countries
have said.  “The executive board is really the policy-making body of
the institution,” said Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow at
the Washington-based Brookings Institution who has served on the
executive boards of the IMF and World Bank. “If you have a
stronger voice in the executive board, you end up affecting the
policies and the program of the institution.”  Colombia’s Shift  That may have helped drive Colombia away from  Brazil . The
country, which was an alternate director under Brazil, will
rotate with Mexico, Venezuela and Spain for the executive
director’s job, Mexican Deputy Finance Minister Gerardo Rodriguez said in an interview yesterday.  The board election for 19 of the 24 directors took place
last week with effect Nov. 1. Results also show that  Nicaragua ,
Cape Verde and East Timor will move to Brazil’s constituency,
according to an IMF document obtained by Bloomberg News.  The elections also came with the surprise candidacy of
former Jordanian Finance Minister Umayya Toukan, bringing the
number of candidates to 20 for 19 elected chairs. The U.S.,
 Japan ,  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. currently appoint their
director. Toukan, who was picked by Qatar and  Syria , was not
elected, the document shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  