-- Israeli Court Rules Library to Get Kafka Papers, Lawyer Says
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-10-14T16:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/israeli-court-rules-library-to-get-kafka-papers-lawyer-says-1-.html
A cache of as yet unseen Franz Kafka
manuscripts will be made available online to scholars after an
Israeli court ruled they weren’t given as a gift to the
secretary of the author’s executor and friend Max Brod.  According to the Tel Aviv Family Court decision, the
papers, which were stashed away in safes and attics for years,
will become the property of the  National Library of Israel ,
which promised in a statement to scan and put them on its
website.  “We are talking about a historical decision that brought
justice to Max Brod and his friend Kafka,” Meir Heller, lawyer
for the library, said by telephone. Harel Ashwall, the lawyer
for the secretary’s two daughters, disagreed and said he planned
to appeal the ruling.  Kathi Diamant, director of the  Kafka Project  at  San Diego
State University , has said in the past that papers that may be
part of the collection may help scholars locate some Kafka
notebooks that the Gestapo confiscated from the author’s
companion, Dora Diamant.  The dispute over the papers began with Brod, a German-
language author best known for his Kafka biography and
historical novels. Though Kafka’s last wish was for his papers
to be burned, Brod kept them, ensuring the publication of “The
Trial” and “The Castle.”  Literary Estate  When Brod died in 1968, he left his estate to his secretary
Esther Hoffe, who then left it to her daughters. The court ruled
today that the will intended for Brod’s literary estate,
including the Kafka manuscripts, to be given to a public
institution and kept intact.  “We think that the decision does not reflect the
intentions and desire of Max Brod, in fact the opposite is
true,” Ashwall said in an e-mailed response to the ruling. “We
also think the ruling is flawed in legal terms.”  For decades, Hoffe declined to make the papers available to
the public, frustrating archivists and scholars alike. Kafka
specialists had hoped her daughters would open the files,
providing new insights into the author, who died of tuberculosis
in 1924.  When the sisters, now in their 70s, attempted to ratify
their mother’s will in January 2008, the state of  Israel 
intervened. The case landed in the family court, where the
National Library became a party to the proceedings.  Internet Plan  The library plans to catalog and preserve the papers, then,
“in the not so distant future scan and open them up to all on
the Internet, in this way fulfilling  Brod’s will,” Oren
Weinberg, director of the library, said in an e-mailed
statement.  During her lifetime, Hoffe sold a handwritten manuscript of
Kafka’s “The Trial” for $1.98 million at a 1988 Sotheby’s
auction in  London .  Heller said he hoped that all Kafka papers that were bought
from Hoffe in the past will now be returned to their proper
place at the library in  Jerusalem  so they can be presented
together to scholars.  Muse highlights include  New York   Weekend ,  Lewis Lapham  on
history and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 