-- Titanic Tycoon Plans Stake Sale Talks for $8 Billion Gas Project
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-14T23:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/titanic-tycoon-plans-stake-sale-talks-for-8-billion-gas-project.html
Australian mining magnate Clive Palmer, who’s planning to build a modern replica of the Titanic,
aims to start talks next year to sell stakes in a potential $8
billion natural gas project in  Papua New Guinea .  “We’ve had interest from major petrochemical companies who
want to joint venture” including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Chinese
companies, Palmer said in an interview. “We will talk to them
at the appropriate time,” likely mid-2013 when field work is
scheduled to be completed, he said.  Palmer, who owns a nickel refinery and is developing an $8
billion coal project in Australia, is seeking to tap surging
Asian gas demand. Exxon, the world’s biggest oil company by
market value, is developing a $15.7 billion liquefied natural
gas venture in Papua New Guinea, among eight such projects being
built in the two nations at a cost of about $200 billion.  “Exxon looks at a variety of deals,” Johan Hedstrom, a
Sydney-based energy sector analyst with Bell Potter Securities
Ltd., said by phone. “If they think that  Clive Palmer  has some
licenses that are particularly prospective, they may be prepared
to do a deal with him.”  Exxon doesn’t comment on commercial matters, Anna Awasa, a
Port Moresby-based spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Palmer estimates his closely-held  Mineralogy Pty  has spent
A$50 million ($51 million) this year on exploration in PNG,
where it holds three licenses. Total SA,  Europe ’s third-largest
oil company, this month formed an exploration partnership with
Oil Search Ltd. that may lead to another LNG project in the
country.  Field Work  Mineralogy’s permits cover 43,170 square kilometers (16,668
miles) in the Gulf of Papua, west of PNG’s capital  Port Moresby .
A new estimate on the gas resource will be available late this
year or early next, after early studies revealed potential for
22 trillion cubic feet of gas,  Andrew Crook , of Crook Publicity,
a spokesman for Palmer, said in an e-mail response to questions
on Oct. 12.  “We are doing more work in the field because the more we
develop the project, the better,” Palmer said, adding that it
may cost about $8 billion to develop the project. “The stake
sale size will depend on what we find.”  Palmer is holding a dinner in  New York  on Dec. 4 to unveil
the completed design and engineering plans for Titanic II, he
said this month in a statement. He plans to sail the ship from
Southampton in the U.K. to New York on her maiden passenger
voyage in 2016.  Estimates of Palmer’s fortune vary. He was ranked as
Australia’s eighth-richest man with a fortune of A$3.85 billion
by BRW magazine in May. Forbes estimated in February that he was
worth $795 million. He isn’t ranked on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Asia’s Biggest  Demand for LNG has seen  Asia ’s largest economies agree to
buy more than $500 billion of Australian natural gas through
2036, even as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said this year the
world may face an LNG glut in the next eight years.  “There’s certainly room for new projects to satisfy that
demand, but there’s a lot of competition,” Bell Potter’s
Hedstrom said. “Gas is being found with relative ease all
around the world.”  LNG projects in Australia and Papua New Guinea face
increasing competition from countries including the U.S. and
 Canada . From 2017, “it continues to look like a buyer’s market
given the growing number of proposed projects competing for
finite longer-term demand,”  Adrian Wood  and Kirit Hira,
analysts at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a Sept. 10 report.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s biggest oil company, signed
an agreement last year with Papua New Guinea-owned Petromin PNG
Holdings Ltd. to evaluate exploration and development
opportunities in the country. Chevron Corp. and Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. are among companies developing LNG ventures in
Australia, set to overtake Qatar as the largest LNG exporter by
the end of this decade.  Palmer, who last year dropped his fourth attempt in two
years to sell shares in  Hong Kong  for his Resourcehouse Ltd.
vehicle, said last month he expects to receive $500 million a
year in royalties from Citic Pacific Ltd.’s iron ore mine in
Western  Australia  once it reaches full production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  