-- Lithuania Labor Party Leads Parliament Vote, Exit Poll Shows
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-14T18:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/lithuanian-labor-party-leads-parliament-vote-exit-poll-shows.html
Lithuania ’s Labor Party is leading
parliamentary elections after a first round of voting, making it
most likely to lead a new coalition, an exit poll showed.  The party, led by Russian-born entrepreneur Viktor Uspaskich, won 19.8 percent of votes, according to a poll of
3,786 people by the RAIT agency for the  Baltic News Service .
Former Finance Minister Algirdas Butkevicius’s Social Democrats
garnered 17.8 percent, while Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s
Homeland Union-Christian Democrats placed third with 16.7
percent support, the poll showed.  Opposition parties lured voters with pledges to boost wages
and trim sales levies to oust Kubilius, whose austerity measures
intensified the Baltic nation’s deepest recession in 2009 and
2010. A new Cabinet will be formed after Oct. 28, when a second
round of balloting will take place in the single-mandate
districts that comprise 71 of the 141-seat parliament in the
capital, Vilnius.  “The preliminary results show the  Labor Party  will play
the key role in deciding whether the new ruling coalition leans
more to the right or to the left,” Tomas Janeliunas, who
lectures at Vilnius University’s Institute of International
Affairs and Political Science, said by phone after the exit
poll. “Homeland Union will in any case remain a strong party.”  Turnout Threshold  Turnout was 50.1 percent one hour before polling closed,
above the 50 percent minimum threshold for the election to be
valid, the central election commission said on its  website .
Results are due to be released from 10 p.m. in Vilnius as is the
outcome of a referendum on whether Lithuania should build a new
nuclear power plant, which was also held today.  There will probably be three parties in the new coalition
as there is no clear leader at present, BNS cited Uspaskich as
saying after the exit-poll results were released.  “I project that most likely it will be the  Social
Democrats , the Labor Party and Order & Justice.” BNS quoted him
as saying. Teaming up with Homeland Union “won’t really work,
since they say they won’t stimulate the economy and may increase
taxes. That will be a dying economy.”  Austerity Backlash  Impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice
was one of three other parties poised to exceed the 5 percent
barrier to parliamentary representation, getting 8.4 percent
support, according to the poll, which had a margin of error of
1.2 percentage points. The Liberal Movement, part of the current
coalition, and Way of Courage each had 8.5 percent, the results
showed.  Kubilius has been trying to avoid the fate of European
leaders who lost power in a wave of protests against austerity
measures that contributed to recessions in economies from
 Romania  to  Spain  instead of tackling the euro area’s debt crisis
as envisaged.  His government cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of economic output in 2009 and 2010 as gross domestic
product plunged by almost a quarter.  Kubilius is seeking to narrow this year’s budget deficit to
close to the European Union’s cap of 3 percent of gross domestic
product from 9.4 percent in 2009, plans that have helped push
borrowing costs to record lows.  Bonds, Swaps  The yield on Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 was 3.552
percent Oct. 12, near the lowest since it was sold in January.
The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps was 152 basis points, compared
with 845 points in February 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry , the
recession fueled joblessness and sparked an exodus of workers.  After falling from a peak of 18.3 percent in the second
quarter of 2010, unemployment remains above 13 percent, driving
emigration to countries such as Norway and the U.K.  Lithuania’s population dropped below 3 million for the
first time in April, compared with 3.7 million in 1990. About
53,900 Lithuanians left the country in 2011, while 15,700
returned, the statistics office said in March.  “As a result of the huge emigration, we even face labor
shortages,” the Social Democrats’ Butkevicius said today. “If
we head the new government, one of our priorities will be
initiatives that we hope will bring people back to Lithuania.”  Poverty Risk  Spending cuts and tax increases since 2008 have also pushed
inequality to the highest level in the EU, with the proportion
of people at risk of poverty surging to the biggest among the
bloc’s 27 members, according to Eurostat.  The Labor Party says it will raise the minimum wage to
1,509 litai ($563) a month from 800 litai and reduce the value-
added tax on basic food stuffs. The Social Democrats, who have
advocated euro adoption a year later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal,
have pledged to create jobs and adjust income-tax rates to
benefit those who earn least.  These plans contradict promises by both parties to maintain
control of fiscal affairs, Kubilius has said. President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU Budget Commissioner who must name
Lithuania’s new premier after the elections, has criticized some
parties’ spending pledges, urging fiscal responsibility.  “I hope they’ll think about Lithuania and not just about
themselves,” Grybauskaite told reporters after voting today in
Vilnius, asked about her expectations for the next government.  The state of public finances and the breadth of the new
coalition will block deviation from Kubilius’s fiscal
discipline, according to Oxford University’s Ainius Lasas.  “The left-of-center parties won’t go through with their
rather populist promises, for objective reasons and because they
won’t have enough power to make it happen,” Lasas, a senior
research fellow focusing on media and democracy in central and
eastern  Europe , said Oct. 10 by phone. “It will all be blamed
on the coalition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  