-- Lithuania Votes as Austerity Upshot Points to Cabinet Ouster
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-14T13:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/lithuania-votes-as-austerity-fallout-points-to-government-ouster.html
Lithuanians went to the polls today
in an election that’s set to oust the government after austerity
measures intensified the Baltic nation’s deepest recession,
triggering record-high unemployment and an exodus of workers.  Voting began at 7 a.m. in the capital, Vilnius, with the
opposition  Social Democrats  likely to lead a new coalition, a
survey by Baltijos Tyrimai shows. A Cabinet will be formed after
a second round of balloting on Oct. 28 in the single-mandate
districts that comprise half of the 141-seat parliament. Prime
Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christian Democrats
poll third. Voting stations close at 8 p.m., with exit polls due
right after.  “We expect to win this election and get the opportunity to
form a new coalition government,” Social Democrat leader
Algirdas Butkevicius said while waiting to vote today in
Vilnius. Potential coalition partners could include any other
parties that get strong voter support, Butkevicius said.  Kubilius cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of economic output in 2009 and 2010 amid the European
Union’s second-worst recession.  While voters may be lured by pledges to boost wages and
trim sales levies, the state of public finances and the breadth
of the new coalition will block deviation from Kubilius’s fiscal
discipline, according to Oxford University’s Ainius Lasas.  Austerity Backlash  “The left-of-center parties won’t go through with their
rather populist promises, for objective reasons and because they
won’t have enough power to make it happen,” Lasas, a senior
research fellow focusing on media and democracy in central and
eastern  Europe , said Oct. 10 by phone. “It will all be blamed
on the coalition.”  Kubilius is trying to avoid the fate of European leaders
who lost power in a wave of protests against austerity measures
that contributed to recessions in economies from  Romania  to
 Spain  instead of tackling the euro area’s debt crisis as
envisaged.  His government is seeking to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to close to the EU’s cap of 3 percent of gross domestic
product from 9.4 percent in 2009, plans that have helped push
borrowing costs to record lows.  The yield on  Lithuania ’s dollar bond due 2022 was 3.552
percent Oct. 12, near the lowest since it was sold in January.
The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps was 152 basis points, compared
with 845 points in February 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Fantasy’ Promises  “Promises by the left-leaning parties to raise pensions
and so on are from the realm of fantasy and may just be
forgotten,”  Violeta Klyviene , an economist with  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Vilnius, said Oct. 10 by phone. “Rising borrowing costs
would serve as a cold shower for these politicians, simply
forcing them to stick to discipline.”  The Social Democrats have 24 percent support, compared with
18 percent for Russian-born entrepreneur Viktor Uspaskich’s
Labor Party, 12 percent for Homeland Union, 8 percent for the
Liberal Movement, part of the current coalition, and 7 percent
for impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice,
according to a Sept. 16-28 poll by Baltijos Tyrimai for the ELTA
news service.  Two more parties, the Lithuanian Polish Election Action and
the Way of Courage, have 4.7 percent and 4.5 percent backing,
just below the 5 percent parliamentary threshold, according to
the survey of 585 people, whose margin of error was 4.1
percentage points.  Nuclear Referendum  Twenty-three percent of registered voters, who will also
participate in a non-binding referendum on building a nuclear-
power plant backed by Kubilius, were undecided.  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry , output
plunged almost a quarter as Kubilius implemented austerity
during the recession.  As the $43 billion economy has expanded, unemployment has
fallen from a peak of 18.3 percent in the second quarter of
2010. Still, it remains above 13 percent, driving emigration to
countries such as Norway and the U.K.  As a result, Lithuania’s population dropped below 3 million
for the first time in April, compared with 3.7 million in 1990.
About 53,900 Lithuanians left the country in 2011, while 15,700
returned, the statistics office said in March.  Jobs Pledge  “As a result of the huge emigration, we even face labor
shortages,” the Social Democrats’ Butkevicius said today. “If
we head the new government, one of our priorities will be
initiatives that we hope will bring people back to Lithuania.”  Spending cuts and tax increases since 2008 have also pushed
inequality to the highest level in the EU, with the proportion
of people at risk of poverty surging to the biggest among the
bloc’s 27 members, according to Eurostat.  The Social Democrats, who have advocated euro adoption a
year later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal, have pledged to create
jobs and adjust income-tax rates to benefit those who earn
least. The  Labor Party  says it will raise the minimum wage to
1,509 litai ($563) a month from 800 litai and reduce the value-
added tax on basic food stuffs.  These plans contradict promises by both parties to maintain
control of fiscal affairs, Kubilius has said. President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU Budget Commissioner who must name
Lithuania’s new premier after the elections, has criticized some
parties’ spending pledges, urging fiscal responsibility.  For Lithuania  “I hope they’ll think about Lithuania and not just about
themselves,” Grybauskaite told reporters after voting today in
Vilnius, asked about her expectations for the next government.  Investors would only fret if the elections yield a
government that differs from those seen since independence from
the  Soviet Union  in 1990, according to Tomas Andrejauskas, head
of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ’s markets unit in Lithuania.  “Everyone expects stability, a coalition like we have now,
no big changes,” he said Oct. 8 by phone from Vilnius. “If
somehow the traditional parties lose in a big way -- the
conservatives who are in power now, the Social Democrats -- then
the markets might be uneasy.”  The new coalition will probably have to include Homeland
Union or the Liberal Movement, which engineered the austerity
policies of the last four years, according to Oxford
University’s Lasas.  Seeking Continuity  Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius was optimistic after voting
today in Vilnius that his party might perform better than polls
have suggested, and remain in power  “I hope that continuity, in terms of both policy and
people, will be guaranteed,” Kubilius told reporters. “This
four-year period was complicated. We had to guarantee
responsible financial policy and, as the president has noted,
carry out important measures in the energy sector. I hope that
such responsible policy will continue.”  Algirdas Butkevicius, leader of the Social Democrats, has
vowed to maintain fiscal discipline as Lithuania gears up to
assume the EU’s rotating presidency for the first time in July.  “There will be no revolutions in the budget,” Butkevicius
said in a Sept. 18 interview in Vilnius. “Lithuania won’t
follow the same path  Greece ,  Italy  or  Portugal  did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  