-- Lithuania’s Butkevicius Revises Stance on Euro, Nuclear Power
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-14T13:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/lithuania-s-butkevicius-revises-stance-on-euro-nuclear-power.html
The head of  Lithuania ’s opposition
 Social Democrats , who expect to win today’s election, stepped
back from previous disapproval of a swift adoption of the euro
and building a nuclear power plant.  “My desire, as a former finance minister, is to introduce
the euro as fast as possible since Lithuania doesn’t have any
other path,” Algirdas Butkevicius said while waiting to vote
today in Vilnius. “It’s a shame we didn’t manage in 2007.”  Butkevicius, 53, said he expected the Social Democrats, who
led in the polls before today’s ballot, to win the most seats in
parliament and take charge of forming a new ruling coalition,
with him as the most likely prime minister. President Dalia Grybauskaite, who must name a new premier after elections, on
Oct. 11 said the next Cabinet must preserve fiscal stability and
prioritize energy-security projects.  A government led by the Social Democrats would try to
ensure Lithuania meets all the criteria for adopting the
European Union’s common currency, Butkevicius said. That means
getting the fiscal deficit under 3 percent of gross domestic
product this year “and reducing it from there,” he said.  He said a bigger challenge would be managing inflation,
which has accelerated recently on rising prices for heating
services, electricity and food.  Lithuanians are also participating today in a non-binding
referendum on building a nuclear power plant with  Japan ’s
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , under a plan backed by the ruling Homeland Union
party and opposed by the Social Democrats.  “We are only against this project, which was rushed
through parliament without a proper debate or competent economic
valuation, but we are not against nuclear power in Lithuania,”
Butkevicius told reporters after voting. “We need to behave
responsibly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  