-- Japan Lenders Bailing Out Sharp May Increase Oversight
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-10-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/japan-lenders-bailing-out-sharp-may-increase-oversight.html
Banks bailing out money-losing  Sharp
Corp. (6753)  to the tune of $4.6 billion may increase their management
oversight of the Japanese television maker to support its return
to profit.  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. plan to send executives to Sharp, the Asahi newspaper
reported yesterday. The lenders, based in  Tokyo , are selecting
the executives and plan to discuss the matter with the company,
the newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information.  The maker of Aquos TVs secured 360 billion yen ($4.6
billion) of funding from Mizuho and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi-
UFJ, it said Sept. 28, after submitting cost-cutting proposals
to the banks earlier. Sharp has also been renegotiating a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn Technology Group
after widening its full-year loss forecast eightfold in August,
triggering a slide in its share price. The talks may continue
until March, Sharp said last month.  Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on the Asahi report.  Calls to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s press officials and
spokesman Shinya Matsumoto’s mobile phone were unanswered. A
phone call to  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  spokesman  Masako Shiono ’s office wasn’t answered.  The Asahi report didn’t say how many executives may be sent
to Sharp or what posts they may take.  Sliding Shares  Sharp rose 4.8 percent to 153 yen at the close of Tokyo
trading Oct. 12. The stock dropped 4.6 percent the previous day
to 146 yen, the lowest level since November 1971, according to
Nakayama, the company spokeswoman. The shares have slid 77
percent this year, the  worst performer  on Japan’s benchmark
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  Sharp will get a 180 billion yen loan from Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ, a unit of Japan’s largest banking group by
market value, and Mizuho Corporate, a unit of the No. 3 group,
the company said Sept. 28. Another 180 billion yen in the form
of a revolving credit facility due in June will also be extended
to  Japan ’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays.  The TV maker may consider raising new funds, because it
needs money for growth and to regain the trust of the market, a
senior executive at the company said in  Osaka , Japan, on Oct.
12. The executive declined to be identified, citing company
policy.  The electronics company presented a revival package to its
main banks that included cutting more than 10,000 jobs, or 18
percent of its workforce, and selling overseas plants as well as
U.S. solar developer Recurrent Energy LLC, people with knowledge
of the proposal said Sept. 26.  Sharp on Aug. 2 forecast a loss of 250 billion yen for the
12 months ending March 31.  Foxconn, led by billionaire Terry Gou, agreed in March to
invest 67 billion yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550
yen a share. Under the agreement, the transaction was to be
completed by March 2013. Sharp turned to Foxconn,  whose Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co.  unit makes Apple Inc. iPads, in an
attempt to restructure its money-losing LCD business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  