-- Jeter Breaks Ankle, Out for Playoffs as Tigers Top Yankees
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-10-14T16:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/jeter-breaks-ankle-out-for-playoffs-as-tigers-top-yankees-6-4.html
The  New York Yankees  lost more than
the opening game of the American League Championship Series as
team captain Derek Jeter fractured his ankle, ruling him out for
the rest of the Major League Baseball playoffs.  The 38-year-old shortstop, who tallied his 200th postseason
hit in his record 158th playoff game, was injured as he fielded
a grounder in the 12th and final inning of a 6-4 defeat to the
 Detroit Tigers  last night. The recovery will take about three
months, Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said.  “It won’t jeopardize his career, but he won’t be playing
with us anymore this year,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said
during a televised news conference.  The Yankees moved from being the 5-2 favorite to win the
 World Series  before the loss to the 5-1 long shot to claim a
record-extending 28th title, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book. The Tigers are the new favorites, at 3-2, to win a
fifth World Series and first since 1984, with the  San Francisco
Giants  and the St. Louis Cardinals at 3-1.  “Anyone would admit we have a better chance of winning
with  Derek Jeter  in the lineup,” Girardi said. “We have to
move on. I’m not saying that in a cold way, but we’re trying to
win a series.”  Jeter’s Replacement  Jayson Nix will take over at shortstop for today’s game at
Yankee Stadium, the second in the best-of-seven series. Girardi
said the fracture isn’t related to a bone bruise Jeter sustained
in Game 3 of the AL Division Series against the  Baltimore
Orioles  when he fouled a ball off his left ankle.  “That’s kind of crushing,” right fielder  Nick Swisher 
said of Jeter’s injury. “It’s really tough. We’ve got to keep
pushing along and keep playing our game, and hopefully we can
pull it out.”  The Giants visit the Cardinals today in the first game of
the National League Championship Series.  The Tigers blew a 4-0 lead last night when Ichiro Suzuki
and  Raul Ibanez  both hit two-run homers in the ninth.  Delmon Young , who had a solo home run in the eighth inning,
doubled in the 12th to send home  Miguel Cabrera  for a 5-4 lead.
Andy Dirks added a run-scoring single.  Prince Fielder opened the scoring for the Tigers with a
one-run single in the sixth inning. Young hit a single to right
to send home Cabrera as the Tigers took a 2-0 lead.  After Young’s homer in the eighth, Jhonny Peralta scored on
Avisail Garcia’s single to make it 4-0.  Tying Runs  With Jose Valverde in relief, Suzuki blasted his two-run
homer and then, with the Yankees down to their final out, Ibanez
tied the game. It was the third time since Oct. 2 he has
performed the feat.  On Oct. 10, Ibanez pinch-hit a home run in the bottom of
the ninth to tie the third game against the Orioles and send it
into extra innings. He then led off the 12th inning with a game-
winning homer.  Eight days earlier he had a pinch-hit two-run homer in the
ninth inning against the  Boston Red Sox , then won the game with
a run-scoring single in the 12th.  Drew Smyly allowed one hit and struck out two in the final
two innings of last night’s game for the win. David Phelps gave
up two runs on three hits for the loss.  Girardi said seeing Jeter sprawled out on the field
reminded him of the May 3 incident when closer  Mariano Rivera ,
42, tore the anterior cruciate ligament and meniscus in his
right knee while catching fly balls during a pregame warm-up,
ending his season.  “It is kind of a flashback to when Mo didn’t get up,”
Girardi said. “Oh, boy, if he’s not getting up, something’s
wrong.”  The Yankee clubhouse was quiet as Jeter’s teammates
pondered the events on the field.  “Watching Jete go down was, and still is, a very difficult
moment for us as a team,” Ibanez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 