-- Kensington House Prices Surge to Record $3.5 Million: Economy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-10-15T10:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/kensington-house-prices-rise-to-3-5-million-in-london-bubble-.html
Asking prices for homes in London
surged to a record this month as values in the borough of
Kensington and Chelsea rose to an average 2.2 million pounds
($3.5 million), according to  Rightmove Plc. (RMV)   Prices in the country’s most expensive district increased
9.1 percent from September, the operator of Britain’s biggest
property website said in a report today. Values in London rose
4.8 percent to 478,071 pounds, while the average across England
and Wales gained 3.5 percent to 243,168 pounds.  “There is a prime central-London ‘price bubble’ that keeps
on expanding,” said  Miles Shipside , commercial director of
Rightmove. “While there remains a shortage of supply and a
stream of foreign buyers looking for safe havens, the bubble
will continue to grow.”  While Rightmove said the national rebound indicates the
market is not performing “as badly as some feared,” it noted
downward pressure from the difficulties prospective homebuyers
continue to have in getting a mortgage. The Bank of England and
the government are trying to rectify this with a program aimed
at giving banks cheaper funds in a bid to boost lending.  Nationally, all 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by
Rightmove posted monthly price increases. London led the gains,
followed by the West Midlands and the Southeast, both of which
recorded increases of 3.9 percent.  In  London , the new price level in Kensington and Chelsea
exceeded the previous record of 2.1 million pounds set in June.  It’s “partly a bounce after the Olympic-induced activity
doldrums,” said Shipside. “Some Londoners, especially those in
the upper price brackets, had the option or sense to delay
marketing their properties.”  Economic Outlook  A continued property-market recovery may depend on the
outlook for the economy. The Ernst & Young ITEM Club said today
that the U.K. will return to growth in the second half of the
year, helped by consumer spending, though it still forecasts a
full-year contraction.  The London-based group sees gross domestic product falling
0.2 percent this year and rising 1.2 percent in 2013. It
previously forecast stagnation followed by 1.6 percent
expansion.  Separately, Lloyds TSB said the squeeze on consumers’
finances is continuing, with discretionary real spending power
falling 0.9 percent in September from a year earlier. U.K.
inflation probably slowed to 2.2 percent in September from 2.5
percent in August, economists said in a survey before a report
tomorrow. The Lloyds report said annual income growth was less
than that, at 1.7 percent.  Housing Transactions  The Rightmove report also showed that house prices in
London rose 6.2 percent in October from a year earlier. Values
in England and  Wales  were up 1.5 percent on the year.  Acadametrics Ltd. said on Oct. 12 that house prices based
on its transaction measure fell for a third month in September
as sales dropped 24 percent to about 50,000, the second-lowest
level for a September since records began in 1995. The Bank of
England said on Oct. 1 that  mortgage approvals  were little
changed in August at 47,665, less than half the monthly average
in the decade before the financial crisis struck in 2007.  “After a summer of sporting distractions, optimists may
consider lower unsold stock levels and strong pricing to be
signs of recovery,” said Shipside. “However, sellers still
need to be mindful that the window of opportunity to sell before
the traditional winter slowdown is a narrow one and they risk
being left out in the cold for months.”  Chinese Inflation  Elsewhere in  Europe , Swiss  producer and import prices  had
the first annual gain in more than a year in September as energy
costs increased. Prices for products ranging from factory to
farm goods as well as imports rose 0.3 percent from a year ago,
the first increase since April 2011.  In Asia,  China’s inflation  was close to the slowest pace in
two years in September, giving the government room to ease
policies should the economy deteriorate. Consumer prices rose
1.9 percent from a year earlier while the producer-price index
dropped 3.6 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said.  A report this week may show the  nation’s expansion  slid to
7.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, the
seventh straight deceleration, underscoring International
Monetary Fund warnings that weakening growth in developed
economies is spreading to  emerging markets .  At an IMF meeting in  Tokyo  last week, People’s Bank of
 China  Deputy Governor Yi Gang said that while policy makers will
provide “appropriate” stimulus to stabilize growth, the
central bank’s main task is price stability and warned that
bubble risks remain in housing markets in major cities. China’s
Xinhua News Agency cited Yi as saying that the nation has
“relatively large room” for use of monetary and fiscal
policies compared with some countries.  Retail sales  in the U.S. probably rose 0.8 percent last
month, economists said in a survey before a report today. An
index of manufacturing in the  New York  region probably rose to
minus 4 in October from minus 10.4 the previous month,
economists in a separate survey predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  