-- Norwegian Mass Murderer Wreaks Havoc in Paris: Books
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-10-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/norwegian-mass-murderer-wreaks-havoc-in-paris-books.html
Sympathizing with a mass killer can
cost you your job.  That’s what happened to Richard Millet, whose pamphlet
“Langue Fantome” (Phantom Language) caused a riot among French
intellectuals. Antoine Gallimard, boss of France’s most
prestigious publishing house, publicly distanced himself from
the star of his reading committee, and Millet resigned.  The bone of contention is the book’s 18-page epilogue
titled “Eloge Litteraire d’Anders Breivik” in which Millet,
while condemning the massacre of 77 Norwegians in July 2011,
praises its “formal perfection.”  The killer himself, he says, is a victim of “the civil war
that ravages  Europe ,” a continent losing its identity under the
onslaught of global markets and “multicultural nihilism.”  Millet compares Breivik to the Japanese writer Yukio Mishima who, in 1970, committed ritual suicide out of despair
over his country’s decline.  The protests against that provocative last chapter have
completely overshadowed the rest of the book and its key
message. The pamphlet is an indictment, not an apology, and the
accused is the U.S.  With its superficial hedonism and its “dictatorship of
compulsory entertainment,” Millet says, the U.S. has destroyed
serious literature and created an illiterate “Brave New World”
like the one prophesied by Aldous Huxley in his novel 80 years
ago.  Hollywood Export  As a recent example of our post-literary times, where
everything that isn’t ‘Hollywoodisable’ is ignored, Millet cites
Umberto Eco’s decision to bring out a new, dumbed-down version
of his bestseller “The Name of the Rose” purged of Latin
quotations and other erudite trimmings.  The epitome of our intellectual decay, we’re told, is the
endless, brainless prattle of the “social networks,” another
import from the U.S.  France , Millet says, once a great power in world
literature, has been reduced to a banana republic and an Anglo-
Saxon colony: “Writing in French is tantamount to condemning
yourself to international invisibility.”  The U.S. is not the only culprit. Millet also lashes out at
the “soixante-huitards” (68ers), the French baby boomers, who
have demolished traditional standards and are preaching the
gospel of “anything goes.”  Non-European immigration is another factor undermining
France’s identity. Mentioning this, however, is verboten on pain
of instant media lynching.  Nativist Rant  It’s easy to dismiss Millet’s pamphlet as a nativist rant.
In fact, much of what he says about immigration and
multiculturalism is more or less what you hear from the National
Front, the far-right party that won 18 percent of the votes in
France’s recent presidential elections.  On the other hand, his views on the harmful influence of
American culture are widely shared by the French Left. In 1982,
the then Minister of Culture Jack Lang accused the U.S. at a
United Nations conference in Mexico City of “cultural
imperialism.”  It’s typical that virtually none of Millet’s many critics
took issue with his anti-American stance.  “When I speak diplomatically,” Millet defended himself in
an interview with the magazine Le Nouvel Observateur, “nobody
listens.” He’s probably right about that.  By spicing up his pamphlet with kudos for the Norwegian
mass killer, he certainly attracted attention -- at a price,
though: His provocation drowned out the message he tried to
deliver.  “Langue Fantome” is published by Pierre-Guillaume de Roux
(123 pages, 16 euros).  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater,
 John Mariani  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 