-- Obama Downplaying Al-Qaeda Risk, Republican Lawmakers Say
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-10-14T17:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/obama-downplaying-al-qaeda-risk-republican-lawmakers-say.html
Raising the political ante on the
attack on the U.S. embassy compound in Libya, congressional
Republicans say President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
sought to play down the risk of a resurgent al-Qaeda in the
Middle East.  The Obama administration was “trying to sell a narrative
about the Mideast that the wars are receding and that al-Qaeda
was being defeated” until the Sept. 11 attack in Benghazi that
killed the U.S. ambassador, Christopher Stevens, and three other
Americans, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina
said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  He said the White House has been reluctant to say the
attack was carried out by militias associated with al-Qaeda
because that “undercuts the narrative.”  U.S. intelligence officials say they are investigating
whether the Libyan militia group suspected of carrying out the
assault, Ansar al-Sharia, has operational ties to al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb, a loose-knit extremist group that’s made
inroads in Niger,  Mali , and other North African nations.  Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
expressed greater certainty. The “coordinated attack” that
killed Stevens was “by an al-Qaeda-associated militia,” he
said.  Intelligence officials “on the ground told me that in 24
hours they communicated to Washington that this was a terrorist
attack,” Graham told CBS, and still, top U.S. officials
including the president said the incident was spurred by
protests arising out of an anti-Islamic video.  House Hearing  The Obama administration’s response to the embassy attack
has become a contentious election issue, with Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney  criticizing the president for not providing adequate
security to Americans in Libya. At a hearing on Oct. 11,
Republicans on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee challenged the U.S. State Department’s version of
events.  Representative Darryl Issa, the California Republican who
chairs the committee, said on the CBS show that the Libya attack
was Obama’s “mission-accomplished moment,” a reference to when
President George W. Bush was criticized for prematurely
declaring victory in  Iraq .  Representative Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the
House Oversight committee, said Issa and the Republicans were
reaching conclusions before the investigation was complete.  “We don’t have substantial evidence yet” on exactly what
transpired on Sept. 11, Cummings said on CBS. “There’s a lot to
be answered. The FBI investigation is going on and Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton has appointed a review board.”  Republicans are making allegations “based on a campaign
schedule,” Maryland’s Cummings said. “I don’t think our men
who were killed deserve this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  