-- Oil Trades Near Four-Day Low Amid Global Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-15T11:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/oil-drops-a-second-day-as-iran-offers-uranium-enrichment-deal.html
Oil traded close to a four-day low
in  New York  amid concern that the global economy is weakening,
threatening to curb demand for fuels.  Futures slid as much as 1.1 percent. Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the world is “awfully close” to
a recession, adding to concern raised at annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  last week. Hedge funds and other
speculators trimmed bets that oil will rise, data from
regulators showed on Oct. 12. Iran reiterated an offer to
suspend domestic production of medium-enriched uranium before
European officials meet to discuss tighter sanctions on the
Persian Gulf country.  “The crude market is currently well supplied and prices
will remain volatile before refinery demand picks up throughout
the fourth quarter,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at London-
based commodities broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd., who predicts
 Brent crude  will recover toward $125 a barrel by year-end.  Crude for November delivery fell as much as $1.04 to $90.82
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , its weakest level since Oct. 9, and was at $92.08 at
12:47 p.m. London time. Prices are down 6.8 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange lost as much as 77 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $113.85 a barrel. The contract expires tomorrow. The
more actively traded December future was up 46 cents at $114.07.
The European benchmark was at a $23.20 premium to  New York- 
traded West Texas Intermediate grade, up from $22.76 on Oct. 12.  Brent-WTI Spread  The spread between Brent and WTI may be at a seasonal peak,
according to Morgan Stanley. The gap may narrow as U.S. Gulf
Coast refiners resume operations after maintenance, boosting
demand for domestic crude, and as North Sea supplies rise after
work finished on the  oil fields  that produce the grades
underlying the Brent contract,  Hussein Allidina , the head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley, said in a report dated
today. The price difference reached $23.64 on Oct. 11, the most
in almost a year.  Iran is ready to enter talks about its nuclear program in
exchange for guaranteed supplies of 20 percent-enriched uranium
for its Tehran Research Reactor, said  Ramin Mehmanparast , a
Foreign Ministry spokesman, according to a Press TV report
yesterday. The European Union has reached a preliminary
agreement to intensify sanctions to increase pressure on OPEC’s
third-largest oil exporter to curb its nuclear program, EU
diplomats with knowledge of the matter said on Oct. 12.  Closing Loopholes  Officials from the EU’s 27 nations agreed in Brussels on
Oct. 12 to close loopholes in sanctions aimed at curbing the
Iranian government’s ability to raise funds for its atomic
program, which the U.S. and its allies say may be aimed at
producing weapons, the officials said, asking not to be
identified because the talks were private.  The proposed sanctions must now be approved by the bloc’s
foreign ministers, who meet today in Luxembourg.  “If the news coming out from  Iran  indicating that it’s
willing to suspend 20 percent enrichment for reactor fuel is
true and they reach an agreement, then we might see a push to
the downside” for oil, Nabil Farhat, a partner at Al Fajer
Securities, an Abu Dhabi-based broker, said yesterday.  Crude imports by  China , the world’s second-biggest oil
consumer, slid 1.8 percent in September from a year earlier to
20.08 million metric tons, according to data from the Beijing-
based General Administration of Customs on Oct. 13. Purchases
were up 9.1 percent from August, its website showed.  Speculators  Money managers cut net-long positions in West Texas
Intermediate oil by 5,168 futures and options combined, or 3.1
percent, to 161,004 in the week ended Oct. 9, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report on Oct. 12.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers raised
bullish bets  on Brent crude to the highest level in a month in
the week ended Oct. 9, according to data from ICE Futures
Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 114,478
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. That’s an increase of 929 lots, or
0.8 percent, from 113,549 last week, and the highest level since
Sept. 11.  Oil in New York has long-term technical support at $89.83 a
barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. On the weekly chart,
that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the decline to
$32.40 in December 2008 from an intraday record high of $147.27
in July that year. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-
support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  