-- Oscar Winners Follow Terminator Producer to New TV Life
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-15T15:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/oscar-winners-follow-terminator-producer-to-new-life-in-tv-land.html
Oscar winner Jane Campion’s next
project, a mystery thriller featuring “Mad Men” actress
Elisabeth Moss and fellow Academy Award holder Holly Hunter,
won’t be coming to a cinema near you.  Campion, who directed “The Piano,” is following peers
such as “Pulp Fiction” financier Harvey Weinstein and
“Terminator” producer Gale Anne Hurd to television, where
investment in original productions is booming. The first foray
of New Zealand-born Campion into TV is “Top of the Lake,” a
BBC drama series about a detective investigating the
disappearance of a pregnant 12-year-old girl who walked into a
freezing lake.  “Creative people are always looking for places where they
can have freedom and writers have more power in TV,” Campion
said in an interview last week in Cannes,  France , where she was
promoting the series at the  Mipcom  fair, the world’s biggest
market for TV programs. ‘You have more opportunities,’’ she
said, adding that financing for classic cinema movies has
“tightened.”  TV operators including HBO, AMC, Lifetime and  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  are ramping up investments to buy and
create programming to attract viewers, especially to the global
pay-TV market, which is predicted by PricewaterhouseCoopers to
surge by 30 percent to $254.7 billion by 2016. The audience for
television is expanding as more people watch shows on computer
screens, tablets and even mobile phones and new video-streaming
services allow access at any time.  Supermarket Superstar  Weinstein, the producer behind “Shakespeare in Love” and
“The English Patient,” has ventured onto TV in the past few
years with fashion design series “Project Runway” on Lifetime
Television and the upcoming “Supermarket Superstar,” a reality
show featuring entrepreneurs competing to get a food product
offered through a major grocery chain.  “TV has become so exciting,” Weinstein said last week in
Cannes. “There’s an audience for it and there’s an appetite.
The movie business is shrinking.”  Following the economic crisis of the past few years, film
financing has tightened, especially for independent films, after
hedge funds retreated and many credit lines were frozen. As a
result, many Hollywood studios are sticking to big-budget
blockbusters sure to bring an audience such as the “Spiderman”
franchise or “ Marvel’s The Avengers .”  Big Names  Guy Bisson , head of TV research at  IHS Screen Digest  in
 London , said TV companies can benefit by attracting producers,
directors and actors who previously focused on the cinema.  “Companies are increasingly looking to sell content into
the international market and if you can attract a big-name film
producer, then it’s so much the better,” he said.  Michael Lombardo, the president of programming at HBO,
which operates its own pay-TV operations in the U.S. and sells
movies and shows to Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator BSkyB,
said the film industry’s shift toward TV projects has happened
“very aggressively” over the past two and a half years.  “Story tellers go where they can tell their stories, and
the feature film business has changed dramatically in the last
years,” Lombardo said. “To get an adult drama green-lit is
really challenging,” he said, adding that “ten years ago an A-
level actor wouldn’t do a cable or TV series, now they want to
go where the good script is.”  HBO  set the model for cable channels creating their own
content. Recent examples include Christopher Guest, best known
for his role as Nigel Tufnel in the film “Spinal Tap,”
directing the “Family Tree” series and  David Benioff , who
wrote the screenplays for movies “The Kite Runner” and
“Troy,” as producer and writer on the “Game of Thrones”
drama series.  ‘Walking Dead’  Because they increasingly own the rights to original shows,
the broadcasters can then sell them in other markets and also to
video-streaming services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC.  Netflix rose 0.6 percent to $64.70 in  New York  trading as
of 11:53 a.m.  Hurd, the producer behind “Aliens” and “Terminator,”
moved to TV a few years ago with the hit  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) 
zombie show “The Walking Dead” about a sheriff’s deputy who
wakes up after being in a coma to find the world dominated by
the creatures.  “I love that TV puts the character before pyrotechnics and
that we can tell 16 hours of character-driven stories,” Hurd
said. “You get to work with the same cast and crew over seasons
and it becomes like a family.”  Digital Distribution  Other recent moves from film to TV include “Moulin Rouge”
director Baz Luhrmann signing a two-year deal with Sony Pictures
Television to develop projects for cable and broadcast TV, and
actor Kevin Spacey shooting political thriller series “House of
Cards,” which will air exclusively on Netflix next year.  Hurd said she doesn’t mind whether viewers watch her work
on a computer, tablet or traditional TV screen.  “Story telling is the same and an audience won’t tell the
difference between Internet, cable and network,” she said.  British pay-TV operator BSkyB, with more than 10 million
subscribers, spent about 2.2 billion pounds on programming last
year, up 32 percent from 2007, according to Enders Analysis.
Netflix’s costs to acquire content in 2012 will rise to more
than $2 billion, Wedbush Securities estimates. Hulu has said it
will spend $500 million on shows and films this year.  To share costs, broadcasters often team up for major
productions. Campions’s “Top of the Lake” is co-produced by
the  BBC , Sundance Channel, BBC Worldwide and UKTV in  Australia 
and New Zealand.  ‘More Freedom’  Still, spending on TV and video-streaming programming
hasn’t reached the level of cinema productions yet, though
artists are also attracted by the higher level of freedom.  “TV is way below spending in film production, but also you
get a lot more like creative opportunities in addition to more
freedom,” said Toby Syfret, a TV industry analyst at  Enders
Analysis  in London.  Weinstein said he’ll devote more energy to TV endeavours
because the new digital distribution opportunities allow him to
make more money from his rights to movies and shows.  He’s just produced the TV drama “Marco Polo,” for $5
million an episode, in conjunction with Electus, the production
company run by former NBC Entertainment head Ben Silverman. The
program about the 13th century explorer will be aired on the
Starz cable channel.  “The whole point is to own the rights,” Weinstein said.
“At the end of the day content rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  