-- Philippine Attacks Show Risks Ahead of Peace Accord Signing
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o ,   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-15T04:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/philippine-attacks-show-challenges-ahead-of-peace-pact-signing.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
will sign a peace deal today with Muslim guerrillas after deadly
attacks underscored the obstacles to ending a 40-year insurgency
that has blocked investment in the country’s mineral-rich south.  Three soldiers were shot and killed Oct. 13 in Basilan,
according to the military, while firearms, explosives and
ammunition were seized in a raid on a mining site in Zamboanga
del Sur in the southern Philippines, police said. Two people
were killed after a bomb exploded in Cagayan de Oro City, also
in the nation’s south, on Oct. 11., which authorities said may
be connected to blasts in Zamboanga province the previous day.  “Achieving a lasting peace will take time and cannot
happen overnight,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The peace pact is a crucial
step that changes perception on Mindanao and adds to the
positive sentiment on the Philippines.”  The new accord may yet provide the best chance since 2008
to end an insurgency in the region that has killed as many as
200,000 and frustrated efforts by companies such as  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
and  Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. (5713)  to tap an estimated $312 billion
in mineral deposits. Aquino also seeks to abolish death squads,
contract killings, clan wars and kidnappings by al-Qaeda-
affiliated militants as the nation pursues an investment-grade
 credit rating  and faster economic growth.  Rebels to Visit Palace  Aquino welcomed Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak at the
presidential palace today, where the two will witness the
signing of the peace accord between the Philippine government
and Moro Islamic Liberation Front, or MILF. About 200 MILF
members will attend, the first time the presidential palace has
hosted the rebels, Aquino spokeswoman Abigail Valte said
yesterday. About 500 people who traveled from Mindanao held a
peace vigil overnight outside the palace, organizers said.  “This is the sound of peace,” MILF Chairman Al Haj Murad
Ebrahim told Aquino, as he rang a gong that he presented to the
president as a token. Aquino presented Murad with a miniature of
an indigenous Filipino house, known as a nipa hut.  The police raised the nation’s security to full alert last
week after it received an intelligence report that disgruntled
Muslim rebels may have been behind the recent attacks.  The peace accord under Aquino provides a road map for a
political entity called the Bangsamoro that will replace a
failed Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, or ARMM, set up in
1989. It binds the 11,000-strong MILF to abandon its pursuit of
a separate state and lays down the extent of power, revenues and
territory of the Muslim region under a bill that needs to be
passed by Congress and approved by a local referendum. Aquino
seeks to end the rebellion before his term expires in 2016.  Not Comfortable  The al-Qaeda-linked  Abu Sayyaf  may be responsible for the
Oct. 13 attack in Basilan to “agitate” the military and
disrupt security, Captain Alberto Caber, spokesman for the 1st
infantry division based in Lambangan, Zamboanga del Sur
province, said by phone.  “There are groups that are not comfortable with the
framework agreement and this means the problem will go on and
on,” Rommel Banlaoi, executive director of the Philippine
Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research in  Manila ,
said in a telephone interview.  Nur Misuari, chairman of the Moro National Liberation Front
or MNLF, said he won’t start a war in the southern Philippines,
even as he labeled MILF members as traitors for agreeing to lay
down their arms. “That’s speculation, we are guardians of
peace,” he told DZMM radio today.  Conspiracy Claim  The peace deal is a conspiracy between the  Philippines  and
 Malaysia , which facilitated the talks, so the latter can keep
Sabah and Sarawak, which belonged to his great grandfather,
Misuari said.  Misuari, a former governor of the ARMM, headed the MNLF
when the group signed a peace deal with the government in 1996.
He led a revolt in Sulu province in 2001, for which he was
charged with rebellion. He is out on bail.  A former professor of the University of the Philippines,
Misuari formed the MNLF more than four decades ago to lobby for
an independent Moro state. The MILF, which is the group in
agreement with Aquino now, broke away from the MNLF, due to
policy differences.  “This deal is a good first step toward peace and probably
better than those negotiated before,” said Benito Lim, a
political science professor from the Ateneo de Manila
University. “Aquino listened to the Muslim insurgents and
agreed to try his best to give them what they want,” he said in
a telephone interview on Oct. 12.  Civilian Deaths  Congress created the autonomous region or the ARMM in 1989,
with only four choosing to become part of the region out of 13
provinces and nine cities that participated in a plebiscite. The
1996 peace deal under then President Fidel Ramos further
fragmented the MNLF.  Fighting between troops and renegade members of the MILF
forced about 390,000 people from their homes and left 100
civilians dead in Mindanao after the  Supreme Court  in August
2008 ordered an injunction on a draft agreement between the
government of ex-President  Gloria Arroyo  and the MILF that would
have created a Muslim homeland. The court declared the accord
unconstitutional two months later.  Poor Island  Catholic settlers outnumber the Muslim population by about
five-to-one in Mindanao, the island furthest from Manila that is
home to about a quarter of the country’s 100 million people.  About a third of Mindanao’s people said they had nothing to
eat for at least one day in the three months to August, the
highest rate among the nation’s three main regions, according to
a survey by Manila-based polling company  Social Weather Stations 
released Oct. 1. That was up from 24 percent in March 2010,
before Aquino was elected.  Malayisa “affirmed its support to the Philippine
government’s sustained socio-economic programs, which are
designed to foster further economic opportunities and jobs in
Mindanao,” the governments said today in a joint statement.
Malaysia’s government also urged “businessmen to consider
investing in the  palm oil , natural rubber, halal industry,
infrastructure and other sectors in the region.”  Aquino will probably be kinder to Muslim opponents of the
deal, including Misuari, because it was his mother, the late
president  Corazon Aquino , who started the drive for an
autonomous Muslim region, Lim said.  “While some factions have threatened war, the bigger
picture is that the majority of Muslims have decided to look for
ways to live in peace with mainstream society,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  