-- Retail Sales Probably Rose on Auto Demand: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-14T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/retail-sales-probably-rose-on-auto-demand-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales in the U.S. probably
rose in September as demand for automobiles kept improving and
discounters benefitted from a final rush of back-to-school
shopping, economists said before reports this week.  The 0.8 percent increase would  follow  a 0.9 percent gain in
August, according to the  median forecast  of 63 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Commerce Department figures
tomorrow. Other reports may show fuel prices pushed up the cost
of living and manufacturing stabilized.  A drop in  joblessness  and firming home prices are leading
to gains in confidence that may help chains such as  Target Corp. (TGT) 
and  TJX Cos. (TJX)  keep attracting customers with promotions. At the
same time, rising energy costs and concern about looming tax
changes at the end of the year may prevent household spending,
the biggest part of the economy, from strengthening much more.  “There was a modest pickup in retail sales, but I wouldn’t
expect an acceleration,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S.
economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “We have some pent-up
demand for autos. Things are getting better in the labor market,
but it’s very slow.”  Auto sales remain a bright spot as lower interest rates
prompt Americans to replace older vehicles. Cars and light
trucks sold at a 14.9 million annual pace in September, the most
since March 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group. Chrysler
Group LLC and  General Motors Co. (GM)  reported gains.  Positive Signs  “We continue to be encouraged by positive signs from the
housing sector, lower jobless claims, higher consumer sentiment
and higher consumer spending,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president
of U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 2 conference call. “The stiffest
headwinds are uncertainty, some of which is related to the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and concerns about the pace of
growth here at home.”  Excluding autos, retail sales probably increased 0.6
percent last month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Retailers benefited from demand for back-to-school items,
with September same-store sales topping analysts’ estimates at
discount and specialty-apparel chains. Target, the second-
biggest U.S. discounter, had a 2.1 percent gain from a year
earlier, and TJX, the owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, reported
a 6 percent increase.  Some companies are less optimistic.  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR) , the
U.S. operator of more than 4,500 discount stores, last week said
third-quarter sales will be at the low end of its forecast.  Retail Sales  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data, which aren’t
adjusted for prices, may also reflect costlier gasoline. A
gallon of  regular fuel  at the pump cost an average $3.83 in
September, up 13 cents from August and the highest level since
April, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  Higher fuel costs are also feeding into the cost of living.
The consumer price index rose 0.5 percent after a 0.6 percent
gain in August, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
Labor Department report is scheduled for Oct. 16. Excluding
volatile food and fuel cost, prices rose 0.2 percent, according
to economists surveyed.  Investors are projecting that Americans will keep shopping.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index, which
includes Macy’s Inc. and Gap Inc., has risen 23.1 percent this
year, compared with a 13.6 percent advance for the broader S&P
500 Index.  A stronger labor market would help boost the outlook for
retail sales. Payrolls rose 114,000 in September after a 142,000
increase the prior month, according to Labor Department figures.
The unemployment rate dropped to a three-year low of 7.8 percent
from 8.1 percent.  Household Purchases  Household purchases may have grown at a 1.9 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after a 1.5 percent gain in the prior
three months, according to the median forecast in a separate
Bloomberg survey of economists taken from Oct. 5 to Oct. 10.
Spending will rise 2.1 percent this quarter, the survey showed.  Manufacturing is stabilizing after some reports raised
concern that this pillar of the expansion was faltering. Fed
data due on Oct. 16 may show industrial production grew 0.2 last
month after a 1.2 percent drop that was the biggest since March
2009, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Factories in the
New York region shrank at a slower pace, and Philadelphia-area
activity was little-changed, economists projected other reports
will show.  Housing continues to improve, Commerce Department data may
show on Oct. 17. Builders began work on 770,000 dwellings at an
annual rate in September, up 2.7 percent from the prior month,
according to the survey median. The Commerce Department’s report
on Oct. 17 is also projected to show that permits, a measure of
future projects, also climbed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  