-- Putin Loyalists Assert Control in Russian Regional Elections
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-10-15T11:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/russia-votes-in-putin-s-first-election-test-since-kremlin-return.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
allies dominated  Russia ’s first gubernatorial elections in eight
years that opposition parties said were marred by abuses.  The ruling  United Russia  party’s candidates won all five
races for governor and six local legislative contests, according
to preliminary results announced today by officials from local
election commissions on state television channel Rossiya 24.
Voter turnout was low, dipping below  8 percent  in the Primorsky
region on the country’s Pacific coast.  The election was the first major electoral test for Putin
since he reclaimed the presidency in May and thousands of
protesters took to the streets following a December
parliamentary ballot the opposition said was rigged. The Kremlin
winnowed the contenders in gubernatorial elections by using a
so-called municipal filter to screen candidates, while the heads
of at least 20 of Russia’s 83 regions were replaced or
reappointed before legislative changes went into effect.  “ United Russia ’s success was determined from the beginning
by the character of the election itself,” said Igor Bunin, head
of the Center for Political Technology in Moscow. “At the level
of local legislative elections, spoilers and decoy candidates
were used to drain some of the votes.”  Russian equities, which have the lowest valuations based on
projected earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg, advanced, with the Micex Index gaining 0.6 percent to
1,454.29 at 2:40 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble-denominated benchmark
gauge trades at 5.5 times estimated earnings after gaining 3.7
percent this year.  Anti-Putin Unrest  Unrest after parliamentary and presidential balloting in
December and March forced the ruling party into a balancing act
to avoid a heavy-handed show of strength sparking a new wave of
protests and rallying the opposition. The vote was “civilized”
and “no significant violations have yet been spotted,” Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev , who took over the chairmanship of
United Russia from Putin a year ago, said in televised  remarks 
last night.  Countering official claims, opposition parties including
 Just Russia  and  RPR-Parnas Party  complained about irregularities
and abuses.  Vladimir Ryzhkov , a former lawmaker and leader of
Parnas,  said  his party’s vote observers detected “hundreds of
grave violations” during elections in the southern Siberian
city of Barnaul.  Incumbents Win  Governing-party candidates led by double-digit margins in
the five gubernatorial races, polling more than 50 percent to
win the election in the first round, according to the results
announced today.  Amursk region Governor Oleg Kozhemyako won 77.3 percent of
the vote, according to the commission. In Belgorod, Governor
Yevgeny Savchenko got 77.6 percent and in Novgorod Sergey Mitin,
the incumbent, received 76 percent. In Ryazan, Governor Oleg
Kovalyov won 64.4 percent of the vote, while his Bryansk
colleague Nikolai Denin received 65.2 percent.  Putin abolished direct elections of governors in 2004 and
agreed to restore them last year after tens of thousands took to
the streets to protest voting fraud.  The president has struggled to reverse a slump in approval
ratings that are near the lowest level since mass protests broke
out in December. A crackdown has since ensued, including
prosecution of opposition activists and leaders, increased fines
for unsanctioned rallies and tightened controls over the
Internet.  Missed Chance  “The Kremlin lost a chance to show a willingness to allow
for soft democratization,” said Grigory Melkonyants, head of
Golos, a vote-monitoring watchdog. “We see almost as many
violations and as much administrative pressure during the
election campaign as before.”  The system of screening candidates includes a requirement
to collect the signatures of as many as 10 percent of municipal
lawmakers in the region. Most regional parliaments are
controlled by United Russia and will decide individually whether
independent candidates are allowed to run.  Support for Putin is at 44 percent, after bottoming out at
41 percent last month, the Moscow-based Public Opinion
Foundation, or FOM, said in an Oct. 11  report . The Russian
leader won the March presidential election with 64 percent of
the vote. FOM polled 3,000 Russians Oct. 6-7. No margin of error
was given.  Slowing Growth  The world’s biggest energy exporter is facing slowing
growth after inflation accelerated to a 10-month high in
September and  consumer confidence  fell in the third quarter for
the first time since January-March 2011.  The  World Bank  on Oct. 8 cut its forecasts for Russia’s
economic expansion this year and next, citing the country’s weak
harvest, the global economic turmoil and faster price growth
eroding purchasing power.  “A split in the elites is growing,” said Vladimir
Mekhedov, a political scientist at Bryansk State University.
“It may not be that distinct yet, but the discord is making
itself felt, it’s hard to constrain it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  