-- S. Africa Reserve Bank to Review GDP Forecasts After Downgrade
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-14T12:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/s-africa-reserve-bank-to-review-gdp-forecasts-after-downgrade.html
The South African Reserve Bank will
review its forecast for economic growth after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the nation’s credit rating and because of strikes in the
mining industry.  The government must take steps to correct the problems
highlighted by S&P that led to the downgrade on Oct. 12, Deputy
Reserve Bank Governor  Daniel Mminele  said today in Tokyo,
according to a copy of his speech posted on the bank’s website.
S&P cut the rating one level to BBB with a negative outlook,
citing the pressure strikes have placed on the government to
boost social spending, reducing the ability to narrow the budget
gap. Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s rating last
month.  “The rand appears to have decoupled from the euro
movements, taking its cue instead from domestic developments,
including the credit rating downgrades, widespread  strike action 
and the current account deficit,” Mminele said. “Growth
forecasts will most likely need to be revisited,”  The rand has plunged 7.1 percent, the worst of the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, since strikes in the mining
sector began in August, at the same time as shrinking factory
output is limiting economic growth on the continent’s largest
country.  Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  cut the nation’s growth
forecast to 2.6 percent on Sept. 20 from 2.7 percent and Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said he will do the same on Oct. 25 when
he presents the mid-term budget to Parliament in Cape Town.
Gross domestic product expanded 3.1 percent last year.  Wage Settlements  The bank is monitoring whether recent wage settlements
quicken inflation, Mminele says.  Lonmin Plc. (LMI) , the world’s third-
largest producer of platinum, agreed to raise wages for about
3,000 of its workers by 22 percent, ending a six-week strike
that began on Aug. 10. The inflation rate rose to 5 percent in
August from 4.9 percent in July.  Since the Lonmin strike, workers at  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) ,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and transport workers have held walkouts.
The transport workers ended their three-week strike demanding
more than 10 percent annual wage increases last week.  “While there are at this stage no indications of a broad-
based, sharp acceleration in wages as a result of recent
protests, the Reserve Bank will have to carefully monitor
possible spillovers of any such development into prices and
price expectations,” Mminele said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  