-- Schaeuble Rules Out Greek Default as Samaras, Troika Bargain
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-14T12:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/schaeuble-rules-out-greek-default-as-samaras-troika-negotiate.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out a Greek sovereign default as the cash-
strapped country and international inspectors seek agreement on
policies before an Oct. 18 European Union leaders’ summit.  “It will not happen that there will be a ‘Staatsbankrott’
in  Greece ,” Schaeuble said in English at a forum in  Singapore 
today. “Greece has had to take a lot of very serious reforms”
and an increasing majority of the population “does understand
that being a member of the common European currency is in the
best interest of Greece,” he said.  Schaeuble said he doesn’t see “any sense to speculate on
Greece leaving the euro” because it would be very damaging for
both the country and the region.  Germany  is ready to assist
Greece to build a competitive economy and functioning public
administration, he said.  Speculation about a Greek exit intensified as public
opposition to spending cuts widens and Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government stalls on budget cuts. A deal with the
troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,  European Central Bank 
and European Commission is needed to unlock a 31 billion-euro
($40.2 billion) aid installment that the Greek government needs
to recapitalize its banks and pay debts.  Probable Exit  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said yesterday it’s
“most probable” that Greece will quit the common currency and
such an outcome shouldn’t be ruled out in the next six months.  Borg said a Greek euro exit probably wouldn’t have a major
impact on the financial system, “since in practice everyone
already understands which way the wind is blowing.”  Given Greece’s lack of competitive industry and inability
to implement necessary reforms, “it’s a little bit hard to see
how they’ll resolve this situation without stimulating
competitiveness through a significantly lower  exchange rate ,”
Borg said.  Schaeuble told the Singapore-German Chamber of Industry and
Commerce that a Greek exit would create “huge” problems and
wouldn’t happen.  “If you look at how much interlinked we are in the
European Union and in the currency union, to leave it would
create huge, incredible difficulties for everyone,” Schaeuble
said. “Therefore the better way is to solve it, but of course
it has to be solved.”  89 Policy Steps  Euro-area finance ministers on Oct. 8 backed Greece’s plan
to trim its budget and reshape the economy, while demanding that
the government in  Athens  commit to a list of 89 policy steps
before the summit. They didn’t commit on whether the next 31
billion-euro aid installment will be paid out in one go or
released in smaller chunks.  “Everyone is trusting that Samaras and his government is
really decided to do what is needed,” Schaeuble said.  While Germany and the other euro members will “stick to
the monetary union,” every euro state has to fight the problems
it faces as it’s “impossible for Germany to pay everybody’s
bills,” Schaeuble said. Germany “would be destroyed” if it
overstretched its resources, he said.  Turning to  Spain , the German minister said financial
markets have yet to appreciate efforts made by the country’s
government, led by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , to return to
sustainable public finances. Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s
sovereign-debt rating by two levels to BBB- on Oct. 10, citing
the backtracking of euro-region peers on a pledge to sever the
link between the sovereign and its banks.  “Since Spain is under the pressure of markets, Spain had
to take decisions on reducing its deficit, to increase its
competitiveness, but Spain is delivering since the Rajoy
government is in place,” Schaeuble said. “They’re doing very
well but it takes time until markets believe them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Singapore at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  