-- Sept. 11 Defendants Demand to Disclose ‘Waterboarding’
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-15T01:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/sept-11-defendants-demand-to-disclose-waterboarding-.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
other men accused of plotting the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks return to court at the U.S. naval base in Cuba today for
hearings that will determine whether the defense can disclose
information about interrogation techniques such as
“waterboarding.”  With a trial before a military judge and jury still a year
or more away, lawyers for the five men have filed a barrage of
motions seeking to define or expand the legal rights they will
be afforded as they attempt to air grievances about their
treatment in captivity.  “The fundamental question will be how much secrecy will
the government be allowed to impose on these proceedings,” said
James Connell, an attorney for Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, a nephew of
Mohammed who allegedly helped finance and make travel
arrangements for the attackers.  The five men were last seen publicly in May, when they were
arraigned on terrorism charges and didn’t enter pleas. Hearings
had been scheduled for June and then deferred to August, only to
be delayed again when a hurricane threatened Cuba. Five days of
hearings are scheduled this week.  The government is seeking to convict the five men for their
roles in the conspiracy that used hijacked passenger planes to
destroy the World Trade Center in  Manhattan  and damage the
Pentagon in attacks that killed almost 3,000 people.  The defendants are charged with conspiring to finance,
train and direct the 19 hijackers who seized the planes. The
charges include terrorism, hijacking aircraft, conspiracy,
murder in violation of the law of war and attacking civilians.
The men could face the death penalty if convicted.  Waterboarded 183 Times  Defense lawyers haven’t disclosed whether or how they will
challenge the evidence of their clients’ involvement in the
Sept. 11 attacks. In public to date, much of the defense
strategy rests on exposing the interrogation techniques used on
the men after they were captured as well as the conditions of
their continued detention at the base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.  “Clearly, there is a sense of embarrassment about mistakes
that were made” in the interrogation, Connell said last night,
briefing reporters gathered at the base for the hearings.  Mohammed, who has said he was the mastermind of the
attacks, was held by the Central Intelligence Agency until 2006,
before being sent to Guantanamo. The CIA has acknowledged he was
one of three al-Qaeda operatives who were waterboarded. He
underwent the procedure, which simulates drowning, 183 times,
according to government documents.  Practice Banned  Under the Obama administration, the U.S. has since banned
the practice, which critics such as  Human Rights Watch  call a
form of torture. Members of the  Bush administration , led by
former Vice President  Dick Cheney , have continued to champion
waterboarding as an appropriate technique they say can extract
urgent information from terrorists.  A motion filed by government prosecutors, called a “gag
order” by the defense, would require defense lawyers to treat
any information obtained from their clients about their
interrogation as classified. That may bar the defense from
disclosing such evidence in court, Connell said.  “Torture matters because, quite frankly, America is better
than this,”  Captain Jason Wright, an Army lawyer who is
defending Mohammed, told reporters last night. “From a legal
perspective, it’s unconscionable that somehow three or four
years of someone’s life can’t be discussed.”  ‘Memories of Torture’  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and 14 news
organizations, including  Bloomberg News , have filed motions
opposing an order making interrogation disclosures classified.  “The government has not shown and could not show it has a
compelling interest in shielding from the public the defendants’
thoughts and memories of torture,” said attorney Hina Shamsi,
director of the ACLU’s National Security Project, who will argue
the motion in court this week. “If the court orders that the
defendants’ thoughts and memories can be withheld from the
public, the commission will not be seen as legitimate.”  Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, the lead prosecutor,
told reporters last night that a protective order is needed to
ensure that classified intelligence-gathering techniques aren’t
exposed.  “Our government’s sources and methods are not an open
book,” Martins said. Even though waterboarding has since been
prohibited, “there may still be genuine sources and methods of
intelligence gathering for forward threats.”  ‘Strict Criteria’  Lieutenant Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Defense Department
spokesman, said there is a “mistaken characterization” that
the proposed protective order would limit the introduction of
testimony about interrogations and captivity.  “So long as the trial judge deems the evidence offered by
the defense to be relevant, courts and commissions will hear
it,” Breasseale said in a statement. “Any closure of
proceedings to the public dealing with such evidence offered by
an accused must meet strict criteria to comply with the open
trial rules.”  Another defense motion would compel the government to allow
the testimony of Jose Rodriguez, a former CIA official who
supervised creation of a CIA detention program that included
what the CIA called “enhanced interrogation techniques,”
according to the court filing.  Connell said he wants the court to hear Rodriguez testify
that the U.S. government authorized the interrogation techniques
to be used on men who don’t have any security clearances so that
he can argue that information obtained that way shouldn’t be
considered classified.  Constitution’s Role  “The right to subpoena witnesses is a key element of a
fair trial,” Connell said.  The government said in its court filing that the defense
failed to show why testimony from Rodriguez “is relevant and
necessary.”  In other defense motions, lawyers seek the right to
subpoena witnesses without the approval of prosecutors and for
the commission to rule that it is governed by the U.S.
Constitution.  When it comes to military commissions, “nobody can say for
sure which provisions of the Constitution apply,” said Victor
Hansen, a former Army lawyer who now teaches criminal law at New
England School of Law in  Boston .  If the judge rules that the Constitution applies in its
entirety, guaranteeing the defendants full constitutional
rights, “it would turn these commissions virtually into federal
district courts, which the government has resisted for a long
time,” Hansen said.  Issue ‘Unripe’  Prosecutors, in their court filing, urged the commission to
deny the motion on procedural grounds, saying the issue is
“unripe for adjudication.”  While the military judge, U.S. Army Colonel James Pohl, is
scheduled to review 25 motions over the next five days, it’s not
clear when he would rule on them.  One defense attorney, Cheryl Bormann, raised a potential
complication last night by signaling she intends to seek relief
from the court for having to work in offices that she said are
contaminated by mold and rat feces.  “My eyes burn,” Bormann told reporters. “I lose breath.
You can feel it.” While Pohl ruled against delaying the
hearings when the issue surfaced in recent weeks, Bormann said
she will ask the judge to approve funding for an expert to study
the issue again.  Prayer Rug  How quickly issues can be heard also may depend on the
defendants, who used their arraignment hearing in May partly to
express grievances and delay proceedings.  Ramzi bin al Shibh, one of the accused, arrived at the
arraignment with a prayer rug and what appeared to be a copy of
the Koran. The hearing paused momentarily when al Shibh stood up
to pray during the proceedings and then knelt on the floor.  Another of the accused, Walid bin Attash, was wheeled into
the courtroom in a chair with restraints. Pohl said he assumed
the restraints were needed because bin Attash had refused to
come to court voluntarily.  Connell, the defense attorney, said he isn’t permitted to
say whether the defendants want to attend this week’s hearings
because of the government’s proposed protective order.  The government has filed a motion to compel the defendants
to attend all proceedings. Connell said the men would attend
today’s hearing and whether they attend in following days may
depend on how Pohl rules.  Mohammed said nothing at the arraignment. The man who once
bragged he was “responsible for the 9/11 operations from A to
Z” sat stone-faced through the 13-hour arraignment and used a
recess to pray.  “I believe Mr. Mohammed will decline to address the
court,” his civilian lawyer, David Nevin, said in May. “He’s
deeply concerned about the fairness of the court.”  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  