-- Softbank Said to Have Deal to Buy 70% of Sprint, CNBC Says
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-14T21:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/softbank-said-to-have-deal-to-buy-70-of-sprint-cnbc-says.html
Japan’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  will buy a 70
percent stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for about $20 billion, CNBC
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the
transaction.  The agreement calls for a direct purchase by Softbank from
Sprint of $8 billion in stock and a tender offer for an
additional $12 billion from holders, CNBC’s David Faber reported
today. The tender offer price is $7.30 a share, CNBC said, or 27
percent more than Sprint’s Oct. 12 closing price of $5.73.  The deal is intended to revitalize the third-biggest U.S.
wireless carrier into a more formidable competitor. With the
investment from Japanese billionaire Masayoshi Son’s Softbank,
Sprint can fund a faster expansion of its 4G wireless network
and could make further acquisitions aimed at challenging  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “This could be the final and most important piece to
reposition Sprint to compete effectively with AT&T and
Verizon,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New
York, in an interview last week.  Sprint may seek to gobble up the rest of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  or
bid for  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , people familiar with the
matter have said.  Bill White , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Tokyo-based Softbank is Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone
company. Part of its direct purchase is a $3 billion convertible
bond exercisable at $5.25, which will be sold before the
transaction is completed to provide funding for Sprint, CNBC
reported today.  Hesse’s Mission  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  has been working
to fix the situation he inherited five years ago after the $36
billion purchase of Nextel. During Hesse’s tenure, 7.7 million
contract customers left Sprint after a struggle to integrate the
two companies led to complaints about network quality. Sprint
ended up writing off about $30 billion, or 80 percent of the
purchase price.  Sprint started offering its service on a faster network
using LTE, or long-term evolution, technology in five cities in
July, with plans to add more this year to catch up with its
larger competitors. Verizon Wireless has the service in about
340 markets after starting its upgrades a year earlier.  Softbank, the fastest-growing Japanese mobile-phone
provider, boosted earnings by more than sevenfold over the past
four years as the first carrier in Japan to offer Apple Inc.’s
iPhone. That helped it close the gap with larger  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) 
and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  AT&T was first to offer the iPhone and the U.S.,
with Verizon and Sprint adding it later.  Entering the U.S. allows Softbank to participate in a
bigger market that’s still growing. Mobile-handset sales in the
U.S. increased to 191 million units last year from 182 million
units in 2007, according to data compiled by IDC.  In contrast, handset shipments declined to 38 million units
in Japan last year from 52 million in 2007, according to IDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Hart at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  