-- Stevens Says RBA Has Rate Ammunition as Swan Pushes for Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-14T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/stevens-says-rba-has-rate-ammunition-as-swan-pushes-for-growth.html
Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens
said  Australia  has room to adjust interest rates in response to
a global slowdown as Treasurer Wayne Swan called on European
nations to balance economic growth with fiscal tightening.  “On monetary policy, we have ammunition,” Stevens said at
an Oct. 12 seminar at the International Monetary Fund’s annual
meeting in Tokyo. “Unusually for an advanced country, we
actually have materially positive interest rates, so if needed
we have scope to move there as long as inflation is okay, which
at present it seems to be.”  European leaders must implement policies that boost growth
and ensure sustainable budgets, Swan said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The RBA has “maximum flexibility” to reduce
the key  rate  if needed as the government returns Australia’s
finances to surplus, he said.  Stevens has adopted a gloomier outlook in the past month,
ending a three-meeting pause when he lowered the benchmark rate
to 3.25 percent on Oct. 2, in a reversal from a June speech when
he said he felt the need to do some “cheerleading” on the
economy to rebut vocal pessimists. Prices for Australia’s key
commodity exports  fell  to a more than two-year low in August as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis weighed on global growth.  Traders are pricing in a near certainty the RBA will reduce
the key rate again next month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That would match the 50-year low of 3 percent at the
height of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. The Australian
dollar has dropped 2.2 percent against the U.S. currency in the
past month, the biggest decline among the Group of 10.  ‘Reasonable Shape’  Stevens said at the Oct. 12 seminar that Australia’s
banking system is profitable and well-capitalized, and the
nation’s finances are strong.  “The government’s in deficit right now but looking to be
in surplus before long and have very little debt,” he said. “I
think we go into a global slowdown in reasonable shape.”  Swan and Prime Minister Julia Gillard have pledged to
return the  federal budget  to surplus in the 12 months to June
30, ending four years of deficits. The task has become more
challenging as weaker commodity prices squeeze government
revenue and a darkening global outlook saps confidence.  “These headwinds mean we’ll have to find some substantial
savings to return the budget to surplus,” Swan said in
yesterday’s statement. “A surplus is our best defense in
uncertain times for the global economy and shows we are
committed to responsible budget management.”  Balancing Act  While policy makers need to contain risks, they must
dedicate themselves to lifting global growth, Swan told the
International Monetary and Financial Committee in Tokyo Oct. 13.  “Putting fiscal positions on a sustainable footing needs
to be done hand-in-hand with supporting growth -- this does not
need to be one or the other,” he said.  Europe’s debt crisis, now in its third year, is sapping
expansion in Asian exporting nations from  China  to South Korea
and  Taiwan . Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer said during
the weekend that the world is “awfully close” to a recession.  While there has been “a lot of progress made” to improve
the global economy, its impact hasn’t materialized, Fischer, the
IMF’s No. 2 official from 1994 to 2001 and a former Citigroup
Inc. vice chairman, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Tokyo Oct. 13. “It’s pretty slow right now. Europe is
technically in a recession, the U.S. is predicting less than 2
percent growth for the next few months.”  Trade, Jobs  Australia posted its widest trade deficit since 2008 in
August, with imports exceeding exports by A$2.03 billion ($2.08
billion), according to an Oct. 3 government report.  The nation’s jobless  rate  climbed to a 2 1/2-year high of
5.4 percent last month, from 5.1 percent in August, statistics
bureau data showed Oct. 11. Queensland recorded the biggest job
losses, shedding 20,900 as the state’s unemployment rate climbed
to 6.3 percent, the highest level in three years.  The northeastern state’s coal industry warned yesterday
that the Queensland government’s increase in royalty rates is
likely to lead to more job losses.  “In the face of a cost-price squeeze and intensifying
competition, coal companies are naturally reviewing current and
proposed projects,” Michael Roche, chief executive of the
Queensland Resources Council, said in a statement. “Job losses
resulting from the reviews are in the thousands.”  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, and
Xstrata Plc last month announced almost 900 job cuts across
their coal mines in Australia as they scale back production
because of falling prices. Rio Tinto Group will shed jobs as it
adopts a more cautious outlook, Chief Executive Officer Tom
Albanese told a media briefing on Oct. 9.  Australia’s economy grew about 4 percent in the first half,
driven by mining investment and consumer spending.  “Returning the budget to surplus remains appropriate for
an economy growing around trend and is our best defense against
global instability,” Swan said in  Tokyo  on Oct. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  