-- Turkey Moves Tanks to Hilltops Overlooking Syria
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-10-14T11:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/turkey-moves-tanks-to-hilltops-overlooking-syria.html
Turkey ’s government threatened to
respond to any further attacks from Syria, after shelling across
the frontier last week killed five Turkish citizens.  “Turkey will retaliate if Syria violates its border
again,” Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said at a news
conference yesterday in Istanbul. “We will do what’s
necessary.”  Turkey deployed tanks and missile-defense systems on
hilltops overlooking Syria last week, the state-run Anatolia
news agency said, hours after Turkish jet fighters confronted a
Syrian helicopter that flew close to the border. Turkey has
threatened to target Syrian forces if they pose a security risk.
Syria downed a Turkish fighter jet in June.  Turkey’s Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan criticized the
United Nations Security Council yesterday for its failure to
agree on decisive steps to end the 19-month civil war in Syria,
the Associated Press reported.  More than 30,000 people have died nationwide during the 19-
month civil war, according to opposition groups, and the
violence is becoming more indiscriminate. President Bashar al- Assad’s forces are using cluster bombs, which detonate and then
disperse smaller bomblets, according to a  Human Rights Watch 
report.  “Syria’s disregard for its civilian population is all too
evident in its air campaign, which now apparently includes
dropping these deadly cluster bombs into populated areas,”
Steve Goose, arms director at Human Rights Watch, said in a
report.  Exchange of Fire  Turkey’s ties with Syria, once an ally, deteriorated over
Turkish backing for Syrian rebels fighting forces loyal to
Assad. Turkey fired artillery in response to Syrian shelling
that killed the five people in the Turkish border town of
Akcakale on Oct. 3.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, of which Turkey is
a member, called the attack on Akcakale “a flagrant breach of
international law,” and assured the Turkish government of the
alliance’s military support if it’s attacked.  Davutoglu spoke after holding talks in Istanbul with
Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN and Arab League special envoy to Syria,
and German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle. He didn’t comment
on the discussions.  Turkish Airways Ban  Brahimi is also planning for a 3,000 troop peacekeeping
force that might involve European troops in policing a future
truce and has been sounding out which countries would be willing
to contribute soldiers, according to Britain’s Daily Telegraph
newspaper.  Syria is ready to start talks with Turkey to ease tensions
between the two countries, according to state-run SANA agency,
citing a statement issued by the Foreign Ministry. The statement
welcomed a proposal by the foreign minister of Syria’s ally
 Russia , Sergei Lavrov, to “create a mechanism of direct
dialogue on security issues between Syria and Turkey.”  Syria banned Turkish Airlines flights from Syrian airspace,
according to SANA. Turkey grounded a Syrian plan on its way from
Moscow to Damascus last week and seized what it said was
military equipment. The Moscow-based newspaper Kommersant said
the plane was carrying parts for Syrian air-defense radar.  Refugee Camps  Rebel forces in Syria last week captured the village of
Azmarin in the province of Idlib, near the Turkish border,
Anatolia reported. Syrian forces also attacked the rebel-held
village of Derkush in Idlib with tanks and ground forces, the
state-run Turkish news agency said.  Turkey is sheltering 99,500 refugees in camps along the
border, and another 14,000 Syrians are waiting to cross into the
country, according to Turkey’s Foreign Ministry.  Syrian security forces killed 143 people across the country
yesterday, the Opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement. Syrian rebels in the Damascus suburb of
al-Ateba have captured an air defense brigade after clashes with
government forces that lasted for eight hours, the Observatory
for Human Rights in  Syria  said in an e-mailed statement. At
least eight rebels and 15 government soldiers were killed during
the fight, according to the statement.  Syrian forces “eliminated a large number of terrorists”
in fighting in the northwestern commercial hub of Aleppo, the
government-run Syrian Arab News Agency reported. The army also
fought rebels who “cut off roads” in Idlib, killing and
injuring some of them, the news service said.  MiG Shot Down  Syrian rebels in Aleppo shot down a government MiG
warplane, the rebels’ Free Syrian Army said on its Facebook
page. Rebels posted footage on YouTube showing the wreckage of
the aircraft in flames and armed men surrounding it.  The Observatory for Human Rights in Syria confirmed the
rebels’ claim and said the jet had bombed the town of Khan al-
Asal in the suburbs of Aleppo.  Syrian government forces set the historic Umayyad mosque in
Aleppo on fire and damaged the shrine of the Prophet Zechariah,
father of John the Baptist and venerated in Islamic and Judeo-
Christian traditions, located inside the mosque, Al Jazeera
television reported.  The rebels’ Free Syrian Army later captured the mosque and
advanced to besiege the city’s medieval Citadel, which is
occupied by government forces, Al Jazeera reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  