-- Vettel Takes Formula One Lead From Alonso With Victory in Korea
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-14T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/vettel-takes-f-1-championship-lead-with-korea-grand-prix-victory.html
Sebastian Vettel won his third
straight race at the Korean Grand Prix to take the Formula One
championship lead from  Fernando Alonso  with four events left.  Red Bull ’s Vettel managed his wearing tires to the finish
yesterday to take the checkered flag 8.2 seconds ahead of
teammate  Mark Webber , who started from pole position at the
Korean International Circuit in Yeongam. Webber held off
Ferrari’s Alonso to give Red Bull its first 1-2 of the season.  Vettel’s 25th career victory, which followed back-to-back
wins in  Singapore  and  Japan , lifted him six points ahead of
Alonso atop the drivers’ championship as he seeks a third
straight world title. It also made the 25-year-old German the
youngest driver to reach a quarter-century of wins.  “I’m looking forward to the next couple of races,” Vettel
told reporters. “We had a good last couple of races but we’ve
seen the championship is pretty much up and down, a lot of
things can happen. We have to focus on ourselves. We need to
have our best possible results and then we go from there.”  Vettel, who last led the standings in May, has 215 points
to Alonso’s 209.  Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen  finished fifth yesterday, pulling 14
points clear of  Lewis Hamilton  in third place in the
championship after the McLaren driver could only claim a single
point by finishing 10th. Vettel has a 48-point lead over
Raikkonen with 100 points available in the remaining races in
 India ,  Abu Dhabi , the U.S. and  Brazil .  Alonso’s teammate  Felipe Massa  took fourth place ahead of
Raikkonen in yesterday’s 55-lap race as Ferrari leapfrogged
McLaren to go second in the constructors’ standings. Red Bull
leads with 367 points to Ferrari’s 290, with McLaren another six
points further back.  Title Fight  “We were much closer to the lead than we were in Singapore
and nearer than in Suzuka, so we must continue in this
direction,” Alonso said. “We are right in the fight for the
title with a car that has never been the fastest. It seems we
are capable of doing something good too.”  Vettel, starting from second place on the grid behind
Webber, moved to the front on the run down to the first corner
and only briefly lost the lead during the first pit stops.  Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi took out Jenson Button’s McLaren
in a first-lap incident after also making contact with  Nico Rosberg  that put both Button and Rosberg out of the race and
landed the Japanese driver a drive-through penalty.  It took until the ninth lap to clear Rosberg’s stricken
Mercedes off the track by crane as the race continued under
yellow flags, during which drivers are forced to slow near
danger and overtaking isn’t permitted.  ‘My Mistake’  Kobayashi, who finished a career-best third in his home
race at Suzuka last week, retired after 17 laps because of the
damage his car sustained when crashing into Rosberg and Button.  “Someone hit my rear tire and then it was impossible to
control the car,” Kobayashi said in a team statement. “I
didn’t manage to avoid the accident, and I feel very sorry for
ruining someone else’s race, and certainly this was not my
intention. It was just a very difficult moment and I had nowhere
to go but I think it was my mistake.”  Vettel maintained his advantage over Webber at the head of
the field, leading his teammate by nine seconds at the halfway
stage. Following a second round of pit-stops by the front-
runners, Vettel led Webber by 5.3 seconds with Alonso and Massa
still in touch.  With five laps remaining, Vettel and Webber slackened their
pace in an effort to prevent further tire wear, with Vettel
being warned over the team radio to back off in certain corners
to nurse the tires to the end.  “It was a race against wearing rubber,” Red Bull team
principal Christian Horner said in a televised interview. “I
think all the cars were in the same situation with the high-
speed turns here. Both drivers did an impeccable job.”  The 17th of 20 races, the Indian Grand Prix, is scheduled
Oct. 28 in  New Delhi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  