-- Will Young Joins Sad Orgy as ‘Cabaret’ Loses Sex Appeal
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-10-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-14/will-young-joins-sad-orgy-as-cabaret-loses-sex-appeal.html
It’s great to find buffed-up dancers
in costumes so skimpy that they seem to defy the law of physics.
It gives you something to think about when you get bored.  A production of “Cabaret” starring Will Young at  London ’s
Savoy Theatre has a few dull stretches, so it’s nice to have a
mental occupation to while away the time. Does anything ever pop
out of the corsets? How do the tiny leather shorts stay up?  Sometimes one’s attention is diverted to the dramatic
action instead, especially when theatrical grande dame Sian Phillips comes on stage. She plays Fraulein Schneider, a tough
lady who runs a boarding house in 1930s Berlin. With a small
shrug of her shoulders, Phillips suggests a world of weariness
which hasn’t quite become cynicism.  One of her numbers is a terrific, laconic song called “So
What?” Her voice is so wonderfully low and rough she could
probably grate carrots on it.  Schneider falls in love with her Jewish boarder Herr
Schultz (a very fine Linal Haft). When the Nazis suggest she
should drop her marriage plans, she hasn’t the strength to fight
back. Her farewell duet with Schultz, “Married,” is a highlight.  The rest of the show is about Cliff (sweetly played by Matt
Rawle), a bisexual writer boarding at Schneider’s. He has an
affair with cabaret singer Sally Bowles, and makes trips to the
decadent Kit Kat Club presided over by Emcee (Will Young).  Pop Idol  Young , a former Pop Idol winner, has a great voice and his
account of the landler “Tomorrow Belongs to Me” is beautiful.
He’s not a great actor though, and his attempts to match the
sinister expressionistic performance of  Joel Grey  in the 1972
movie are effortful. The more he leers, smirks or shrieks, the
less the overall effect.  Since soap star Michelle Ryan (Sally) hasn’t a note in her
head, and wobbles alarmingly on all her big phrases, it makes
for an underpowered evening overall.  Director Rufus Norris provides a simple set, just a bed and
a table, for the boarding house, and some bright lights and a
band for the Kit Kat Club. There’s a dispiriting lack of oomph
in too many of the dialogue scenes, though the energy picks up
in some club numbers.  The polymorphous-perverse “Two Ladies,” in which a bedtime
romp gradually fills with more and more excitable participants,
including a giraffe, is particularly amusing.  Choreographer Javier de Frutos dishes up “Chicago”-style
moves which are efficient without offering much new. The dancers
themselves perform it all gracefully, which is a plus.  Plus here, minus there. “Cabaret” should drip with sex,
seediness, fear, decadence, and despair. Overall this one is
more of a drip-dry affair. Rating: ***.  ‘Damned by Despair’  There’s gloom aplenty over at the  National Theatre  in
“Damned by Despair.” It’s caused by having to return after the
interval to see the rest of it.  Tirso de Molina’s 1625 play, newly adapted here by Frank
McGuinness, is a straightforward sermon on stage, free of
dramatic conflict.  Religious hermit Paulo is told by an angel (actually the
Devil in disguise) that he will share the fate of a man called
Enrico in Naples. Paulo falls into despair after discovering
that Enrico is a murdering, whoring, thieving thug.  The question motivating the drama is: Will the cardboard-
cutout Paulo be saved or not?  The answer is: Who cares? And since it’s pretty obvious
that the play is a mere excuse for repeating Catholic dogma
about the benefits of repentance, it’s not hard to guess the
outcome. The title gives you a whopping big clue, too.  It’s all the greater shame because the acting is good.
Bertie Carvel, fresh from his triumph as the evil headmistress
Agatha Trunchbull in “Matilda,” is Enrico, and he does a lovely
turn in psychotic sadism.  Amanda Lawrence is a jokey Devil. Sebastian Armesto exudes
religious ecstasy as Paulo. Director Bijan Sheibani sets the
story in seedy modern Naples, and keeps the action (such as it
is) moving swiftly.  Rating: **.  “Cabaret” is at the Savoy Theatre, Savoy Court, Charing
Cross, WC2R 0EZ. Information:  http://www.atgtickets.com  or
+44-844-871-7615.  “Damned by Despair” is in repertoire at the Olivier,
National Theatre, South Bank, London SE1 9PX. Information:
 http://www.nationatheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  John
Mariani  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 