-- T. Rowe Price First-Quarter Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-04-24T14:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/t-rowe-profit-jumps-22-after-stock-gains-boost-assets.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the asset
manager that posted a profit every quarter since going public in
1986, reported first-quarter revenue that missed analysts’
estimates as institutional clients pulled money.  The shares fell the most in more than a year after the
company said revenue rose 12 percent to $815.7 million, below
the $819.8 million average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Institutional products lost $4.3 billion in
withdrawals, primarily related to “clients outside the U.S. who
changed their investment objectives,” Baltimore-based T. Rowe
Price in a statement.  The withdrawals partly offset the firm’s best mutual-fund
deposits since the start of 2007. T. Rowe Price has about 75
percent of its assets invested in stocks, benefiting from this
year’s stock market rally. Chief Executive Officer James Kennedy, who has relied on popular retirement-oriented products
and strong performance among active fund managers to attract
customers, said the market gains may not continue at this pace.  “Following a very strong start to the year, we would
caution that the year-to-date pace of U.S. stock market gains is
likely to be unsustainable,” Kennedy said in the statement.  T. Rowe Price fell as much as 6.2 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since Nov. 1, 2011, before paring losses. The
shares were down 3.5 percent at $73.62 at 9:52 a.m.  New York 
time. Before today, the stock had gained 17 percent this year.  Profit Rises  Net income increased 22 percent to $240.1 million, or 91
cents a share, from $196.5 million, or 75 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts had expected a profit of 88 cents a share, according to
the average of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Assets rose to a record $617.4 billion from $576.8 billion
at the end of December after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. stocks gained  10 percent  in the three months ended March
31. The MSCI ACWI Index of global stocks increased 6 percent.
Assets rose 11 percent in the year ended March 31.  Despite the withdrawals by institutions, investors
deposited a net $3.3 billion in the first quarter, driven by
$7.6 billion to mutual funds.  “It was our strongest quarter for mutual-fund flows since
the first quarter of 2007,”Kennedy said in an interview today.  Target-date portfolios, which invest in multiple underlying
funds and automatically adjust to more a more conservative
allocation as the client ages, attracted $3.8 billion.  Expenses increased 7.4 percent, contained by a 7.1 percent
gain in compensation costs.  T. Rowe Price mutual funds continued to outperform peers,
with 73 percent beating their comparable Lipper averages over
three years, and 81 percent over five years.  ‘Absolutely Insane’  Kennedy said the U.S. economy was proving to be
“resilient” despite a lack of leadership in  Washington . He
called automatic federal spending cuts resulting from the lack
of a long-term budget agreement, known as sequestration, as
“crazy.”  “It’s absolutely insane to have that approach to
constraining expenditures in this country,” Kennedy said. “But
in terms of broad economic impact, it’s pretty minimal at this
point.”  T. Rowe Price lost its best stock-picker in February when
Kris Jenner, manager of the $6.2 billion T. Rowe Price Health
Sciences Fund, left with two analysts to form his own hedge
fund, Rock Springs Capital. Jenner had raised more than $100
million from investors as of April 10, according to a person
with knowledge of the fund.  Assets in the Health Sciences fund rose 7.1 percent in
March, when the fund returned 5.4 percent, suggesting investors
deposited money into the fund in the month after Jenner left.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said
April 16 its first-quarter net income rose 10 percent as the New
York-based company attracted $40.5 billion in net deposits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  