-- ABB Rise as Quarterly Profitability Gains on Cost Cuts
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-04-24T07:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/abb-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-amid-u-s-slowdown.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power transformers, rose as much a 3.7 percent in Zurich
trading as Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan’s drive to trim
costs helped to boost profitability in the first quarter.  The margin based on earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and depreciation rose by 1.1 percentage points to
15 percent, the Zurich-based company said today. Sales increased
by 9 percent to $9.7 billion.  Hogan is cutting operational costs and betting on growth in
the U.S. and  Asia  as clients in  Europe  reduce spending, and on
Monday announced a $1 billion deal to buy Power-One, a
California-based maker of solar inverters. Sourcing initiatives
and operational improvements saved $260 million in the quarter,
compensating for less profitable orders.  “Order intake may disappoint, but costs are under
control,” said Christoph Ladner, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich with a “hold” rating on the stock.  The stock rose as high as 21.25 francs and was up 3.1
percent at 21.13 francs as of 9:27 a.m., valuing the company at
49 billion francs ($52 billion). Before today, ABB had gained
9.3 percent this year, beating the 5.1 percent decline of
Munich-based rival Siemens. U.S. competitor General Electric
gained 2.4 percent in  New York .  ‘Flat Year’  First-quarter net income fell 3 percent to $664 million,
missing the average estimate by analysts of $713 million in a
survey by Bloomberg.  “What we are prepared for is a very flat 2013 compared to
2012,” Hogan said in a  video  posted on the company’s Website.
“We are ready for a better second half of 2013, but we
certainly aren’t spending in anticipation of that.”  Hogan said growth in the U.S. decelerated further in the
quarter and industrial investments in much of Europe remained
mixed. ABB’s order backlog declined 1 percent from a year
earlier as organic orders in the Americas region dropped 14
percent, mainly because of less demand from the power, oil and
gas industries. Orders from Chinese clients rose 20 percent.  Last year, U.S. orders grew 30 percent, contrasting with a
drop in  Germany . Over the last five years, the company more than
doubled its U.S workforce to 20,000.  “Clearly the top line is slow,” Sanford C Bernstein
analyst Martin Prozesky said by phone, adding that it doesn’t
concern him because of the improvement in profitability. The
margin rose across four out of five ABB units from a year
earlier and the company’s power divisions are more profitable
than those of Germany’s Siemens, he said.  Solar Push  Hogan has pledged to keep a closer eye on costs after
exceeding a targeted savings plan last year amid uncertainty
about growth in the developed world and the timing of a rebound
in Chinese manufacturing.  The Swiss company said industrial production growth and
government policies will remain the key drivers of demand for
the rest of 2013 and it doesn’t see clear trend changes going
into the second quarter. It also said it remains committed to
delivering more cash to shareholders.  This week’s  Power-One (PWER)  deal will give ABB, the world’s
biggest electricity-networks builder, inverters that allow solar
power to be fed into grids. ABB is looking to tap a market
forecast to grow by more than 10 percent annually, driven by a
need for affordable energy and declining costs of producing
solar power.  Hogan said there is some risk in buying Power-One amid a
“tumultous market” for renewable energies like solar and wind
power. He predicts the bet to pay off as the cost of producing
solar energy is moving towards the price of purchasing power
from the grid.  Technology Deals  Power-One is the latest bite-sized acquisition by Hogan as
he looks to bring new technology to the Swiss company’s
portfolio. Solar inverters convert the direct current generated
by solar panels into the alternative current needed to run
appliances on power grids.  The deal will add to more than $10 billion of U.S.
investments over the past years including the purchases of
drives manufacturer Baldor Electric Co. and low-voltage products
maker Thomas & Betts Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  