-- Abu Dhabi’s NBAD Plans Corporate Banking in Turkey, CEO Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-04-24T14:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/abu-dhabi-s-nbad-plans-corporate-banking-in-turkey-ceo-says.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC 
plans to start trade finance and corporate banking operations in
 Turkey  after the second-largest United Arab Emirates lender
failed to find the right acquisition target.  “Turkey is a very important market for us,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tomalin said on a conference call
today. The Abu Dhabi-based lender, which is applying to set up
an office in Turkey, plans to expand into the country “as a
bank in trade finance, as a bank in  capital markets , as an
investment bank,” he said.  Foreign banks are seeking to boost their presence in the
nation of 80 million amid government plans to turn Istanbul into
a global financial center and make the nation’s economy one of
the world’s 10 biggest by 2023.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , Russia’s biggest
bank, bought Denizbank AS for 6.47 billion liras ($3.6 billion)
in June, while in 2011 Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  paid $5.8 billion for 25 percent of Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS, Turkey’s biggest bank by market value.  “Turkey is a market where you have to be big if you are
going to be in retail,” Tomalin said. NBAD had the option to
buy a bank with about 70 branches and opted not to because it
would have struggled to compete with Turkish lenders operating
1,000, he said.  NBAD plans to enter Turkey “with our corporate, wholesale
model, in other words where we can intermediate trade flows and
capital flows between the  Middle East  and Turkey,” said
Tomalin, who will retire in July.  Other banks in the Gulf Cooperation Council are also
interested in expanding in Turkey. Qatar National Bank SAQ, the
Middle East’s biggest lender by assets, said in December it
would consider buying one of Turkey’s top 10 lenders as part of
an expansion drive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  