-- Ackman-Backed CEO Pushes CP Rail Profit Above Estimates
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-24T20:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ackman-backed-ceo-pushes-cp-rail-profit-above-estimates.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) 
posted higher first-quarter earnings than analysts estimated as
Chief Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison  makes progress on
profitability goals set during last year’s proxy fight.  Net income rose 53 percent to C$217 million ($211.6
million), or C$1.24 a share, compared with the C$1.22 average of
estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue gained 8.6 percent to
C$1.5 billion, the Calgary-based railroad said today.  Harrison, a former CEO at larger rival  Canadian National
Railway Co. (CNR) , has cut jobs, closed yards and run longer trains as
he works to end Canadian Pacific’s stint as the least efficient
North American railroad. He took over in June after a proxy
fight led by  William Ackman , a hedge fund manager and the
railroad’s largest shareholder, to oust Harrison’s predecessor.  “CP showed impressive improvement,”  Cameron Doerksen , an
analyst at National Bank Financial, said today in a note to
investors. “The company is on track to potentially exceed our
current 2013 forecast.”  Doerksen predicts the company will earn C$6.33 a share,
higher than both the company’s C$6.08 forecast and analysts’
average estimates of C$6.19.  Canadian Pacific ’s operating ratio, an industry measure of
efficiency that compares expenses to revenue, improved 430 basis
points from a year earlier to 75.8 percent.  Building Momentum  “With a very strong start to the year and momentum quickly
building, I am now even more confident that we are on pace
toward the best year-end financial and operating performance in
CP’s history,” Harrison, who was backed by Ackman for the post
of CEO, said in the statement.  The 132-year-old railroad predicted a yearly revenue
increase “in the high single digits” in January along with 40
percent earnings growth. It’s ahead of schedule on both counts,
the CEO said today.  Canadian Pacific is also running ahead on its plan to lower
its operating ratio to “the low 70s” by year-end, Harrison
said. The railroad’s four-year plan calls for the operating
ratio to drop to “the mid-60s.”  While Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio still ranks last
among the six Canadian and U.S. railroads that have reported
first-quarter results, the gap has narrowed.  Norfolk Southern
Corp. (NSC)  is the second-least efficient of the six railways, with a
ratio of 74.8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Largely Expected’  Canadian Pacific fell 1.2 percent to C$124.73 today in
Toronto. Through yesterday’s close, the railroad had  gained  72
percent since Harrison took over, while  Canada ’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index returned 0.9 percent.  While “strong,” Canadian Pacific’s first-quarter results
were “largely expected by the market as weekly performance data
pointed to solid execution throughout the winter despite more
challenging operating conditions,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said today in a note to
clients.  Including part-time staff, contractors and consultants,
Canadian Pacific had 16,108 employees at the end of the quarter,
the company said in a  filing  on its website. That’s 2,837
employees, or 15 percent, fewer than a year earlier.  Canadian Pacific is on pace to top a previously announced
goal of cutting 4,500 jobs by 2016, and may eliminate as many as
6,000 positions, Harrison said today on a conference call.  Crude Oil  The company has already eliminated 3,400 jobs, or three-
quarters of its target, Chief Financial Officer Brian Grassby
said. The tally will probably reach 4,000 by the end of 2013,
according to the CEO.  “The 4,500 is not the ceiling,” Harrison said. “Will we
exceed 4,500? I think so, yes. Will we get to 6? Could be. I
don’t quite have line of sight on this yet.”  First-quarter revenue growth was fastest in industrial and
consumer products, which include  crude oil , up 25 percent from a
year ago, Canadian Pacific said today. Fertilizer and sulfur
sales gained 21 percent.  Demand for oil is such that Chief Marketing Officer Jane O’Hagan said today that Canadian Pacific may be able to achieve
a run-rate of 140,000 crude carloads by the end of 2015. The
railroad carried 53,500 carloads of crude oil last year, a 19-
fold increase from 2010.  Crude oil “remains the strongest opportunity” for revenue
expansion, O’Hagan said. “This growth momentum continues as
loading network expands, our destination network diversifies and
shippers commit to the crude-by-rail model.”  Separately, plans to sell the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern
Railroad are proceeding and Canadian Pacific has received
“strong interest” for the assets, Grassby said.  “In short order, we are going to be deciding the next
steps and narrowing down the number of people we are going to be
talking to,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  