-- Africa Property Fund to Raise $85 Million for Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-29T12:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/african-property-fund-to-raise-85-million-as-retailers-eye-land.html
(Corrects amount raised by Rand Merchant Bank and month in
fourth paragraph of story published on April 25.)  HBW Group Pty Ltd., a South African
real-estate developer, plans to raise $85 million by selling
shares in an African property fund as retailers look for land to
expand in the world’s second fastest-growing region.  African Land Investments Ltd. will list on the  Johannesburg
Stock Exchange  in July and on the bourse in Lusaka,  Zambia ’s
capital, Chief Executive Officer Tony Vassilopoulos said in an
interview on April 23. The fund will invest in property in
nations including Ghana,  Kenya , Zambia and  Mozambique , he said.  As  South Africa ’s commercial  property market  becomes
saturated, retailers are looking to other countries on the
continent for expansion, Vassilopoulos said. Sub-Saharan Africa
is also attracting European retailers struggling in their home
markets, he said. Growth in the region is forecast at 5.6
percent this year, faster than 3.3 percent globally, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . Only developing Asia is
projected to have a higher rate, at 7.1 percent.  Six of the 10 fastest-growing countries in the world over
the past decade were African, according to Johannesburg-based
Rand Merchant Bank. The  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  unit completed a $250
million fund raising in August to develop real estate in West
Africa.  Liberty Holdings Ltd. (LBH) , a Johannesburg-based insurer,
plans a $150 million property-development fund for countries
including Nigeria and Kenya.  Competitive Market  “A number of funds are putting money into Africa,” Ndibu
Motaung, head of South Africa research at real-estate manager
 Jones Lang Lasalle (JLL) , said by phone from Johannesburg. “That is
starting to gain momentum.”  African Land Investments will have an initial distribution
yield of 8.5 percent annually, Vassilopoulos said.  Growthpoint
Properties Ltd. (GRT) , South Africa’s largest real-estate company, has
a dividend yield of 5.1 percent.  The FTSE/JSE South Africa Listed Property Index has gained
33 percent over the past 12 months, beating the bourse’s all-
share index, which advanced 15 percent over the same period.  The JSE declined to comment on the listing in an e-mail
today. Beatrice Nkanza, CEO of the Lusaka Stock Exchange, said
by phone she’s unaware of the planned listing and that they
usually find out when an application takes place 90 days to six
months before the initial public offering. Java Capital, based
in Johannesburg, is managing the sale, Vassilopoulos said.  Greater Risks  Retailers including closely held clothes seller Top Shop
are “starting to look seriously” at African expansion,
Vassilopoulos said. European companies “are certainly also
going to become a major influence in the next five to 10 years
on the continent,” he said.  The African property market will become more competitive in
the next decade, Vassilopoulos said.  While countries including Kenya and Zambia have “huge
potential,” the risks there are “much greater than South
Africa,” Evan Robins, senior portfolio manager at Macro
Solutions, a unit of  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , said by phone from Cape
Town. “You’ve got commodities, currency, political risk, and
another is property rights. It’s a steep learning curve.”  Zambia is Africa’s biggest copper producer and Ghana relies
on gold, oil and cocoa for foreign currency. Mozambique has
offshore natural-gas reserves and Kenya is the world’s largest
exporter of black tea.  HBW, which owns the Bedford Centre mall in Johannesburg,
will sell its Manda Hill shopping center in Lusaka to African
Land after an independent assessment, Vassilopoulos said. HBW
will spend $125 million on a 38,000 square-meter (409,000
square-foot) mall in the Zambian Copperbelt province town of
Kitwe, set to open by April 2015, he said. That will also be
bought by African Land, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  