-- Akamai Soars as First-Quarter Profit Tops Analyst Estimates
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-25T20:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/akamai-soars-as-first-quarter-results-top-analysts-estimates.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , which
helps customers deliver online content faster, jumped 18 percent
after reporting revenue and profit that topped analysts’
estimates as  Internet traffic  increased more than expected.  The stock  surged  to $42.48 at the close in New York, the
biggest one-day gain since July of last year. First-quarter
profit, including an 8-cent tax benefit, rose to 51 cents a
share from 36 cents a year earlier, Akamai said yesterday in a
statement. That topped the average  estimate  of 46 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Akamai said traffic on the Internet accelerated faster than
it expected as more people spent time playing games, watching
videos and using social media. The company also sold more of the
services that it has added on top of the content-delivery
business, with security as its fastest-growing product.  “It looks solid every way you slice it,” said Jeff Van Rhee, an analyst with Craig-Hallum Capital Group in Berwyn,
 Pennsylvania . “They’re ahead of the street on pretty much
everything they could be.”  On a conference call with analysts, the company forecast
second-quarter profit excluding some items of 44 cents to 46
cents, compared with a 44-cent estimate.  First-quarter revenue increased 15 percent to $368 million.
Analysts had estimated $357.7 million. The company forecasts
revenue of $368 million to $378 million in the second quarter,
compared with a $363 million analyst estimate.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company has fallen 12
percent this year through yesterday’s close, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index added 11 percent.  Akamai named co-founder Tom Leighton as its next chief
executive officer in December after an eight-month search. He
took the job on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  