-- Anadarko Seeks Dismissal of Investor Suit Over Gulf Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-24T23:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/anadarko-seeks-dismissal-of-investor-suit-over-gulf-spill.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp., a partner
in the  BP Plc (BP/)  well that was the source of the largest U.S.
offshore spill, asked a federal judge in  Texas  to throw out a
lawsuit claiming the company misled investors over the project’s
risks before and after the blowout.  Investors accused Anadarko, which held a 25 percent
interest in BP’s Macondo well, of understating its role in the
project and falsely claiming it faced minimal financial
liability from the 2010 blowout off the Louisiana coast. The
securities-fraud suit, filed as a  class action , seeks recovery
of billions of dollars of lost share value resulting from the
spill.  Anadarko denies any false statements, before or after the
spill, and disputes the investors’ claims that the company was
involved in bad decisions made prior to the blowout or during
attempts to cap the well. The company urged U.S. District Court
Judge Keith P. Ellison at a hearing in Houston today to throw
out the case.  “The plaintiffs are making an attempt to pound a square
peg into events that do not constitute securities fraud,”
Charles Schwartz, an attorney for Anadarko, argued.  The blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed
11 workers and generated hundreds of lawsuits against BP;
Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the
Deepwater Horizon; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services for the project.  Spill Claims  The lawsuits also named Anadarko and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX
Offshore 2007, which had a 10 percent share, as defendants.
Anadarko agreed to pay BP $4 billion to settle its share of oil
spill claims. MOEX settled for $1.07 billion.  The securities-fraud lawsuit against Anadarko and company
executives was initially filed in 2010 in federal court in New
York and moved to Texas in 2012. The lawsuit was assigned to
Ellison, who is overseeing similar investor litigation against
BP.  The plaintiffs also suedJames C. Hackett, then chief
executive officer of Anadarko, Robert G. Gwin, chief financial
officer, and Robert P. Daniels, senior vice president of
exploration. The lawsuit, led by the pension funds of Virgin
Islands retirees, seeks to represent all investors in Anadarko
from June 12, 2009, to June 9, 2010.  The investors claim that Anadarko wasn’t a passive partner
in the Macondo well. Anadarko “expressly approved and funded a
series of extremely risky decisions made in connection with
drilling the well,” investors’ lawyers claim in the lawsuit.
These decisions “contributed directly to the disaster,”
according to the complaint.  Downplay Role  Once the spill occurred, Anadarko attempted to prop up its
shares by continuing to downplay its role in the project, the
lawyers said.  The shareholders claim that Anadarko assured investors in a
May 4, 2010, conference call that the “potential  liability  for
the Macondo well would be relatively small, approximately $177.5
million, and fully covered by insurance -- when their true
exposure was in the billions of dollars.”  “Investors were misled into believing this was going to be
BP’s problem,” their attorney, John Browne, said at today’s
hearing. “They assuage investors’ concerns and the stock goes
up.” Three weeks later, when it becomes more clear “that
Anadarko will be on the hook for a lot more than we thought, the
stock drops another 20 percent or so,” Browne said.  “This May 4 statement may be your best point,” Ellison
told lawyers at the hearing.  During that same call, statements that the company didn’t
look into the details of the well plan and its responsibilities
under the joint operating agreement are false and constitute
securities fraud, Browne said.  After Spill  Investigating such matters “had to be all they were
doing” in the days after the spill, Browne said.  “You’re saying he is reckless if he never looked at it and
lying if he said he didn’t?” Ellison said, referring to Daniels
speaking on the conference call. “You’re saying he may not have
known about this by April 19 but he certainly found out about
it” before the call?  Schwartz, Anadarko’s lawyer, repeatedly said the company
was a passive investor that bore no fault for the blowout and
that investors can’t place documents in the executives’ hands
that prove they knew their statements were false.  “I don’t think who was at fault that day is our
question,” Ellison told him. The judge said the question is
whether the company’s public statements were actionable by
investors.  Ellison took the lawyers’ comments under advisement and
said he’d issue a written opinion later.  Share Drop  Anadarko shares fell from $73.94 on April 20, 2010, to
$34.83 on June 9, 2010, a market capitalization loss of $19.3
billion, the shareholders said. The class period ended when news
reports surfaced on problems with the spill response and
Anadarko’s possible exposure to costs for the disaster,
according to the complaint.  Anadarko didn’t have operational control of the well and
never said its spill costs would all be covered by insurance,
company lawyers said in response to the suit.  In the May 2010 earnings call, Gwin said he couldn’t make
an assessment on possible expenses related to the spill,
Anadarko said in court papers.  In a 10-Q filed the same day, Anadarko informed investors
that it was “currently unable to estimate any potential
liability for costs arising in connection” with the spill and
“whether the costs might exceed the coverage limits” under the
insurance policies, company lawyers said, quoting from the
regulatory filing.  Texas Explosion  Anadarko also rejected the  investors ’ complaint that the
company should have known that engaging in a partnership with BP
was risky, since the British company had experienced earlier
incidents, including an explosion at its Texas City, Texas,
facility that killed 15 workers.  “Plaintiffs suggest that investing in a well operated by
BP, the largest producer in the Gulf of Mexico, constituted a
red flag in and of itself,” Anadarko lawyers said in a Dec. 17
filing. “This unfounded claim warrants dismissal.”  In its settlement with BP, Anadarko was indemnified against
all claims and judgments arising under the U.S. Oil Pollution
Act, including natural resource damages costs, the company said
in regulatory filings.  A nonjury trial over liability for the incident concluded
last week in New Orleans. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will
decide fault for the incident and whether BP or its contractors
were grossly negligent, which could trigger higher damages or
fines. Barbier said he wouldn’t issue an immediate decision.  Liability Trial  Anadarko and MOEX weren’t part of the liability trial,
based on a pretrial ruling by Barbier that they didn’t have
control of the operation.  The U.S. sued Anadarko under the Clean Water Act and the
company remains subject to fines under that law. Barbier ruled
that Anadarko, as one of the owners of the well, was liable by
law for Clean Water Act fines.  The possible CWA cost to Anadarko is unknown, the company
said in a 2012 10K filing. “Given the company’s lack of direct
operational involvement in the event, as confirmed by the
Louisiana District Court, and the subjective criteria of the
CWA, the company believes that its exposure to CWA penalties
will not materially impact the company’s consolidated financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows,” Anadarko said
in the filing.  Safety Commitment  BP also faces  securities-fraud claims  by investors who
contend the company overstated its commitment to safety and
deliberately underestimated the size of the spill in order to
bolster share prices.  Ellison limited the BP securities case to investors in the
company’s U.S. shares. He set a trial for August 2014.  The case is In re.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  Class Action
Litigation, 12-cv-00900, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  