-- Mandela ‘Sprightly’ as He Recovers From Pneumonia: Zuma
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-04-24T15:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/mandela-sprightly-as-he-recovers-from-pneumonia-zuma.html
Former South African leader Nelson Mandela is “sprightly” and recovering well following a recent
bout of pneumonia, President Jacob Zuma said.  Mandela, 94, returned to his Johannesburg home on April 6
after undergoing 10 days of treatment in hospital, during which
doctors drained fluid surrounding his lungs. His hospitalization
was his third in four months, including a scheduled checkup.  “He is doing very well,” Zuma said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV in Cape Town today. “He is a good fighter. He is
actually demonstrating this in his old age.  We just accept the
fact that he is no longer young. We are happy that we are still
with him.”  Mandela served for five years as South Africa’s first black
president, after his African National Congress won all-race
elections that ended apartheid in 1994. He spent 27 years in
prison, most of it on Robben Island off the coast of Cape Town,
where he contracted tuberculosis. Also known by his clan name,
Madiba, Mandela won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993.  Zuma, who was appointed president in May 2009, said he last
saw Mandela when he was still hospitalized and his condition had
stabilized.  “Everything was fine,” Zuma said. “He was sprightly. He
gave that beautiful smile of his when I talked to him.”  Asked if Mandela intended returning to his rural home at
Qunu near his birthplace in Eastern Cape province, Zuma said
that was a decision to be taken by the former president and his
doctors.  “If he wanted to go to his village, I am sure they would
be happy and capable to be able to provide for him there,” Zuma
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  