-- Apple to Double Retail Outlets in China as Growth Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-24T04:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/apple-to-double-retail-outlets-in-china-as-growth-slows.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will double the number
of retail stores it operates in  China  during the next two years
as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  looks for ways to counter
slowing growth.  Apple’s  sales  in the greater China region, the world’s
largest market for computers and handsets, rose 11 percent to a
record $8.8 billion during the fiscal second quarter, Cook said
on a conference call yesterday. That was down from the 67
percent pace of growth in the three months ended Dec. 29, the
first period Apple officially broke out results for its largest
market outside the U.S.  Concerns that Apple’s growth is slowing globally were
reinforced by a forecast for sales this quarter that may miss
analysts’ predictions by as much as $4.9 billion. In China,
where Apple has 11 outlets, the company has been criticized in
state-run media over the quality of its after-sales service
compared to that provided in the U.S.  “Doubling stores over two years is simply not enough,”
said  Shaun Rein , managing director of China Market Research
Group in  Shanghai . “Their sales growth is really collapsing.”  Apple is facing “serious political headwinds” that may
make it more difficult to get permits to open new stores, Rein
said. Cook’s plan is well off the pace set by former head of
retail operations Ron Johnson, who set a target of 25 stores by
February 2012.  Apple opened its first Chinese store in Beijing’s Sanlitun
district in 2008. Johnson left Apple in 2011 to become  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP) ’s CEO, a role he was ousted from this month.  Apple’s iPhone also is available in China through third-
party retailers, and two of the nation’s wireless carriers --
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and China Telecom Corp. Apple has
added about 8,000 iPhone sales points for a total of 19,000
currently, Cook said. That is “obviously too low, currently,”
he said.  “Going forward we still see a significant opportunity in
China,” Cook said. “It’s a great market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  