-- Apple’s $145 Billion in Cash Fails to Win AAA Debt Rating
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d ,   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-04-24T18:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/apple-s-145-billion-in-cash-fails-to-win-aaa-debt-rating.html
A debt-free  balance sheet  with more
cash than the combined funds of every AAA rated U.S. company
failed to win  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  the bond market’s highest credit grade
as the iPhone maker prepares to borrow to enrich shareholders.  Apple, which has $145 billion of cash, said yesterday it
plans to use debt to help finance a $100 billion capital reward
for shareholders after a 42 percent stock  plunge . Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  responded by ranking the
company a level below their top grades, with Gerald Granovsky of
Moody’s citing “shifting consumer preferences” in a statement
as a risk to Cupertino, California-based Apple’s  business .  The decisions give Apple lower ratings than Microsoft
Corp., Johnson & Johnson, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Automatic Data
Processing Inc., whose combined debt of $42 billion accounts for
about 13 percent of their equity. Apple could borrow more than
$17 billion and still maintain a ratio below that, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You have a company that’s in a highly volatile industry
that could have up to $50 billion of debt five or six years down
the line,” Granovsky, a New York-based analyst at Moody’s, said
in a telephone interview. “Just based on that, it didn’t smell
like a triple-A.” Moody’s accords Apple its second-highest
level of investment grade, Aa1, and S&P ranks the company an
equivalent AA+.  Sales Growth  Concern that Apple’s pace of sales growth is slowing were
reinforced yesterday by a forecast for narrowing gross margins
and sales this quarter that may miss analysts’ predictions by as
much as $4.9 billion. Apple had its first profit decline in a
decade last quarter amid accelerating competition in mobile
devices from Samsung Electronics Co.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
on the company’s credit rating.  “Apple was a high-growth company for a number of years,
and when you start tapping the  debt market , for whatever
purpose, it tends to transition you into a more mature
company,” Matt Duch, a money manager who helps oversee $12
billion at Calvert Investments Inc. in Bethesda,  Maryland , said
in a telephone interview. “It does make you question where the
company is in its cycle.”  While Apple’s stock decline to $406.13 yesterday had erased
$276.6 billion of value since the shares reached a closing high
of $702.10 on Sept. 19, the credit market has never been more
receptive to investment-grade offerings. Shares today rose 0.3
percent to $407.28 at 2:16 p.m.  Record Low  The average yield on corporate debt in the U.S. ranked
higher than junk dropped to a record low 2.69 percent yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Issuers
with AA ratings can borrow at rates of less than 2 percent for
about 10 years, and Apple may be able to sell debt inexpensively
relative to its credit grade.  “I don’t expect them to come cheap,” Dorian Garay, a New
York-based  money manager  for an investment-grade debt fund at
ING Investment Management in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  An Apple debt sale would come more than nine years after
the company cleared its balance sheet of bonds when its $300
million of 6.5 percent 10-year notes matured in February 2004.  Apple generated $48 billion of  free cash  in the 12 months
ended March 30, more than the market value of payroll manager
ADP. Revenue of $43.6 billion last quarter exceeds the sales
that 80 percent of S&P 500 companies generate in an entire year.  ‘Attractive Rate’  “There are some competitive issues at the moment and you
see that in their stock price, but that’s not to say they’re not
going to generate good cash,” Ping Zhao, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Apple is about as much of a top-grade as you can get.”  Using new debt to finance Apple’s $55 billion addition to
its plan to return cash to shareholders through 2015 with
buybacks and  dividends  may require annual issuance of between
$15 billion and $20 billion, Zhao wrote in a report yesterday.
Apple would probably receive a “very attractive rate” for as
much as $50 billion in new debt, Barclays Plc analyst  Ben Reitzes  wrote in a report last month.  Repatriation Tax  That would aid Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  in
his effort to reward shareholders without incurring what the
Apple executive called “significant tax consequences” on a
conference call yesterday with analysts and investors. By
tapping the debt market to fund such rewards, Apple would be
following the example of companies such as Microsoft and EBay
Inc. to raise domestic funds while avoiding U.S. repatriation
tax on overseas earnings.  Apple’s return-of-capital program requires paying
shareholders an average $30 billion annually, Oppenheimer said.
That represents “substantially all” the company’s fiscal 2012
free cash had Apple returned foreign earnings to the U.S. to be
fully taxed, he said.  The company held $102.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities in foreign units on March 30, Apple
said in a regulatory filing today.  “They have a lot of cash on the balance sheet and a lot of
it resides outside the U.S.,” said Jon Duensing, head of
corporate credit at Smith Breeden Associates in Boulder,
 Colorado . Selling debt may be more cost-effective than paying
the tax to repatriate those funds, he said.  ‘Greatest Product’  Under current law, U.S. companies can defer federal income
taxes on most overseas earnings indefinitely. When they do
return to the U.S., they’re taxed at the corporate rate of 35
percent, with credits for foreign income taxes paid. Companies
paying little in overseas levies face higher U.S. tax bills upon
repatriation and may save money by borrowing instead.  Apple’s rating from S&P puts it in the same tier as General
Electric Co. and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  While Apple will probably maintain “excellent” liquidity,
most of its revenue is generated in “highly competitive markets
characterized by rapid technology evolution and short product
life cycles,” S&P analysts led by Martha Toll-Reed wrote in a
report yesterday.  One of Apple’s chief competitors is Samsung, which in March
unveiled the Galaxy S4 to challenge the iPhone in the high-end
smartphone market. The Suwon, South Korea-based company is the
world’s largest seller of handsets and relies on a strategy of
using a wide range of devices. Apple, by contrast, releases a
limited number of products each year.  “With consumer technology, whenever we think that this is
the greatest product ever, you wait five to 10 years and that
company is no longer at the top,” Granovsky of Moody’s said.
“Triple-A is reserved to companies where we believe the
business is highly stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  