-- Apple, Chick-Fil-A, Levi Strauss: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-24T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/apple-chick-fil-a-levi-strauss-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  averted an order that
could have hindered imports of the iPhone 4 into the U.S. after
persuading a U.S. trade agency to invalidate a patent owned by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit over a phone sensor.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington 
upheld a judge’s findings that the Motorola Mobility patent is
invalid April 22, though for different reasons. The disputed
patent 6,246,862 covers a sensor that prevents the phone from
accidentally hanging up or activating an application when close
to a person’s face.  The decision is the latest instance in which neither
Cupertino, California-based Apple nor Google has been able to
strike a decisive blow against its competitor in a squabble that
began more than two years ago. Each has claimed the other is
infringing patents, and Apple accused Motorola Mobility of
breaching obligations to license some of its most widely used
technology on fair terms.  Matt Kallman, a spokesman for Google, said the  Mountain
View , California-based company was disappointed and is
“evaluating our options.” Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for
Apple, said the company had no comment.  The dispute with Motorola Mobility predates its acquisition
by Google last year. Apple contends phones running on Google’s
Android operating system copy the look and features that make
the iPhone unique. In addition to Motorola Mobility and Samsung
Electronics Co., Apple sued Taiwanese handset maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  in
a case that settled in November with royalty payments and a
pledge that HTC wouldn’t copy Apple designs.  Apple is appealing the loss of its own case against
Motorola Mobility at the agency over touchscreen technology, and
both companies are challenging a decision by a judge in  Chicago 
to toss infringement claims they filed against each other. A
federal judge in Miami presiding over another dispute between
the two called them “obstreperous and cantankerous” and said
they were more interested in never-ending litigation as a
business strategy than in resolving disputes.  Google paid $12.4 billion for Motorola Mobility in large
part to get access to its trove of more than 17,000 patents and
gain leverage against Apple.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless Communication
Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing Devices, Computers
and Components Thereof, 337-745, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chick-Fil-A’s ‘Eat Mor Chikin’ Trumps Kale-Promotion Slogan  A Vermont-based artist’s attempt to register “Eat more
kale” as a trademark has been thwarted by efforts of the Chick-
fil-A Inc. fast-food chain.  Robert Muller-More was informed by U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  that his mark was likely to be confused with
the chain’s “eat mor chikin” marks.  The trademark examiner said in the refusal letter that the
perceived similarities between kale and chicken “are more
important than the differences.”  Both parties’ marks “have a similar concept -- encouraging
those that encounter the marks to eat more of something. The
marks urge action in the same way, only as to different
substances and both of them are commonly consumed types of
food,” the examiner said.  Muller-More had argued in his submissions to the patent
office that his mark was intended to “invoke the message of
buying and eating locally grown produce and living close to the
earth and the farmer” while the Atlanta-based chicken chain’s
mark simply seeks to persuade the consumer to eat chicken
instead of beef.  Levi’s Red-Tab Trademark Infringed by Swiss Company, Court Rules  Levi Strauss  & Co., the San Francisco company known for its
blue jeans, has won a challenge to its trademark of a red tab in
a pocket seam, the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper  reported .  Colloseum Holding AG, a Swiss company, had begun selling
its brand of blue jeans with a red tab stitched into the seam of
one of its back pockets, and argued that its use of its name on
the tab precluded consumer confusion with the Levi mark,
according to the Telegraph.  The Luxembourg-based  European Court  of Justice ruled that
Levi’s red tab is integral to the  California  company’s brand,
the newspaper reported.  Golden Nugget Sued Texas Resident Over Domain-Name Registration  The Las Vegas-based operator of the  Golden Nugget  casinos
sued a Texas resident for trademark infringement.  GNLV Corp. said Alisa Lesueur of  San Antonio  has registered
10 infringing domain names that link to casino and gambling
websites. Among the names are www.online-golden-nugget-
poker.com, www.golden-nugget-online-casino.com and
www.goldennuggetonlineslots.com.  The casino company said that Leseur was sent a cease-and-
desist letter. Her registration of the allegedly infringing
names is evidence of a “bad-faith intent to profit from” the
casino’s trademarks, GNLV said in its complaint.  Consumers are deceived by the names and likely to think,
falsely, that an affiliation exists between Leseur’s domain
names and the Golden Nugget casinos, according to court papers.  Leseur said in an e-mail that “our lawyers are talking”
and that she was “not aware of the infringement until I got the
notice from the Golden Nugget.”  GNLV asked the court for an order barring further
infringement and for the transfer of Leseur’s domain names.
Additionally, the casino company seeks money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  The case is GNLV Corp. v. Lesueur, 13-cv-00679, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  Kansas to Promote Goods With ‘From the Land of Kansas’ Mark  The  Kansas  Department of Agriculture Agricultural Advocacy
has applied for a new trademark and begun using the mark to 
promote  the state’s agricultural products, manufacturers, and
restaurants “serving one primary Kansas food product,”
according to the department’s website.  The database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
indicates that the application for the “from the land of
Kansas” mark was filed in February. The state said in its
application that it plans to use the mark with wood products,
clothing, and non-food agricultural products such as fertilizer,
herbicides and pesticides produced in Kansas, in addition to
food products.  Retailers and farmers’ markets that register with the state
will be permitted to use the mark, which featured a single stock
of golden wheat on a circular blue background.  The program is intended to “brand, support and celebrate
Kansas agricultural products and services from the farm all the
way to the fork,” according to the Kansas Department of
Agriculture’s  website .  The state has already set up a  page  on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
social-media site promoting the “From the land of Kansas”
campaign.  Specialty Fertilizer Claims ‘Manure Plus’ Infringes Trademark  Specialty Fertilizer Products LLC, an agricultural chemical
company, has sued a  Minnesota  competitor for trademark
infringement.  The complaint, filed April 17 in federal court in  Kansas
City ,  Missouri , accused  ProfitPro LLC  of infringing the “More
than Manure” trademark.  ProfitPro, of Albert-Lea, Minnesota, produced a product
under the name “Manureplus.” Specialty said this product is
directly competitive with its More Than Manure product, and that
the public is likely to be confused and deceived by the name
similarity.  The alleged infringement has been “deliberate and
willful,” and ProfitPro has refused to comply with Specialty’s
cease-and desist letters, the Kansas company claims in its
pleadings.  Specialty, of Leawood, Kansas, asked the court to bar
ProfitPro’s alleged infringement and for awards of money
damaged, attorney fees and litigation costs. Additionally, the
Kansas company requests that any damages award be tripled and
that extra damages be added to punish ProfitPro for its actions.  ProfitPro didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Specialty Fertilizer Products LLC v. ProfitPro
LLC, 4:13-cv-00381-BCW, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Missouri (Kansas City)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Yandex Loses Copyright Challenge to Skan.ru’s App Distribution  Yandex LLC, owner of  Russia ’s largest search engine, has
lost its attempt to prevent the operator of the Skan.ru website
from distributing an app to which Yandex had exclusive rights,
the Russian Legal Information Agency reported.  The Sverdlovsk Regional Commercial Court rejected Moscow-
based Yandex’s copyright infringement claim and demand for 1
million rubles ($31,640) in compensation for the unauthorized
use and distribution of its program, according to the  news
agency .  Skan.ru had distributed an amended version of the program,
which itself wasn’t developed by Yandex and which contained
outside elements, the news agency reported.  Kenya Destroys Electronic Equipment in War Against Piracy  Kenya ’s  Copyright Board , working with that country’s Waste
Electrical and Electronic Equipment Center, destroyed electronic
equipment used in the production of pirated material or illegal
distribution of television broadcast signals, Nairobi’s Star
newspaper  reported .  In announcing the destruction of the equipment, the board
said that there is a 98 percent piracy rate in the music and
broadcast industry in Kenya, according to the Star.  In the past year, the board has investigated more than 120
cases of piracy and prosecuted 108, Marisela Ouma of the board
told the Star.  Ouma said the high rate of piracy impeded the growth and
development of Kenya’s creative industries, the Star reported.  Copyright Agency Claims Councils Lack Licenses to Make Copies  The U.K.’s  Copyright Licensing Agency  said that at least a
third of local city and town councils risk copyright
infringement charges because they lack licenses for staff-made
copies of print and digital media, the U.K.’s Local Government
Chronicle  reported .  The agency released this data in the wake of a dispute in
which the city of  Brighton & Hove  was ordered to pay licensing
and legal fees, according to the publication.  The Local Government Chronicle reported that the Copyright
Licensing Agency’s fee is 29.20 British pounds ($44.55) per
professional employee.  Brighton & Hove Chief Executive Penny Thompson told the
Local Government Chronicle that the alleged infringement
occurred on a small scale in 2009 and 2010.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 