-- Arabica Coffee Rebounds as Prices Fell Too Far; Sugar Advances
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-24T10:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/arabica-coffee-rebounds-as-prices-fell-too-far-sugar-advances.html
Arabica coffee rebounded in  New
York  on speculation prices that declined as much as 4.6 percent
yesterday fell too far. Sugar advanced and cocoa slid.  Arabica coffee futures traded on ICE Futures U.S. fell
yesterday after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its forecasts
for the futures citing an improving production outlook in
leading grower  Brazil . Prices will be at $1.45 a pound in three,
six and 12 months, the bank said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
That is down from previous forecasts of $1.55 a pound, $1.65 a
pound and $1.75 a pound, respectively.  “Coffee continues to behave in classic bear market fashion
with sharp, short-lived rallies that acquiesce to the ongoing
downtrend,” Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup
Inc. in  Chicago , said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “Even
though it is an off year, Brazil will produce a very large crop
and these supplies will weigh on the market.”  Arabica coffee futures for delivery in July rose 0.4
percent to $1.3815 a pound by 6:22 a.m. on ICE. Robusta coffee
futures for delivery in July fell 0.2 percent to $2,007 a metric
ton on NYSE Liffe. It fell as much as 3.7 percent yesterday.  Coffee growing areas in Central Highlands in  Vietnam , the
biggest producer of the robusta variety, will get widespread
rain this week, MDA Information Systems LLC said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. Showers are improving soil moisture.  Raw sugar for July delivery climbed 0.1 percent to 17.68
cents a pound in New York. It closed 0.4 percent lower
yesterday. White sugar for August delivery was up 0.3 percent to
$505.70 a ton in London.  Ethanol Production  Brazil, the biggest ethanol exporter, will give  tax
deductions  and extend low-cost credit to mills in a bid to lift
output and reduce fossil-fuel imports. That may mean millers
will favor production of the biofuel over sugar.  “The decision was already expected and that’s maybe why
the market did nothing, but I think it’s definitely constructive
for the market,” Tom McNeill, a director at Green Pool
Commodity Specialists Pty., said by phone from  Brisbane ,
 Australia  today.  Cocoa futures for July delivery fell 0.4 percent to $2,317
a ton on ICE after gaining as much as 1.9 percent yesterday.
Cocoa for July delivery declined 0.4 percent to 1,544 pounds
($2,358) a ton on NYSE Liffe in London. The beans gained 4.7
percent in New York this year.  “Cocoa had reached a bottom some weeks ago and 1,600
pounds a ton appears as a reasonable target for the short
term,” Jerome Jourquin, head of agricultural commodity
derivatives at Aurel BGC in Paris, said by e-mail today. “The
mid-crop is said to be not as good as initially expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 