-- Arab Bank Must Face Trial Over Terror Attacks, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/arab-bank-must-face-trial-over-terror-attacks-judge-says.html
Arab Bank Plc (ARBK) , Jordan’s largest
lender, lost a bid to avoid a U.S. trial in a lawsuit brought by
terrorism victims who accuse it of supporting attacks in Israel.  U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
yesterday rejected the bank’s request to throw out the case,
sending it toward trial.  The victims claim in their lawsuit that Arab Bank, based in
Amman, “knowingly and purposefully supported” foreign
terrorist organizations from 1995 to 2004 by providing financial
support to terrorists, including administering payments to the
families of Palestinian  suicide bombers . The bank has denied
wrongdoing.  “For nine years, it’s been the stated goal of all of the
plaintiffs to have the opportunity to get their day in court,”
Gary Osen, a lawyer for some of the plaintiffs, said after
yesterday’s hearing. “This is certainly not the end of the
process but it vindicates their right to have their day in
court.”  A lead plaintiff in the case is Courtney Linde, whose
husband, John Linde Jr., was killed Oct. 15, 2003, while
guarding diplomats traveling in the  Gaza Strip . The case was
brought under the U.S. Anti-Terrorism Act, which allows for
lawsuits against companies that provide support for terrorist
organizations.  ‘Preliminary Ruling’  Bob Chlopak of Chlopak Leonard Schechter & Associates in
 Washington , a spokesman for the bank, said in a statement that
the judge’s decision “is only a preliminary ruling allowing the
case to proceed to trial by a jury.”  “The bank remains confident that the extensive evidentiary
record will demonstrate at trial that the transactions at issue
were routine and lawful, and the bank did not knowingly or
proximately cause the acts of terrorism at issue in these
cases,” Chlopak said.  The trial, tentatively set for September or October, would
cover claims brought by 296 people, including victims of 24
separate attacks and their family members, according to
discussions during yesterday’s hearing. Lawyers said the trial
may last as long as 12 weeks.  In November, Arab Bank won the dismissal of a separate suit
filed by former Israeli government official Mati Gill, who was
injured in a 2008 by a shot fired from Gaza, a territory
bordering  Israel .  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn ruled that
Gill didn’t show enough evidence that the bank played a role in
the attack to send the case to trial.  In her decision yesterday, Gershon granted the bank’s
request to dismiss certain claims specifying that it aided and
abetted terrorist activities. She allowed the rest of the suit
to move forward.  The case is Linde v. Arab Bank Plc, 04-cv-02799, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  