-- Hard Rock Buys Stake in New Jersey Racetrack Manager
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-24T18:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/hard-rock-buys-stake-in-new-jersey-racetrack-manager.html
Hard Rock International Inc., the
operator of hotels, casinos and themed bars, bought an equity
stake in the New Meadowlands Racetrack LLC, as it seeks to gain
from the site’s expansion and possible gaming developments.  The investment is long term and “extends to any projected
future developments” at the  East Rutherford , New Jersey,
racetrack, Hard Rock said today in a statement. Hard Rock, based
in Orlando, Florida, and owned by the Seminole Indian tribe,
didn’t disclose financial terms of the transaction.  New Meadowlands , a management company that took over
operations of the state-owned track in  December 2011 , plans to
build a $100 million grandstand, opening in November, that will
include more higher-end dining, Chairman Jeffrey Gural said in a
telephone interview.  Hard Rock will assist in booking concerts at the track and
could play a role as a casino manager should New Jersey allow
slot machines at the site, Gural said. Atlantic City has a
monopoly on casinos in New Jersey and Governor  Chris Christie 
has said he won’t back any expansion until he sees whether a
turnaround effort at the state’s gaming resort begun in 2011
pans out.  “The governor has made it clear he wants to give Atlantic
City five years, after that he’ll take a look at expanding
gaming,” Gural said.  The racetrack is located about nine miles from  New York
City . Slot machines at other facilities closer to Manhattan have
taken business from Atlantic City, Gural said.  “Aqueduct is killing,” Gural said, referring to the
state-owned horse track in the  New York  borough of Queens, next
to which a casino owned by Malaysia’s  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  was added in
2011.  Atlantic City “has gone from having an exclusive to having
competition in every state.”  Gural, 70, is also chairman of New York-based real estate
brokerage firm Newmark  Knight Frank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  