-- Argentine Lower House Debates Limit on Injunctions Against State
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-24T16:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/argentine-lower-house-debates-limit-on-injunctions-against-state.html
Argentina’s lower house of Congress
began to debate an overhaul of the judiciary system that
includes restrictions on court injunctions against the state, a
move opposition lawmakers say violates the rights of individuals
and companies.  The Senate last week approved three bills, including one
that states injunctions against the state could only be applied
if someone’s life or health was at risk, and would last for a
maximum of six months.  “This bill will restrict citizens and companies’ rights,”
lawmaker Miguel Angel Giubergia, from the opposition Civic
Radical Union, said in a telephone interview. “We’ll all lose
the opportunity to defend our selves against the state.”  On April 18, Argentines packed streets in Buenos Aires and
other cities in the South American country to demonstrate
against President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposals to
increase state control over courts. Announcing her proposals on
April 8, Fernandez said her goal was to “democratize” the
legal system by increasing the transparency in the hiring of
public attorneys, the declarations of assets of its employees,
and in selecting members of the council of magistrates, a body
that oversees the rulings and conduct of judges.  “Injunctions against the state interrupt the application
of laws or decrees ordered by legitimately elected
authorities,” Fernandez said. “We want legitimate, democratic,
flexible justice for all.”  Mauricio Macri, the mayor of Buenos Aires and leader of the
opposition PRO party, this morning visited a tent set up in
front of congress, where signatures were being collected for a
petition urging lawmakers to vote against the reform.  “We’re asking lawmakers who haven’t made up their minds to
take this opportunity to avoid damaging the nation,” Macri told
reporters.  Macri spoke as members of the union representing justice
workers, who began a 72-hour strike today, rallied outside
congress in protest at the reform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  