-- TARP Watchdog Says Closely Connected Banks Remain Financial Risk
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/tarp-watchdog-says-closely-connected-banks-remain-financial-risk.html
Close relationships between large
financial institutions remain a threat to economic stability
nearly five years after the 2008 financial crisis, according to
the watchdog for the U.S. government’s bailout program.  “Too big to fail is not just about size -- it is about the
interconnections the largest financial firms have to each other
and to American households,” the office of the special
inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program said in
its quarterly report to Congress today. “Ending too big to fail
is critical to the safety of our financial system.”  The debate in Washington over whether the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law will end taxpayer-funded bailouts was re-
energized after U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last
month that the size of the largest banks has made it difficult
for the  Justice Department  to bring criminal charges when there
is wrongdoing.  Mary Miller , the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
domestic finance, said in a speech last week that the notion
that some banks are too big to be allowed to fail is incorrect.
“No financial institution, regardless of its size, will be
bailed out by taxpayers again,” she said.  Banks with more than $500 billion in assets would face
higher capital standards meant to reduce risk and end an implied
subsidy for the biggest lenders under a bill to be introduced
today by U.S. senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and
 David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican.  Living Wills  Regulators should use so-called living wills to “prevent a
future crisis and bailout,”  Christy Romero , the special
inspector general, or SIGTARP, said in a statement released with
today’s report. Living wills are plans that would help
regulators wind down a financial institution in case of future
insolvency.  The report also said banks that left TARP through the Small
Business Lending Fund, or SBLF, “have not effectively increased
lending to small businesses, and are significantly
underperforming compared to non-TARP banks in SBLF.” The
program has been a “missed opportunity” to increase lending, it
said. The Treasury program injects funds into banks for lending
to small businesses.  The Treasury said in a March 28 letter to Romero that SBLF
has been a success and banks in the program “have made
significant progress in increasing small business lending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  