-- Marubeni Wins China Approval for $3.6 Billion Gavilon Takeover
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-04-24T00:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/marubeni-wins-china-approval-for-3-6-billion-gavilon-takeover.html
Marubeni Corp. (8002)  won approval from
Chinese antitrust authorities for its $3.6 billion purchase of
U.S. grain supplier Gavilon Group LLC, the Japanese commodities
trader’s biggest acquisition.  The approval, coming almost a year after Marubeni said that
it agreed on the purchase, was posted yesterday on the website
of  China ’s  Ministry of Commerce . The go-ahead was only given on
the basis that Marubeni and Gavilon continue to operate separate
soybean sales units in China so as not to limit competition, the
ministry said.  Buying Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon allows  Japan ’s biggest
agricultural trader to expand in the world’s largest producer
and exporter of corn and compete with Cargill Inc. and other top
global grain traders. The acquisition also strengthens
Marubeni’s position in supplying food to  Asia , as U.S. grain is
one of the main import sources for the region.  The delay in the decision came after China, the world’s
largest buyer of soybeans and metals, took longer than
anticipated to approve Glencore International Plc’s takeovers of
Xstrata Plc and Viterra Inc. At the time when Marubeni announced
its purchase of Gavilon on May 29 it said the deal for the
third-largest U.S. grain merchandiser was due to close in
September.  The purchase of Gavilon from a group of funds led by
Ospraie Management LLC also involves Marubeni taking on $2
billion of debt, the Tokyo-based company’s Chief Financial
Officer Yukihiko Matsumura said in May.  Gavilon traces its roots back to Peavey Co., acquired by
 ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  in 1982. Gavilon took its current form when
ConAgra sold its trading and merchandising operations in 2008 to
Ospraie, a commodities hedge-fund firm founded by  Dwight Anderson , and its partners for $2.75 billion including debt.  In addition to selling grains, Gavilon’s businesses include
fertilizer distribution and energy trading. It has about 2,000
employees in 300 locations on six continents, it said in March
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  