-- Copper, Gold, Europe Stocks Rise; S&P 500 Little Changed
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-04-24T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/asian-stocks-gain-on-u-s-growth-signs-as-kiwi-rises-with-crude.html
Copper rebounded after sliding into
a bear market, gold rose and European  stocks  climbed for a
fourth day on speculation central banks will ease monetary
policy. U.S. shares ended little changed.  Copper futures climbed 2 percent in New York and gold
increased more than 1 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added
0.7 percent and has rallied 3.8 percent in four days, its best
gain since July. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index swung between
gains and losses throughout the day before closing little
changed at 1,578.79. New Zealand’s dollar strengthened after the
central bank said growth had picked up. Italian and German
borrowing costs fell to record lows at auctions today. Ten-year
U.S. Treasury yields lost one basis point to less than 1.70
percent, holding near their low of 2013.  Commerzbank AG, UBS AG, Rabobank International and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc said the European Central Bank will
probably cut its key rate by 25 basis points in May. German
business confidence fell for a second month in April, the Ifo
Institute said today, after data yesterday showed services and
factory output in the euro area shrank for a 15th month.
 Australia ’s central bank has more room to cut interest rates,
Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “European growth numbers have fallen since the start of
the year so it would help if the ECB cut rates,” said Andrea Williams, the head of European equities at Royal London Asset
Management Ltd., which manages about $76 billion. Company “top
lines are not great but offset by cost cutting,” she said.  Durable Goods  Orders for U.S. durable goods fell in March by the most in
seven months. Bookings for products meant to last at least three
years decreased 5.7 percent after a revised 4.3 percent gain the
prior month that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department said today. The median forecast of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent decline.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities advanced 1.3 percent
for its biggest gain of the year. Copper rallied 2 percent to
$3.165 a pound in New York and advanced 2.3 percent to $7,030 a
metric ton in  London , the first gain in four days after falling
into a bear market on April 19. Gold futures for June delivery
climbed 1.1 percent to $1,423.70 an ounce as investor demand for
coins surged amid a slump in exchange-traded products backed by
the metal.  Two shares advanced for each that declined in the Stoxx
600. The gauge has climbed 3.8 percent in four days, the biggest
rally for that length of period since July.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,
surged 10 percent as sales beat analyst estimates. Storebrand
ASA rallied 6.5 percent after  Norway ’s second-largest insurer
reported earnings that topped projections. Heineken NV slumped
5.1 percent, the most since August 2011, after the brewer cut
its forecasts.  Rally Halts  The S&P 500 fluctuated after gaining for three straight
days, surging 2.4 percent for its biggest advance since January.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  closed down 0.2 percent after reporting its first
profit drop in a decade as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
dashed expectations that a new iPhone might arrive as early as
June, overshadowing the company’s plan to return more cash to
shareholders.  Boeing Co. rallied 3 percent and Yum! Brands Inc. advanced
7 percent after reporting first-quarter earnings that topped
estimates. Procter & Gamble Co. fell 5.9 percent, the most in
four years, after its full-year earnings forecast missed analyst
projections.  Earnings beat  estimates  at 73 percent of the 174 companies
in the S&P 500 that posted results so far this season, while 56
percent trailed revenue projections, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Churning’  “The market is churning here,” James McDonald, chief
investment strategist at Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago , said
by phone. His firm manages about $810 billion. “Earnings have
been better than expected, but that’s almost always the case.
What investors have been modestly concerned by is the revenue
growth outlook,” he said. The durable goods report “indicates
there was a slowdown in the economy at the end of the quarter.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1 percent to a one-
week high. Russia’s Micex index jumped 2.8 percent, the most
since September, as commodities rebounded. The Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 1.6 percent. Benchmark gauges in
 Brazil ,  Turkey , the Czech Republic and  Taiwan  gained at least
0.6 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, strengthened to
NZ$1.2111 against its Australian counterpart, a three-year high,
as Australian consumer prices rose less than economists
estimated. New Zealand’s 10-year government  bond yield  fell to a
record-low 3.17 percent.  European Auctions  Germany  sold 30-year bonds at an average yield of 2.16
percent, the lowest on record, data from the Bundesbank showed.
The yield at  Italy ’s auction of zero-coupon bonds dropped to an
unprecedented 1.167 percent, from 1.746 percent at a sale on
March 25.  The average yield to maturity of securities in Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Sovereign Plus Index
fell to an all-time low of 1.3419 percent yesterday.  The Markit iTraxx  Europe  index of 125 investment-grade
companies fell one basis point to 106 basis points today, the
lowest since March 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Japanese corporate bonds dropped to a
level that matched its lowest in three years, according to data
provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx Japan Index, which is comprised
of contracts on 50 companies, declined 2.4 basis points to 90.5
basis point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  