-- Master Blenders Third-Quarter Sales Decline on Price Pressure
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-04-24T16:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/master-blenders-third-quarter-sales-decline-on-price-pressure.html
 D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV, the
Dutch coffee company being acquired by Joh. A. Benckiser, said
third-quarter revenue fell due to promotions in western  Europe .  Sales dropped 3.2 percent to 633 million euros ($823
million) on a like-for like measure and excluding green coffee
exports, the Amsterdam-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue in western Europe dropped 8.5 percent on that basis.  JAB, the investment arm of the billionaire Reimann family,
said on April 12 it agreed to buy Master Blenders, the maker of
 Douwe Egberts (DE) , for about 7.5 billion euros ($9.8 billion) to
build a coffee conglomerate in the industry’s biggest deal ever.
The transaction is expected to be completed in late July or
early August, interim Chief Executive Officer Jan Bennink said.  Sales declined 5.5 percent on a reported basis in the third
quarter, Master Blenders said today.  Using the like-for-like measure, revenue in the out-of-home
category decreased 3.3 percent.  Master Blenders reduced its  2013 sales  and profitability
forecasts in February amid increasing pressure on prices in
Europe. Organic sales will rise as much as 2 percent in the year
through June, the company said at the time, compared with a
previous prediction of 3 percent to 5 percent growth. The
forecast for operating margins was also lowered at that time.  Master Blenders slipped 0.1 percent to 12.09 euros in
Amsterdam trading today. After years of underinvestment when it
was part of Sara Lee Corp., Master Blenders’ share price had
barely trodden water between its first day of trading on July 9,
2012 and March 28 this year, when the maker of Senseo capsules
and JAB announced they were in talks that could lead to a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 