-- Australia Picks Haddin, Rogers to Fill Ashes Leadership Void
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-24T05:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/australia-names-haddin-as-ashes-deputy-picks-rogers-faulkner.html
Australia picked two 35-year-olds
to plug an experience gap for its Ashes cricket series in
England, choosing  Brad Haddin  as first-choice wicketkeeper and
vice-captain, and recalling batsman  Chris Rogers .  Haddin, who only returned to the national squad last month
following more than a year out, was appointed as captain  Michael Clarke ’s deputy after Shane Watson stood down last week. All-
rounder James Faulkner was included for the first time in a 16-
man squad also featuring the recall of fast bowler Ryan Harris.  “In regards to the vice-captaincy, we feel it’s important
to have a senior, seasoned player support Michael at this
time,” National Selector John Inverarity said today in a
statement. “When Shane Watson advised of his decision to stand
down, the panel viewed Brad as the exceptional candidate to step
into this leadership void.”  Australia ’s Test team, which suffered its first 4-0 sweep
of losses since 1970 in India last month, is scheduled to take
on England in back-to-back five-match series this year, in the
U.K. beginning July 10 and then at home from Nov. 21.  After winning eight straight Ashes contests between 1989
and 2003, Australia lost three of the past four and faces the
prospect of  losing three series  in a row against its archrival
for the first time since 1956. England is the 4-9 favorite to
win on home soil, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill,
which makes Australia the 7-2 outsider.  “With this squad, we have the talent, the experience and
the youth to go over there and have success,” Clarke, 32, said
at a televised news conference in Sydney. “We know how we let
ourselves down and let the Australian public down by the way we
performed in India. We’ve got a lot of work to do.”  Preferred Keeper  Haddin spent almost 14 months out of the team after being
usurped as first-choice gloveman by  Matthew Wade . Haddin flew to
India as a late injury replacement for Wade for the third Test
and his Ashes squad selection is as a wicketkeeper first and
vice-captain second, Inverarity said. Wade will be his backup.  “The firm intention at this stage is that Brad is our
preferred keeper for the Ashes,” Inverarity told reporters in
Sydney. “Matthew Wade remains very highly regarded.”  Rogers returns to the national squad five years after
playing his only Test against India. The left-handed opener has
scored more than 5,000 first-class runs during the past four
seasons playing in England for Derbyshire and Middlesex, with 17
centuries and an average of 52.3.  The younger batsmen in the team may also benefit from his
know-how following the retirements of  Ricky Ponting , Australia’s
all-time leading run-scorer, and middle-order mainstay  Michael Hussey  during the Australian summer, Inverarity said.  “With Michael and Ricky going, there is a gap in
experience,” he said. “Chris sort of nicely fills that. He’s
made nearly 20,000 first-class runs.”  ‘Competitive Cricketer’  Faulkner, 22, was elevated to the elite Test squad after
taking 125 wickets at 22.34 in 34 first-class matches for his
Tasmania state team. He’s also taken eight wickets at an average
of 26.37 in five one-day internationals, and three wickets at
17.50 in three Twenty20 matches.  “James Faulkner has impressed us all in recent seasons as
a very competitive cricketer who gets things done,” Inverarity
said. “His batting has improved significantly, he’s made runs,
forms partnerships and is always lurking and taking a wicket.”  Usman Khawaja was chosen among the seven specialist batsmen
ahead of  Steven Smith , while  Mitchell Johnson , Glenn Maxwell,
Xavier Doherty and Moises Henriques were left out having also
toured India.  Watson was picked as a batting all-rounder, while Nathan
Lyon is the sole specialist spin bowler in the squad, which has
scope for the addition of more players.  “We have full flexibility from  Cricket Australia  to add to
the squad for fitness or form, or for any other sort of need
that we might have,” Inverarity said. “We’re very comfortable
with that.”  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Michael Clarke (captain), Brad Haddin
(vice-captain), Jackson Bird,  Ed Cowan , James Faulkner, Ryan
Harris, Phil Hughes, Usman Khawaja, Nathan Lyon,  James
Pattinson , Chris Rogers,  Peter Siddle , Mitchell Starc, Matthew
Wade, David Warner,  Shane Watson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  