-- Lawmakers Decry FAA Budget Cuts as Flight Delays Grow
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-24T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/lawmakers-decry-faa-budget-cuts-as-flight-delays-grow.html
A crush of flight  delays  at U.S.
airports after the furlough of about 10 percent of air-traffic
controllers sparked a backlash in the Capitol yesterday, with
Republican lawmakers accusing the Obama administration of
inventing a crisis to serve its interests in a budget-cut fight.  Democrats responded that Republicans were choosing to
ignore the consequences of the “bad policy” they supported
that requires the spending reductions.  In the day-long volley of accusations over who’s to blame,
Republicans pressed their case that the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration could easily have found other ways to cut its
budget to comply with automatic spending cuts that began last
month.  “I believe this is a manufactured crisis,” Senator Susan Collins of  Maine , the ranking Republican on the appropriations
subcommittee with jurisdiction over the FAA, told reporters
after a closed-door meeting of Senate Republicans yesterday.  The White House said the critics want it both ways: they
endorsed the forced budget reductions in a process known as
sequestration, yet they want to keep the same level of services.  “We did everything we could to avert the sequester, and
unfortunately Republicans decided as a political matter that it
was a home run for them to inflict this upon the American
people,” said White House press secretary Jay Carney.  The fight over automatic budget cuts spilled beyond Capitol
Hill on the second day of controller furloughs as delays mounted
to about two hours at the busiest U.S. airports, including
Newark Liberty International and LaGuardia, both serving  New
York  City.  Five Affected  Those two are among the five airports that had flight
delays yesterday because of the controller furloughs, according
to FlightAware.com, an industry data provider. New York airports
also had high winds that caused delays, an FAA website said.  Lawmakers said the administration had other options than
reducing staffing levels in a way that inconveniences air
travelers. In the most visible example of the automatic budget
cuts, an average of about 10 percent of controllers will be
furloughed on any given day, according to the National Air
Traffic Controllers Association, which represents about 15,000
FAA-employed controllers.  In the Senate, leaders of both parties weighed in.  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, took to the chamber’s floor to accuse the FAA of
failing to give the traveling public enough notice of the
magnitude of the furloughs, and said the administration can and
must shift budgetary resources to allay flight delays.  Proposal Thwarted  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, tried
to advance a proposal that would delay the government-wide
budget cuts for five months by tapping “a small part” of about
$650 billion in unused war monies. He was blocked by Senate
Republicans.  The FAA, subject to a lawsuit filed last week by airlines
over the cuts, has its hands tied because Congress refused to
yield, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said yesterday.  “This has nothing to do about politics,” LaHood said on a
conference call with reporters. “This has everything to do with
bad policy that Congress has passed. I would say to any member
of Congress, ‘Fix it, you’re in session.’”  Congress deserves blame for the situation because lawmakers
opposed the FAA’s attempts to close small air-traffic control
towers at airports with little traffic, said former FAA
Associate Administrator George Donohue, now an engineering
professor at George Mason University in Fairfax,  Virginia .  “What did they think was going to happen?” he said in a
phone interview. “It’s appropriate for people to realize that
taxes actually pay for services like this.”  Rigid Application  Barry Anderson, who oversaw a series of automatic budget
cuts in the 1980s and 1990s as an assistant director of the
Office of Management and Budget, said he is “mystified” at the
FAA’s contention that it must furlough employees to comply with
the budget cuts.  While across-the-board budget cuts are somewhat rigid in
their application, Anderson said he doesn’t think the law
establishing this round of reductions would require an agency to
use furloughs to comply. When the first such cut occurred in
1986, he said the 4.3 percent reduction to non-defense spending
resulted in no furloughs of government workers. That cut was
close to the 5 percent reduction now being applied, he said.  “There were no furloughs that I can remember,” Anderson
said. “The White House wasn’t closed, and air traffic
controllers weren’t put on notice. I don’t understand why all
these things are going on now.”  Other Options  “There’s plenty of other areas within the FAA budget that
they could implement short-term cuts,” Brian Campbell, chairman
of the Campbell-Hill Aviation Group LLC and a former executive
for Midway Airlines Inc., said in a phone interview.  Campbell, whose firm is based in Alexandria, Virginia,
suggested that the FAA had alternatives, such as delaying
spending on the NextGen air-traffic control upgrade project,
cutting research and development and slowing the pace of airline
or repair-station certification.  That’s easier said than done, said Robert Poole,
transportation director for the Reason Foundation and a critic
of how the FAA operates the air-traffic control system.  Given “strict mandates” from the White House’s Office of
Management and Budget, the FAA didn’t have other options for
cuts, Poole said in a phone interview.  “They couldn’t substitute other accounts, for example
facilities and equipment, which would have been a natural thing
to do if it’s short-term cuts,” he said.  Campbell likened the furlough-caused delays to what
President Ronald Reagan did in 1981 when he fired 11,000
striking controllers.  “I think what they’re trying to do is create a sense of
chaos,” Campbell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  