-- May to Detail U.K. Moves to Deport Qatada to Jordan
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-24T09:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/may-to-detail-u-k-moves-to-deport-qatada-to-jordan.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
will make a statement in Parliament today on efforts to deport
Islamic cleric  Abu Qatada , who’s accused of links to al-Qaeda,
to his native  Jordan  to face trial, her department said.  May’s attempts to remove the cleric from the U.K. have met
repeated legal challenges. Qatada, who denies a connection with
al-Qaeda, was granted a reprieve from deportation in November
and later released on bail after a special immigration judge
ruled he shouldn’t be extradited to face terrorism charges
because it wasn’t clear if Jordanian authorities had obtained
evidence through torture.  Qatada, whose real name is Mohammed Othman, was described
by a judge in  Spain  as former al-Qaeda leader  Osama Bin Laden ’s
right-hand man in Europe. He was re-arrested in March and is
being held in Belmarsh prison in southeast  London . The
government was denied permission yesterday to have the U.K.
Supreme Court review a ruling blocking his deportation.  A spokesman for May said the government has pursued a twin-
track approach to removing Qatada: domestic legal appeal and
working further with the authorities in Jordan on outstanding
legal issues. With the domestic strand faltering, May will make
a statement to lawmakers in the House of Commons in London at
about 12:30 p.m. The home secretary has repeatedly sought
assurances from Jordan that the cleric would receive a fair
trial there.  Last week, May raised the possibility of prosecuting Qatada
in the U.K, saying the Crown Prosecution Service is examining
material found in the cleric’s house in London to see whether it
would provide enough evidence to lead to charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  