-- Azura Power to Raise $700 Million to Build Nigerian Plant
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/azura-power-to-raise-700-million-to-build-nigerian-plant.html
Azura Power West Africa Ltd. , a
Nigerian electricity producer, plans to fund at least 70 percent
of a $700 million plant in Benin City with debt from local and
international markets, Chief Executive Officer David Ladipo
said.  Standard Chartered (STAN)  Bank Plc has been appointed to lead the
fundraising, he said in an April 22 interview in the capital,
Abuja. The International Finance Corp. and the Dutch  development
bank  FMO will also participate, he said.  “We expect to close the financing by the end of the year,
do the ground-breaking and start construction,” Ladipo said.  The IFC was appointed to work with FMO on the share of
funds to come from “development finance” for the Azura plant,
Desmond Dodd, a spokesman for the World Bank unit in Washington,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. There were no immediate
replies to e-mails sent to  Standard Chartered  and FMO seeking
comment.  Blackouts are a daily occurrence in  Nigeria , Africa’s most
populous country with more than 160 million people. Electricity
demand is almost double the supply of about 4,000 megawatts. The
government is offering incentives to investors, including five-
year tax breaks and permission to charge higher electricity
tariffs, according to the Abuja-based Bureau of Public
Enterprises.  Four equity partners including Amaya Capital Partners,
Aldwych International, Asset & Resource Management Co.,  and
African Infrastructure Investment Managers will provide the
remaining 30 percent of the funds, Ladipo said.  The 450 megawatts Azura-Edo Independent Power Plant will be
built by  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Julius Berger Nigeria Plc (JBERGER) , the country’s
biggest construction company. Located in the capital of southern
Edo state, it is on the Escravos-Lagos pipeline corridor and
near a government-owned transmission line, Ladipo said.  Construction will be completed in three years and the plant
will “ have good access to gas and a good ability to evacuate
the power as well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  