-- Banco Santander Profit Seen Falling as Brazil Loan Income Weighs
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-24T07:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/banco-santander-profit-seen-falling-as-brazil-loan-income-weighs.html
Banco Santander (SAN)  SA, Spain’s biggest
bank, will probably say first-quarter net income declined on
lower profit from Brazil and the U.K. and as reduced interest
rates squeezed Spanish lending margins.  Profit may drop 18 percent from a year earlier to 1.31
billion euros ($1.7 billion), according to the average estimate
in a Bloomberg  survey  of eight analysts. The Santander, Spain-
based bank is due to publish first-quarter earnings tomorrow,
before the Madrid stock exchange opens.  Chairman Emilio Botin is talking up prospects for
Santander, telling  shareholders  last month to expect a
“significant” increase in future profit as the bank completes
a clean-up of its Spanish real estate assets. Santander’s
relatively low  capital  adequacy ratios at a time when Spain’s
economy is still shrinking and weak performance in key markets
such as  Brazil  and the U.K. mean investors are still concerned
about share performance, said Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an
 analyst  at Macquarie Bank Ltd.  “The feeling in the market is that most of the effort in
cleaning up real estate in Spain has now been done but we still
see that as an area of potential disappointment,” he said by
telephone from  London . “People will certainly be looking for
signs of recovery in Brazil and the U.K.”  Profit from Santander’s Brazilian banking business may have
fallen 38 percent in the first quarter from a year ago to 401
million euros as net interest income dropped, said Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  in Porto,  Portugal .  Earnings at Santander’s U.K. bank may have dropped 27
percent to 222 million euros, Nick Anderson, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank in London, said in a report last week.  Shares Underperform  Shares in Santander have dropped 8 percent this year
compared with a 3.5 percent gain for the 40-member  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest bank which will publish
earnings April 26, rose 5.5 percent in the period.  Santander set aside provisions of 18.8 billion euros last
year, 6.6 billion euros more than in 2011, to cover losses on
assets such as Spanish property. The bank cut its Spanish real
estate holdings in half to 12.5 billion euros as it sold 33,500
of its own properties and those of developers. Even so, the bank
has assigned 1 billion euros to its budget this year to cover
the costs of accelerated real estate sales, Chief Executive
Officer Alfredo Saenz said in January.  “If you strip out the effect of the extraordinary
provisions that they’ve done, there won’t be any improvement in
the underlying cost of risk because the Spanish economy is in
recession,” Peixoto said.  Profit from European operations, a division that includes
Spain, may decline 9 percent to 533 million euros as Santander
earned less in interest from Spanish mortgages, according to
Peixoto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  