-- Bank of Korea Told by Former Policy Maker to Resist Rate Cut
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-04-24T06:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bank-of-korea-told-by-former-policy-maker-to-resist-rate-cut-1-.html
     April 24 (Bloomberg) --The  Bank of Korea  should resist any
further political pressure for an interest-rate cut after
keeping the benchmark on hold this month, according to a former
colleague of Governor Kim Choong Soo.  “The current level is still accommodative enough,” Choi Do Soung, 60, who served as a monetary policy committee member
in 2008-2012, said in an interview in  Seoul  this week. Lowering
the benchmark could add risks in an economy that “relies too
much on debt,” he said, citing household borrowing.  A report tomorrow may show  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy
grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter from the previous three
months, picking up from a 0.3 percent increase in the final
three months of 2012, according to a Bloomberg News  survey  of
analysts. Vice Finance Minister Choo Kyung Ho has told lawmakers
that fiscal stimulus aimed at boosting the pace would be more
effective if aided by monetary policy.  “Monetary policy makers have to look into the future, up
to, say, three to six quarters ahead,” Choi, who’s now a
university professor, said. “You make a forecast, visualize
it, and see the effect that the monetary policy decision you
make today is going to have six quarters down the road.
Otherwise, you’re going to amplify the volatility of the
business cycle, rather than stabilizing it.”  Inflation expectations are “high” and the nation needs
stable management of  household debt , Governor Kim said in a
lecture in Chuncheon, northeast of Seoul, today. He said this
month that the central bank is cautious about additional easing
because two rate cuts last year were preemptive. The key rate is
at 2.75 percent.  Fiscal Stimulus  South  Korea ’s government rolled out a $15 billion extra
budget this month including some stimulus measures as a weak yen
adds risks for the nation’s exporters. The benchmark Kospi
stocks index is down about 3 percent this year.  Choi, who’s a professor of international finance at Handong
Global University in Pohang, took part in 49 rate decisions, and
recalls one as the most memorable. Emerging from a Sunday church
service in October 2008, he found he’d missed several calls from
then Governor Lee Seong Tae. What followed the next day was an
emergency meeting and a 75-basis-point cut.  He now says that the central bank should resist political
and market pressures for a reduction. Choi says policy makers
need to be alert to the risk of future overheating and
inflation, with the BOK seeing a growth pick-up in the second
half of this year on an improved global economy.  Government Signals  Cho Won Dong, chief economic adviser to President Park Geun Hye, said before the April 11 decision that “it will be
better” if the central bank cuts interest rates. Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok in his March 22 inaugural speech vowed to
use “all possible policy measures” to boost an economy that
has expanded less than 1 percent for seven consecutive quarters,
starting in April-June of 2011.  On  Japan ’s monetary easing and efforts to spur growth, Choi
said, “I hope Abenomics succeeds rather than fails as there is
no viable alternative. He added: ‘‘At the same time, I hope that
Abenomics does not cause too many troubles to neighboring
countries including Korea.’’  Japan’s weakening yen is a bigger threat to the South
Korean economy than risks from  North Korea , Finance Minister
Hyun said in an interview ahead of a meeting of Group of 20
finance chiefs in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  