-- Bankia Swings to Quarterly Profit After Record Loss on Bailout
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-24T16:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bankia-swings-to-quarterly-profit-after-record-loss-on-bailout.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the bailed-out Spanish
lender that posted a record 19 billion-euro ($24.7 billion)  loss 
in 2012, swung to a profit in the first quarter after cleaning
its balance sheet of soured property loans.  Net income  was 74 million euros ($96 million) in the three
months to March, Bankia said in a statement from Madrid today,
without giving a year-ago figure. The profit beat the average
46.3 million-euro  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts.  Bankia, which got about half of the 41 billion euros in
European aid sought by  Spain  last year, is seeking to increase
annual profit to 1.2 billion euros by 2015. The bank, Spain’s
fourth-largest, will create the conditions that would permit the
government to start selling off its stake as soon as next year,
Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri said last month.  The Bankia group is taking “its first step on the path
towards the generation of value that will allow the state to
recoup the money invested,” the lender said today.  Goirigolzarri is seeking to make a profit this year after
transferring 22 billion euros in assets to the country’s bad
bank and shrinking Bankia’s operations to cut costs.  The BFA-Bankia group, which also includes the parent
company, posted after-tax profit of 213 million euros in the
first quarter and net profit of 177 million euros.  Shareholders have seen their investments all but wiped out
by the conditions of the bailout, which include a
recapitalization plan for the bank in which some of its debt
will be converted into equity. The shares have lost 97 percent
of their value since an initial public offering in 2011.  Net interest income of Bankia fell to 512 million euros in
the first quarter from 844 million euros a year ago as the loan
book shrank 2.3 percent since December, the lender said.  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans were 13.1 percent
in March compared with 13 percent at the end of last year, the
lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  