-- Barclays Reaps Benefit of Diamond’s Purchase of Lehman in U.S.
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-24T14:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/barclays-reaps-benefit-of-diamond-s-purchase-of-lehman-in-u-s-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is reaping the benefit
of ex-Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond’s decision to buy
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American unit, as the
division helped to push equities revenue up 19 percent.  First-quarter income at the equities operation rose to 706
million pounds ($1.08 billion) from 591 million pounds in the
year-earlier period, for the biggest increase since the Lehman
acquisition in 2008. So-called investment-banking revenue, which
includes mergers advisory, advanced 8 percent to 558 million
pounds, the London-based lender said in a statement today.  “They have the benefit of this very robust business they
got in the U.S. from Lehman,” said Christopher Wheeler, an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA who rates the lender outperform.  Antony Jenkins , the consumer banking chief who replaced
Diamond in August after the lender was fined 290 million pounds
for rigging interest rates, is turning to the U.S. to profit
from the increase in takeovers and stock offerings as the
sovereign debt crisis curbs income from trading in  Europe . At
the same time, he’s also trying to reduce costs by scaling back
the equities unit in Asia and Europe Diamond had started to
build after the Lehman purchase.  Build Out  “We’ve been building out our capability in prime services
and equities post the acquisition of the Lehman franchise in the
U.S. and what we’re starting to see is the benefits of those
investments paying off,” Jenkins, 51, told reporters on a
conference call today. “We are very happy with the performance
of that unit.”  Cash equities and equity-derivatives products helped drive
the increase in revenue, the lender said. The unit also includes
research, sales and trading. The prime services operation offers
stock lending to hedge-fund clients.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of 24 developed markets jumped 7.2
percent in the first quarter, led by gains in U.S. and Japan
stocks. U.S.-domiciled stock funds attracted a net $57.4 billion
in January, the best month since at least 1995, according to
EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm.  The pace of deal-making in North America accelerated in the
quarter compared with the year-earlier period, with announced
takeovers rising 21 percent to about $225 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In Europe, transactions fell 11
percent amid a flare-up of the sovereign-debt crisis as Cyprus
barely avoided a disorderly sovereign default.  Cushion Decline  The increases in equities and investment banking helped to
cushion a decline in revenue at the fixed income, currency and
commodities business. Income fell 6 percent, the lender said, as
gains linked to last year’s decision by the European Central
Bank to offer firms unlimited three-year loans weren’t repeated.  Rich Ricci, who oversees the investment bank, will step
down in June. The 49-year-old will be replaced by Eric Bommensath and Tom King as co-CEOs of corporate and investment
banking in May. Peter Horrell, who joined the bank in 1990, will
become interim head of the wealth unit, replacing Tom Kalaris.  Diamond, 61, branded the “unacceptable face of banking”
by then-Business Secretary Peter Mandelson in 2010 over his
compensation, quit last year in the wake of the lender’s fine
for rigging the  London  interbank offered rate.  “Bob Diamond was the architect of the Lehman Brothers
acquisition but the franchise is much bigger than a single
CEO,” said Mark Williams, author of “Uncontrolled Risk,” a
book on the rise and collapse of Lehman Brothers, and who
teaches finance at Boston University. “Pre-crisis Lehman
Brothers was a money-machine and in its Barclays reincarnation
is profitable again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  