-- Barrick’s Munk Defends Thornton Bonus Amid Protest on Pay
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-04-24T22:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/barrick-s-munk-defends-thornton-bonus-amid-protest-on-pay.html
Barrick Gold Corp. founder and
Chairman  Peter Munk  defended an $11.9 million sign-on payment to
Co-Chairman  John Thornton  in the face of opposition from the
biggest gold miner’s investors.  Barrick needed Thornton, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
president and the chairman of the Brookings Institution board of
trustees, to secure access to governments and protect against
resource nationalism, the “ultimate threat to the very lifeline
of the  mining industry ,” Munk said yesterday at the company’s
annual shareholder meeting in Toronto.  Thornton also has contacts in  China , which may eventually
provide an important source of capital for the mining industry,
Munk said.  Thornton, 59, who became a Barrick director in February
2012 and was appointed co-chairman in June, received total
compensation of $17 million in 2012, according to a March 25
filing. His sign-on bonus has drawn criticism from shareholders
including Canada’s six largest pension fund managers after
 Barrick shares  fell this year amid soaring costs, project
setbacks and a 15 percent drop in the gold price.  While Barrick believes that compensation should be linked
to performance, “it was hard to have someone paid on
performance if he would not have been able to join to perform,”
Munk said. “We had a bit of a chicken-and-egg situation, and
sometimes you have to do things which may not be popular at the
moment.”  Advisory Resolution  At the meeting, 85.2 percent of the votes cast were against
a nonbinding advisory resolution on executive compensation
approach, Barrick said yesterday in a filing. Proxy adviser
Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. said April 10 that
shareholders should vote against the resolution, and the pension
funds said last week they would do the same and criticized the
payment to Thornton.  “The Say on Pay results are unprecedented for a major
issuer in  Canada  and the U.S.,” Steve Chan, principal at
Hugessen Consulting Inc. in Toronto, which advises boards on
compensation, said yesterday by phone.  In his defense of the compensation, Munk said Barrick would
pay about $10 million for five earth-moving shovels.  “No one knows whether we bought six more shovels and how
much that would do,” Munk said. “I promise you that John will
do more for Barrick than six more shovels.”  Munk said Thornton was hired in a “competitive”
environment.  ‘Highly Desirable’  “John was a highly desirable, well-known commodity,” Munk
said. “When we paid the kind of money we paid John to buy
Barrick shares with, we had to secure him.”  Munk, 85, said on April 22 he saw Thornton as a successor
who would “take Barrick to a new level as a global player.” He
made no mention of a potential succession in his remarks at the
 shareholders’ meeting .  Barrick rose 7.6 percent to close at C$19.38 yesterday in
Toronto, the biggest gain in more than three years.  The shares 
are still down 44 percent this year.  Barrick reported first-quarter earnings excluding foreign-
currency losses and other one-time items of 92 cents a share.
That beat the 86-cent average of 21  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income  declined 19 percent to $847 million, or 85
cents a share, from $1.04 billion, or $1.04, a year earlier, the
company said yesterday.  Pascua-Lama  Barrick said it’s considering options including suspending
construction at its Pascua-Lama mine on the Chile-Argentina
border. The company stopped work on the Chilean side this month
after a court accepted an injunction filed by indigenous
communities concerned about water supplies.  Barrick (ABX)  increased the project’s estimated cost twice last
year, to as much as $8.5 billion.  The company won’t keep spending at Pascua-Lama unless there
is a “strong indication of the required timeframe to address
these issues in short order,” Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said at the meeting.  Barrick also is facing calls from the Dominican Republic
government to renegotiate the contract for its newest operating
mine, Pueblo Viejo.  The company is looking for more ways to cut costs and
reduce spending globally, Sokalsky said. Barrick may close high-
cost mines, sell assets or mine richer ore to help weather lower
gold prices, Sokalsky said.  Barrick said it continues to pursue the potential sale of
its energy unit and its 50 percent stake in the  Kabanga  nickel
project in Tanzania.  “I’m hopeful that we will be able to announce something on
that relatively soon,” Sokalsky said yesterday on the company’s
earnings conference call. Other potential asset sales may be
more difficult after gold prices fell, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  