-- Barrick Profit Tops Estimates as Costs Beat Expectations
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-04-24T13:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/barrick-profit-tops-estimates-as-costs-rise-less-than-expected.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest
producer of the metal, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after costs were better than expected. The
company also said it may suspend a Latin American project.  Earnings excluding foreign-currency losses and other one-
time items were 92 cents a share, Toronto-based Barrick said
today in a statement. That beat the 86-cent average of 21
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s so-called total
cash cost to produce an ounce of gold was $561, compared with
$540 a year earlier and the $654 average of six estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky has sought to
contain soaring costs and curb spending following a jump in the
estimated price to build Pascua-Lama, an $8.5 billion mine on
the Chile- Argentina  border. Barrick’s share price has plunged 66
percent in the past two years, while  gold prices  have fallen 15
percent in 2013 after 12 consecutive annual increases.  “Our cost reduction efforts have begun to take effect,”
Sokalsky said in the statement. “While we remain positive on
the long-term fundamentals for gold and copper, we don’t rely on
higher metal prices to be the only driver of shareholder
returns.”  Spending Cuts  The company reduced its forecasts for  capital spending  this
year to $5.2 billion to $5.7 billion, from as much as $6.3
billion. Barrick said all-in sustaining costs, a metric recently
introduced by gold producers, are now expected to be $950 to
$1,050 an ounce, compared with a Feb. 14 forecast of $1,000 to
$1,100.  Barrick rose 5.2 percent to C$18.94 at 9:32 a.m. in
Toronto.  The shares  have plunged 45 percent this year.  “Barrick management is doing what is necessary in a
difficult gold price environment,”  Greg Barnes , a Toronto-based
analyst at TD Securities Inc., said in a note today. “The cost
cuts announced today go some way to addressing the challenges
facing the company over the next two years as it builds Pascua-
Lama.”  Barrick said it’s evaluating alternatives for Pascua-Lama,
including suspending the gold and silver project. The company
halted construction on the Chilean side this month after a court
accepted an injunction filed by indigenous communities concerned
about water supplies. Barrick already increased the project’s
estimated cost twice last year and suspended some other work at
the mine last year because of concerns about dust thrown up by
strong winds.  Alternative Plan  “Until we have clarity on the regulatory and legal
aspects, we are unable to fully assess the impact on the  capital
budget , operating costs and schedule of the project,” Barrick
said today. The company said it’s at the early stage of studying
an alternative development plan to start producing from a
smaller pit in Argentina.  A suspension at Pascua-Lama “could be positive,” Brian Yu, a San Francisco-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
note today.  “Pascua is now viewed as a liability rather than an asset
by investors due to the liquidity strain it places” on the
company, he said.  Barrick’s first-quarter  net income  declined 19 percent to
$847 million, or 85 cents a share, from $1.04 billion, or $1.04,
a year earlier. Sales fell 5.7 percent to $3.44 billion,
trailing the $3.49 billion average of eight estimates.  Output Declines  Gold production fell to 1.8 million ounces from 1.88
million ounces a year earlier. The average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for 1.74 million ounces of
gold. Copper output rose 8.5 percent to 127 million pounds.  Gold averaged $1,631.24 an ounce in the first quarter on
the Comex in  New York , 3.7 percent less than a year earlier and
5.1 percent lower than in the previous three months. The metal
reached a two-year low on April 16.  Barrick said it continues to pursue the potential sale of
its energy unit and its 50 percent stake in the  Kabanga  nickel
project in Tanzania. The company, which reiterated its 2013 gold
output forecast of 7 million to 7.4 million, said it has no
plans to build any new mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  