-- Belgian Business Confidence Rebounds on Manufacturing Industry
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-04-24T14:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/belgian-business-confidence-rebounds-on-manufacturing-industry.html
Belgian  business confidence 
rebounded in April from a 3 1/2-year low in the prior month as
gains in the manufacturing industry offset deterioration
elsewhere in the economy.  The confidence index for Belgium rose to minus 14.7 from
minus 15 in March, the Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium 
said today. That matched the median estimate of 12 economists in
a  Bloomberg survey . The March reading was the lowest since
September 2009.  “It was only in the manufacturing industry that the
business climate picked up,” the central bank said in the
statement. “By contrast, business confidence in April
deteriorated in business-related services, the building
industry, and even more so in trade, for the third month
running.”  An index of sentiment in the manufacturing industry
increased to minus 16.9 in April from minus 18.4 in the prior
month, driven by improved forecasts for both demand and
employment, the central bank said.  “Conversely, in the  trade sector , the loss of confidence
can be mainly explained by a third successive decline in demand
prospects,” the bank said.  The overall improvement in confidence in  Belgium  contrasts
with a second straight monthly decline in business sentiment in
 Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy and one of Belgium’s main
trading partners. The Ifo institute in Munich said today that
its  business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, dropped to 104.4 from 106.7 in March.  In Belgium’s manufacturing industry, the capacity
utilization rate declined for a fifth straight quarter, falling
to 75.2 percent in April from 75.6 percent in January, according
to the central bank. That is the lowest since January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  