-- Blackstone to Axa See Buying Opportunity as Leases Lapse
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-04-25T12:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/blackstone-to-axa-spot-buying-opportunity-as-office-leases-lapse.html
For most office building owners, a
lease running down to less than five years sets off alarm bells.
For investors in  Europe  like  Blackstone LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
it sounds more like cash registers.  Offices with few defects beyond their tenants’ plans to
leave are being valued much lower than similar buildings with
long-term leases as banks and buyers shun European assets that
aren’t considered prime. The gap is attracting cash-rich
investors with the chance to lift values by as much as a third
by convincing occupants to stick around.  “Any asset that doesn’t tick every single box is basically
being mispriced into the secondary market, which is complete
nonsense,” said Joe Valente, head of research and strategy at
JPMorgan Asset Management. Values are dropping because of
“minor defects like a little vacancy or a lease on the cusp of
what is deemed acceptable,” Valente and Peter Reilly, head of
JPMorgan Asset Management’s European real estate unit, wrote in
a February report.  Offices and other income-producing properties with 16 to 25
years on their leases are worth a third more than similar
buildings with fewer than five years to run, research firm
Investment Property Databank Ltd. estimates. Prime values in the
U.K. have climbed 24 percent from a June 2009 low point, while
second-tier assets have gained 3 percent, according to data
compiled by IPD and broker DTZ.  Opportunity Funds  So-called opportunity funds like Blackstone, which target
annual returns of at least 15 percent, bought about an eighth of
all income-producing real estate sold in Europe last year,
double the average for the previous five years,  JPMorgan & Chase
Co. (JPM)  said in the February report.  Blackstone paid about 330 million pounds ($504 million) to
gain control of Devonshire Square near  London ’s Liverpool Street
station in July after insurance broker Aon Corp., the largest
tenant, said it planned to move out. The world’s biggest buyout
firm said it will seek technology and media tenants for the
space. The building was valued at 413 million pounds in 2006.  “We’ve been active in Europe in distress and short-term
leases are a part of that,” Ken Caplan, Blackstone’s senior
managing director for European real estate, said in an
interview.  Adelphi Building  The firm is also buying the Adelphi Building near London’s
 Trafalgar Square  for about 260 million pounds, compared with a
2007 valuation of 325 million pounds. The previous owner, a unit
of Istithmar Building LLC, failed to repay the loan for the
property’s 2006 purchase when it matured in October 2011,
according to a stock-exchange  filing  at the time.  “You’ve 50 percent of the building with a near-term lease
expiry this summer,” Caplan said. “The combination of the
distress around the debt and the upcoming vacancy in the
building created an opportunity for us to purchase this at a big
discount to where the past owner had bought it.”  Blackstone followed a similar strategy when it paid 480
million pounds for Chiswick Park, a west London office
development, in 2011. The firm extended existing leases and
replaced some of the tenants, Caplan said. As a result, average
rents have increased 45 percent to about 45 pounds a square foot
since the purchase, he said.  Canary Wharf  TIAA-CREF, the manager of retirement accounts for employees
of non-profit institutions, sold two office buildings at
London’s  Canary Wharf  district this year for half the $381
million it paid for them in 2005 after the largest tenant in one
property, European Medicines Agency, decided to move out when
its lease expires next year. Abby Cohen, a spokeswoman for the
New York-based firm, declined to comment.  Citypoint, a 36-story  office tower  in the  City of London 
financial district, would sell for about 491.7 million pounds if
it was put on the market in 2014, broker Knight Frank LP said
last year in its most recent published valuation. That would
drop by 25 percent by 2017 if the current tenants can’t be
persuaded to extend their leases, it said.  “Typically, it’s the seller that has to buckle,
particularly for the short-lease stuff,” Valad Europe Plc Chief
Executive Officer Martyn McCarthy said in an interview. “There
are only a few people who can do those transactions: buyers that
don’t need debt or those that have a track record where they’re
not equity-rich, but bankers think they’re brilliant.”  Potential Returns  Valad, owned by its management and a fund run by
Blackstone, isn’t among those buyers, he said. Instead, it’s
targeting office buildings in London with leases of five to 10
years. Convincing tenants to extend their stay to more than a
decade will produce returns of 15 percent to 20 percent, he
said.  Investors are taking advantage of the buying opportunity as
banks reduce real estate debt to repair balance sheets hit by
property loans that soured in the financial crisis. In London,
the prospect of losing tenants as their leases end may have
lessened as a lack of development finance limits the amount of
new buildings available.  “We’re quite interested in prime location, short-term
income where there’s an asset-management play,” Robert Hodges,
head of European asset management at Carlyle, said in an
interview. Besides London, cities including Paris and Milan and
parts of  Germany  “are areas where cautiously we can go out and
do deals.”  Lone Star  The three main types of opportunity funds, including those
interested in investing in short-lease properties, are private
equity groups like Blackstone, defaulted loan-portfolio
purchasers such as Cerberus Capital Management LP and  Lone Star 
Funds, and asset managers like JPMorgan, Valente said.  Some landlords are lifting values by seeking new tenants
for properties they own rather than extending existing leases.  Axa Real Estate, the property unit of Europe’s second-
largest insurer, bought out a short-term lease for 60 percent of
an office building in the Paris suburb of Saint Denis and
brought in a new tenant for the entire property.  “That transformed it from a risky asset to a bond-type
transaction,” Chief Executive Officer Pierre Vaquier said in an
interview. “That’s the kind of game you can play if you have an
understanding of the market, the access and the asset-management
skills to do it.” Axa Real Estate is seeking to buy short-lease
properties in London, he said.  European Risks  Great Portland Estates Plc. (GPOR) , the developer focused on
London’s West End district, bought a 50 percent stake this month
in an office building at 148 Old Street that is leased to Royal
Mail Group Plc. The company could realize a 28 percent profit on
its investment if the postal service exercises its option to
vacate the building in 2015 and the property is refurbished and
rented to technology and media companies, Espirito Santo
Investment Bank wrote in an April 3 note.  Europe’s shaky economies are the main risk for investors
buying short-lease buildings, Vaquier said. “We don’t have a
lot of visibility on the economy over the next two to three
years, so the question is: if you have a vacancy during that
period, what will happen with those assets?” he said.  Investors also need to be careful about what districts they
choose,  Development Securities Plc (DSC)  Chief Executive Officer
Michael Marx said in an interview. Marx said he’s “still
unenthusiastic about rental prospects” in the City of London
because of the amount of unoccupied space.  Heating, Elevators  Changing a building in London’s main financial district to
make it more suitable for technology, media and
telecommunications tenants is also a risk because such companies
typically pay less than banks and insurers, he said. Tech firms
“don’t need to pay fancy rents; they need warehouses to put
people in.”  When considering a lease extension, tenants care most about
heating, air conditioning, working elevators and whether the
building looks good, Valad’s McCarthy said. “Within three
meetings, you can pretty much work out a deal, but you
definitely know after the first meeting whether your tenant will
stay or go. It’s just subject to the economics,” he said.  Other types of real estate are also creating opportunities
as leases run down.  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s largest warehouse
owner, has allowed the average lease length in its European
properties to shorten to just over three years because it wants
to be in a position to benefit from rising rents in under-
supplied markets, Philip Dunne, the company’s president for
Europe, said in a March interview.  Dunne said he expects the outsized profits from buying
short-lease properties to fade as the real estate market becomes
more stable.  “We all ran for the hills” after the financial crisis, he
said at a seminar last month at the MIPIM property conference in
Cannes. “It will settle down again and three- to five-year
income in a core market is perfectly fine and will get priced
accordingly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 