-- BlackRock Electronic Bond-Trading Fails From Client Imbalance
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-24T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/blackrock-electronic-bond-trading-fails-from-client-imbalance.html
BlackRock Inc.’s (BLK)  internal
electronic bond-trading system failed because it couldn’t
attract a critical mass of customers, even as small dealers
stood ready to aid trading.  Among the 30 clients out of 60 that had the option to use
BlackRock’s Aladdin Trading Network, the mix of buyers and
sellers wasn’t diverse enough, according to  Brian Beades , a
BlackRock spokesman. While the world’s largest asset manager had
arranged for smaller dealers to take other sides of trades when
needed, there wasn’t enough demand for that to occur, said an
executive at one of the dealers who asked not to be named for
fear of retribution.  Firms from BlackRock to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have
sought to build up electronic trading systems as Wall Street
dealers that traditionally acted as middlemen by warehousing
bonds cut the  amount  of debt they hold amid tighter rules on
capital and risk-taking. BlackRock, which manages $3.9 trillion
in assets, said April 23 it instead would route trades through
 MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s electronic system.  “As the year progressed it became more apparent that
effort was struggling,”  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc.
in  New York , said in a note to clients yesterday. “This is a
gracious way for BlackRock to provide an alternative solution to
its clients and for MarketAxess to potentially pick up some new
clients.”  Smaller Inventories  The market for company debt, which generally trades over
the counter, is growing less liquid as the biggest banks reduce
the volume of their own money they use to facilitate credit
trading. The 21 primary dealers that do business with the
 Federal Reserve  have reduced corporate-bond holdings by 76
percent since the peak in 2007, according to Fed data compiled
by Bloomberg.  MarketAxess said yesterday that it hosted 12.3 percent of
U.S. investment-grade debt trading in the first quarter, up from
11.4 percent in the same period of 2012. The firm introduced a
feature last year that  Wall Street  had resisted: the ability for
investors to buy and sell bonds among themselves. More than
1,000 asset managers, insurance companies and other investment
firms along with broker-dealers are active users of the
MarketAxess platform, according to the company.  “Our goal has always been to enhance liquidity,” Beades
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “With the
understanding that our clients would ultimately benefit from an
open trading model with even greater diversity of participants
and order flow, it was more a question of when we would open it
up more broadly and MarketAxess was the obvious choice for U.S.
credit.”  Buy-and-Hold  The clients trading on the Aladdin system are mostly
insurance companies, investment managers, sovereign-wealth funds
and banks, Beades said. Those clients, unlike  hedge funds ,
typically execute a buy-and-hold strategy for bonds, making the
volume of buying and selling needed for a liquid trading system
difficult.  Unlike trading in equities, where one security typically
represents a company’s value, there are tens of thousands of
bond issues in the market, all with varying coupons and tenors.
That makes lining up a buyer and a seller for the same amount of
a bond a challenge investors have yet to solve.  ‘Liquidity Fragmentation’  “Equity-like technologies and market structures do not
address the issues of liquidity fragmentation and need for price
discovery in order for corporate bonds to trade
electronically,” Will Rhode and Henry Chien, analysts at
consultancy Tabb Group, wrote in a report earlier this month.
“Nevertheless, electronic trading is taking hold in the
corporate-bond markets.”  Goldman Sachs spent a year developing an electronic trading
system for corporate bonds called GSessions that started
operating in 2012. Other electronic trading systems for fixed
income include Tradeweb Markets LLC and Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of  Bloomberg News , which also provides news and
information to the financial community.  About 30 percent of all daily credit-market activity in the
U.S. comes from the firms in the Aladdin system, based on
trading volumes reported by Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Beades
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  