-- BlueBay Buying Slovenian Bonds on Bets Economy Can Endure Crisis
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-24T08:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bluebay-buying-slovenian-bonds-on-bets-economy-can-endure-crisis.html
BlueBay Asset Management Ltd.,
which oversees $47 billion, is buying more Slovenia bonds on
bets a combination of the nation’s resilient economy and central
bank liquidity will bring down borrowing costs.  Slovenia, which is seeking to avoid becoming the sixth
euro-area state to request a bailout since the start of the
region’s debt crisis, saw its bond yields climb to the highest
since August last month amid concern financial turmoil in Cyprus
would spread. The country had a debt-to-gross-domestic product
ratio of 54 percent last year, compared with 127 percent in
 Italy  and 86 percent in Cyprus, according to Luxembourg-based
statistics office Eurostat.  “Slovenia remains a relatively high conviction trade for
our funds,” Russel Matthews, a  money manager  at BlueBay in
 London , wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “The market
has suffered from domestic political noise and contagion from
Cyprus. During this period we have been opportunistically adding
to our exposure as we believe Slovenia has relatively strong
fundamentals and should continue to benefit from the positive
technical environment that exists in the sovereign space.”  Slovenian bonds rose for a fourth day, with the yield on
the 4.625 percent security due in September 2024 falling three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.81 percent as of
9:15 a.m. London time. The yield climbed to 7.50 percent on
March 28, the highest since Aug. 20 based on closing prices.  IMF’s Support  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week she supports policies announced by the
Slovenian government and dismissed investors’ concern that the
country will be the next euro-area nation to receive a bailout.  Prime minister Alenka Bratusek “has indicated she wants to
pursue privatization, that she wants to allow for better
management of companies” close to being bankrupt and to
“reinforce the capital of Slovenian banks,” Lagarde said.  BlueBay is also overweight Portuguese, Spanish and Italian
bonds, Matthews said, meaning the company holds more of the
securities than recommended by the benchmark index it follows.  “The strong environment generated by central banks is
coming to the fore,” he said. “Core yields are dropping ever
lower so there is a mammoth grab for yield in play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  