-- BMW to Amazon Space Demand Spurs Rush to Inland Empire
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-24T17:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bmw-to-amazon-space-demand-spurs-rush-to-inland-empire.html
Long lines of tractor-trailers
filled with electronics, apparel and home-improvement goods
crowd Interstate 10 through  Southern California ’s  Inland Empire .
The trucks are headed for a growing number of warehouses that
are displacing the citrus groves that once dominated the area.  HauteLook, an online discount retailer owned by  Nordstrom
Inc. (JWN) , will move its fulfillment center to a new 604,000-square-
foot (56,000-square-meter) facility in San Bernardino next
month, data from brokerage Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. show.
Amazon.com Inc., the world’s largest online retailer, moved into
a 950,000-square-foot warehouse late last year.  Demand for industrial space in the Inland Empire, a 27,000-
square-mile (70,000-square-kilometer) area east of Los Angeles,
is spurring a surge in building as developers start projects
even without lease commitments. Warehouse construction in the
region rose 81 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, resulting in the most industrial square footage being
built in any U.S. metropolitan area, CBRE Group Inc. said.  “The Inland Empire is the most dynamic industrial market
in the entire country today,” said Darla Longo, a vice chairman
at the brokerage’s institutional group. “It is one of the first
markets to come back from an industrial perspective, and has
bounced back more than any other market.”  About 7.8 million square feet of industrial space is under
construction in the area, up from 4.3 million at the end of
2011, according to a report by CBRE. Tenants are currently on
the hunt for about 20 million square feet, which has resulted in
a 60 percent pre-lease rate for speculative construction,
according to Bo Mills, managing director and head of industrial
markets for the western U.S. at Chicago-based  Jones Lang .  Port Proximity  The area is the closest large-scale industrial market to
the  ports of Los Angeles  and  Long Beach , the biggest seaport
complex in the U.S. About 75 percent of all international goods
coming into the ports pass through the Inland Empire by truck
and rail, said Steve Adams, a councilman for  Riverside , one of
the largest cities in the region.  Other major cities include San Bernardino and Fontana. The
region, about an hour’s drive from downtown Los Angeles and home
to more than 4 million people, was known mostly for its citrus
groves and dairy farms until the 1970s, when  population growth 
and rising home prices began spurring buyers to seek properties
farther from  Los Angeles .  Foreclosure Surge  During the recession and housing crisis, the Inland Empire
became one of the nation’s foreclosure capitals following years
of overbuilding, with about one out of 10 homes receiving a
notice of default or repossession in 2009, according to San
Diego-based research firm DataQuick. The industrial vacancy rate
jumped to a record 12 percent in the third quarter of that year
after the housing boom was accompanied by a record amount of
speculative construction.  A recovering economy and rising demand for  consumer goods 
helped push the industrial vacancy rate down to 6.2 percent as
of the first quarter, a post-recession low, CBRE said. The
 median home price  has climbed 40 percent from its low to
$229,000, while remaining 43 percent below peak levels.  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s biggest owner of industrial
properties, is building 327,000 square feet for  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in the Inland Empire city of Redlands -- space
the luxury-car maker will use for parts distribution.  The landlord also has an 800,000-square-foot project in the
same city under development without a tenant, and is planning as
many as three additional speculative properties with a total of
1.7 million square feet within the next 18 months in the region,
according to Tyson Chave, a Prologis vice president.  Speculative Properties  The San Francisco-based  company  is close to completing its
most recent speculative warehouse, which it said probably will
be leased by such tenants as a large retailer or fulfillment
center. The site is in a Redlands neighborhood with wide, newly
paved roads and symmetrically planted trees, making the area
reminiscent of a planned residential community.  “Everything is new, clean and safe here,” Kim Snyder,
Prologis’s president for the U.S. southwest, said during a drive
through the area last month. “State of the art -- that’s what
tenants look for more than ever.”  Prologis’s Inland Empire properties were fully occupied
last month, Snyder said. The company’s entire portfolio had an
occupancy rate of 93.7 percent as of March 31, Prologis said
today in a statement announcing its first-quarter financial
results.  BMW considers the Inland Empire’s biggest draws to be its
extensive infrastructure, which speeds up delivery times, and
its proximity to Los Angeles. The city is one of the automaker’s
three biggest U.S. markets, along with  New York  and Miami, said
Kenn Sparks, spokesman for BMW of North America LLC.  ‘Ground Zero’  “Southern California is very important to us, especially
as the economy is recovering here,” he said. “The Inland
Empire is  ground zero  for us in terms of its importance and its
logistics.”  Amazon.com (AMZN)  in the fourth quarter opened its first Southern
California fulfillment center in San Bernardino to receive goods
from manufacturers and process orders for quick delivery to
local customers, according to Hillwood Development Co. and
Clarion Partners LLC, the warehouse’s owners. The retailer is
adding 515,000 square feet this year at an Inland Empire
facility also developed by Hillwood and Clarion, according to a
person with knowledge of the agreement who asked not to be
identified because the transaction is private.  Kelly Cheeseman, an Amazon spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment on the company’s expansion plans this year
in the Inland Empire.  Karen Modlin, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based Hillwood, and
David Confer, a Dallas-based director at Clarion, both declined
to comment on the new Amazon site.  Most Development  Clarion, a real estate investment manager based in New
York, has 11.5 million square feet in the Inland Empire,
including 3 million square feet under construction, Confer said.
The firm has more space being built in the region than anywhere
else in the U.S., he said.  Mandy Hjellming, a spokeswoman for Nordstrom’s HauteLook
unit, declined to comment on the company’s Inland Empire
facility.  There’s a risk that the increase in Inland Empire
construction will lead to an industrial-property surplus in the
area, potentially hurting occupancies and rents, according to
 John Stewart , senior analyst at  Newport Beach , California-based
research firm  Green Street Advisors Inc .  “There’s a lot of land in the Inland Empire,” he said.
“The meaningful increase in supply in such a short period of
time could lead to oversupply and pose a long-term threat to the
investment proposition in the area. We’ve certainly seen this in
the last cycle, and it could happen again.”  Rents Rise  Monthly rents in the area averaged 38 cents a square foot
in the first quarter, up 5.6 percent from the previous three
months, CBRE said. While that’s less than the 45-cent peak
reached in the third quarter of 2007, Inland Empire industrial
rents probably will rise 8.7 percent this year, outpacing a 3.4
percent gain nationwide, CBRE Econometric Advisors said.  As rents rise and vacancies drop, prices for industrial
property in the Inland Empire have climbed, squeezing profits
for landlords entering the market. Industrial-property sales
totaled $471.6 million in the first quarter, the highest for a
three-month period since the end of 2010, according to
preliminary Jones Lang data. Warehouses and distribution centers
of at least 100,000 square feet sold for an average of $68 a
square foot, a 4.6 percent increase from a year earlier.  In the first quarter, capitalization rates, a measure of
yield for real estate investors, were about 4.6 percent to 4.7
percent in the area, compared with 7.6 percent nationwide,
according to Jones Lang. Cap rates fall as prices rise.  Capital Abundance  “You have an abundance of capital that looks to the Inland
Empire as a choice location because you have brand-new
buildings, and your tenants are Fortune 500 companies that have
been recovering very well,” said Michael McCrary, an executive
vice president at Jones Lang.  The drop in yield from the “mid-sevens about three years
ago” is buoying construction because building is becoming
cheaper than buying, said Philip Hawkins, chief executive
officer of  DCT Industrial Trust Inc. (DCT) , a Denver-based real estate
investment trust.  “After demand was dormant from 2008 to early 2010, it has
been going through a resurgence,” he said. “Combined with very
low vacancy rates in the region and growing rents, that makes
this the strongest market in the country. It’s also made things
more expensive. So now is a good time to build.”  Rancho Cucamonga  Hawkins’s company, which focuses on industrial real estate,
has made Southern California its biggest investment area, up
from fifth place three years ago, he said. DCT, which has 13
percent of its holdings in Southern California, is building two
structures with a total of 780,000 square feet in the Inland
Empire cities of Fontana and Rancho Cucamonga, and is planning
more in the area.  Demand is also increasing for so-called big-box warehouses
-- structures of at least 250,000 square feet, said Snyder of
Prologis. All 28 of the Inland Empire’s speculative projects
since the end of 2011 are in that size category, with the
smallest being a 300,300-square-foot building in Chino owned by
Chicago-based  First Industrial Realty Trust Inc. (FR) , according to
Jones Lang.  ‘Very Large’  “Customers today demand very large buildings -- often
between 600,000 and a million square feet,” said Jones Lang’s
McCrary. Warehouses have grown in size because inventory-
handling systems have become larger and the rise of  Internet
sales  has resulted in goods being moved from retail stores to
distribution centers. “Not many areas in the U.S. that are
strategically located have 50-acre sites of dirt.”  More residents in Los Angeles also are fueling demand in
the Inland Empire, said Snyder of Prologis. Los Angeles County’s
population grew to 9.96 million by mid-2012, up 1.5 percent from
two years earlier, according to the  U.S. Census Bureau .  The area has “started to support itself -- it’s become its
own market that feeds off of itself,” Snyder said. “Combine
that with demands from outside the region and you’re looking at
a true growth market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  