-- Bomb Suspects’ Uncle Gets ’Love Mail’ for Speaking Out
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-04-24T16:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bomb-suspects-uncle-gets-love-mail-for-speaking-out.html
Ruslan Tsarni called out to his
wife for the letters. Zalina, he said, bring the box.  Since Tsarni stood outside his suburban Maryland home on
April 19 before a scrum of journalists and apologized to the
victims of the  Boston Marathon bombings  on behalf of his
suspect-nephews, calling them “losers,” Americans have been
writing in from across the country to offer their support to
him, his wife and their six children.  “You may get ‘hate mail,’ so please consider this ‘love
mail,’” wrote one person from  Colorado  Springs, Colorado, in a
letter that Tsarni showed a reporter yesterday. “Thank you for
your courage in coming forward.”  For Tsarni, the national tragedy of the bombings that
killed three people and wounded more than 260 on April 15 has
become the personal nadir in a years-long estrangement with his
nephews Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and their parents.  Tsarni’s own emotions have taken a roller-coaster of guilt
and anger, he said in an interview, fueled by the family’s
failure to recognize that Tamerlan’s interest in Islam over the
past six years may have crossed into violent radicalism.  Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a confrontation with
police chasing the brothers in Watertown,  Massachusetts , last
week. Dzhokar, 19, accused of using weapons of mass destruction
in the Boston bombing, is recovering from wounds in a Boston
hospital as authorities probe the brothers’ motives.  Last week, Tsarni told reporters outside his home asking
for motives that the brothers are “losers not being able to
settle themselves and thereby just hating everybody who did.”  Ruslan Tsarni's estrangement with his brother Anzor’s
family began because of tensions between him and Anzor’s wife,
Zubeidat Tsarnaev, he said, describing her as overbearing and
meddlesome in her children’s lives in a dangerous way.  Stirred Shame  Since his nephews emerged as the suspects in the attack,
Tsarni said, he has thought often about his efforts to bring and
maintain family members in the U.S., as well as a failed attempt
to encourage Tamerlan to move to Kazakhstan in 2008.  The correspondence he has received from the American public
affirmed the love for the U.S. that he professed during his
impromptu media appearance last week, he said, and eased some of
the shame stirred by a national manhunt for his nephews.  One letter, scratched out in pencil on lined paper, was
signed “Emma,” describing herself as a 19-year-old from New
Jersey, a non-practicing Christian who felt a sense of
compassion for the ethnic Chechens.  “I wish the best for you and your family,” she wrote.
“You are victims of this mass tragedy as well. Stay strong,
ignore the misconceptions and ignorance.”  Financial Assistance  Tsarni, who describes himself as a business consultant,
says he first came to the U.S. in 1995. He grew up in Tokmak,
Kyrgyzstan, and graduated from the Law School of Kyrgyz State
University in 1994, he said in a witness statement in a British
lawsuit involving a past business associate in the former Soviet
Republic south of Kazakhstan. Returning to the U.S. in 2008, he
said in his statement, he had become a U.S. citizen and was a
legal consultant to a U.S. company contracted under USAID in a
program of economic assistance for Kysrgyzstan.  His mother, in her 70s, lives in Kyrgyzstan, he says. In
the living room of Tsarnis’ large home that sits on a quiet cul-de-sac about 30 miles from  Washington , family photos adorn the
walls. The couple’s 4-year-old son is glued to a big-screen
television, oblivious to his father’s interview with a reporter.
Zalina serves a reporter hot tea in a clear glass cup.  At her husband’s request, she fetches a brown stationery
box, kneels on the rug and spreads a stack of letters on the
dark leather ottoman. She counts the envelopes -- 21 letters
have arrived within the four days after her husband’s impromptu
nationally televised press conference.  His older children, girls ages 10, 12 and 13, have read
every letter that’s arrived, Tsarni said.  ‘Their Lives’  “I made them read them -- these letters -- so they
understand who they live among,” he said of the spirit of
generosity reflected in the mail. “I said, ‘One day we’ll
respond to each of these letters.’”  His children, he said, “are going to live with this for
their lives.”  Tsarni believes he will have an opportunity at some point
to speak with the surviving nephew, Dzhokhar, facing federal
changes that could result in the death penalty if convicted.  “When I have the chance to meet with Dzhokhar, I will show
him these letters,” Tsarni said. “All of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  