-- Bon Jovi’s Son Says He Plans to Join Notre Dame’s Football Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-24T18:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/bon-jovi-s-son-says-he-plans-to-join-notre-dame-s-football-team.html
The oldest son of rock musician Jon Bon Jovi plans to join the  University of Notre Dame ’s football
team as a non-scholarship player this year, according to  Irish
Sports Daily .  Jesse Bongiovi, who has played football and lacrosse at
 Poly Prep Country Day School  in  Brooklyn , New York, told the
website that he fell in love with Notre Dame when he was in
eighth grade. He attended the school’s spring game last weekend.  “The culture here, the people here, the opportunities
here, they’re unreal,” Bongiovi was quoted as saying by the
Irish Sports Daily, an independent website that covers Notre
Dame athletics. “They’re second to none. Given the opportunity
to walk on to the team and become a part of this family was an
easy decision for me.”  His father, the founder and lead singer of the rock band
Bon Jovi, was a founding owner for the Arena Football League’s
 Philadelphia Soul . Bongiovi told Irish Sports Daily that his
father, who attended last year’s national championship game
between Notre Dame and  Alabama , has been a longtime fan of the
Fighting Irish and was friends with former coach Charlie Weis, a
fellow New Jersey native.  The 5-foot-11, 180-pound Bongiovi said while he’d like to
be a cornerback for Notre Dame, he’ll play wherever he can.  Notre Dame athletic department spokesman Michael Bertsch
said 24 players made the football team’s 103-man roster as walk-
ons last year. While scholarship football players sign a letter
of intent on national signing day, which was Feb. 3, National
Collegiate Athletic Association rules prevent teams from
commenting about certain walk-ons until after the tryout period
and tuition payments have been made to the school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  