-- Boston Suspects Said to Learn Bomb-Making on Internet
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-25T13:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/boston-bombs-triggered-by-remote-control-lawmaker-says.html
Two brothers suspected in the
deadly  Boston Marathon bombings  used remote controls from toy
cars to set off the blasts that ripped through the race’s finish
line, according to federal law-enforcement officials and members
of Congress briefed on the matter.  As authorities investigate how the bombs were built and
detonated, U.S. lawmakers are asking whether the FBI and the CIA
did all they could to prevent the April 15 attack. The agencies
were queried in 2011 by an overseas government about the older
brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. An FBI review at the time turned up
nothing incriminating about him, while the CIA put his name into
an interagency database.  “It’s way too soon to criticize or to start making
political arguments of who failed,” Maryland Representative
C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee, told reporters yesterday after a closed
briefing with U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials in
 Washington . “We had these serious attacks. We are all
Americans. It is not a Republican or Democratic issue.”  Last week’s bombings killed three people and wounded more
than 260, marking the highest-profile terror attack on U.S. soil
since Sept. 11, 2001. In its aftermath, U.S. lawmakers say
they’re learning from investigators that Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26,
and his brother, Dzhokhar, 19, were schooled in radical Islam
and terrorist bomb-making online, said Ruppersberger, the top
Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.  Internet Radicalization  “Everything that I see right now seems like they were
radicalized through the Internet,” he said. The elder brother
died in a shootout with police April 19, while the younger was
later captured a few blocks away in the same  Boston  suburb.  The device that detonated the bombs was described by
Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican, as the type
used to remotely control a toy car.  “That’s the igniter,” McCaul, the chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee, said in an interview. “When he
turns on the device, it triggers the ignition and it blows up.”  The electronics were placed in pressure cookers along with
ball bearings, nails, gunpowder and other components, McCaul
said. The level of sophistication shows the perpetrators “had
some level of training,” he said.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has concluded that the
bombs contained explosives from fireworks, possibly along with
additional explosive material still being analyzed, according to
a U.S. official who asked not to be identified discussing an
active probe.  No Weapon  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was apprehended on April 19 after being
found hiding in a boat stored in the backyard of a home in
Watertown, Massachusetts. His capture ended a four-day manhunt
that at times virtually paralyzed Boston, the heart of the
nation’s 10th-largest metropolitan area.  Despite initially saying that Dzhokhar was taken into
custody after a second shootout with police and federal agents,
investigators didn’t recover a weapon from inside the boat,
according to two federal law enforcement officials who asked not
to be identified in discussing an active criminal probe.  Tsarnaev, recovering from gunshot wounds in a Boston
hospital and charged with use of a weapon of mass destruction,
has told investigators the brothers found bomb-making
information in the pages of Inspire, an online magazine
affiliated with the al-Qaeda terror organization, Ruppersberger
said. The suspect, wounded in the throat, is communicating
“through writing and nodding,” he told reporters.  International Probe  Investigators are examining whether the ethnic Chechen
brothers were prompted by people or organizations outside the
U.S. A U.S. official briefed on Dzhokhar Tsarnaev’s
interrogation said the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  were cited
as a motivating factor behind the Boston attack.  The older brother traveled for six months in  Russia  last
year and visited the republics of Dagestan and Chechnya, where
there are Islamic separatist movements. U.S. investigators
traveled to the region this week.  In late September 2011, the CIA received information from
another government on Tamerlan Tsarnaev almost identical to that
which the FBI had received in March 2011, according to a U.S.
intelligence official who asked not to be identified.  The Central Intelligence Agency nominated Tsarnaev for a
list that provides information to various government agencies
about people who may be of interest to them -- the so-called
TIDE database, for Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment.  Russian Query  The Russian intelligence service provided information
including two possible dates of birth, Tamerlan’s name and a
possible spelling variation in late September 2011, according to
the official. It was substantially the same as what Russia’s
Federal Security Service had given the FBI about six months
earlier.  The FBI, which interviewed the older Tsarnaev brother as
part of its investigation, found nothing incriminating, the
official said.  The bureau asked its Russian counterpart three times for
any additional information it could provide on the suspect and
got no response, according to a U.S. official who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter and asked not to be identified.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said today that the attack
should prompt the U.S. to cooperate more closely with his
country.  “I am simply appealing for this tragedy to bring us
together in fighting common threats, of which one of the most
important and dangerous is terrorism,” Putin said in a
nationwide live call-in show today.  Russian Conflict  Putin criticized Western governments and media for their
failure to condemn militants in Russia’s mainly Muslim North
Caucasus, including in Chechnya where there have been two
conflicts since the mid-1990s.  The suspects’ parents, Anzor and Zubeidat Tsarnaev, spoke
yesterday to FBI and Russian agents in Makhachkala, the Dagestan
capital on the western shore of the  Caspian Sea . The parents
intend to return to the U.S., according to Zaurbek Sadahanov, a
lawyer assisting the family.  Relatives and acquaintances described Tamerlan Tsarnaev as
being drawn more deeply into radical Islam in recent years.  Ruslan Tsarni, an uncle who lives in suburban Washington,
said that the older brother had come under the influence of a
radical recent convert to Islam as early as 2007. The man, who
was then about 30, of Armenian descent and known to them as
Misha, visited the family’s home in Cambridge, across the
 Charles River  from Boston, Tsarni said in an interview.  Seeing Transformation  Chris Walter of Cambridge said yesterday he told the FBI
that he witnessed the transformation.  Tamerlan’s father, Anzor, would repair automobiles in
Walter’s driveway, a half mile from the family home. Tamerlan
would come along to help and, by 2010, Walter observed that
Tamerlan would “put down his mat and pray.”  “He gave no indication that he was very interested in
religion before that,” Walter said in a telephone interview.  Investigators are looking into money the Tsarnaev brothers
got from relatives, friends, people overseas or other sources,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the probe is continuing. Tamerlan drove a
silver, C-Class Mercedes-Benz car.  Government Aid  He and his wife, the former Katherine Russell, received
government assistance after their daughter was born, said Alec
Loftus, a  Massachusetts  Health and Human Services Department
spokesman. The benefits ended last year, when the family’s
income exceeded eligibility limits, he said. The couple’s
daughter is now about 2 years old.  Federal agents have questioned Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s 24-year-
old widow, who is staying with her parents in North Kingstown,
 Rhode Island . She declined to comment yesterday. She is
assisting in the investigation, according to a statement from
Amato DeLuca, her lawyer.  “There is an estrangement in the family,” Elizabeth
Russell, her aunt, said by telephone April 23. “I haven’t seen
Katie in four years.”  As Boston sought to return to normal yesterday, Boylston
Street, a main thoroughfare where the bombs were detonated,
reopened to the public after a weeklong lockdown. U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden  led a memorial service at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in Cambridge for campus police officer
Sean Collier, 26, whose April 18 killing set off an overnight
chase that led to the bombing suspects.  More than 5,000 gathered at noon for the memorial service
for Collier, who was shot point-blank in his cruiser.  Biden, whose first wife and young daughter were killed in a
car accident, told the crowd he spoke from experience in
offering the Collier family words of comfort.  “My heart goes out to you,” Biden said. “I hope you find
some solace.”  The vice president addressed terrorism, too.  “We are grieving, but we are not bending,” he told the
crowd. “We will not yield to fear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  