-- Brazil Teams Tell FIFA That Ban on Player Investors Risks Future
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-04-24T17:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/brazil-teams-tell-fifa-that-ban-on-player-investors-risks-future.html
A group of Brazilian soccer clubs
say a proposal that would outlaw the sale of player transfer
rights to investors will threaten the finances of South American
teams.  The 21 clubs sent an open  letter  protesting the plan to  FIFA 
as the sport’s global ruling body starts considering a ban on
so-called third-party ownership programs. European soccer group
 UEFA  says it’ll halt use of the technique if no action is taken
by FIFA.  “The ban -- as proposed by UEFA -- could impact the
finances of the Brazilian and South American clubs negatively,
as well as the flow of the international transfers of players
between  South America  and Europe,” the letter states. “The
Brazilian and South American clubs cannot remain silent in
relation to this adverse scenario, otherwise they will once
again be affected by an unilateral and sudden change of rules.”  Most clubs in  Brazil  sell the transfer rights of players to
investors as a way to raise money and strengthen their squads,
according to Daniel Cravo, a lawyer representing Porto Alegre’s
Internacional. About 90 percent of players in the country’s top
league “are somehow linked to investors,” according Jochen
Loesch, president of international business at Traffic Sports.  Slavery  Traffic has invested more than $75 million in the rights of
about 60 players since it was founded in 2007.  UEFA president Michel Platini and English  Premier League 
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  oppose the sale of
players’ rights. Scudamore said the practice is similar to
“indentured slavery.”  Cravo disputed Scudamore’s characterization, saying some
players invested in their own transfer rights.  “The claim that this is player slavery is just a fallacy,
it’s not true,” Cravo said by telephone. “The player is in
control of his destiny.”  Corinthians,  Sao Paulo  and Atletico Mineiro were among
several clubs that didn’t sign the letter to FIFA, Cravo said,
adding they didn’t give a reason.  “Maybe they don’t want to take sides,” he said.  Soccer is split over whether action should be taken against
player investment, which has mushroomed since emerging in South
America in the 1990s. Although banned in France and  England , the
practice is now common in Europe as clubs look for alternative
funding amid the continuing economic crisis. Funds say they are
stepping in place of banks, and their arrangements should be
seen as loans.  Most-Active  In the letter, the teams said Daniel Lorenz Pereira, legal
adviser to  Portugal ’s Futebol Clube do Porto, was present at an
April 4 meeting in  Rio de Janeiro  where the clubs behind the
document held their first discussions. Lorenz Pereira has
lobbied UEFA, which says it’ll ban co-owned players from its
club competitions from 2014.  Portugal is Europe’s most-active market for third-part
deals. Eighteen-time Portuguese champion Sporting Lisbon has
sold stakes in all but four of its 28-member roster.  The Brazilian opposition group says it has formed a four-
member commission “to discuss the matter with competent
authorities” and will meet again on May 2 in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 