-- Britain Seen Avoiding Recession as Osborne Sticks to Austerity
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-04-24T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/britain-seen-avoiding-recession-as-osborne-sticks-to-austerity.html
The U.K. economy probably avoided
an unprecedented triple-dip recession, providing relief to a
Conservative-led government under attack for putting austerity
before growth.  Gross domestic product grew 0.1 percent in the first
quarter after contracting 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter of
2012, according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. From a year earlier, it probably increased 0.4
percent. The Office for National Statistics will release the
data at 9:30 a.m. in London today.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has drawn
criticism from both the opposition Labour Party and the
International Monetary Fund for refusing to ease his deficit-
cutting program. The Treasury and the Bank of England said
yesterday they will extend their credit-boosting plan by one
year in a bid to spur an economy that has recovered little more
than  half the output  lost during the global financial crisis.  “Probably overall, the economy is growing even if the
figures say it isn’t, but it’s not doing so at a particularly
convincing pace,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London and a former Bank of England official. “I
don’t see Osborne doing anything in terms of fiscal stimulus
this year. They might do something in 2014 for political
purposes, but that would be more electioneering.”  Recovery prospects remain poor, with the debt crisis in the
euro area sapping demand in the biggest market for British goods
while inflation running at 2.8 percent and accelerating eats
into household incomes. The 17-nation euro region shrank 0.1
percent in the first quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey
published on April 11. The figures will be released on May 15.  U.S. Growth  A pickup in growth in the U.S. may help. The world’s
biggest economy grew in the first quarter at a 3 percent annual
rate after expanding at a 0.4 percent pace in the final three
months of 2012, according to the median forecast of 84
economists. The data will be released by the Commerce Department
tomorrow.  BOE policy makers have split on the need to provide more
stimulus to the economy through quantitative easing. Governor
Mervyn King has wanted to buy more bonds for three consecutive
months, but was outvoted by a majority on the nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee, minutes of their meetings show.  Fitch Ratings last week became the second ratings company
to strip Britain of its top credit grade and the IMF urged
Osborne to consider putting a brake on the deepest budget cuts
since World War II as it lowered its 2013 growth forecast to 0.7
percent. Officials from the Washington-based lender will visit
 London  next month to present their audit of the U.K. economy.  Recession Risk  MPC member Martin Weale, who voted to maintain bond
purchases at 375 billion pounds ($572 billion) this month, said
in an interview last week said there was a risk the economy
contracted for a second straight quarter, marking the third
recession since 2008. Six of the 37 economists surveyed
predicted a contraction.  The so-called Funding for Lending Scheme began in August to
give banks access to cheap loans providing they pass on the
savings to businesses and consumers. The expansion of the
program announced yesterday will allow banks to borrow 10 pounds
next year for every 1 pound they lend to small companies in
2013. If they wait to extend the loan until next year, the
amount they can borrow under the plan is halved to 5 pounds for
every pound loaned. Banks can borrow 1 pound for every pound
loaned with the rest of the program.  The plan is also being expanded to allow access to some
non-bank lenders such as financial leasing corporations, which
are a source of credit for smaller companies.  Initial Estimate  Today’s GDP report will be a preliminary estimate and based
on about 45 percent of the data that will ultimately be
available. It will have estimates for output in categories
including production, services and construction. The second
estimate on May 23 will include consumer spending and exports.  Almost six years after the financial crisis began, British
economic output is almost 3 percent below its pre-recession
peak, the worst performance bar Italy among Group of Seven
countries. Cameron’s Conservative Party trails behind the Labour
opposition by about nine percentage points in  recent polls , with
a general election just over two years away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  