-- Cameron Speaks of Very Tough Times Amid Recession Threat
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-24T14:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cameron-speaks-of-very-tough-times-amid-recession-threat.html
Prime Minister David Cameron said
Britain is living through “very tough times,” a day before
publication of data that will show whether the economy entered
an unprecedented triple-dip recession.  In his weekly question-and-answer session in Parliament
today, Cameron emphasized job creation and the government’s
plans to narrow the budget deficit, suggesting a change of focus
from the economic-output figures that have dominated the
political debate. Rank-and-file lawmakers say they will make the
same points in campaigning against the opposition Labour Party,
which has been pushing for more spending and a cut in value-
added tax to boost growth.  “These are very tough times that we are operating in but
we have got the deficit down by a third, there are 1.25 million
extra private-sector jobs, there is record creation of new
businesses in our country,” Cameron told lawmakers in  London .
“The difference between the two parties is we believe in
cutting the deficit. It is their official policy to put it up.”  A decline in output in the first quarter would be a blow
for Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne after
Britain lost its AAA credit grade from Fitch Ratings and was
criticized by the International Monetary Fund for pursuing
policies that hurt growth in the past week.  While the  median forecast  of 37 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News is for the economy to have skirted a slump and
expanded 0.1 percent between January and March, Bank of England
policy maker Martin Weale said April 18 that he wouldn’t be
surprised if GDP fell. The Office for National Statistics will
release the data at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  Austerity Question  Cameron made his comments in response to a question from
Conservative Party legislator James Wharton, who asked whether
Labour’s plan to ease austerity after 2015 “would risk
squandering” the government’s efforts to reduce the deficit.  Six years since the start of the financial crisis, the U.K.
has failed to recover the slump in output, and Cameron has had
to move out by two years his hope of balancing the budget by
2015, even amid the biggest fiscal retrenchment since World War
II.  Lawmakers from Cameron’s Tories, concerned that the economy
may harm their chances in May 2 local elections, said they would
concentrate on persuading voters that other economic measures
matter more.  “I am not worried about tomorrow at all; there is a big
difference between GDP and wealth creation,” Robert Halfon, a
Tory lawmaker said in a telephone interview. “The ‘cost of
living’ will be the three words that win or lose us the next
election.”  Bond Yields  Mark Garnier, a Tory on Parliament’s Treasury Committee,
pointed to “incredibly low bond yields” as proof Osborne’s
plan is working, though he said debt-rating downgrades combined
with a possibly negative GDP figure would be “a difficult
message to sell” to voters.  “They are bound to refocus on things they have got, such
as relatively good employment rates and inflation under control,
rather than things they haven’t got, like growth,” Tim Bale,
professor of politics at Queen Mary University of London, said
in a telephone interview. “They will still be hoping for growth
and the message at the election will be that the medicine paid
off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  