-- Canadian Dollar Weakens on Speculation of U.S. Economic Slowing
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-24T21:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/canadian-dollar-weakens-on-speculation-of-u-s-economic-slowing.html
The Canadian dollar fell against
the majority of its most-traded peers as a report in the U.S.,
 Canada ’s biggest trading partner, showed durable-goods orders
declined more than forecast last month.  The currency weakened earlier today against the greenback
as the U.S. Commerce Department reported bookings for goods
meant to last at least three years fell 5.7 percent in March,
exceeding the median forecast for a 3 percent drop, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 78 economists. It traded at an almost six-
week low yesterday on signs from Europe and  China  that global
economic growth is slowing, undermining demand for Canada’s
exports.  “What we’re seeing is doubts about the sustainability of
global growth come to the forefront,” said David Doyle, a
strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets by phone from Toronto.
“Doubts about the sustainability of U.S. growth could raise
potential for Canada to suffer more of a downturn than we
already are.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was little changed at
C$1.0256 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto, after falling
as much as 0.2 percent. The currency reached C$1.0294 on April
17, the weakest level since March 13. One loonie buys 97.50 U.S.
cents.  Options Data  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart was at almost its highest in six
weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate was
1.725 percent, after reaching 1.775 percent yesterday, its
highest since March 11. Risk reversals measure the premium on
options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S.
contracts that do the opposite.  The Canadian dollar has traded between C$1.0286 and
C$1.0233 the past five days.  “The Canadian dollar has held up well relative to U.S.
dollar strength, the range has been very confined,” said Darcy Browne, managing director of currencies at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, by phone from
Toronto. “There’s continual interest on both sides of the
market related to options, so that’s why we’re hemmed in these
tiny little ranges at the moment.”  Bonds Gain  Canada’s 10-year government bond yields were littler
changed  at 1.72 percent. The 1.5 percent securities maturing in
June 2023 added 2 cents to C$97.96.  The  Bank of Canada  sold C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of 1.5
percent notes maturing in August 2015 at a yield of 0.99
percent.  Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 2.8 percent to
$91.65 per barrel in  New York , while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks was little changed.  Investors are pulling money out of Canadian fixed-income
mutual funds at the fastest pace in more than four years as
evidence mounts economic growth in the U.S. is leaving its
largest trading partner behind.  Individuals withdrew C$981.4 million ($956 million) from
fixed-income funds in March and February, the biggest two-month
outflow since December 2008, even as they poured money into
international and high-yield bond funds, according to data from
the  Investment Funds Institute of Canada .  U.S. orders for U.S. durable goods fell by the most in
seven months as demand slumped for commercial aircraft and
business investment cooled.  “When you go back and look over the past three years or
so, this pattern of data disappointment has been quite common,”
said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto. “The spring swoon or soft
patch, whatever you want to call it, has been very much a
feature of U.S. economic data, and that feature spills over into
risk assets.”  The Canadian dollar has risen 0.9 percent in the past three
months against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has gained
3.2 percent while the Australian dollar added 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  