-- Car Service Hail Plan Should Be Allowed, NYC to Tell Top Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/car-service-hail-plan-should-be-allowed-nyc-to-tell-top-court.html
A plan to allow car services to
pick up  New York  City passengers who hail them outside  Manhattan 
should be permitted, officials will argue before the state’s  top
court .  New York City, the state and an organization of livery
companies are set to ask the Court of Appeals in  Albany  today to
reverse Supreme Court Justice Arthur Engoron’s ruling in August
that blocked the plan after taxi groups filed lawsuits.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal with lawmakers in
December 2011 for the city to permit car services to pick up
passengers who hail them on the street outside Manhattan. The
state Legislature passed the law in February of 2012. Rules to
implement the legislation were approved by the city’s Taxi and
Limousine Commission and were to take effect June 4.  Engoron ruled Aug. 17 that the plan violates the “home
rule” clause of New York’s constitution, which grants the state
Legislature the power to intervene in the affairs of a local
government only when it is requested by that municipality’s
legislative body.  The city appealed to the state’s highest court, which hears
such appeals in cases where “the only question involved must be
the constitutionality of a statutory provision,” according to
its  website .  State Interest  The city, state and livery groups argue that the hail law
doesn’t require a “home rule message” because it furthers a
“substantial” state interest, according to a  summary  of the
case posted on the Court of Appeals website.  Under the home rule provision, the state can only enact a
special law relating to a local government without the request
of its legislature when it has a “substantial” interest,
according to the summary.  The city, state and livery groups said that the law ensures
access “to reliable and effective transportation to, from and
within the city,” according to the summary.  The groups claimed there is a “lack of access to street-
hail service in the outer boroughs and the lack of wheelchair-
accessible vehicles available for street hails citywide,”
according to the summary.  The plan allowed the city to authorize an 18,000-livery car
fleet to pick up riders in Manhattan north of 96th Street, and
in the boroughs of  Brooklyn , the Bronx, Queens and  Staten
Island , where customers can rarely find ordinary yellow cabs.  New Medallions  The plan also would have added 2,000 more yellow taxis to a
fleet of about 13,000. The city would have auctioned new
medallions, or operating licenses, which command prices of
$700,000 to $1 million, that Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  had relied
upon to plug a $1 billion hole in his fiscal 2013 budget.  The mayor’s plan includes his expectation of $1.46 billion
in revenue from the sale of the medallions. Bloomberg’s January
preliminary budget for the 2014 fiscal year beginning July 1
anticipated the city would reap $600 million from medallion
sales, down from a November estimate of $790 million. Bloomberg
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Medallion owners cited concerns that the added permits
would dilute their value. They said the outer-borough fleet
would reduce the earning power of yellow cabs by giving the new
fleet the market for those street-hailing customers.  Cab Driver  Only yellow cabs are permitted to pick up fares on the
street, while car services are legally limited to calls
dispatched by radio.  The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a group of fleet
owners, and the Taxicab Service Association, which finances
medallion purchases, sued the state and the mayor in April 2012,
seeking to have the new law deemed unconstitutional. The Greater
New York Taxi Association, a group of medallion owners, also
sued the following month.  Engoron, who worked as a cab driver more than 40 years ago
while attending  Columbia University , said the taxi groups
demonstrated that the plan would cause them “irreparable
injury.”  “The court has trouble seeing how the provision of taxi
service in  New York City  is a matter that can be wrenched from
the hands of city government, where it has resided for some 75
years, and handed over to the state,” Engoron said in his
ruling.  Pilot Program  In separate litigation, livery car groups yesterday in New
York lost a bid to stop a pilot program that would allow riders
to hail yellow taxis for the first time using location-based
smartphone applications.  The car groups sued the taxi commission in December,
claiming the program violates city codes and may let drivers
discriminate against racial minorities based on their names or
location, as well as the elderly, who are less likely to own
smartphones.  “On its face, the program appears better aimed at
avoiding discriminatory passenger selection,” Manhattan state
court Justice Carol Huff said in a 14-page ruling yesterday that
lifted her March 7 order blocking the program and dismissed the
case.  The cases are Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade v.
 Michael R. Bloomberg , 102472/2012; Taxicab Service Association
v. the State of New York, 102553/2012; and Greater New York Taxi
Association v. the State of New York, 102783/2012, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 