-- Carlyle-Backed GDC Technology Said to Prepare $100 Million IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-04-24T08:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/carlyle-backed-gdc-technology-said-to-prepare-100-million-ipo.html
GDC Technology Ltd. , the Chinese
maker of digital-cinema equipment backed by  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
plans to seek about $100 million in a U.S. initial public
offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, based in  Hong Kong , may file an application
for the IPO in the next few months, said the people, asking not
to be identified because the information is private. Carlyle led
a group of investors including Yunfeng Capital in buying an 80
percent stake in GDC Technology in 2011, according to a
 statement  on the buyout firm’s website.  An IPO of $100 million would be the biggest in the U.S. by
a company based in Hong Kong or mainland  China  since late 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Chinese IPOs in the world’s
largest economy dried up in the past two years amid allegations
of accounting fraud and poor corporate governance at companies.  GDC Technology designs projection systems, theater
management systems and encoders for digital cinemas, according
to its website.  Barclays Plc and Jefferies Group LLC will manage the IPO,
the people said. Connie Wong, a spokeswoman for GDC Technology,
could not immediately comment on the IPO plan when contacted by
telephone today.  Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , who held a 32.5 percent
interest in GDC Technology in 2007, sold his stake to the
Carlyle-led group in 2011, according to  filings  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange. Li, Asia’s richest man, also made personal
investments in high-profile technology companies including
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , Spotify Ltd. and Siri Inc.  Yunfeng Capital was created in 2010 by Chinese
entrepreneurs including Jack Ma, founder of Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd.  LightInTheBox Holding Ltd., a Beijing-based online
retailer, applied for an initial public offering on the  New York 
Stock Exchange on April 17, aiming to raise $86 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  