-- Carmelo Anthony, Knicks Take 2-0 NBA Lead on Celtics; Miami Wins
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-24T05:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/carmelo-anthony-knicks-take-2-0-nba-lead-on-celtics-miami-wins.html
The  New York Knicks  scored 32
third-quarter points last night, nine more than the  Boston
Celtics  managed in the entire second half, to open a 2-0 lead in
their National Basketball Association playoff series.  The defending-champion  Miami Heat , the Eastern Conference’s
top seed, defeated the  Milwaukee  Bucks 98-86 to take a 2-0 lead
in their opening-round series. In Denver, the  Golden State
Warriors  topped the Denver Nuggets 131-117 to even their Western
Conference series at one game apiece.  Knicks forward  Carmelo Anthony  scored 34 points in the
87-71 victory in front of a sold-out crowd of 19,033 at  New
York ’s Madison Square Garden. The Knicks erased a six-point
halftime deficit by outscoring the Celtics 32-11 in the third
quarter and have won the first two games of a best-of-seven
playoff series for the first time since 2000, the last time New
York advanced past the opening round.  “We know what type of team we are, and we know that when
we really buckle down on the defensive end that it’s been hard
for teams,” Anthony, 28, said in a news conference. “We saw
that all season long, but now in the playoffs, everything is
just magnified times 10.”  The NBA’s scoring champion, Anthony averaged 28.7 points
per game this season to become the first Knick since Bernard
King in 1985 to win an NBA scoring title. The crowd chanted “M-
V-P, M-V-P” for the second straight playoff game as Anthony
scored 13 points in the third quarter.  “In the third quarter we were as good as we’ve been all
year in terms of ball movement and making shots,” Knicks coach
 Mike Woodson  told reporters.  Standing Ovation  J.R. Smith, the league’s Sixth Man of the Year, added 19
points off the bench for the Knicks. He scored five points in
the final six seconds of the first quarter, prompting a kneeling
windmill celebration at halfcourt and the first standing ovation
of the night from home fans.  Point guard  Raymond Felton  contributed 16 points and seven
rebounds. He said after the game that successful offensive
contributions from Knicks role players have allowed freedom on
the court for Anthony, who has 70 points in the series.  “We just have to continue to do a better job of making
shots and creating plays for ourselves so it opens up for him
and they don’t have to sit there and key in on him and double-
team on him,” Felton said. “At the same time, he’s doing a
great job of passing out of the double team.”  Paul Pierce  scored 18 points for  Boston , which lost point
guard  Rajon Rondo  to a season-ending knee injury in January. The
Celtics scored 23 points in the second half, three days after
managing 25 points in the second half of Game 1.  “They say the series hasn’t started until the road team
wins, but I’m positive the series just started because we’re
down 2-0,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers told reporters.  Boston Return  The series shifts now to Boston, where the teams will play
on April 26 and April 28, the Celtics’ first home games since
three people were killed and at least 175 were injured by a pair
of bombs at the Boston Marathon on April 15. For the second
consecutive game, the Celtics warmed up in yellow T-shirts that
said “Boston Stands as One.”  “We want to win for the city, it would be terrific,”
Rivers said. “That is not anything I’m going to use in a press
conference or with our players. We should want to win because we
want to win, and then the rest of the part, if we win, would be
great for the city.”  At AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami,  LeBron James  had 19
points, eight rebounds and six assists for the Heat, while guard
 Dwyane Wade  scored a team-high 21. Miami used a 12-0 run at the
start of the fourth quarter to put the game out of reach.  The Heat took a 47-43 lead into halftime, and as in Game 1
four nights ago -- when Miami outscored the Bucks by 16 points
in the second half -- took over in the final quarter.  Rebounding Edge  The worst rebounding team in the league during the regular
season, the Heat grabbed 43 rebounds to Milwaukee’s 33.  “Well, we held the court. We protected it for two games,”
Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  told reporters. “We did what we were
supposed to do and that’s it. Now we have to move on.”  Bucks forward Ersan Ilyasova scored 21 points while center
Larry Sanders contributed 14 points. Milwaukee guards Monta Ellis and  Brandon Jennings , the team’s two leading scorers in
the regular season, were a combined 5-22 from the floor and
missed all 10 of their 3-pointers.  The Heat have now won 44 of their last 48 games. The team
is 22-4 at home in its last nine postseason series dating back
to the 2010-11 season.  The Heat and Bucks play Game 3 tomorrow in Milwaukee.  Warriors Win  Stephen Curry had 30 points and 13 assists for the
Warriors, who broke the Nuggets’ 24-game home winning streak at
the Pepsi Center in Denver.  Golden State hit 51 of 79 field-goal attempts for 65
percent shooting to set a franchise postseason record. The
Warriors went 14-of-25 on 3-pointers.  Jarrett Jack added 26 and Harrison Barnes scored 24 points
for the Warriors, who had a 61-53 halftime advantage.  Ty Lawson and reserve Corey Brewer each scored 19 for the
Nuggets and  Andre Iguodala  and Andre Miller added 18 points
apiece.  Golden State hosts Game 3 on April 26 in Oakland,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Madison Square Garden in New York at
   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  