-- Cathay Says It’s Willing to Make Cash Offer for Discovery Metals
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-04-24T03:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cathay-says-it-s-willing-to-make-cash-offer-for-discovery-metals.html
Chinese billionaire Yu Yong’s
Cathay Fortune Corp. said it’s willing to make a cash takeover
offer for  Discovery Metals Ltd. (DML) , subject to the Australian
copper producer abandoning a planned share sale.  Cathay and bidding partner China-Africa Development Fund in
February abandoned a A$830 million ($853 million) hostile bid,
offering A$1.70 a share, after a downgrade of the Brisbane-based
company’s mine in Botswana. Discovery’s shares closed at 34
cents on April 18 and the company has since been in a trading
halt pending a statement on its financing.  “We are of the opinion that if Discovery progresses with
the current financing arrangements, it is likely that it may be
forced into receivership in the near future,” Cathay Fortune
Group said today in an e-mailed statement. Cathay is “willing
to put a binding cash proposal to the board to acquire Discovery
subject to the proposed equity raising not proceeding.”  Discovery yesterday asked to extend its trading halt until
April 26, ahead of an announcement on a planned share sale,
without specifying the amount. Discovery may seek to raise about
A$75 million through an equity placement, according to the
statement from Cathay, its second-biggest shareholder.  Discovery didn’t immediately respond to a phone call
requesting comment on the size of its share sale.  Mining companies are under pressure from falling revenues
as commodity prices decline, following a decade-long boom.
Discovery’s market value has declined to A$166 million, after
rejecting Cathay’s A$830 million offer as too low.  Cathay said today it would waive exclusivity arrangements
as part of its renewed takeover proposal “to help maximise
possible bidder tension for the benefit of all shareholders,”
requesting Discovery’s board to respond by April 26.  Discovery said in March it planned to raise $200 million to
$250 million to replace existing debt linked to its  Botswana 
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  