-- CBOE Said to Consider Separation of Regulatory Unit From Company
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-04-24T01:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cboe-said-to-consider-separation-of-regulatory-unit-from-company.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , owner of the
largest U.S. options exchange, may separate its regulatory
oversight unit from the company, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  CBOE has talked to other exchange-company officials, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based market
operator, declined to comment. Dow Jones reported on April 22
that the company is considering whether to split off its
oversight business.  The exchange company may instead decide to pass those
responsibilities to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
Dow Jones said, citing people close to the discussions that it
didn’t name. FINRA, as the authority is known, oversees broker-
dealers and provides regulatory services to stock and options
exchange operators,  CBOE, the biggest U.S. options market by volume, said a
year ago that regulators were probing whether the company
complied with its obligations as a self-regulatory organization.
The cost to settle the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation is unlikely to exceed $10 million, according to a
regulatory filing on Feb. 28. Exchanges are required to write
rules for their markets, monitor trading and ensure that they
and their customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  “While an agreement has not been reached with the SEC
staff, we believe that any resolution of this matter would
include a monetary penalty and may require CBOE to make
additional changes to its compliance programs and procedures,”
the company wrote in the Feb. 28 filing. It said the likelihood
of a charge in excess of $10 million is “remote.”  Regulatory Surveillance  The Options Regulatory Surveillance Authority, known as
ORSA, conducts insider trading investigations for all 11 options
exchanges, which are officially known as self-regulatory
organizations, or SROs, according to an annual CBOE filing. CBOE
operates ORSA and provides other oversight services to some
SROs, which are responsible for monitoring their markets and
member firms, the filing said.  Any announcement about the future of CBOE’s regulatory
division is likely to come after the SEC investigation is
resolved, Dow Jones reported. U.S. regulators haven’t pushed
CBOE to separate the unit and have expressed reservations about
the complexity of setting up a new SRO, Dow Jones said.  CBOE, which went  public  in 2010 and has a market value of
$3.2 billion, has 605 employees. About 116 people, or 19
percent, are engaged in regulatory activities, according to the
annual filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  