-- Celestica Fills BlackBerry Gap With Aerospace: Corporate Canada
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-24T14:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/celestica-fills-blackberry-gap-with-aerospace-corporate-canada.html
  Celestica Inc. (CLS)  is betting on
industries from health care to aerospace to fill the sales void
left by BlackBerry, which a year ago made up 19 percent of the
electronics-parts supplier’s revenue.  The Toronto-based components maker expects revenue to grow
by “modest double digits” in its so-called diversified
category after winding up assembly work for BlackBerry in late
2012, Celestica Chief Executive Officer Craig Muhlhauser said.  Muhlhauser, 64, said he realized he had to do something
about his company’s dependence on BlackBerry toward the end of
2011, when the smartphone maker, then known as  Research In
Motion Ltd. (BB) , was struggling against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co.  “The momentum was not in RIM’s favor, and they seemed to
be lost from a product strategy standpoint,” Muhlhauser said in
an interview yesterday in Toronto. As BlackBerry sales tumbled,
“it became a big overhang on the company -- it just overtook
us,” said Muhlhauser.  Celestica announced in June it would stop building
BlackBerrys. The diversified category, which also includes
defense, industrial and semiconductor customers, accounted for
24 percent of revenue in the first-quarter earnings released
yesterday, up from 19 percent a year ago.  The strategic shift has just begun, and Celestica’s
challenge will be to rebuild sales, said Shawn Harrison, an
analyst at Longbow Research in Independence,  Ohio . The potential
customers Celestica is eyeing in the diversified business offer
opportunities because they haven’t traditionally turned over
their manufacturing for an outsider to handle, he said.  Smaller Wins  “These markets are less outsourced. The challenge is many
of the program wins are much smaller,” Harrison said. “If you
won a large telecoms program in the past it could be a half-
billion dollars. These could be $100 million, but many are $5,
$10, $15, $25 million,” Harrison said by phone. On the other
hand, those smaller contracts also can be more profitable, he
said.  BlackBerry has been losing market share for three years as
its aging lineup of smartphones with a slower Web browser and
smaller range of applications led consumers to opt for rival
devices like the iPhone. BlackBerry is now betting on a new
operating system and refreshed phone lineup to woo back
customers.  Falling Sales  Celestica’s sales fell 19 percent to C$1.37 billion ($1.33
billion) in the first quarter from a year earlier, the company
said yesterday. Revenue this year is expected to  slide  9.7
percent, according to the average estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company posted profit of 16 cents a share excluding
stock compensation and other charges, beating the average
analyst estimate of 15 cents in a Bloomberg survey. The stock
rose 1.7 percent to C$8.44 at 9:59 a.m. in Toronto. They remain
little changed in the past year as the Standard & Poor’s
Information Technology Sector  Index (STINFT)   climbed  14 percent.  Celestica’s second-largest  shareholder  is  Onex Corp. (OCX) ,
 Canada ’s largest publicly listed buyout firm, which has holdings
in a range of industries, including aerospace and health care.  Available Cash  Revenue growth across the diversified category was helped
by the acquisition of semiconductor component makers D&H
Manufacturing Co in 2012 and  Brooks Automation Inc. (BRKS)  in 2011.
Analysts said they expect more purchases as Celestica looks to
build expertise in these industries.  “They have half a billion dollars on their balance sheet,
they have no debt, they’re generating roughly C$150 million in
cash per year,” Gus Papageorgiou, an analyst at Scotia Capital
Inc., said. “Making acquisitions in the right segment” makes
sense, he said.  Muhlhauser, who has previously worked for Ford Motor Co.
and became CEO in 2007, won’t say if more acquisitions will come
this year. “We’re constantly looking for M&A opportunities, but
our priority is to reinvest in the business,” he said. “We are
not in any rush.”  The CEO has done a good job of turning the company around
at a difficult time for the global economy, even if the work
remains unfinished, said Papageorgiou, who rates Celestica the
equivalent of a hold.  Cockpit Avionics  “When Craig took over the company, it was a bit of a
broken company. The margins had fallen apart; the operations
were horrible,” said Papageorgiou. The CEO fixed operations and
made some decent acquisitions, he said.  In one of its most important growth markets, aerospace and
defense, Celestica makes everything from cockpit avionics to in-
flight entertainment systems, Muhlhauser said. Commercial sales
make up 90 percent of that market, with 10 percent from the
military, he said.  Companies like Raytheon Co. and Honeywell Inc. still keep a
lot of business in-house for design, testing, engineering and
final assembly, said Lavanya Rammohan, a Fairfax, Virginia-based
electronics analyst with Frost & Sullivan Inc. That presents a
challenge for Celestica as it seeks new clients, she said.  “Even though they’re making inroads, it will take a lot of
time to get there,” she said. “But it will happen, as all the
traditional markets are slowing.”  Server Drag  Forty percent of Celestica’s sales comes from supplying
servers and related computer-network equipment to technology
companies like  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , now its largest customer and
the only one that accounts for more than 10 percent of revenue.
The business may be a drag on Celestica, Harrison said.  “The growth rate of IT spending and networking spending is
in many cases slowing,” said Harrison. “That’s their greatest
challenge and that’s why, other than the benefit from buyback
activity, the stock has been stuck in a rut.”  The server business is “hyper-competitive,” and the best
way to improve margins in that area is to “do the entire supply
chain” for their customers, Muhlhauser said.  Four analysts say Celestica is a buy, eight call it a hold,
and three recommend selling the stock, according to analyst
 ratings  compiled by Bloomberg.  Celestica said yesterday it anticipates total restructuring
charges related to shuttering its BlackBerry assembly business
to be C$55 million to C$65 million this year.  BlackBerry doesn’t comment on relationships with its
suppliers, Crystal Roberts, a company spokeswoman, said
yesterday by e-mail.  Muhlhauser, however, said he’s looking forward to a future
without BlackBerry, even if his erstwhile biggest customer has
returned to profitability.  “It was almost like we were out of control, and the first
question and every question in every interview was RIM, RIM,
RIM,” he said. “We’re in control of our destiny now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  