-- Cenovus Profit Falls on Canadian Crude Price Decline
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-04-24T10:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cenovus-profit-falls-on-canadian-crude-price-decline.html
Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , the fourth-
largest Canadian oil producer, said first-quarter profit fell on
lower crude prices, currency losses and provisions for hedging.  Net income dropped to C$171 million ($167 million), or 23
cents a share, from C$426 million, or 56 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said today in a statement on PR
Newswire. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit beat the
46-cent average of 19  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Net earnings were negatively impacted by unrealized risk-
management and foreign-exchange losses in the quarter,” Cenovus
said. Operating profit was bolstered by the refining division,
which reported a 97% jump in operating cash flow amid lower
feedstock costs.  Cenovus co-owns a refinery in Borger,  Texas , and one in
Roxana,  Illinois , with  Phillips 66. (PSX)  The facilities together can
process the equivalent of more than 400,000 barrels of oil a
day, according to Cenovus’s  website .  Per-barrel refinery margins, known as crack spreads, in the
U.S. Midwest were higher in the first quarter than Cenovus had
predicted late last year, Phil Skolnick, a New York-based
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in an April 22 note.  The price of Canadian heavy  crude  fell 12 percent from a
year earlier to average $66.99 a barrel in the quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference between
Western Canada Select and U.S. benchmark oil prices increased as
output from oil-sands projects in  Alberta  rose without
sufficient transportation to bring the crude to markets.  Output Gains  Cenovus’s average oil production rose to 180,225 barrels a
day in the quarter from 156,850 barrels a year earlier, it said.
Operating earnings climbed to 52 cents a share from 45 cents.  The company’s stock declined 0.6 percent to C$28.75
yesterday in Toronto. The shares, which have dropped 14 percent
this year, have 19 buy and six hold  ratings  from analysts.  Suncor Energy Inc., Imperial Oil Ltd. and Husky Energy Inc.
are the three largest Canadian oil producers by sales, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 