-- Chesapeake Executive Testifies to Change of Mind on Notes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-24T21:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/chesapeake-executive-testifies-to-change-of-mind-on-notes.html
A  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  executive
said at a trial in New York that as recently as Jan. 9 he
thought the natural-gas producer would need to complete an early
call of $1.3 billion in notes by March 15 to do so at par.  The testimony today by Elliot Chambers, Chesapeake’s
assistant treasurer and vice president of finance, conflicted
with the company’s main argument in its lawsuit against the
notes’ trustee,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  The energy
producer sued over claims it had until the deadline in March to
notify investors of a planned early redemption at 100 cents on
the dollar, and another 30 days to complete the deal.  “I take it you changed your view,” Benjamin Nagin, one of
Bank of New York Mellon’s lawyers, said in his cross-examination
of Chambers in federal court in  Manhattan .  “Yes,” said Chambers, who in February 2012 helped sign
off on the indenture paperwork for the 6.775 percent notes due
March 2019. Chambers added that his earlier opinion, outlined in
several e-mails when the early call was being contemplated, was
an “incorrect understanding.”  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , sued BNY Mellon last
month after the bank said the second-biggest U.S. gas producer’s
planned notice of early redemption was a month late and
conflicted with investors’ expectations. At stake is
Chesapeake’s bid to refinance the debt and save about
$100 million by getting lower  interest rates .  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, who is overseeing the
case on an emergency basis, has said he’ll aim to rule on the
three-day trial by May 9, less than a week before the early call
is scheduled to be formally executed.  Chesapeake E-Mail  BNY Mellon called Chambers as a witness after finding the
e-mails in a pretrial exchange of documentary evidence between
the two sides.  The communications may assist the bank as it seeks to
convince the judge that Chesapeake, when it was drafting the
notes’ indenture, intended the March 15 deadline to be the final
date for an early call to be completed.  Chambers testified today that he changed his view on the
deadline after communicating with Chesapeake’s lawyers at
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, which advised Chesapeake on the notes.
He also reviewed the indenture paperwork in more detail and
spoke with other Chesapeake employees, he said.  Under questioning from Nagin, Chambers said he thought to
“redeem” meant to exchange cash for notes. The indenture says
the early redemption at par must take place between Nov. 15,
2012 and March 15, 2013.  Investor’s Influence  Bank of  New York  Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption would meet the deadline. The
trustee changed its position after investor River Birch Capital
LLC, which bought some notes in February, argued Chesapeake had
started the process too late, Chesapeake said.  Chesapeake made the early call after the lawsuit was filed
because Engelmayer said he didn’t think the investors had a
strong argument for a demand they made -- that the gas company
should make a “make-whole payment” of $400 million for the
notes if Chesapeake lost its lawsuit over the deadline.  Chesapeake said it will cancel the early call if it loses
the case, and BNY Mellon later dropped that argument.  Steven Bierman, an attorney for BNY Mellon, said in his
opening statement yesterday that under New York law, any
ambiguity in a contract should be interpreted against the party
that drafted it and not against investors who weren’t
represented in negotiations. Chesapeake’s lawyer, Stephen
Ascher, said the bank ignored the obvious meaning of the date.  ‘Ambiguous’ Language  Engelmayer in earlier hearings has called the language in
the indenture “ambiguous” and said he needed to see evidence
and hear testimony from people who worked on negotiations for
the notes and helped draft the indenture about how the language
was chosen to determine the meaning of the deadline.  Last month, River Birch held $16.7 million of the
securities, some of which it bought Feb. 15 after it thought
Chesapeake had missed the window to redeem the notes at par,
James Seery Jr., a lawyer at the hedge fund, said in a March 12
letter to the court.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 