-- Chicago Workers Plan Strike on Wages at Dunkin’ to Sears
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-04-24T17:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/chicago-workers-plan-strike-on-wages-at-dunkin-to-sears.html
Hundreds of employees from stores
such as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Victoria’s Secret (LTD) 
walked off the job today in Chicago for higher wages, three
weeks after a similar strike by fast-food workers in  New York .  The employees marched in the Chicago Loop and near the
Magnificent Mile shopping area, calling for $15-an-hour pay,
82 percent more than the state’s  minimum wage , and the right to
form a union without intimidation. The one-day strike was
arranged by the  Workers Organizing Committee of Chicago , a group
of retail and food workers, according to a statement yesterday.  “I’m living check by check,” Esly Hernandez, a  Dunkin’
Donuts (DNKN)  employee, said in a telephone interview. Hernandez, who
said he makes minimum wage and has worked at Dunkin’ for almost
a year, was protesting outside a Subway store in the Loop. At
least 200 workers participated in the strike, the group said.  “I’m not even able to save money because I have to pay the
bills,” said Hernandez, 24, who’s trying to save money for his
4-year-old son. “You have to increase the low wage.”  In February, President  Barack Obama  announced a plan to
raise the federal minimum wage to $9 an hour from $7.25. He also
proposed tying the wage to the cost of living. While the current
federal minimum has been in effect since 2009, some states have
mandated higher rates.  On April 4, about 400 restaurant workers in  New York City 
walked off the job, demanding $15-an-hour pay and the right to
unionize. In New York, the minimum wage is $7.25 an hour,
compared with  Illinois , where McDonald’s is headquartered, which
has a minimum wage of $8.25 an hour.  Raising Minimum  New York lawmakers last month passed a budget that includes
raising the state’s minimum wage to $9 an hour over three years.  There are more than 2.9 million food preparation and
serving workers in the U.S., including those who work at fast-
food restaurants, according to a  report  by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics in May. The median wage for those workers is $8.78 an
hour, or about $18,260 a year, the data shows.  McDonald’s has about 14,100 domestic locations and is the
world’s largest restaurant chain by sales. The company, based in
 Oak Brook , employed about 440,000 workers worldwide at the end
of last year, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  ‘Competitive Wages’  “Employees are paid competitive wages and have access to a
range of benefits to meet their individual needs,” Ofelia
Casillas, a McDonald’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The
majority of McDonald’s restaurants in Chicago and across the
country are owned and operated by independent business men and
women.”  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, is
based in Cincinnati and has about 840 stores. As of Feb. 2, the
company had 175,700 employees, of which about 10 percent were
represented by a union, according to a regulatory filing.  Jim Sluzewski , a Macy’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the strike in an e-mail.  Victoria’s Secret is owned by Columbus, Ohio-based L Brands
Inc., which employed about 99,400 associates as of Feb. 2, the
company said in a filing. Tammy Roberts Myers, an L Brands
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately comment on the strike.  Michelle King, a spokeswoman for Canton, Massachusetts-
based Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., said in an e-mail that Dunkin’
Donuts restaurants “are owned and operated by individual
franchisees who are responsible for making their own business
decisions such as hours of operation, employee wages and the
benefits they offer their employees.”  Sears ‘Opportunities’  Employees from  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the largest department
store chain, which is based in  Hoffman Estates , Illinois, and
employs 246,000 in the U.S., and Subway restaurants also joined
in the Chicago strike.  “Sears has in place several programs that provide extra
earnings opportunities for non-commission hourly associates,”
Howard Riefs, a spokesman for the retailer, said in an e-mail.
“The company is committed to promoting hourly associates and
frequently does so as another means of recognizing and rewarding
hourly associates.”  Riefs also said that “the Workers Organizing Committee of
Chicago communicated to us this morning that it is not looking
for recognition or a labor contract.”  Kevin Kane, a Subway spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  