-- China Cuts Fuel Prices in First Adjustment Using New Controls
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-24T09:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/china-cuts-fuel-prices-in-first-adjustment-using-new-controls.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
oil consumer, will cut gasoline and diesel prices in the first
adjustment under new controls after crude declined.  Retail gasoline will fall by 395  yuan  ($64) a metric ton
and diesel by 400 yuan, effective from tomorrow, the National
Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic
planner,  said  on its website today. The reduction is in line
with changes in average global crude costs in the past 10
working days and includes an amount from the last price review,
it said. The pump price of 90-RON, China III gasoline in Beijing
will decline 4 percent to 9,325 yuan a ton, or $4.31 a U.S.
gallon, the NDRC figures show.  The government changed the pricing mechanism for oil
products to better reflect movements in international crude
costs and reduce speculation, the NDRC said in a statement
announcing the measures on March 26. The first review was on
April 10, when the NDRC said the adjustment signaled was too
small to be implemented and would be rolled over to the next
appraisal.  Under the new rules, fuel tariffs are reviewed every 10
working days. The NDRC may hold off from a revision if gasoline
or diesel is due to rise or fall by less than 50 yuan, or when
the country is facing “significant” circumstances such as high
inflation or steep increases in international prices. The NDRC
hasn’t said which crude grades it tracks.  Under the previous mechanism, introduced in December 2008,
the NDRC tracked the 22-working-day moving average of a mix of
Brent, Dubai and Cinta. It only considered a price revision if
the average moved more than 4 percent from the previous change.  London-traded Brent, the benchmark price for more than half
the world’s oil, has dropped 8 percent since March 26. West
Texas Intermediate has fallen 7 percent in  New York .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  