-- Chip Shortage Looms as Samsung Courts Rival For Orders
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-04-25T09:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/chip-shortage-looms-as-samsung-courts-rival-to-fill-orders-tech.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  spent about
$24 billion in the past two years beefing up the world’s biggest
maker of memory chips to meet demand. It wasn’t enough.  Surging sales of smartphones, including its own Galaxy
range, has Samsung turning to its biggest rival to buy mobile
dynamic random access memory chips. For the first time, the
company that makes more than half the world’s mobile DRAM chips
may buy them from  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , said Shin Jong Kyun, head of
Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s mobile business.  The supply squeeze doesn’t just pose a problem for Samsung,
which releases its new flagship Galaxy S4 phone in South Korea
tomorrow. The chips, along with NAND memory, are needed in
handsets and tablet computers made by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 HTC Corp. (2498)  for functions from playing video and multitasking to
storing books and photographs.  “Not only DRAM chips, but all memory chips for mobile
devices show signs of shortages,” said Kim Sung In, an analyst
at Kiwoom Securities Co. in Seoul, who recommends buying both
Samsung and Hynix shares. “Samsung’s biggest chip customer is
itself and things will only get out of hand with the approach of
the third quarter, typically the strongest time of year.”  The second half of the year is when Samsung expects to
release a new smartphone using its own Tizen operating system
and an updated version of the Galaxy Note device. It’s also when
Apple usually releases details of a new handset.  S4 Delays  The S4 is in limited supply and Samsung is struggling to
keep up with demand, the company said. Two top U.S. carriers
have pushed back their release dates citing shipment delays.  “Pre-order demand is much stronger than expected, so it’s
difficult to rapidly boost supply in the short term,” Lee Don
Joo, president of the strategic marketing office at Samsung’s
mobile business, said today in  Seoul . The handset will be
released in South Korea tomorrow and on Saturday in other
markets around the world, Lee said.  The rising demand for mobile chips follows a glut in
production of the type of DRAM used in personal computers that
saw prices slump, driving some producers to the wall.  SK Hynix, Micron, Nanya Technology Corp., Powerchip
Technology Corp. and other Samsung rivals lost a combined $21
billion from 2008 to 2012, according to analyst estimates and
company data compiled by Bloomberg. Some Taiwanese makers quit
the business, while Tokyo-based Elpida Memory Inc. was forced to
seek protection from creditors before Boise, Idaho-based  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU)  agreed to buy it last year.  Price Rebound  Chip prices have since recovered as suppliers including
Micron kept DRAM output steady. Last year,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , the
world’s second-biggest maker of NAND flash memory, said it will
reduce production by 30 percent.  Benchmark 2Gb, 1333Mhz DRAM chips have more than doubled to
$1.69 since the end of November, according to TrendForce Corp.’s
DRAMeXchange, Asia’s largest market for the components.  “Mobile DRAM supply started to slow from the third quarter
of last year as players had cut investment a lot,” said Byun Han Joon, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“There’s a possibility that demand for mobile chips may
increase faster than had been anticipated so Samsung is trying
to brace for it.”  SK Hynix, the world’s second-largest supplier, counts Apple
among its biggest customers, with the maker of iPhones providing
9.3 percent of sales, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The Cupertino, California-based company ranks behind only Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., which assembles the iPad, the data
show.  Shares Gain  SK Hynix, which has been unprofitable in four of the past
five years, yesterday posted first-quarter earnings that beat
analyst estimates as chip prices rebound.  Shares of the Icheon, South Korea-based company have risen
15 percent this year compared with a 2.3 percent drop in the
benchmark Kospi index and a 1.8 percent decline for Samsung.  Global smartphone sales rose 34 percent last year to $294
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Among the flagship devices announced in the past 12 months
are HTC’s One, Nokia’s Lumia 920, the BlackBerry Z10 and Apple’s
iPhone 5.  “Chip demand for smartphones remains strong while the
market will be flooded out with new devices,” said Lee Sei Cheol, a Seoul-based analyst at Meritz Securities Co.  Samsung’s capital spending on chips was 13.85 trillion won
($12.3 billion) last year after the company spent 13 trillion
won on the business the year before.  As of the fourth quarter of last year, Samsung had 51
percent of the global mobile DRAM market, followed by SK Hynix’s
25 percent and 20 percent for Elpida, according to  market
researcher IHS iSuppli.  Increased Production  Any supply squeeze is likely to help second-tier players
such as Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) , which is
ramping up production of mobile chips and expects the business
will climb to 10 percent of revenue by the end of the year from
1 percent in the first quarter.  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474) , a Taiwan-
based venture between Nanya and Micron, expects mobile DRAM will
rise to 20 percent of sales by the fourth quarter from 5 percent
at the end of 2012, Chairman Charles Kau said.  Toshiba is closely monitoring the market for signs of
shortages that may be based on “excessive expectations,”
spokesman Atsushi Ido said by phone, declining to elaborate.
Samsung, Hynix and Elpida declined to comment on output plans.  Part of Samsung’s dilemma with mobile DRAM is its own
success in making mobiles, which is the biggest profit driver at
the company. Telecommunications  contributed 67 percent  of
operating income in 2012, compared with 14 percent for chips and
11 percent for liquid crystal displays, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While Apple has focused on high-end devices and limited its
handset releases to one a year since the first iPhone, Samsung
offers smartphones across a wider range of prices, all requiring
mobile DRAM chips.  “Demand for Samsung’s mobile phones is way too strong”
for the company’s semiconductor business to keep up, said Kiwoom
Securities’ Kim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  