-- Lloyds to Sell Branches in IPO as Co-Operative Drops Bid
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-04-24T08:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/co-operative-drops-lloyds-branches-purchase-lender-to-hold-ipo.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender, plans to sell 632 branches in an
initial public offering after Co-Operative Bank Plc pulled out
of an agreement to buy the assets.  “We are disappointed that the Co-Op is unable to complete
this transaction,” Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said in a statement today. The bank will “now
proceed with the option to IPO the business.”  Co-Op, a British customer-owned lender, had been struggling
to complete the 750 million-pound ($1.14 billion) purchase since
the deal was agreed in July as regulators expressed concern that
its managers didn’t have enough banking experience to run the
enlarged business and the firm lacked capital. The purchase
would have more than doubled the number of Co-Op Bank outlets.  “This deal has been in trouble from the start,” said
 Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in
London. “It shouldn’t have too much of an impact on Lloyds as
their plans for an IPO are well-advanced.”  Lloyds shares rose 1.1 percent to 51.98 pence as of 8:20
a.m. in London trading today, bringing their gain this year to
about 8.3 percent.  Co-Op cited the worsening outlook for economic growth and
increasing regulatory requirements for financial-services firms
for the move. The deal “would not currently deliver a suitable
return for our members within a reasonable timeframe and with an
acceptable level of risk,” the bank said in a statement. Co-Op
spent 38.1 million pounds in 2012 on the bid.  TSB Rebrand  Lloyds is in the process of separating the branches’
computer systems from their parent and will rebrand the branches
for sale under the TSB name over the summer.  The bank will now have to build a treasury operation for
the branches which it wouldn’t have had to create had the sale
to Co-Op been completed, said a person with knowledge of the
process who asked not to be identified because they were not
permitted to talk publicly. The cost of separating the business
may total about 1.3 billion pounds, the person said.  The decision also makes it more likely Lloyds will have to
seek an extension to the November deadline for the sale set by
the European Union to comply with state-aid rules after the
lender received a government bailout in 2008.  Officials at Lloyds and Co-Op declined to comment beyond
the statements.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
publicly owned lender, is also weighing an IPO of 316 branches
after Banco Santander SA abandoned talks to buy them in October.  Lloyds is slated to post first-quarter results on April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  