-- Cobalt’s Oil Finds Seen Luring Shell to Exxon: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-04-24T20:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cobalt-s-oil-finds-seen-luring-shell-to-exxon-real-m-a.html
Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) ,
the oil explorer that doubled in value since going public in
2009, is turning into a takeover target for energy companies
attracted to its oil finds from  Africa  to the  Gulf of Mexico .  Cobalt has been buoyed by offshore crude discoveries that
Global Hunter Securities LLC says could yield a total drilling
potential of as much as 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent.
That would be equivalent to almost all of the proved reserves of
OPEC member  Ecuador , according to data compiled by  BP Plc. (BP/) 
Larger energy companies such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may be
drawn by the chance to bolster crude resources, said Capital One
Southcoast Inc. Suitors also may include Chevron Corp.,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  or  ConocoPhillips (COP) , said Guggenheim Partners LLC.  While Houston-based Cobalt has handed investors more than
 triple  the gains of the Russell 1000 Energy Index since its
initial public offering, the $11 billion explorer still trades
at a 33 percent discount to the value of its underlying assets,
according to data and analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
With analysts projecting Cobalt’s stock will rise another 43
percent in the next 12 months, Stifel Financial Corp. said now
may be the time for a buyer to make a move on Cobalt.  “A savvy acquirer has probably already seen enough,”
Michael Scialla, a Denver-based analyst at Stifel, said in a
telephone interview. “They have an exploration portfolio that I
think would be attractive to just about any major  oil company 
that has exposure to deep-water plays around the world.”  Lynne Hackedorn, a spokeswoman for Cobalt, didn’t respond
to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment.  Oil Interests  Cobalt, formed in 2005, has  interests  in  oil fields  off the
coast of Angola and Gabon in West Africa as well as in the U.S.
Gulf of  Mexico , where it made what it called a “significant
discovery” last year. The stakes give Cobalt total drilling
prospects of as much as 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
without accounting for exploration risk, according to  John Malone , a New York-based analyst at Global Hunter.  That would be comparable to almost all of the proved
reserves of Ecuador at the end of 2011, according to BP’s most
recent statistical  review  of world energy published in June.
Ecuador is one of 12 members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s
crude.  Attractive Target  Cobalt has a “good combination of high-quality assets and
an extremely large resource-base potential” that could attract
takeover interest, Matthew Portillo, a director of equity
research for exploration and production companies at Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co., said in a phone interview from Houston.
Larger oil companies “tend to be cash rich and opportunity poor
and so this definitely fills the hopper.”  Potential suitors among large international oil companies
may include Total SA,  Chevron (CVX)  and Exxon, said Rob Cordray, a
Dallas-based analyst at Guggenheim. The market values of those
three potential buyers range from $114 billion to $400 billion.
ConocoPhillips and Houston-based  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) , which have
struggled to find successful wells, could also be lured to
Cobalt’s assets and the chance to bolster their weaker
exploration portfolios, he said.  “Bigger companies need to find an incredibly large amount
of new resources each year just to stay flat,” Cordray said in
a phone interview. Cobalt’s assets are “a needle mover.”  Shell Interest  Shell also could be tempted to bid on the company because
it tends to favor “big elephant” projects with significant
potential resources, such as those in Cobalt’s portfolio,
according to Eliot Javanmardi, a New Orleans-based analyst at
Capital One Southcoast.  The Hague-based  Shell (RDSA)  could seek to “expand its portfolio
with something like Cobalt’s assets,” Javanmardi said in a
phone interview.  Representatives for Irving, Texas-based Exxon; Marathon;
Paris-based Total;  San Ramon , California-based Chevron; Shell
and Houston-based ConocoPhillips declined to comment on
speculation about Cobalt.  Cobalt shares  have doubled since its IPO in December 2009
to $27.07 yesterday, compared with a 32 percent gain for energy
stocks in the Russell 1000 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Today, Cobalt, which counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Carlyle Group LP among its biggest  shareholders , rose 3.3
percent to $27.96, the biggest gain in more than a month.  The explorer would likely fetch at least a 30 percent
premium in a takeover based on similar deals in the industry,
Javanmardi said. Among deals for oil exploration and production
companies valued at more than $5 billion, the average premium
paid has been 31 percent since the start of 2000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worth More?  At a 30 percent premium to Cobalt’s stock price yesterday,
an acquisition would  cost  about $35.19 a share, or more than $14
billion. That means a buyer would still obtain the company at a
discount to its net asset value of $40.54 a share, according to
the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This could be worth a whole lot more,” said Stifel’s
Scialla, who estimates the company has a net asset value of $41
a share after accounting for exploration risk. “If there’s a
disconnect between what the industry sees and what the market is
willing to give them credit for in the stock price then I think
there is the potential for them to be a takeover candidate.”  Analysts project Cobalt’s shares will  rise  43 percent in
the next 12 months to $38.77, still below the underlying value
of its assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exploration Expertise  Larger  oil companies  may prefer to partner with Cobalt on
its discoveries, rather than seek a full takeover, said Malone
of Global Hunter. That would allow them to reduce their exposure
to the potential risks of the  projects , while still reaping the
benefits of any oil production, he said.  Big oil producers “view companies like this as sort of an
outsourcing of exploration,” Malone said in a phone interview.  While partnerships are a possibility, Cobalt’s assets have
so much potential that buyers might seek to purchase the company
outright, said Cordray of Guggenheim.  Cobalt is “very, very good at exploration,” he said.
“They would be an attractive takeover target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  