-- Colombia’s S&P Rating Raised on Economic Growth, Peace Talks
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-04-24T19:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/colombia-rating-raised-by-s-p-on-economic-expansion-peace-talks.html
Colombia’s foreign debt rating was
raised to the second-lowest investment grade by  Standard &
Poor’s  as  economic growth  increased tax revenue and peace talks
with rebels boosted investor confidence.  Yields on benchmark local bonds fell to a record low as S&P
lifted Colombia one step to BBB with a stable outlook. The
rating is in line with Brazil, Mexico and Peru. Colombia’s peso
appreciated 0.1 percent to 1,836.60 per  U.S. dollar  at the close
of trading in Bogota.  “A stronger fiscal profile, growing domestic  capital
markets , and favorable long-term prospects for GDP growth have
strengthened Colombia’s creditworthiness,” S&P credit analyst
Joydeep Mukherji wrote in a statement today. “Negotiations
between the government and the country’s main guerrilla group
could lead to a significant reduction in violence.”  Colombia was given an investment-grade  credit rating  in
2011 for the first time in a decade as improved security
bolstered economic growth and attracted record foreign
investment. Congress passed legislation that year known as the
fiscal rule allowing the nation to save part of windfalls
resulting from rising commodity prices.  Government representatives are meeting with guerrillas from
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, the
nation’s biggest rebel group, to seek an end to a five-decade
conflict. President  Juan Manuel Santos  said in an April 8 post
on Twitter that “the opportunity to end the conflict, although
there is a long way to go, I see it getting closer.”  ‘Very Positive’  The rating upgrade will allow lower borrowing costs in
Colombia, Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters
today. “This is very positive,” Cardenas said. “It’s the best
economic news we’ve had this year.”  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark peso bond due in 2024
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.84
percent, the lowest closing level since the securities were
issued in 2009. The yield has plunged 82 basis points this year.  Fitch Ratings , which rates Colombia’s foreign debt at BBB-,
the lowest level of investment grade, has a positive outlook.
Moody’s Investors Service rates the Andean country at a
comparable Baa3 with a stable outlook.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged
at 133 basis points at 3:04 p.m. in  New York , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  “Improved security, along with more investment in the
country’s physical infrastructure, and continued cautious
macroeconomic policy, could boost investor confidence and
further improve the sovereign’s financial profile,” S&P’s
Mukherji wrote. “We could raise the ratings under such a
scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  