-- Commerzbank Slides on Capital Increase: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-04-24T10:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/commerzbank-slides-on-capital-increase-frankfurt-mover.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the loss-making
German bank that got 18.2 billion euros ($24 billion) in state
aid, fell for a fourth day as Chief Executive  Martin Blessing 
prepared to carry out the fifth capital increase in four years.  The stock slid as much as 6.5 percent in Frankfurt trading,
extending a record low. It dropped 4.6 percent to 10.29 euros at
12:45 a.m., valuing the company at 6 billion euros. A decline of
28 percent this year is the biggest among 42 firms on the
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index , which rose
3.5 percent, and on  Germany ’s  DAX Index. (DAX)   Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest bank, plans to
increase capital by 2.5 billion euros by the start of June after
reducing the number of shares to 583 million from 5.83 billion
in a reverse share split yesterday. The firm, 25 percent owned
by the government after the 2009 bailout, is also eliminating
staff and winding down shipping and real estate units to help it
return to profit.  “The shares are staying under pressure ahead of the
capital increase,”  Philipp Haessler , analyst at Equinet
Institutional Services in Frankfurt, who recommends investors
sell the stock, said by telephone. “The new shares will
probably be priced at 6 euros to 7 euros.”  The capital-raising plan, approved by shareholders on April
19, will be a “mixed cash capital increase/capital increase
through contribution rights,” Commerzbank said yesterday
without providing further details.  The bank reported a loss of 716 million euros in the fourth
quarter and hasn’t paid shareholders a dividend since the
financial crisis erupted in 2008. It will post another loss in
the first quarter because of staff-reduction costs, Blessing
said last week.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Commerzbank’s rating to Baa1
yesterday citing weaknesses in core banking activities and
“intrinsic” weak earnings power. Standard & Poor’s placed
Commerzbank’s credit rating of A on review in February, saying
it had concerns about its business model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  