-- Congo’s Copper Producers Warn Against Sea Change in Mining Laws
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-04-24T17:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/congo-s-copper-producers-warn-against-sea-change-in-mining-laws.html
Mining companies in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo,  Africa ’s biggest copper producer after
Zambia, urged the government to reconsider proposed changes to
the mining code and end a ban on exporting mineral concentrates.  An April 5 government order gave companies 90 days to halt
exports of concentrated copper and cobalt as the nation seeks to
promote domestic processing. Miners have said the country lacks
sufficient electricity to process all its own ore.  “We all want to make money and the more we add value to
our products, the more money we make, but there are realities
like energy,” said Simon Tuma-Waku, vice president of the
Chamber of Mines at Congo’s main business federation. “We’ll
talk about the timing with operators but the government has to
guarantee energy.”  Congo was the world’s eighth-largest producer of copper and
the biggest producer of cobalt last year, according to the  U.S.
Geological Survey . It also holds gold, diamonds and tin. Besides
power shortages, a lack of infrastructure and legal insecurity
hamper investment and will undermine the government’s plans to
change its mining code, which include raising taxes and boosting
its share of new mining ventures, executives said today.  The amendments “call into question the basis on which
mining operators and investors decided to come to Congo,”
Marcel Malengo, managing director of African Minerals (Barbados)
Ltd., the  Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP)  unit that runs the Kamoa copper
project, said at a conference in Kinshasa. The government could
boost its revenues if it adhered to the code in place, he said.  Loan Canceled  Last year the  International Monetary Fund  canceled its loan
program with Congo after the government failed to fully explain
a 2011 mining deal between state-owned Gecamines and a company
owned by Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler. The Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative last week suspended Congo for
a year, citing inadequate disclosure of oil and mining revenues.  The country’s EITI office said $88 million in taxes and
payments made by miners in 2010 never reached the national
treasury.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ,  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN)  and Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. were among Congo copper
producers to suffer a slump in share-trading last week after
Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  announced the export ban. Shares
were also hurt by sliding copper prices as Chinese demand growth
slows.  Talks Timetable  In the coming days, mining companies expect the minister to
offer a timetable for talks on revising the mining code, Tuma-
Waku said.  A draft of the proposals shows the government is seeking to
raise taxes and royalties from miners, cut exemptions and
institute a windfall profit tax. The state may also increase its
share of new mining ventures to 35 percent from 5 percent, which
may make many projects unprofitable, said Louis Watum, general
manager of  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ’s Kibali Gold project.  The Mines Ministry has said the revision process will
include public and industry consultations. The changes must be
passed by parliament, which isn’t scheduled to debate them in
the current session ending in June, according to its agenda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  