-- Constancio Says ECB Stands Ready to Act on Bad Economic Data
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-24T15:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/constancio-says-ecb-stands-ready-to-act-on-bad-economic-data.html
European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said policy makers are ready to
provide more stimulus if data keep suggesting that the euro-area
economy is struggling to emerge from recession.  “We stand ready to act if economic conditions continue to
provide bad news, as unfortunately has been the case in recent
data that became available,” Constancio told lawmakers in
Brussels today. “We have done a lot” and “we certainly still
have some margin for maneuver to take some action.”  Economists from UBS AG to  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
predict policy makers will lower  borrowing costs  next week after
gauges of manufacturing and services activity for April
underscored weakness in output. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
on April 19 he hasn’t seen any improvement in economic data in
the region as a whole, after hinting at the beginning of the
month he might cut  interest rates  if the recovery faltered.  “Monetary policy is accomodative and as we have said, it
will continue to be accomodative to respond to the present
conditions in which inflation is going down in a significant
way,” Constancio told reporters after the hearing.  Inflation rates have “declined rapidly” to 1.7 percent in
March, Constancio said in his testimony. The ECB aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent.  The ECB, which has kept interest rates at a record low of
0.75 percent since July, last month predicted the euro-area
economy will contract 0.5 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014.  Knot, Asmussen  ECB Governing Council member Klaas Knot said on April 21
since the forecasts were published “data coming in have shown
that the risks are on the downside.” The central bank still has
“conventional and unconventional”  monetary policy  measures at
its disposal, he added.  “The effectiveness of rate cuts is limited but it’s still
possible to do this if data justified it,” Executive Board
member Joerg Asmussen said in  Washington  last week.  German business confidence fell for a second month in April
after winter weather hindered the recovery in  Europe ’s largest
economy. The Bundesbank this week cast doubts on a recovery in
the first quarter, citing sluggish industrial output.  Euro-area banks continued to tighten credit standards in
the first quarter, albeit at a slower pace, as demand for loans
declined, the ECB said in a report today. Borrowers’ risk and
macroeconomic uncertainty remain the “main concerns” in
setting lending policies, it said.  Liquidity Provision  Constancio said the ECB is considering options to stimulate
lending as banks don’t use widened collateral rules to the
extent officials had anticipated.  “The ECB can provide liquidity, but it can’t force banks
to lend,” he said.  Policy makers are working on a plan to improve funding
conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the region.
SMEs account for about half of all employment in Italy and
 Spain , compared with about a third in France and  Germany , and
those companies have seen their borrowing costs rise relative to
rivals in Germany since the beginning of the sovereign debt
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  