-- Corning Gains on Forecasts for Telecom, Gorilla Glass Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-24T20:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/corning-gains-on-forecasts-for-networking-gorilla-glass-growth.html
Corning Inc. (GLW) , the maker of glass
for flat-panel televisions, phones and tablets, rose the most in
almost five months after forecasting growth for its
telecommunications and Gorilla Glass products.  Corning climbed 5.5 percent to $13.85 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day increase since Nov. 27. The shares
have risen 9.7 percent this year, trailing the 11 percent rise
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Corning is benefiting from surging global sales of
smartphones and tablets. The Corning, New York-based company
expects its Gorilla Glass, supplied to electronics makers from
Samsung Electronics Co. to Sony Corp., to double as a business
over the next few years, Chief Financial Officer Jim Flaws told
investors in February.  “Corning’s global glass substrate share has been
recovering since the decline” early last year, said Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, in a
note to investors. “We think the worst is behind the company.”  Revenue in Corning’s specialty materials division will
climb 15 percent to 20 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three-month period on rising demand for Gorilla Glass,
the company said today. Sales of optical fiber and other
products for communications networks will climb 20 percent in
that span, Corning said today in a statement.  First-quarter net income rose to $494 million, or 33 cents
a share, from $474 million, or 31 cents, in the year-earlier
period. Analysts predicted 23 cents, according to the average
of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue shrank 5.5
percent to $1.81 billion, compared with the $1.96 billion
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  