-- CP All Slumps Most in 4 Years on $6.6 Billion Siam Makro Bid
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-24T04:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/cp-all-slumps-most-in-4-years-after-offering-to-buy-siam-makro.html
Billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s
 CP All Pcl (CPALL)  plunged the most in more than four years after
offering to pay $6.6 billion for  Siam Makro Pcl (MAKRO)  on investor
concern the price was too high.  Thailand’s 7-Eleven operator  fell  as much as 11 percent to
38.5 baht, poised for the biggest decline since October 2008.
Siam Makro rose as much as 13 percent to a record.  Dhanin’s offer is the largest Thai deal on record as the
head of the country’s biggest agricultural group bids to
reassemble a retail empire after selling off control of the
cash-and-carry  chain  he co-founded. He is offering about 53
times Siam Makro’s earnings last year, more than double the
average for 20 retailer takeovers in emerging Asia announced
over the last five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “CP All is paying a very expensive price,” said
Thananchai Jittanoon, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Securities
( Thailand ) Pcl. “The two companies have different markets and
business models. I find no synergy for CP at all.”  CP All, controlled by Dhanin’s Charoen Pokphand Group,
offered 787 baht a share for Siam Makro, the Bangkok-based
retailer said yesterday. The bid is 15 percent more than Siam
Makro’s price on April 22 before the shares were suspended.  Buying Spree  Dhanin is buying companies at home and abroad, accounting
for more than half of the record $31 billion in total deals
announced this year in Thailand, including CP Group’s purchase
of a $9.4 billion stake in  China ’s Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  is advising CP All on the Siam
Makro acquisition, and HSBC Holdings Plc is advising SHV
Holdings NV, the wholesaler’s biggest shareholder.  The CP All chairman, who lists cockfighting as a hobby, has
a net worth of $6.8 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Many of his assets are owned through closely
held holding companies that he shares with his three brothers.
Dhanin’s net worth calculation excludes the stakes held by his
brothers, Jaran Chiaravanont, Montri Jiaravanont and Sumet
Jiaravanon.  CP All had cash and cash equivalents of 6.1 billion baht
($212 million) as of Dec. 31, according to yesterday’s
statement. The company got a $6 billion bridge loan from five
banks to fund the purchase, two people familiar with the matter
said yesterday.  The retailer will refinance that within a year through
syndicated finance, bonds and possibly equity, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the information is
private.  Possible Dilution  “Uncertainty on the degree of earnings dilution from a
cash call to finance the acquisition,” undermines investor
appetite for CP All, Alan Richardson, a Hong Kong-based fund
manager who helps oversee about $110 billion for Samsung Asset
Management Co., said yesterday. His Samsung ASEAN Securities
Master Investment Trust beat 98 percent of his rivals in the
past year.  Siam Makro operated 57 Makro stores and five Siam Frozen
stores at the end of 2012. It opened five new Makro stores last
year, helping to boost annual revenue by 15 percent to 112
billion baht, the company said on Feb. 27. The Bangkok-based
company’s profit rose 37 percent to 3.56 billion baht in 2012.  CP All and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  are adding outlets in Thailand after
the government raised minimum wages and introduced price
guarantees for farmers. Demand for personal loans jumped 22
percent in 2012, the biggest increase in seven years, as Thai
consumers took advantage of government incentives to buy new
cars and homes  Chain Growth  CP All said last year it may open 7-Eleven stores in
southern China and  Vietnam . Earlier this month, Dhanin said he’s
seeking more acquisitions in China.  “The CP leadership possibly sees strong growth prospects
in Asean to warrant paying up in the first few years to extract
benefits later on,” said Richardson at Samsung Asset, referring
to the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations. “Maybe
he’s trying to create a Wal-mart model, squeeze the suppliers
until they can’t breathe.”  Big C Supercenter Pcl (BIGC) , Thailand’s second-largest
hypermarket operator, jumped 4.3 percent to 242 baht, headed for
a record close, as of 10:47 a.m. in Bangkok. The shares rose 7.4
percent yesterday amid speculation investors seeking retailers
in the country would prefer it to CP All.  “Some investors still wanted to stay invested in the Thai
domestic consumption theme, but have soured on CP All after this
deal, which was viewed as bad for CP All’s shareholders,”
Athaporn Arayasantiparb, head of research at UOB Kay Hian
Securities (Thailand), said yesterday.  Biggest Deal  CP All’s Siam Makro offer tops the $5.5 billion purchase of
PTT Aromatics & Refining Pcl by PTT Chemical Pcl in 2011 to
become the largest on record in Thailand, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Dhanin and SHV founded Siam Makro in 1988, according to the
company’s website. CP All agreed to buy SHV’s 64 percent stake
for 787 baht a share and will make a tender offer to other
shareholders at the same price, it said.  Charoen Pokphand was once Siam Makro’s largest shareholder
with a stake of as much as 47 percent in 1997, the same year
that the devaluation of Thailand’s baht triggered a financial
crisis that pushed many Asian economies into recession.  After the crisis, Dhanin sold stakes in companies including
Siam Makro and Lotus Supercenter, which was bought by Tesco. In
May 2005, a Charoen Pokphand unit sold 7 percent of Siam Makro
back to the company that controlled the retailer for 60 baht per
share. The group still owns about 1 percent of Siam Makro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  