-- Credit Suisse Says Talks Advancing on Revamp of Bonus Derivative
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-04-24T11:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/credit-suisse-says-talks-advancing-on-revamp-of-bonus-derivative.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, said it’s in advanced discussions on the
restructuring of a derivatives transaction the firm used to
award more than 5,500 employees part of their 2011 bonuses.  The need to revamp the so-called Partner Asset Facility 2
arose because the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
last year in a  paper  on counterparty credit risks under the new
Basel III rules that a hedge of such exposure isn’t valid if a
bank is providing a liquidity facility or another kind of credit
enhancement to the provider of the hedge.  Credit Suisse said last year that it bought a credit
default swap from a third party to hedge the $11 billion senior
tranche of the derivatives against the potential for future
swings in counterparties’ credit spreads, while at the same time
agreeing to provide funding to this third party in “certain
circumstances.” The bank, which used the deal to help it reach
the target of risk-weighted assets reduction faster, can either
restructure it or terminate the transaction entirely.  “We’ve been in negotiations with a number of people over
the course of the last three months in terms of how we actually
restructure that senior funding,” Chief Financial Officer David Mathers said on a conference call with analysts today. “Those
discussions are progressing well, they’re extremely advanced and
I think we would probably expect to conclude that in the next
few months.”  Deferred Compensation  The Zurich-based company hadn’t disclosed the amount of
risk-weighted asset reductions it achieved through the PAF2
transaction, and Mathers today declined to say what the effect
on risk-weighted assets would be if the bank canceled it.  Credit Suisse kept the so-called first-loss piece of about
$500 million of the transaction, which covers about $12 billion
in notional exposure from derivative counterparty risks. It
awarded about $800 million in structured notes linked to the
derivatives to the employees as part of their deferred
compensation.  PAF2 was hatched as a sequel to the original Partner Asset
Facility, an investment fund set up for staff in 2008 during the
depths of the U.S. financial crisis, where employees got shares
in a $5.05 billion pool of junk-grade loans and bonds backed by
 commercial mortgages .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 