-- Credit Suisse Profit Jumps With Investment Bank Improving
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-04-24T08:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/credit-suisse-profit-jumps-after-year-ago-charges.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
biggest Swiss bank, posted a jump in first-quarter profit on
lower costs and improved earnings at the investment bank.  Net income was 1.3 billion Swiss francs ($1.37 billion), up
from 44 million francs a year before, when profit was hurt by
charges related to its own debt and bonus payments, the Zurich-
based bank said today. Earnings topped the 1.27 billion-franc
mean estimate of 12 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said the first-quarter
performance shows that Credit Suisse’s strategy of cutting costs
across businesses while sticking to a full-fledged investment
bank as  UBS AG (UBSN)  scales back “is working.” The securities unit
boosted its pretax return on Basel III capital to 23 percent in
the quarter from 13 percent a year earlier.  “The result shows that the investment-banking model that
they built over the past two years seems to work,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets with
a “strong buy” recommendation on the stock. “The big concern
was that with Basel III Swiss investment banks won’t be able to
make appropriate returns anymore. Credit Suisse has shown that
it’s actually possible if you reorganize the business
intelligently and have some strengths to rely on.”  Credit Suisse rose 0.7 percent to 26.63 francs by 10:25
a.m. in Swiss trading, after gaining as much as 1.7 percent. The
shares are up 25 percent in the past six months, compared with a
10 percent increase in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index , which tracks 40 companies.  European Crisis  The situation in  Europe , where the sovereign debt crisis is
keeping markets volatile, is improving “gradually but
relatively consistently,” Dougan said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  “I think we certainly still have 12 to 18 months more to
work through in terms of a number of issues in Europe,” he
said. “But I do believe that over that time period we’ll start
to see some real fundamental improvement in Europe, which I
think will be a very positive signal for markets all around the
world.”  Market conditions in April have been “pretty good” after
the seasonally strong first quarter, Dougan said. “Market
conditions are, I’d say, roughly equivalent to what we saw in
the first quarter if you take out the very strong start to the
year in January.”  Divisional Earnings  The bank said it has achieved 2.5 billion francs of cost
savings and is on course to meet a goal of 4.4 billion francs in
cuts by the end of 2015. Credit Suisse combined its money-
managing units into one division last year to boost efficiency
and improve cooperation.  “Operating leverage is coming through in the investment
bank with the announced cost cuts,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan, who have an
“overweight” rating on Credit Suisse, said in a note. “But we
think there is more work to be done in  wealth management .”  Pretax profit at the investment bank rose to 1.3 billion
francs in the quarter from 907 million francs a year earlier as
revenues remained almost unchanged and costs fell. The private
banking and wealth management division, which encompasses all
other units, saw earnings fall to 881 million from 951 million
francs as profit in asset management dropped 54 percent from the
year-earlier period, when it was boosted by a gain from a stake
sale.  The firm attracted net new money of 12 billion francs in
the quarter, including 5.5 billion francs from wealth management
clients, as outflows in Western Europe were more than offset by
inflows from  emerging markets  and so-called ultra high net worth
individuals.  Profit Contribution  “The business in private banking and wealth management
continues to have some headwinds with  interest rates , with
clients being a little bit more conservative,” Dougan said.
“But we’ve taken so much market share over the past couple of
years that we think we’re very well positioned. We think there
is a lot of upside in that business.”  Credit Suisse agreed last month to buy Morgan Stanley’s
wealth-management operations in the U.K.,  Italy  and Dubai with
about $13 billion of assets to expand in Europe and the  Middle
East .  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest buyout firm,
agreed this week to acquire Credit Suisse’s Strategic Partners
unit, which buys stakes in other private-equity funds, as the
Swiss bank exits more illiquid businesses after regulations such
as the Volcker Rule sought to limit risk-taking by financial
companies.  Investment Bank  Dougan, 53, has said that he expects the  profit
contribution  from the investment bank to rebound to about half
of the group’s pretax earnings as competitors reorganize their
businesses and markets improve. The unit contributed about 33
percent to the group’s pretax earnings in 2012.  Revenue from fixed-income sales and trading rose 3.1
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to 1.99 billion
francs, while equity sales and trading revenue fell 4.8 percent
to 1.3 billion francs, the bank said. Revenue from underwriting
and advisory rose 3.4 percent to 763 million francs, as
increases in debt and equity underwriting were partially offset
by lower fees from mergers and acquisitions.  Credit Suisse is trading at a lower price relative to
earnings and book value than UBS as some investors prefer the
latter’s increased focus on wealth management and question
Dougan’s decision to maintain a full-service investment bank.  UBS, which reports first-quarter earnings next week, may
post net income of 406.7 million francs as it books an
accounting charge related to the tightening of its credit
spreads, according to the  mean estimate  of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  U.S. Probe  Credit Suisse, along with other Swiss banks aside from UBS,
has been a target of a U.S. investigation into alleged  tax
evasion  by some American clients for almost two years. The bank
reiterated that it’s cooperating with U.S. authorities and said
it couldn’t provide information on the timing of a resolution.  “Our hope and our expectation is that we will be able to
reach a resolution,” Dougan said. “But it’s very hard to
determine exactly when it’ll be or exactly what the structure of
that resolution will be.”  The banks under investigation may have to negotiate a
settlement under a deferred prosecution agreement, which would
include a fine, admission of guilt and delivery of client data,
newspaper Schweiz am Sonntag reported last month, without saying
where it got the information.  Credit Suisse said it accrued funds for a resumed cash
dividend in the quarter, after making part of the payouts in
stock for the previous two years. The bank, which is holding its
annual shareholder meeting on April 26, proposed a payout of 10
centimes in cash and 65 centimes in shares for 2012, after
letting shareholders choose the previous year whether they
wanted 75 centimes a share in cash or in stock to help the
company increase its  capital ratios .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  