-- Criteo Said to Name JPMorgan for U.S. IPO of French Web Firm
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-25T11:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/criteo-said-to-name-jpmorgan-for-u-s-ipo-of-french-web-ad-firm.html
Criteo SA, a French web advertising
company, has picked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to help it go public in
the U.S. this year, said people with knowledge of the plans.  The startup, founded in Paris in 2005, may seek a valuation
of as much as $2 billion, said one person, who asked not to be
identified because the details aren’t public. Criteo has spoken
to multiple banks about the transaction and may name more
managers in the coming weeks, according to another person.  Representatives for JPMorgan in London and Criteo in Paris
declined to comment on the sale.  Criteo, which  raised  30 million euros ($39 million) in
September and is backed by Index Ventures among other investors,
operates in more than 30 countries and partners with about 3,000
advertisers, according to its  website . With EBay Inc. and
Expedia Inc. among its clients, Criteo has been profitable since
2009 and gets most of its revenue from the U.S. market.  Sales are growing “very fast” in the U.S., Asia and Latin
America, Gregory Gazagne, who heads Criteo’s European business,
said in a press conference last week. “ Europe  is also growing.
We had expected to see a slowdown, but we haven’t.”  Tailored Ads  The Internet advertising world is dominated by the likes of
Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., which have built their strategies
around search queries or displays such as banners.  Google’s share of the $19.8 billion search-advertising
market in the U.S. will increase to 74 percent this year,
according to a  forecast  by EMarketer Inc. The display-ad market
will represent $17.7 billion in sales in the U.S. this year,
also according to  EMarketer .  Criteo’s 320 researchers, most of which work out of a lab
in Paris, developed technology for so-called “re-targeted”
display advertising, designed to spot hesitant shoppers online
and flash them tailored ad banners to tempt them back into a
purchase.  Internet and technology companies raised $19 billion in
IPOs in North America last year, including Facebook’s $16
billion share sale in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Share prices of the companies that listed last year
declined by an average of about 15 percent, the data show.  Companies in the U.S. raised $11.3 billion in IPOs this
year, 29 percent more than they sold in the same period in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. is ranked first in managing the sales in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in  London  at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  