-- Czech Central Banker Says Economy Not Facing Deflation
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-24T09:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/czech-central-banker-says-economy-not-facing-deflation.html
The Czech economy doesn’t face
deflation risks that would warrant further easing of monetary
conditions by foreign-exchange interventions to weaken the
koruna, central bank board member Pavel Rezabek said.  Rezabek spoke about Czech economic developments and
monetary policy in an interview in  Prague  yesterday.  On the EU’s economy:  “Economic links with the European Union are a dominant
feature of the Czech economy. Czech economic growth is roughly
similar to that of the European Union’s.  ‘‘One of the negative factors for the European economy is
over-leveraging, and the expected de-leveraging doesn’t signal
any robust growth in the near future.  ‘‘Furthermore, the balance sheets of some European banks
still contain assets that aren’t exactly good quality, so this
is an issue that still needs to be solved.  ‘‘Without a return of full confidence to the financial
sector, confidence in public finances and a subsequent decline
in unemployment, we will experience a relatively long period of
time when growth isn’t robust in  Europe . We have moved closer to
growth, but it’s unlikely to be robust because of the need to
finish consolidation in the fiscal and financial sectors.  ‘‘The Czech Republic itself also isn’t registering any
significant impulses that would indicate a changing trend. There
are some positive signs, but these aren’t strong enough to be
the basis for any major conclusions at this point.  ‘‘Household demand is affected by negative sentiment, and
we are still waiting for some impulse that could improve this
sentiment. We have seen slight improvement both for households
and businesses in recent past, but the data are still relatively
weak.  ‘‘While the foreign-trade balance is showing a solid
surplus, this is partly a result of imports declining more than
exports, which only underscores the fact that we still don’t see
any strong impulses for an economic turnaround.’’  On koruna risk:  ‘‘I see a little bit of risk for the Czech koruna’s
exchange rate because we are still expecting a period of
dividend outflows, which are bigger than foreign-currency
inflows into the  Czech Republic . It’s a significant number,
totaling roughly about 150 to 200 billion koruna a year, and
this is offset only by foreign-trade surpluses and investment
inflows.’’  On the economic forecast:  ‘‘I personally don’t expect any major changes in the GDP
forecast in the near future. The signals from the real economy
are still weak to indicate a significantly better outlook. On
the other hand, I’m cautiously optimistic about the outlook for
manufacturing industries, especially for the second half of the
year, so that’s why there shouldn’t be a large revision toward a
deeper contraction.”  On monetary settings:  “The debate about whether to proceed with more easing of
monetary conditions has been going on for some time, and the
horizon is gradually moving forward. I personally consider this
to be a positive result as the financial markets are now showing
better understanding of the Czech economy, taking into account
not only the fiscal consolidation but also the declining real
economy.  ‘‘As a result, the  exchange rate  has moved to more
realistic levels and shifted away from the appreciation trend.
The exchange rate is now reflecting the fundamentals of the
Czech economy and the fiscal situation more realistically.  ‘‘From the current perspective, the difference between the
market interest rates and the potential need for a further
decline, as signaled in our prognosis, is relatively small.  ‘‘So for me, this isn’t a signal for potential
interventions yet. I’m personally quite careful about
interventions as it’s a complex issue and we always need to
assess all aspects of it.  ‘‘Interventions have a significant impact on the economy
and I’m always asking how big an effect they will have, how long
this effect will last and what is the potential exit. Every
intervention has its costs and benefits, and it causes market
distortions.  ‘‘Potential interventions would be conducted primarily to
solve a deflation problem. We are not in a situation to
realistically expect deflation in the near future. The risk of
deflation has significantly declined, and we can say it may have
even been fully eliminated, unless a major shock occurs.  ‘‘An extraordinary step should only be taken in an
extraordinary situation, and in my view, interventions would
have to be a reaction to deflation, to a risk that on the policy
horizon, we wouldn’t see any other way to return to the
inflation target. We should be careful about using this
instrument as long as inflation on the policy horizon isn’t at
risk.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  