-- Daimler Lowers Profit Forecast After First-Quarter Drop
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-24T07:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/daimler-lowers-profit-forecast-after-first-quarter-drop.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , cut its 2013 profit forecast
after first-quarter earnings tumbled more than analysts
expected, burdened by weaker Mercedes-Benz sales in China.  Earnings before interest and taxes and excluding one-time
items will fall this year rather than match 2012’s 8.1 billion
euros ($10.6 billion) as previously predicted, the Stuttgart,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. Daimler’s
first-quarter Ebit plunged 56 percent.  “In the first three months of this year, many markets
developed worse than expected for economic reasons, especially
Western  Europe ,” Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said in
the statement.  Mercedes has been falling further behind competitors since
losing the top spot in global luxury-car sales to Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG in 2005 and second place to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi brand in 2011. In addition to combating slumping demand in
Europe, Mercedes sales declined 11 percent in China as it
restructures its business in the country.  Ebit in the first quarter fell to 917 million euros from
2.1 billion euros, said Daimler, which is also the world’s
biggest truckmaker. Profit missed the 1.06 billion-euro average
of 11 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 3
percent 26.1 billion euros.  More Transition  “The results are a little disappointing,” said Christian Ludwig, a Dusseldorf-based analyst with Bankhaus Lampe. After
delaying long-term profit targets in 2012, “this year will
probably be another transition year. Its guidance remains quite
vague.”  Daimler  rose  as much as 1.5 percent to 41.50 euros and was
up 1 percent at 9:24 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has
gained 9.1 percent over the past six months, valuing the company
at 44.1 billion euros.  Profit at the Mercedes cars division tumbled 63 percent to
460 million euros as revenue slipped 6 percent to 14.1 billion
euros. The unit’s return on sales declined to 3.3 percent from
8.2 percent a year ago. Daimler predicted the unit’s earnings
will fall for the full year.  Truck Ebit dropped 69 percent to 116 million euros as sales
fell 5 percent to 7.02 billion euros. Daimler forecast 2013
truck profit to match last year’s level.  Truck Optimism  “It’s surprising that Daimler still expects flat Ebit in
the trucks unit after this weak start of the year,” Ludwig
said. “Daimler still shows some optimism that might not be
justified.”  European new car registrations are at a two-decade low as a
recession stemming from the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
discourages consumers from making larger purchases. Industrywide
first-quarter deliveries in the region dropped 9.7 percent to
3.1 million cars as demand in  Germany , its biggest economy,
plunged 13 percent. European sales by Mercedes in March rose 0.8
percent, compared with drops of 4.5 percent at BMW and 15
percent at Audi.  The company still expects earnings to improve in the second
half of the year, lifted by new models including Mercedes CLA
compact four-door coupe, an updated version of the upscale E-
Class and a new generation of the S-Class flagship.  New Models  Worldwide first-quarter sales by Mercedes rose 3.5 percent
to 324,898 cars and sport-utility vehicles, based on demand for
the A- and B-Class compacts and the M-Class SUV line-up. That
compares to a 6.8 percent jump to 369,500 cars and SUVs for
Audi. BMW’s deliveries jumped 7 percent to 381,404 autos.  Zetsche’s pledge to regain the No. 1 spot in luxury-car
sales by the end of the decade involves rolling out 13 new
Mercedes models with no predecessor in the next eight years,
including two variants of the S-Class on top of three versions
already on offer.  “Daimler is now in the middle of the most comprehensive
growth offensive in its history,” Zetsche said. “To this end,
we are investing large amounts in products, technologies and
markets.”  Spending on factories and equipment totaled 1.6 billion
euros in the first quarter, leading to negative free cash flow
of 1.2 billion euros in the period.  The catch-up strategy hinges on Daimler’s ability to fix
its business in  China , where expansion last year was hindered by
sales organizations splitting responsibility for imported and
locally produced cars. Daimler has formed one distribution
entity, and the carmaker sent former Mercedes heavy-truck unit
manager Hubertus Troska to China in December to oversee the
company’s business there.  Daimler today also said that it extended the contract of
Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt by three years to the end of
February 2017. The 62-year-old former judge at Germany’s
constitutional court oversees legal affairs and compliance
issues at the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  