-- Dealers’ Borrowing From Fed Increases Amid QE: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/dealers-borrowing-from-fed-increases-amid-qe-chart-of-the-day.html
Borrowing of Treasuries by Wall
Street’s biggest bond dealers from the  Federal Reserve ’s daily
lending facility is 40 percent higher than last year as the
central bank’s bond buying squeezes the available supply.  The CHART OF THE DAY’s top panel shows the amount of
Treasury notes and bonds the Fed’s 21 primary dealers borrowed
daily from its securities-lending program, where the Fed loans
debt held in its System Open Market Account, known as SOMA. The
bottom panel shows the overnight general-collateral finance rate
for Treasury repurchase agreements, according to an index
provided by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation.  “Fed Treasury purchases, increased foreign custody
holdings and demand from real-money accounts in the six-to-11
year maturity area has caused dealer positions in this sector to
be more negative -- triggering a rise in their daily borrowing
from the Fed to meet collateral needs,” Subadra Rajappa, a
fixed-income strategist at New York-based Morgan Stanley, said
in a phone interview. “Repo rates are likely to move even lower
this year as Treasury supply goes down meaningfully as the Fed’s
QE purchases go on for the foreseeable future.”  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt
a month in its latest quantitative-easing program to spur
economic growth.  Treasuries held in custody by the Fed for foreign central
banks have increased 2.5 percent this year to $2.959 trillion,
from $2.888 trillion at the end of last year. They reached a
record $2.967 trillion on March 20.  When securities are hard to obtain, dealers can go to the
Fed Bank of  New York . It offers securities held in its SOMA for
loan on an overnight basis to dealers against Treasury general
collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  