-- FAA Furloughs Slow Some Flights for Fourth Straight Day
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-24T21:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/delays-in-fourth-day-as-furloughs-slow-los-angeles-planes.html
Some passengers encountered tardy
flights in  Los Angeles  and Chicago because of a shortage of air-
traffic controllers, as  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) ’s chief executive
officer said the delays may sap  travel demand .  “That certainly will happen at some point,” CEO Doug Parker said today in an interview. “If we see people not
traveling, the industry will need to respond by reducing
capacity. That would be a crying shame because there is no need
for it. Capacity would be reduced by a lack of controllers, not
a lack of demand.”  Detroit’s airport, a  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  hub, had half-
hour delays due to staff shortages as of 3:30 p.m. local time,
the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s travel  website  showed.
Chicago O’Hare and Los Angeles International had furlough-
related delays earlier in the day, the site showed.  Those disruptions on the fourth day of congestion tied to
FAA layoffs under automatic U.S. spending cuts weren’t as broad
as those this week in New York, the nation’s busiest travel
market. New York-area airports had two-hour delays as winds and
peak Monday morning travel compounded the controller shortages.  US Airways  hasn’t yet seen passengers canceling travel
plans due to delays, according to Parker, who is poised to
become the CEO of the world’s largest carrier, as he completes a
merger with AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines. (AAMRQ)   “I hope we don’t get to that point,” he said in the
interview in Scottsdale, Arizona, near US Airways’ headquarters
in the Phoenix suburb of Tempe.  Weather Delays  Weather was chiefly to blame for tardy flights today at New
York airports, the FAA website showed, with some arrivals at
John F. Kennedy International averaging two hours late and
LaGuardia running an hour behind as of 4:30 p.m local time.  More than 1,025 flights were delayed yesterday because of
the staffing reductions, the FAA said. Executives at Delta and
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  have also criticized the furloughs,
saying the disruptions are unsustainable.  Controller layoffs under the government’s automatic
spending cuts “will have no effect on safety,” FAA
Administrator Michael Huerta said today at a congressional
hearing in Washington. “What will suffer is efficiency.”  The FAA said last week that delays may reach more than two
hours with fewer controllers on duty because of cutbacks known
as sequestration. An average of about 10 percent of controllers
will be on furlough on any given day, the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association estimated.  Huerta’s testimony to the U.S. House Appropriations
subcommittee that oversees the FAA budget came on the fourth day
of flight delays after the furloughs began. The layoffs were a
response to automatic budget cuts that were the penalty agreed
to by President  Barack Obama  and Congress after failed debt-
reduction talks in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Scottsdale, Arizona, at   maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  