-- Diesel to Climb as Record Planting Eats at Inventories
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-04-24T17:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/diesel-to-climb-as-record-planting-eats-at-inventories.html
Diesel prices are surging in the
U.S. Midwest as farmers prepare to plant a record amount of
crops this season, eating into below-average fuel supplies.  Farmers may sow 174.4 million acres of  corn and soybeans 
this year, boosting output by 30 percent, the Agriculture
Department forecast. Midwest prices are at the highest seasonal
premium to the  Gulf Coast  since 2007. The Energy Information
Administration estimated agricultural distillate fuel use will
rise 5.1 percent in 2013 to the most since 2010.  Demand for fuel to run tractors and combines is growing as
the U.S. attempts to recover from last year’s drought, the worst
since the 1930s. At the same time, refinery maintenance may
limit local production, pushing prices higher to entice
suppliers to ship diesel north by pipeline from the Gulf Coast
rather than send it abroad.  “Farmers are going to be planting fence to fence this
year,” Steve Mosby, vice president of supply consultant ADMO
Energy LLC, said in a phone interview from  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . “We’re looking at huge demand in a year that supply
is really off. Prices are going to explode.”  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel  in the Midwest, or the Group 3 spot
market, was 4.63 cents a gallon above futures on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, compared with a 2.75-cent
discount in the Gulf Coast, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
Group 3 includes states north of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , to Minnesota
and North Dakota along  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s pipeline
system. ULSD futures increased 1 percent to $2.8403 a gallon at
1:08 p.m. in  New York .  Record Acres  Fuel demand may surge as early as May, when many Midwest
farmers begin to sow fields for the September and October
harvest season. Growers intend to plant 97.3 million acres of
corn, the most since 1936, and 77.1 million acres of soybeans,
the Agriculture Department  reported  March 28.  The agricultural sector will probably use about 141,572
barrels of distillate fuel a day, compared with 134,752 barrels
in 2012, EIA data show. U.S. farms and ranches typically use
this fuel to power tractors, combines and other equipment.  Farms’ cash expenses may rise to $316.6 billion, with fuel
accounting for 5 percent of spending, or $15.7 billion. Costs
have averaged $14.4 billion a year since 2009, the data show.  “We should see an increase in planted acreage this year
and that’s the biggest factor in fuel spending,” Chris McGath,
an agricultural economist of the economic research service at
the Agriculture Department, said by phone from  Washington .
“There will be a lot of consumption.”  Illinois ,  Iowa ,  Nebraska  and  Minnesota  may consume the most
fuel as the states are expected by the government to plant the
largest number of corn and soybean acres this season.  Wide Differential  “Once planting begins in the Midwest, we expect those
prices are definitely going to rise and the differential to the
Gulf Coast will stay wide,” Ed Malloy, president of Danaher Oil
Co., said in a phone interview from Fairfield, Iowa.  Planting was slowed as heavy rain last week spurred
flooding along rivers. Storms on April 17 and April 18 in the
northern Midwest dropped 5.4 inches (14 centimeters) of rain on
Chicago and as much as 6 inches on part of Eastern Iowa,
according to AccuWeather.com.  Corn planting in the largest U.S. producing states was 2
percent complete as of April 14, compared with last year’s pace
of 16 percent, Agriculture Department data showed. No corn was
seeded in Iowa, the biggest producing state.  Refinery Turnarounds  Inventories of distillate fuel in Petroleum Administration
Defense District 2, which covers an area from Oklahoma north
through  North Dakota  and east through Ohio, were 28.8 million
barrels as of April 19, 8.3 percent less than a year earlier,
EIA data show. PADD 2 refiners processed 3.14 million barrels a
day of crude, the fewest in two years.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Wood River, Illinois, and  BP Plc (BP) ’s Whiting,
Indiana, plants, the two largest in PADD 2, have had units shut
for maintenance.  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC) ’s Tulsa, Oklahoma, refinery
plans work this quarter, joining Calumet Specialty Products
Partners LP’s Superior, Wisconsin, plant and Exxon Mobil Corp.’s
Joliet, Illinois, site that have begun turnarounds.  “There has been a lot of turnaround going on in the PADD 2
region and it’s still unclear as to when we’ll see Whiting
producing at full rates again,”  Chris Barber , a senior analyst
at Energy Security Analysis, Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts ,
said by phone. “That’s definitely going to make a difference
and continue to take supply offline.”  Chicago Premium  The spread between diesel in Chicago and the Gulf Coast was
about 16.75 cents a gallon, the highest level for this time of
year since at least 2006. Chicago ULSD has averaged 0.84 cent a
gallon over the Gulf Coast around this time of year since 2008,
compared with 1.21 cents a gallon for Group 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  It costs about 4 cents a gallon to ship diesel from the
Houston area to Tulsa and about 7 cents to ship it to Chicago on
the Explorer pipeline, based on tariff data on Explorer Pipeline
Co.’s website.  Chicago was 8.19 cents over Group 3, making it a more
attractive destination for supplies shipped north from the Gulf.  “The turnarounds in Chicago have driven the supply side of
the picture and pushed prices higher in the region,” Malloy
said. “There’s a big arbitrage between Chicago and the Group 3
in distillate.”  Refineries on the Gulf Coast sent 2.7 million barrels of
distillate to the Midwest by pipeline, tanker or barge in
January, according to  EIA data . In the same month, 19.8 million
barrels were exported from the Gulf.  Latin Competition  “The Midwest is really going to have to compete on price
if they want those barrels because Latin America needs that fuel
and the Gulf generally exports most diesel,” Barber said.  Latin America is likely to use 7.01 million barrels a day
of fuel in the second quarter, 4 percent more than a year
earlier, the EIA estimated April 9.  “We should have enough distillates on the Gulf Coast to
satisfy foreign demand and Midwest demand,” said  John Auers ,
senior vice president of Tuner Mason & Co., a petroleum and
refining consulting firm in  Dallas . “If we’re short diesel and
there’s demand, the reaction will be an increase in diesel
prices and the barrels will come up from the Gulf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  