-- Disney Wins Approval to Open ‘Iron Man 3’ in China on May 3
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-24T21:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/disney-says-iron-man-3-will-open-in-china-on-may-3.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  won approval to
release “Iron Man 3” in China on May 3, offering a separate
version aimed at enhancing the film’s appeal in the world’s
second-largest movie market.  The release date for the picture, produced by Disney’s
Marvel unit and Beijing-based DMG Entertainment, was announced
yesterday in an e-mail. “Iron Man 3,” one of the company’s big
summer films, opens the same the day in the U.S.  The retooled version of “Iron Man 3” will highlight
Chinese actors and include additional China footage, according
to the company. Burbank, California-based Disney, along with
other studios, is trying to meet local tastes and satisfy a
censorship board. A simultaneous release in both countries
reduces the risk of piracy cutting into sales in  China .  “There are very few foreign films that get that
opportunity,” said Robert Cain, a film producer and consultant
for studios working in China. “It doesn’t allow any time for
piracy to eat into ‘Iron Man 3’ grosses.”  The U.S. opening of “Iron Man 3” has been clouded by a
dispute between Disney and large U.S. and Canadian cinema
operators over how ticket revenue will be shared. Regal
Entertainment Group, AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., Cinemark
Holdings Inc. and Toronto-based Cineplex Inc. aren’t offering
advance sales during negotiations.  “Iron Man 3” is forecast to take in $151 million in its
opening weekend in the U.S., the estimate of researcher
Boxoffice.com. The parties will almost certainly come to terms
before the opening, said Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli
& Co. in Rye,  New York .  Original Plan  “It’s hard to see a situation in which this does not get
resolved,” Harriss said in an interview. “They’re probably
sacrificing some pre-sales now, but anyone who would book their
ticket two weeks out is still going to see that movie.”  Disney’s original plan to make the movie a U.S.-China co-
production, thereby getting around foreign import quotas, was
dropped in favor of two versions, one for China and another for
other countries, the company said on March 29.  Ticket sales in China increased 26 percent in 2012 to $2.7
billion, according to an industry trade group.  Chinese actor Wang Xueqi will appear in both versions,
along with star Robert Downey Jr., and both versions will
include scenes filmed in Beijing in December. The Chinese
version will also feature actress Fan Bingbing and include bonus
footage for the Chinese fans, according to the statement.  The film opened April 24 in  Australia ,  Taiwan  and some
European countries, according to the Internet Movie Database.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company,  fell  1
percent to $61.94 at the close in New York. The stock has gained
24 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  