-- Dublin City Office Values Increase for First Time Since 2007
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-04-24T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/dublin-city-office-values-increase-for-first-time-since-2007.html
The value of income-producing
office buildings in central Dublin rose for the first time in
six years as businesses sought additional space for expansion.  Downtown office values rose 0.3 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, Investment Property
Databank Ltd. said in a statement today. The average value of
the properties in Dublin’s docklands district rose 2.2 percent,
the London-based research company said.  “Though restricted to prime areas of the market, these are
the first signs of headline-level growth in Ireland,” Managing
Director Phil Tily said in the statement. It “cannot be
anything but welcome news for a market that has suffered the
deepest property downturn on record.”  U.S. companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest
search engine  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and securities firm Susquehanna
International Group LLP have expanded in Dublin or plan to lease
additional space, causing a shortage of modern  office space  and
boosting rents. Income returns from Irish commercial real estate
are more than 10 percent a year, the highest among the countries
that IPD covers in its research.  Space Shortage  “Good tenant demand, combined with no new construction,
has resulted in a looming shortage of prime office space,”
Society of Chartered Surveyors President Roland O’Connell said
in the statement. “Demand from investors is not limited solely
to prime income-producing buildings, but also to older, well
located buildings which could be refurbished to modern
standards.”  Across Ireland, total return for income-producing
buildings, which combines changes in property values and rental
income, was 1.3 percent in the quarter. Capital values for
stores, offices and warehouses fell 1 percent.  The average rents for offices rose 0.2 percent and those
for warehouses increased 1.6 percent in the first quarter, the
first increase in five years, IPD said. Rents had fallen by an
average of more than 48 percent since December 2008, the firm
said. The value of office buildings was largely unchanged during
the first quarter of this year.  The value of stores and malls fell 2.3 percent in the first
quarter of the year as  consumer confidence  remained weak, IPD
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 