-- The End to Workplace Discrimination Against Gays
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-24T18:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/the-end-to-workplace-discrimination-against-gays.html
Many Americans would no doubt be
surprised to learn that in much of the nation their fellow
citizens can be fired from their jobs for being lesbian, gay,
bisexual or transgender. In fact, 29 states have no explicit
protections against employment discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation or identity -- and there is no federal law
extending that protection, either.  But there could be. In the Senate this week, Democrat  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon  is introducing the Employment Non-
Discrimination Act to prohibit intentional employment
discrimination against LGBT workers by employers, employment
agencies and labor unions. Similar legislation is being
introduced in the House.  The Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin. The act is mute on discrimination based on
sexual orientation or identity.  It’s clear that such discrimination takes place. According
to a 2011  report  by the Williams Institute at the  University of
California  at Los Angeles School of Law, “During the past four
decades a large body of research using a variety of
methodologies has consistently documented high levels of
discrimination against lesbians, gay men, bisexuals and
transgender people at work.” Anecdotal  evidence  is also readily
available.  In the last Congress, 43 senators co-sponsored legislation
to end LGBT employment discrimination. The law would hardly be a
burden. The overwhelming majority of Fortune 500 companies
already subscribe to its guidelines. So do many municipalities.
Private clubs, religious organizations and businesses with fewer
than 15 employees would be exempt.  The tidal change in public attitudes toward same-sex
marriage -- nine states and the  District of Columbia  have
legalized same-sex marriage, which is being deliberated by the
 Supreme Court  -- only underscores the obvious: This legislation
is long overdue.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 