-- ECB Says Banks Tightened Credit Standards Less in First Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-24T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ecb-says-banks-tightened-credit-standards-less-in-first-quarter.html
The  European Central Bank  said
euro-area banks tightened credit standards less in the first
quarter as demand for loans declined.  “The net tightening of credit standards by euro area banks
for loans to enterprises declined in the first quarter of
2013,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its quarterly Bank
Lending Survey today. “Borrowers’ risk and macroeconomic
uncertainty remain the main concerns of euro area banks in
setting their lending policies.”  Lending to households and companies in the euro area
contracted for a 10th month in February as the 17-nation region
struggles to emerge from recession.  Funding conditions, particularly for small and medium-sized
enterprises are “tight” and “will continue to weigh on
economic activity,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on April 4.  The Governing Council, which skirted a debate on how to
boost lending to SMEs during this month’s policy meeting, has
recently asked committees to develop proposals. Small firms
account for about half of all employment in Italy and  Spain ,
compared with about a third in  France  and Germany.  The decline in demand for housing and consumer loans
accelerated in the first quarter, the ECB said.  The ECB said banks’ access to retail and wholesale funding
improved in the first quarter. The impact of sovereign debt
tensions on some banks’ funding conditions “marginally abated”
in the first quarter of 2013, according to the report.  “Looking ahead, for the second quarter of 2013 euro area
banks expect a considerably less negative net decline in demand
for housing loans,” the ECB said in the report.  Manufacturing and services output contracted for a 15th
month in April, jeopardizing Draghi’s scenario of an economic
recovery in the second half of the year. With policy makers
standing “ready to act” and  Germany ’s economy also showing
signs of weakness, chances for an interest-rate cut next week
have increased.  The ECB said 135 banks participated in the survey, which
was conducted between March 20 and April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  