-- ECB Urges EU to Build Strong Central Authority for Failing Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-24T13:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ecb-urges-eu-to-build-strong-central-authority-for-failing-banks.html
The  European Central Bank  urged
governments to press ahead with setting up a “strong” central
authority to handle  bank failures  in the euro area, saying that
progress in the project is essential to bolster lenders and spur
growth.  “Mere coordination between national authorities is not
sufficient for cross-border resolution in crises,”  Vitor Constancio , the ECB’s vice president, told lawmakers today at
the European Parliament in Brussels.  The currency bloc needs a “single resolution authority”
with “independent decision-making powers that would enable
prompt and decisive action,” Constancio said. The authority
should be backed by a “privately funded European resolution
fund,” he said.  The ECB’s call for decisive action to build a common
resolution system for crisis-hit banks runs counter to warnings
from  Germany  that setting up a central authority with
independent powers would require changes to the 27-nation bloc’s
treaties.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
counterparts this month at a meeting in Dublin that the EU is
approaching the limit of what it can achieve under its current
rulebook to build a so-called banking union with common
oversight and backstops for lenders.  “Progress in these elements of a future banking union is
very important in the present economic environment of low
growth,” Constancio said today in Brussels.  `Desirable Separation'  The setting up of a “single resolution mechanism”
equipped with an authority and fund will contribute to “the
desirable separation of banks and sovereigns,” he said.  Constancio also urged the EU to push ahead with the formal
adoption of a draft law to hand the central-bank oversight
powers.  “Key organizational decisions can only be taken once the
legal text has entered into force,” he said. “The timely
adoption of the regulation by early summer is crucial.”     To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  