-- ECB Rate Cut Seen Next Week by Banks From Nomura to RBS
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-24T17:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ecb-seen-cutting-rate-next-week-by-economists-from-ubs-to-rbs.html
The  European Central Bank  will cut
its key  interest rate  to a record low next week as the euro-
region economy slumps, according to banks including Nomura
International Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  Economists forecast a reduction for May after gauges of
manufacturing and services activity for April underscored
weakness in output. Germany’s  Ifo index  of business confidence
fell more than economists predicted, the institute said today.  ECB officials have also indicated they may consider a rate
cut at their May 2 meeting. President  Mario Draghi  said on April
19 he hasn’t seen any improvement in economic reports, after
hinting he might lower borrowing costs if the recovery falters.
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen has said that rates could
fall if data show a need for it, and his colleague  Vitor Constancio  said today that the ECB is “ready to act.”  “The disappointment from the latest data increases further
the downside risks to the ECB’s baseline scenario and
increasingly challenges the pace of the gradual recovery
expected,” said  Nick Matthews , an economist at Nomura in
London. “We see the mention by Mr. Draghi that the ECB ‘stands
ready to act’ as a clear statement that the ECB is prepared to
cut next month.”  European stocks rose for a fourth day as speculation
mounted that the ECB will reduce its interest rate. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index gained 0.7 percent to 294.63 at the close of
trading.  ECB Tone  Nomura now sees the ECB taking its key rate to 0.5 percent
from 0.75 percent on May 2, having previously forecast at
reduction in June. JPMorgan changed its call too, while
Commerzbank AG, UBS, RBS, Rabobank International and  ABN Amro 
Bank NV also see a reduction in May.  “The main reason for our call is the tone of the
commentary over the past month by members of the Governing
Council,” said Richard Barwell, an economist at RBS in London.
“Another month of weak, soft data on activity does not tell you
that the recovery is permanently postponed, but it could tell
you that the recovery has been pushed back another month –- and
we think that is enough.”  The euro-area composite purchasing managers’ index of
manufacturing and services remained at 46.5 in April, Markit
Economics said yesterday. That’s below the 50 mark that divides
contraction from expansion.  Those surveys “further strengthen the case” for an ECB
cut next week, said  Nick Kounis , an economist at ABN Amro in
Amsterdam.  ‘Ready to Act’  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, the Ifo institute
said today its confidence index dropped for a second month in
April, to 104.4 from 106.7 in March. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast a decline to 106.2, according to the median
of 44 estimates.  Separately,  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , cut its 2013 profit forecast after first-
quarter earnings tumbled more than analysts expected, burdened
by weaker Mercedes-Benz sales in China.  “We stand ready to act if economic conditions continue to
provide bad news, as unfortunately has been the case in recent
data that became available,” Constancio, the ECB’s vice
president, told lawmakers in Brussels today. “We have done a
lot” and “we certainly still have some margin for maneuver to
take some action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  