-- EFG Fined $6.4 Million by FCA Over Money-Laundering Controls
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-04-24T11:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/efg-fined-6-4-million-by-fca-over-money-laundering-controls.html
EFG Private Bank Ltd. was fined 4.2
million pounds ($6.4 million) by the U.K. finance regulator for
failing to have effective anti-money laundering controls in
place for its high-risk customers.  The serious failings lasted for more than three years, the
Financial Conduct Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.
The bank, a subsidiary of Zurich-based  EFG International Group (EFGN) ,
didn’t fully implement its anti-money laundering policies,
monitor risky accounts, or record how senior management was
handling oversight of those customers.  “Banks are the first line of defense to make sure that
proceeds of crime do not find their way into the U.K.,” said
Tracey McDermott, the FCA’s head of enforcement.  Regulators around the world have cracked down on money
laundering after the 2008 financial crisis. The FCA’s
predecessor fined Coutts & Co. and Habib Bank Ltd. for similar
controls failures.  EFG received the regulator’s standard 30 percent discount
for settling early. EFG said it has taken action to make sure
its systems and controls are effective. The fine won’t impact
its reported profit this year because it has already been
provided for, the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “EFG Private Bank is disappointed that shortcomings were
found relating to the period December 2007 to January 2011, even
though it has found no evidence that  money laundering  actually
took place,” the bank said. “This is the first time EFG
Private Bank has been the subject of disciplinary action.”  EFG’s failings were detected by the FCA’s predecessor, the
Financial Services Authority, in 2011 as part of its thematic
review on how banks manage money-laundering risks.  The FSA published its findings in 2011 from the review and
said they were referring cases to their enforcement division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.ne   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 