-- Egypt Premier to Keep Job in Cabinet Shuffle, Presidency Says
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-24T16:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/egypt-premier-to-keep-job-in-cabinet-shuffle-presidency-says.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil will retain his post in a limited Cabinet shuffle, even
as some of President Mohamed Mursi’s critics target the
premier’s performance.  The announcement comes as Egypt is trying to secure a long-
delayed $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan while
curbing unrest that has battered the economy and the post- Hosni Mubarak  transition most recently marked by anger over what
critics contend is a targeting of the judiciary.  The changes, which presidency spokesman Ehab Fahmy told
reporters today would be announced within days, is aimed at
addressing the complaints by Mursi’s largely secular critics
over the nation’s political direction. Discussions with various
political groups were taking place on the cabinet make-up, which
Mursi had earlier said would allow only the most qualified to
stay.  Mursi’s opponents maintain that Qandil, who served as water
minister before being picked for the premiership by Mursi, has
failed in reviving the economy. Talks with the IMF are showing
“positive” indications, Fahmy said.  The announcement follows a new blow to Mursi, who yesterday
saw his legal affairs adviser quit, making him the 11th of 17
advisers appointed by the Islamist president to walk out,
according to the state-run Ahram online. The resignations have
been largely over what many critics cited as the growing
influence of the Muslim Brotherhood organization over the daily
affairs of the nation.  The latest departure, coupled with Mursi’s battle with a
judiciary that sees the president as trying to pack it with his
sympathizers, have injected new difficulties into the
transition.  Fahmy said today that Mursi respects judges and is
committed to an independent judiciary.  Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, in a Twitter post late
yesterday, said  Egypt  had become a “train wreck waiting to
happen.”  “Mursi’s aides jumping ship. National reconciliation
crucial,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  