-- ElBaradei Sounds Warning as Egypt’s Mursi Sees More Defections
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-24T09:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/elbaradei-sounds-warning-as-egypt-s-mursi-sees-more-defections.html
Nobel Peace laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei  sounded a warning about growing polarization in  Egypt ,
criticizing President Mohamed Mursi just hours before U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s arrived today.  “Egypt is a train wreck waiting to happen,” ElBaradei, a
leader of the National Salvation Front opposition bloc, said in
a post on his Twitter account late yesterday. “Mursi’s aides
jumping ship. National reconciliation crucial.”  ElBaradei’s new jab highlighted the discord that has
deepened in Egypt since the Islamist leader was elected in June,
including the resignation of yet another adviser yesterday.
Unrest is growing over Mursi’s failure to turn around the
economy, mounting tensions between the president and the
judiciary, and critics’ allegations that he is more interested
in promoting the Islamist agenda of his Muslim Brotherhood group
than tackling the country’s problems.  Egypt’s economy is slowing, foreign reserves are more than
60 percent below their December 2010 levels and the  budget
deficit  for this fiscal year may mushroom to 11.7 percent of
gross domestic product, Finance Minister El-Morsi El-Sayed
Hegazi forecast yesterday  Mursi suffered another blow yesterday when his legal
affairs adviser, Fuad Gadallah, became the 11th of his original
17 advisers to quit, according to the state-run Ahram Online.  No Vision  Gadallah accused Mursi’s government of having no vision for
running the nation and letting the Muslim Brotherhood influence
policy.  Tensions between Mursi and the judiciary have been building
since he temporarily assumed virtually unassailable powers with
a November decree. They’ve compounded broader unrest over the
country’s direction that has played out in sometimes violent
protests that have hurt the economy and hobbled efforts to
conclude a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan that
Mursi says is vital to restoring investor confidence and
unlocking other foreign assistance.  Hagel, who arrived in Cairo early today, will probably
address Egypt’s political situation and relay  Washington ’s
concern over the security situation in the  Sinai peninsula ,
Washington Institute for Near East Policy analysts  David Schenker  and Eric Trager wrote in a report yesterday. Various
militant groups are believed to be operating in the area
bordering  Israel  and Gaza.  “The Brotherhood’s refusal to govern more inclusively has
only exacerbated the situation,” they wrote, referring to the
recent unrest. “Absent an unlikely change in Mursi’s approach,
the deterioration will continue in the coming months.”  Israel has accused Gaza militants of firing rockets from
Sinai at a southern Israeli city last week.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  