-- Emerging Stocks Rally With Commodities as Russia Climbs
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-u-s-home-sales.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, led by
Russian shares, as a rally in commodities boosted producers.
 Brazil ’s Ibovespa capped the longest winning streak since
September as mining companies followed metals prices higher.  OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly, jumped 3.6
percent in Moscow, leading the Micex Index to the biggest
advance among major gauges in developing nations. Vale SA and
MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA drove the Brazilian benchmark
measure up a fifth day.  Hon Hai (2317)  Precision Industry Co. and
 Wintek Corp. (2384)  rallied in Taipei as Apple Inc. suppliers surged on
bigger-than-estimated shipments of iPhones and iPads.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.8 percent to
1,017.71 in New York. Equities followed commodities higher on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will cut its key  interest
rate  to a record low next week as the euro-region economy
slumps, according to banks including Nomura International Plc,
UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Oil climbed the
most this year as copper and gold rallied.  “There’s a hope the ECB may be looking at a rate cut and
that would help the European economy,” Michelle Gibley,
director of international research at San Francisco-based
Charles Schwab Corp., said by phone. Her firm manages $2.08
trillion in client assets. The stimulus measures in place at
developed countries “help overall global growth.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
rose, led by healthcare and energy shares. The emerging-markets
index has lost 3.6 percent this year, trailing an 8.4 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.
The emerging-markets measure trades at 10.7 times 12-month
 projected  profit, compared with the MSCI World’s valuation of
14.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.6 percent to $42.30 in a fifth day of gains. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a  measure  of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, lost 0.2 percent to 18.79.  Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.2 percent as MMX advanced 7.6
percent, while Vale rose 0.7 percent. Mexico’s IPC Index dropped
1.9 percent, the most among major emerging-market indexes, as
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB tumbled after missing first-
quarter sales estimates.  Russia ’s Micex Index gained 2.8 percent, the biggest jump
since September. Gazprom contributed with most index points to
the gauge of developing nations today. VTB Group, Russia’s
second-biggest lender, rose as profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Benchmark gauges in  Turkey ,  Czech Republic , Hungary and
Poland advanced.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.6 percent, after
slumping 2.6 percent yesterday as a gauge of manufacturing
missed estimates. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong  jumped 2 percent. China
Construction Bank Corp. rallied 2.1 percent to the highest price
since April 3. South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.9 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 1 percent to the highest level
since March 11. Hon Hai, the Taipei-based assembler of iPhones
and iPads, added 2.5 percent. Wintek, a supplier of touch panels
for Apple devices, rose 3.5 percent.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  jumped to the highest level
in more than seven years after quarterly profit at the second-
biggest lender in the United Arab Emirates beat analysts’
estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  slid one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 292 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  