-- Ericsson Sales Trail Estimates on Growth in Competition
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-24T07:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ericsson-sales-trail-analysts-estimates-on-network-competition.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the largest maker of
wireless networks, reported first-quarter revenue that trailed
analysts’ estimates amid competition from Huawei Technologies
Co. for contracts to build and service faster systems.  Sales rose 2 percent to 52 billion kronor ($7.8 billion),
Stockholm-based Ericsson said today in a statement. Analysts
 predicted  52.9 billion kronor, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Profit margins also missed projections.  China’s Huawei is outpacing Ericsson’s growth as the
companies vie for deals from operators who are investing in
infrastructure to meet the surging data demand. Ericsson said
its services business slowed in Northeast Asia and delays in
deployment of speedier networks hurt sales in  Latin America .  “The report was a bit weak and while the network side of
the business held up, the services side was soft,” said Erik Paulsson, an analyst at Pareto Securities in  Stockholm  with a
hold rating on Ericsson’s shares.  Ericsson  shares  fell 0.6 percent to 76.50 kronor at 9:10
a.m. in Stockholm. It had gained 18 percent this year through
yesterday.  Revenue at the global services business rose 4 percent to
21.5 billion kronor, trailing the 21.8 billion kronor Paulsson
had predicted. The division’s operating profit as percentage of
sales shrank by half to 3 percent, missing Paulsson estimate of
6.5 percent.  Huawei’s Expansion  Network sales rose 2.9 percent to 28.1 billion kronor and
the unit’s operating margin was little changed at 6 percent.  Huawei,  China ’s largest maker of phone equipment, said in
February it is targeting a 9 percent increase in revenue this
year for its division that designs and builds wireless networks.
The unit had sales of $25.7 billion in 2012.  Last week, the Shenzen-based company said it will hire
5,500 people in  Europe  in the next four to five years, bringing
its workforce in the region to 13,000, even as competitors such
as Ericsson make reductions.  Ericsson’s net income fell to 1.21 billion kronor from 8.95
billion kronor a year earlier when Ericsson reported a 7.7
billion-krona gain from divesting its Sony Ericsson venture. The
latest quarter’s numbers included 1.8 billion kronor of
restructuring costs, most of which was related to job reductions
in  Sweden . Analysts predicted 1.78 billion kronor.  Gross  margin , or the proportion of sales remaining after
production costs, was 32 percent, compared with the 32.9 percent
average projection.  Capacity Projects  Network-modernization deals in Europe, which demand more
labor hours and are often less profitable, led to the gross
margin slumping to 30.2 percent in 2011, the lowest since at
least 1989. Ericsson said business will probably shift to more
lucrative capacity projects in the second half of this year. It
said the long-term fundamentals in the industry are attractive.  Wireless carriers are pushing more money into expanding and
improving the data connections as consumers buy more smart
devices.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone company, said in
January it is slowing the pace of share buybacks as it expects
its  capital expenditures  to rise to $21 billion this year from
$19.5 billion in 2012.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s largest
phone company, is increasing its investment by 18 percent to 9.8
billion euros for 2013 to tap demand for data services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  