-- Hess Quarterly Profit More Than Doubles on Asset Sales
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-04-24T13:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/hess-quarterly-profit-more-than-doubles-on-asset-sales.html
Hess Corp. (HES) , the  oil company  that’s
in a proxy battle with billionaire  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp., said first-quarter profit more than doubled on
gains from asset sales.  Net income rose to $1.28 billion, or $3.72 a share, from
$545 million, or $1.60, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said in a statement today. Per-share profit excluding
gains from selling Azerbaijan and North Sea assets plus
liquidating some refinery inventories exceeded the $1.59 average
of 19 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 20
percent to $3.47 billion.  Hess has announced asset sales this year that will yield
$3.4 billion as it exits refining, gasoline retail and other
businesses to become a pure oil exploration and production
company. Singer’s Elliott, holder of a 4.52 percent Hess stake,
is soliciting shareholder support to get its five nominees on
the board, citing “unrelenting underperformance” and
mismanagement.  “It was an very good quarter,” Brian Youngberg, a St.
Louis-based analyst for  Edward Jones , said in a phone interview.
“U.S. volumes grew nicely and the company has become more
disciplined in managing their costs.”  Per-share profit beat his expectation by 20 cents.
Youngberg rates Hess a buy, doesn’t own the shares and has taken
no position on the proxy contest.  Share Buybacks  Proceeds from future asset sales will fund as much as $4
billion of share buybacks beginning in the second half, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer John Hess said in today’s statement.
Hess on March 4 announced the buybacks and said it would more
than double the annual dividend to $1.  “They are responding to what many shareholders are
wanting, which is to shrink the company, reduce  capital
expenditures  and return more of the cash to shareholders,”
Youngberg said.  Asset sales, along with classification of the refining and
marketing unit as discontinued operations, added $607 million to
first-quarter results.  Capital spending  fell 18 percent from a
year earlier to $1.63 billion.  Production from the Bakken Shale deposit in  North Dakota ,
which Elliott wants Hess to spin off, rose 55 percent from a
year earlier to the equivalent of 65,000 barrels of oil a day.
Global production fell 2 percent to the equivalent of 389,000
barrels a day on asset sales and reduced output from the Valhall
Field in Norway.  The announcement was made before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Hess rose 1.6 percent to $69.30 at 8:41 a.m. in
 New York . The shares have 13 buy and 11 hold ratings from
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  