-- Maroc Telecom Sale Draws Bids From Qatar Telecom, Etisalat
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-04-24T17:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/etisalat-to-make-offer-for-vivendi-s-maroc-telecom-stake-today.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the French media and
telecommunications group that has put its 53 percent stake in
 Maroc Telecom SA (IAM)  on the block, attracted bids from two Middle
Eastern carriers by today’s deadline.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , better known as
Etisalat, and QSC  Qatar Telecom  submitted binding offers, the
companies said in separate statements. Vivendi, whose holding
has a market value of about $6 billion, said it will examine two
proposals in the coming weeks, without identifying the bidders.  The stake sale is part of Vivendi’s plan to refocus on
media and content distribution, rather than telecommunications,
after Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou and the board decided last year
to sell assets instead of splitting the Paris-based company in
two. South Korea’s  KT Corp. (030200) , which had expressed interest in the
Maroc Telecom stake, said April 15 it had dropped out because of
“big differences” in valuation.  “The critical event is not the sale price,” said Saeed
Baradar, an equity sales specialist at  Societe Generale  in
London. At market value, proceeds from the stake disposal
“should be sufficient to reset the debt to allow Vivendi to
split itself up into media and telecoms entities and to erode
the current conglomerate discount in the share price.”  Vivendi’s stock rose 2.7 percent to 17 euros at the close
of trading in Paris. It has gained about 34 percent during the
past 12 months.  GVT Sale  The French company has a market value of 22.5 billion
euros, compared with  net debt  of 13.4 billion euros at the end
of 2012. Fourtou is set to meet shareholders at an annual
meeting on April 30.  Last month, Vivendi halted a planned disposal of GVT, its
Brazilian phone and Internet unit, after failing to get
satisfactory bids for a business it valued at more than $10
billion. The owner of Universal Music Group, video-game maker
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and  Canal Plus  has weighed a spinoff of
its largest unit, French wireless carrier SFR, people familiar
with the matter said last month.  Etisalat shares jumped 4 percent in  Abu Dhabi . The company
said it may end up owning a greater than 53 percent stake in
Maroc Telecom because of local rules that require it to make a
mandatory offer for minority shareholders. Morocco’s government,
which has a 30 percent holding, has to be on board with any
transaction.  Loan Terms  People with knowledge of the matter said last week that
Etisalat was setting terms of $8 billion of loans backing its
bid. Etisalat is raising debt comprising a $4 billion portion to
be refinanced by bonds, and three- and five-year loans, the
people have said.  Two years ago, Etisalat ended talks to buy a majority stake
in Zain, Kuwait’s biggest phone company, for $12 billion.
Etisalat today reported first quarter net income after royalties
of 1.8 billion dirhams ($490 million), missing analysts’
estimates.  Maroc Telecom rose 1.4 percent to 110 dirhams in
Casablanca. The carrier makes about 75 percent of its  revenue  in
Morocco, where it is the largest phone company, and owns assets
in Mali,  Burkina Faso , Gabon and Mauritania.  Qatar Telecom, which operates under the brand name Ooredoo,
added 0.6 percent to 113 riyals in Doha.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  