-- EU Nations Seek Transaction Tax Answers on Repurchase Agreements
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-24T13:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/eu-nations-seek-transaction-tax-answers-on-repurchase-agreements.html
Eleven European Union nations that
plan to introduce a common financial-transaction tax are seeking
assurances from the European Commission that the levy won’t
drive up their borrowing costs.  The Brussels-based commission should provide data about the
impact of the tax on the market for so-called repurchase
agreements, and by extension “on the funding cost of the
central government and the real economy,” according to an April
16  working document  prepared by the 11 states.  The EU estimates the tax could raise 30 billion euros ($39
billion) to 35 billion euros a year. To become law, it has to be
approved by the participating nations:  Belgium ,  Germany ,
 Estonia ,  Greece , Spain, France, Italy,  Austria ,  Portugal ,
Slovenia and Slovakia. All 27 EU nations can sit in on the talks
and have the option to join.  The 11 states are trying to address concerns that the plan
could lead to the “extinction” of repo operations that keep
government borrowing costs down by allowing traders to hedge
their risks, according to the document. The commission has not
been “fully clear” on whether revenue from the tax would
offset potentially higher borrowing costs, the nations said.  The move follows warnings from Italy that the tax, as
formulated in a commission proposal, could harm secondary-market
sovereign-bond trading.  “Transactions on government bonds must be excluded,”
Italian envoy  Ferdinando Nelli Feroci  told reporters in Brussels
on April 19. This is a “red line” for  Italy  and not up for
negotiation, Feroci said.  ‘Full Commitment’  “It’s very normal in any negotiating process that member
states would seek clarifications on the proposal,” Emer
Traynor, a spokeswoman for Algirdas Semeta, the European
commissioner for taxation, said by e-mail.  “We will be replying in detail to the issues they have
raised at the next technical meeting on 22 May, and expect that
we will be able to allay many of their concerns,” she said.
“The last technical meeting showed that there is still full
commitment from the 11 member states to move ahead with the
common FTT.”  The tax proposal is also coming under pressure from EU
nations that have declined to participate on concerns that it
will also hit traders based outside the 11 countries’ borders.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said he “cannot
exclude” a challenge to the EU’s proposal because of its impact
on his nation and other non-participants. Last week, the U.K.,
home to the EU’s largest financial center, went a step further
and began legal action at the European Court of Justice to guard
against future economic damage.  The proposed levy could be collected worldwide as soon as
the start of next year by  France , Germany and the nine other EU
nations that have so far signed up, if the effort stays on
schedule. To stop traders from escaping the levy by operating
outside the tax’s zone, the EU plan invokes “residence” and
“issuance” ties to firms in participating nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  