-- EU Parliament’s EPP Group Sees ‘Narrow Room’ for Carbon Deal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-24T15:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/eu-parliament-s-epp-group-sees-narrow-room-for-carbon-fix-deal.html
The European  People’s Party , the
biggest group in the European Parliament, sees “very narrow
room” for maneuver on a stopgap measure to fix the world’s
biggest carbon market, according to its lawmaker Richard Seeber.  The EPP needs modifications to the proposal that would
ensure any short-term action to cut oversupply in the market
will be followed by a deeper overhaul of  Europe ’s emissions-
trading system, Seeber, an Austrian member of the European Union
assembly, said today. His comments come a day before
representatives of political groups in the EU Parliament meet to
discuss the fate of the carbon rescue plan after the assembly
rejected the measure on April 16.  The priority for the EPP is to make the EU’s 54 billion-
euro ($70.2 billion) carbon-reduction program flexible enough to
adapt to changing economic conditions and to channel national
revenues from carbon-permit sales to stimulate clean
technologies, Seeber said. A majority of his group’s lawmakers
voted last week against the emissions-market fix proposed by the
European Commission amid concerns that it would unduly interfere
with market mechanisms and raise energy prices.  “At the moment, the room for maneuver is very, very
narrow,” Seeber said in a telephone interview from Brussels.
“In general, the position of the EPP is that we are ready to
think about new ideas but member states and the commission have
to move as well. Otherwise, just backloading without changing
anything structural is very difficult.”  Carbon Prices  The rescue plan, designed by the commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, aims to help bolster carbon prices from record
lows by delaying auctions of 900 million permits from 2013-2015
to 2019-2020 in a process known as backloading. That would
reduce a glut of allowances aggravated by the economic slowdown,
which has curbed industrial output and cut demand for emission
rights.  To be enacted, backloading needs support from both the
Parliament and governments in the  Council of Ministers . The 27-
nation EU assembly is currently considering the first element of
the carbon fix, or a change to the bloc’s emissions law that
would enable delaying the sale of permits. Without the short-
term fix the EU emissions trading system, or the EU ETS, would
become “completely toothless,” according to UBS AG analysts.  Emission Allowances  EU emission allowances for delivery in December slumped 45
percent, the biggest drop ever, after the Parliament’s April 16
vote and extended their slide the next day, hitting an all-time
low of 2.46 euros a metric ton. They were unchanged at 3.08
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 4:36 p.m. in
 London  today. The EU program doesn’t allow any price floors or
ceilings.  The most important aspect for the EPP is a longer-term
vision of the EU cap-and-trade market, according to Seeber. The
EU is on track to meet its greenhouse-gas reduction targets and
the EPP doesn’t want artificially raised energy prices, he said.  “There must be willingness from  member states  to earmark
the revenue from the ETS and channel it to eco-innovative
projects,” he said. “That would be an ETS that would both be
based on market rules and reflect economic down- and up-turns.
This is crucial.”  Last week, the EU parliamentarians voted 334 to 315, with
63 abstentions, in favor of an amendment to block the carbon-
market fix. They stopped short adopting an official position of
the Parliament against backloading and decided to send the draft
measure back to the environment committee for further talks.  Political Groups  Representatives of political groups on the committee, which
has two months from the vote to find a solution, will meet on
April 25 for initial talks on the matter, said Matthias Groote,
a German backer of the proposal steering it through the
Parliament. It’s too early to say when another vote will take
place on the measure in the assembly, Groote told reporters
yesterday in Dublin.  The next plenary vote could be tighter after 10 out of 14
lawmakers who requested a change to their voting records said
they endorsed the anti-backloading amendment by mistake,
according to an updated protocol published by the assembly.  The EPP is restarting discussions about the carbon fix and
needs to see what Groote is going to propose, Seeber said. Any
changes sought by the Parliament need to be reconciled with the
commission and national governments during talks on the proposal
in the next stages of the legislative process.  “It would be right on the side of the commissioner to
propose something new to the Parliament that maybe has the
possibility now to change its opinion,” he said. “If the
commission doesn’t change anything in the proposal, we are going
to reject it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Dublin at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ; 