-- Euro-Yen Rate Shows Draghi Lament as Gross Says Sell: Currencies
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-04-24T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/euro-yen-rate-shows-draghi-lament-as-gross-says-sell-currencies.html
The euro’s 25 percent jump against
the yen over the past six months underscores the rising pressure
on European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to cut interest
rates as the region’s exporters lose out to  Japan .  Futures traders are adding to bets that the ECB will lower
its benchmark rate in the months ahead to weaken the currency,
while economists now predict a quarter-point reduction at next
week’s policy meeting. Even that may not be enough to stoke
“real growth,” said  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s largest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. He expects a drop
in the euro and advised investors yesterday to sell.  Draghi’s dilemma is that while his pledge last year to keep
the currency union intact succeeded in boosting confidence, it
also contributed to a euro so strong that it’s hurting
competitiveness. A report showed that German business confidence
fell for a second month in April, after data yesterday indicated
euro-area  services  and factory output shrank for a 15th month.  “Draghi is aware of the slowdown we’re starting to see,”
said  Gavin Friend , a currency strategist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in  London  and the most accurate forecaster on the euro
versus the yen in the first quarter. “Now we’re getting
negative on the euro zone and negative on the euro. The market
is starting to look toward the next meeting and the prospect of
a rate cut. It’s going to be volatile from here on.”  Carmakers Slide  Economists watch the euro’s exchange rate against the yen
because some of the region’s biggest exporters, including
carmakers Daimler AG of  Germany  and PSA Peugeot Citroen of
 France , compete with the Japanese for sales into the U.S. and
 China .  In a mark of the struggle they face, shares of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , Japan’s biggest automaker, have climbed 40 percent this
year while Daimler’s fell 1.9 percent. Peugeot Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said today that exchange
rates held back the Paris-based company’s first-quarter revenue
by about 2 percent.  The euro rose 0.1 percent to 129.37 yen as of 8:27 a.m. in
 New York , after climbing to a three-year high of 131.12 yen on
April 11. Against the dollar, it was little changed today at
$1.2996, holding above its 52-week low of $1.2043 in July.  Central-bank officials “have to find ways to avoid that
the euro appreciates and actually try to make it depreciate,”
former ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Sara Eisen and  Tom Keene  on April 17. While the ECB doesn’t target exchange rates,
“they are important for  price stability  and for growth,”
Draghi said on April 19 in  Washington .  Draghi’s Pledge  The 17-nation currency has strengthened about 7 percent
versus the dollar since Draghi said July 26 that he’d do
“whatever it takes” to protect the euro and the region’s
economy. He later outlined a plan called Outright Monetary
Transactions in September that allows the ECB to buy short-
maturity notes issued by euro-area nations that request aid. No
country has activated the plan.  The ECB’s May 2 policy meeting will be its first since the
Group of 20 summit in Washington on April 18-19. There,
officials failed to criticize Japan for debasing its currency
through its monetary policies, prompting options traders to trim
 bearish bets  on the euro against the yen.  Predicting Cut  Futures contracts based on the euro interbank offered rate,
a benchmark of how much banks charge to lend to one another,
signal increasing expectations for the ECB to lower its main
refinancing rate from the record-low 0.75 percent it has
maintained since July. The implied yield on the contract for
June was at 19 basis points, close to the lowest since Jan. 2
and down from the high for this year of 42 basis points Jan. 25.  Twenty one of 35 forecasters surveyed by Bloomberg,
including UBS AG, Rabobank International and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, now predict the ECB will lower its  main
interest rate  to 0.5 percent next week.  Five days after the  Bank of Japan  unveiled an unprecedented
stimulus package on April 4, a Bundesbank report showed German
exports fell 1.5 percent in February, more than economists
forecast. Germany is  Europe ’s biggest economy and sells about 40
percent of its output abroad.  That was followed on April 18 by a Finance Ministry report
showing growth in  Japan’s overseas sales  beat analysts’
predictions by almost 1 percentage point.  “At current levels it’s OK, but if the euro appreciates to
140 yen or 150 yen, then Germany will suffer in terms of
exports,” James Kwok, the London-based head of currency
management at Amundi Asset Management, which oversees about 727
billion euros, said in an interview yesterday.  Risk Reversals  The premium for six-month options granting the right to
sell the euro versus the yen relative to those allowing for
purchases fell 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 1.25
percentage points on April 22. That’s the biggest move in favor
of the single currency since April 11, according to so-called
25-delta risk reversals. The spread has averaged 3.92 percentage
points in the last five years.  “Downside risk remains in the euro area and should data
continue to disappoint, the ECB is likely to act,” Fiona Lake
and George Cole, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London,
wrote in an April 19 note to clients.  Strategists are predicting even more euro strength,
boosting their forecasts for the currency against the yen by 4.8
percent in April. Europe’s shared currency will end the year at
130 yen, according to the median of 44 economists’ and analysts’
predictions compiled by Bloomberg. At the end of 2012 they were
calling for 109 yen.  Currency Correlations  Correlations in exchange rates show the euro is moving in
the opposite direction to the yen more consistently than at any
time since the common currency’s 1999 debut. It’s a sign that
some of the money flowing out of the yen because of the BOJ’s
policies is flowing back to Europe to prop up the euro.  Speculation that Draghi will have to bow to pressure from
markets for a reduction in borrowing costs is being stoked by
economic data. The Ifo institute in Munich said today its index
of  Germany’s business climate , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, dropped to 104.4 from 106.7 in March.  A composite index of euro-area services and factory output
based  on a survey  of purchasing managers in both industries by
London-based  Markit Economics  held at 46.5 for April, indicating
a contraction, a report yesterday showed. Similar German PMI
data also showed a contraction.  “This is not a level that suggests economic growth or a
stronger recovery,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who expects the euro
to end the year at $1.28. “The data was pretty bad. Now Germany
is also in a range where you wouldn’t expect growth in the near
future.”  ‘Sell Euro’  Gross, the co-chief investment officer at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, manager of the $289.1 billion  Total
Return Fund (PTTRX) , agrees with those predicting a rate cut, even if
he’s not confident it would have the effect exporters desire.  “Expect an ECB cut soon but will it lead to real growth?
Doubtful,” Gross said in a posting on Twitter yesterday. “Euro
needs to go down. Sell euro.”  Morgan Stanley analysts said in a report today they were
preparing for “a resumption of the major downtrend” for the
euro against the dollar, a change of strategy.  The euro is overvalued by 5.1 percent against the dollar
based on an index developed by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris that uses relative costs of
goods and services. That’s less than the Norwegian krone and
Australian dollar, which are about 36 percent too strong. The
euro is 0.7 percent too strong against the yen, the gauge shows.  Even a rate cut won’t curb the euro’s strength against the
Japanese currency, according to Michael Sneyd, a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  “Beyond next week’s ECB meeting, where we are expecting a
cut, the euro should start to perform well,” Sneyd said in
phone interview yesterday. He predicts the common currency will
strengthen to 140 yen by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  