-- European People’s Party Lawmaker Seeber Comments on Carbon Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-04-24T15:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/european-people-s-party-lawmaker-seeber-comments-on-carbon-fix.html
Richard Seeber, a member of the
European People’s Party in the EU Parliament, comments on a
proposed carbon-market fix in telephone interview.  Seeber, an Austrian member of the EU assembly, made the
comments a day before representatives of political groups in the
Parliament meet to discuss the fate of the carbon rescue plan
after the assembly rejected the measure on April 16.  “The vote in the Parliament was pretty clear, but we’re of
course ready to reconsider our position. If the commission
doesn’t change anything in the proposal, we are going to reject
it.”  “The most important thing for us is the mid-term to long-term
view. We are on track to the current CO2-reduction target and we
do not want artificially raised energy prices. There must be
willingness from member states to earmark the revenue from the
ETS and channel it to eco-innovative projects. That would be an
ETS that would both be based on market rules and reflect
economic down- and up-turns. This is crucial.”  “It would be right on the side of the commissioner to propose
something new to the Parliament that maybe has the possibility
now to change its opinion. But with the backloading proposal as
it stands, there’s not much room for maneuver.”  “We need to see what Groote is going to propose. We are
restarting discussion in the group. Without any concrete
conditions, it’s difficult for us to accept this proposal. It’s
mainly about earmarking the revenues and reflecting economic
downturns and upturns as well.”  “At the moment, the room for maneuver is very, very narrow. It
still exists and depending on how the Commission and the Council
react to that. It’s not enough for them to say that the ball is
now in the Parliament’s court.”  “The debate is very difficult. It’s not possible to give a
definitive answer on the behalf of my colleagues on what will
happen. In general, the position of the EPP is that we are ready
to think about new ideas but member states and the Commission
have to move as well. Otherwise, just backloading without
changing anything structural is very difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Dublin at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ; 