-- Pound Strengthens as U.K. Seen Skirting Recession; Kiwi Advances
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-04-25T05:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/euro-remains-lower-against-pound-before-spain-s-jobless-figures.html
The pound rose against most of its
major counterparts before a report forecast to show the U.K
economy avoided a triple-dip recession.  Sterling gained for a fourth day against the euro, the
longest streak this year, amid prospects the  European Central
Bank  will cut borrowing costs as early as next week, while  Bank
of England  policy makers remain split on the need for more
stimulus through so-called quantitative easing. The yen rose
against the dollar as a report showed Japanese investors were
net sellers of foreign bonds for a sixth-straight week. New
Zealand’s dollar surged for a second day.  “The U.K.’s  central bank  is seen adding to monetary
easing, but the fact that it hasn’t done so yet is spurring
buying of the pound,” said Hideki Shibata, a senior rates and
currencies strategist at Tokai  Tokyo  Research Center Co. in
Tokyo. A positive growth figure from the U.K. will damp
“expectations of additional easing.”  The pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.5315 as of 6:46 a.m. in
 London  from yesterday. Sterling rose 0.1 percent to 85.18 pence
per euro after strengthening 0.5 percent in the prior three
days.  Europe ’s common currency advanced 0.2 percent to $1.3045
and rose 0.1 percent to 129.60 yen.  Japan ’s currency gained 0.2
percent to 99.34 per dollar, halting a two-day decline.  Financial markets in Australia and  New Zealand  are closed
today for national holidays.  Skirting Recession  The U.K. economy grew 0.1 percent in the first quarter
after contracting 0.3 percent in the preceding three-month
period, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before the preliminary estimate is
released today. Britain suffered consecutive declines in gross
domestic product in the middle quarters of 2012 and 2009.  The Bank of England extended its Funding for Lending Scheme
yesterday by one year, which is aimed at providing cheaper loans
to companies and consumers. The BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee
kept its QE target at 375 billion pounds ($574 billion) on April
4 as a push for more by Governor  Mervyn King  and two other
officials was defeated by a majority on the central bank’s nine-
member panel.  “The BOE expressed stronger preference for credit stimulus
measures than for more QE,”  Valentin Marinov , the head of
European group-of-10 currency strategy in London at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a research note dated today. The next BOE meeting
seems “less likely to announce more easing unless the data out
of the U.K. deteriorates significantly.”  The pound has fallen 3.4 percent this year, the second-
worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has dropped 11
percent, while the euro gained 1.9 percent.  ECB Outlook  The ECB will cut its key  interest rate , already at a record
low 0.75 percent, at its May 2 meeting as the euro-region
economy slumps, banks including Nomura International Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  predict.  “We stand ready to act if economic conditions continue to
provide bad news, as unfortunately has been the case in recent
data that became available,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday.  Spain’s unemployment rate probably reached a record high of
26.5 percent in the first quarter, according to the median
estimate in a separate Bloomberg survey ahead of the report
today. It was an unprecedented 26 percent in the fourth quarter.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, the Ifo institute
said yesterday its  index  of business confidence dropped for a
second month in April.  “We’ve said that the ECB will cut rates in the second
quarter but now think it’s more likely to come in May,” said
Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst in London at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “We have more negatives than positives for
the euro.”  Japanese Investments  The yen was supported today by data that countered
expectations that money will flow out of Japan amid expanded
monetary easing by the central bank.  Japanese investors  cut  holdings of overseas bonds in the
week through April 19, marking the longest streak of net sales
since January 2010, figures from the Ministry of Finance showed.
They divested a total 3.43 trillion yen ($34 billion) in the
six-week period.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will hold a policy meeting tomorrow when
it releases its outlook for the economy and inflation. It may
raise its forecast for price gains for fiscal 2014, according to
people familiar with the central bank’s discussions. The BOJ
earlier this month unveiled a plan to double holdings of
 government bonds  and stock funds in the next two years in a bid
to end 15 years of deflation.  RBNZ Rates  “Dollar-yen is about to open the door to a new world of
100-125, and is just being stopped at a checkpoint at around
100,” said Tokai Tokyo’s Shibata. “It’s just a matter of time
for the pair to open that door” in part because of the BOJ’s
monetary easing.  New Zealand’s kiwi dollar jumped 0.7 percent to 85.31 U.S.
cents and climbed to as much as NZ$1.2079 per Australian dollar,
the strongest since October 2009. The  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand yesterday kept its key interest rate unchanged and said
economic growth has accelerated.  “The market was clearly looking for a more dovish tilt
from the RBNZ,”  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note
dated today. The kiwi should continue to outperform the Aussie
“with the respective central bank policy rates moving in NZ’s
favour over the coming 12 months,” the note said.  Swaps traders have  priced in  11 basis points of New Zealand
interest-rate increases over the next year, compared to 53 basis
points of  cuts in Australia , according to Credit Suisse Group AG
indexes.  Benchmark interest rates are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and
3 percent in Australia. That compares with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  