-- Lewandowski Puts Dortmund on Verge of Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-24T22:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/lewandowski-leads-dortmund-past-real-madrid-in-champions-league.html
Robert Lewandowski  scored all four
goals as  Borussia Dortmund  became the second German  soccer club 
to rout Spanish opposition in the  Champions League  semifinals.  Dortmund beat Real  Madrid  4-1 last night, 24 hours after
 Bayern Munich  thrashed Barcelona 4-0 in the first semifinal.  Record nine-time champion Madrid will host the return match
in the two-game series on April 30, with Bayern visiting
Barcelona the following night.  The winners will meet in the May 25 final at Wembley
Stadium in  London . German teams have never met in the title
match of Europe’s elite club competition.  “It was only the first leg, but we can still be very
satisfied with the result,” Lewandowski said on the website of
tournament organizer UEFA. “But we still only took the first
step tonight and we haven’t reached the final yet.”  Lewandowski scored in the eighth minute before  Cristiano Ronaldo  tied the game just before halftime with his competition-
best 12th goal. Lewandowski scored twice more in the opening 10
minutes after the break and added his fourth goal from the
penalty spot later in the half.  The victory matches Dortmund’s biggest in the Champions
League. The 1997 European Cup winner remains the only unbeaten
team in this year’s competition and has won all six of its home
matches by a combined score of 14-4.  “The best team by far won,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said
on UEFA’s website. “Individually and collectively Dortmund were
better and deserved their victory.”  Biggest Comeback  Real Madrid will have to match the biggest comeback in
Champions League history to avoid a third-straight semifinal
loss. Deportivo La Coruna lost its opening quarterfinal 4-1 at
AC Milan in 2004 before winning the second leg 4-0 at home.  “It will be very difficult in the return leg at home but
we must remain confident,” Real captain  Sergio Ramos  said on
UEFA’s website. “When the draw for the semifinals was made a
lot of people thought this was going to be easy for us but this
is a German team we are talking about. They are a great side.”  The teams met in this season’s group stage with Dortmund
winning 2-1 at home in October and drawing 2-2 in  Spain  in
November en route to finishing atop the group.  Opening Goal  Dortmund’s Marco Reus forced a one-handed save from Diego
Lopez in the seventh minute, with Lewandowski unable to get to
the rebound in front of the open net. Lewandowski scored a
minute later as he got away from Real defender Pepe to slide and
direct in Mario Goetze’s cross from the left.  Madrid’s first shot came in the 24th minute as Ronaldo’s
long free kick was parried away by goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller.  Dortmund had a claim for a penalty kick denied by referee
Bjorn Kuipers as Reus went down in the area after coming
together with Raphael Varane. The decision drew the ire of the
home fans and less than a minute later Real was even.  A back pass from Mats Hummels was intercepted by  Gonzalo Higuain , who took off down the right before sliding a pass for
Ronaldo to put into the open net. It was Ronaldo’s 50th
Champions League goal, making him the fifth player to reach the
milestone.  Dortmund regained the lead five minutes into the second
half as Reus passed to Lewandowski, who turned and put a shot
past Lopez. The Real players appealed for offside and television
replays showed the striker held his line as he took the pass.  Lewandowski completed his hat trick five minutes later by
firing a shot into the roof of the net from close range. He’s
the first player to score three goals against Real Madrid in a
European Cup match.  Lewandowski completed the scoring from the penalty spot in
the 66th minute after  Xabi Alonso  took down Reus in the area. It
was his 10th goal of the competition, putting him second in the
scoring chart behind Ronaldo.  “It was a royal evening for us,” Dortmund midfielder
Ilkay Gundogan said. “We played a great game from the start
until the final whistle and deserved to win by this margin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 