-- Ex-Attorney Kluger Appeals Insider-Trading Sentence
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-04-24T17:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ex-attorney-kluger-appeals-insider-trading-sentence.html
Matthew Kluger , the former lawyer
who last year received the longest prison sentence imposed in an
insider-trading case, didn’t deserve the 12-year term, his
lawyer told the U.S. Appeals Court in Philadelphia.  Kluger, formerly with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC,
was sentenced for his role a scheme that generated $37 million
in illegal profit. Kluger, who stole corporate merger tips from
four law firms during a 17-year period, got more time than
Garrett Bauer, a  New York  stock trader who made more than
$30 million on the scheme, Harvey Weissbard, an attorney for
Kluger, told the three-judge appeals panel today.  The sentencing judge “never mentioned how much money
Kluger got out of this,” Weissbard said at a hearing. “Doesn’t
the amount that he got, that he profited in comparison to
someone like Bauer, have any meaning?”  Both Bauer and Kluger pleaded guilty to  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy to commit
 money laundering  and obstruction of justice. Bauer got nine
years in prison. At Kluger’s sentencing in June, U.S. District
Judge Katharine Hayden said she judged him more harshly because
he abused his position of trust as a lawyer.  Caroline Sadlowski, an attorney for the government, argued
today that Kluger’s character influenced Hayden’s decision.
Kluger took part in an illegal scheme for 17 years, she said.  “That sets him apart from other defendants,” Sadlowski
said. “The amount of money shouldn’t control the sentencing
guidelines.”  Illicit Profits  Bauer made about $32 million in illicit profits, while
middleman Kenneth T. Robinson earned more than $875,000 and
Kluger more than $500,000. In pleading guilty, Kluger admitted
to stealing data on about 30 transactions when he was at law
firms including  Wilson Sonsini  and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom LLP. The companies included Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com
Corp. and Acxiom Corp.  The Philadelphia appeals panel didn’t indicate when it
would rule. Kluger’s attorneys are asking that the sentence be
remanded to a federal court judge other than Hayden.  The case is U.S. v. Kluger, 12-02701,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  