-- Ex-Goldman Executives Said to Target $4 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-04-24T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ex-goldman-executives-said-to-target-4-billion-for-fund.html
Mount Kellett Capital Management
LP, the investment firm founded by two former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  executives, plans to raise a new fund matching the $4
billion gathered in 2012 by its last global special-situations
vehicle, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Mount Kellett Capital Partners Fund III is targeting a
first close in the third quarter, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. The firm
has selected Park Hill Group LLC, the placement agent arm of
Blackstone Group LP, to help raise money, the people said.  Mount Kellett, based in  New York , will be joining a
competitive fundraising market in which private-equity firms are
vying for a limited pool of investor money. A record 1,949 funds
were seeking $797.1 billion as of the end of last year,
according to data by London-based researcher Preqin Ltd.  Dan Gagnier, a spokesman at Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined
to comment on fundraising plans on behalf of Mount Kellett.  Mount Kellett, which manages about $7 billion, makes
opportunistic and special-situations investments globally across
asset classes, industries and geographies, according to the
firm’s website. Special-situations investments typically involve
companies going through an unusual event such as a spinoff,
financial restructuring or bankruptcy.  The firm’s investments include private equity, corporate
debt, secured loans, convertible bonds, preferred and common
shares, real estate and commercial mortgages, according to its
website.  Suntech Debt  Mount Kellett purchased Sofitel Paris Le Faubourg in
February from hotel operator  Accor SA (AC)  for 113 million euros
($147 million). As of December, the firm was among the largest
bondholders of Shanghai-based solar manufacturer  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP) , which entered bankruptcy last month.  The firm took more than a year to raise Fund II, which
closed in March 2012. The fund was producing a net internal rate
of return of 0.5 percent and about 70 percent of the money
raised was invested as of Dec. 31, according to a person briefed
on the matter.  Mark McGoldrick and  Jason Maynard  founded Mount Kellett in
2008. McGoldrick was co-founder and head of the special-
situations group at Goldman Sachs from 1997 to 2007. Maynard was
previously the head of the Asia special-situations business at
Goldman Sachs. Nick Weber, who leads Mount Kellett’s European
business, also came from Goldman Sachs, where he was co-head of
the European special situations group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  