-- Explosions, Arson Disrupt Najib’s Malaysia Election Campaign
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-04-24T09:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/explosions-arson-disrupt-najib-s-malaysia-election-campaign-1-.html
Malaysian police are investigating
attacks on two of Prime Minister Najib Razak’s campaign offices
amid reports of increasing violence ahead of the May 5 election.  Unidentified assailants started a fire with two petrol
bombs thrown at an operations room of the governing Barisan
Nasional coalition outside of  Kuala Lumpur  today, Ramli Mohamed
Yoosuf, assistant commissioner of police, said by phone.
Yesterday, a small explosion disrupted a campaign event attended
by about 3,000 Najib supporters in northern Penang state,
injuring a 35-year-old security officer, Abdul Rahim Hanafi, the
region’s police chief, said in a statement.  “This is shaping up to be the most violent election in
living memory,” James Chin, a professor of political science at
the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash University , said in
an interview by phone. “The main reason is that in the last
five years, there has been a tremendous growth in the number of
right-wing groups.”  Najib’s Barisan Nasional is battling to extend its 55-year
grip on power against a reinvigorated opposition led by former
Deputy Prime Minister  Anwar Ibrahim . Campaigning officially
began on April 20, with brokerages from RHB Investment Bank Bhd.
to Citigroup Inc. predicting the closest result since  Malaysia ’s
independence from Britain in 1957.  Violence Condemned  Najib, campaigning in the eastern state of Sabah today,
condemned the Penang attack. All parties vying for parliamentary
and state seats should compete in a “healthy manner” in tandem
with democratic practices, state-run Bernama cited the prime
minister as saying.  “We have nothing but contempt for those who would
cynically endanger Malaysian lives,” Anwar said in an e-mailed
statement today. The opposition “categorically condemns the
culprits who are responsible for these bombs, explosions and
arson.”  Fifteen people have been arrested and more than 200 police
reports on poll-related violence and misdemeanors have been
filed since campaigning officially began four days ago, Ramli
said. Incidents included fights and complaints about pulling
down campaign flags, he said.  Security at campaign venues will be increased, the Star
reported, citing Inspector-General of Police Ismail Omar.  Malaysian police detonated a second explosive planted in a
pile of rubbish behind Barisan Nasional’s Penang office in the
early hours of this morning, said Ramli, adding that both were
homemade devices the size of a cigarette box. “The forensics
team is still investigating,” he said.  The Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections, a group of non-
governmental organizations known as Bersih, has been collating
complaints online.  “It can be contained,” Irene Fernandez, co-chairwoman of
a  Bersih  special code of conduct committee, said by phone.
“It’s up to the parties’ leadership and candidates to ensure
that no form of violence is used as a way to gain victory.
Police should investigate and ensure safety and security
impartially.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  