-- Boeing 787 Battery Tests Didn’t Ensure Against Fire: NTSB
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-25T00:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/faa-said-to-learn-about-787-lithium-batteries-on-the-job.html
Tests of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787
Dreamliner batteries weren’t adequate to ensure that they
wouldn’t overheat or burn, the top U.S. aircraft-accident
investigator said after a two-day hearing.  Officials from Boeing and the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration , which approved the batteries, also said at the
National Transportation Safety Board hearings that concluded
yesterday that the tests didn’t anticipate the two failures that
led to the grounding of the company’s newest airliner.  “The testing was not as conservative as it could have
been,” NTSB Chairman Debbie Hersman said yesterday in a news
briefing.  Hersman, in some of the most detailed comments since the
agency began probing a Jan. 7 fire aboard a 787 on the ground in
 Boston , said the NTSB hoped to determine a cause for the battery
failure within a year. The safety board pressed Boeing, its
subcontractors and the FAA during the hearing on how they
certified the batteries.  The Dreamliner has been grounded since a second battery
incident Jan. 16 in  Japan , the longest U.S. grounding of a
commercial plane in the jet age.  The 787 will return to service in a matter of weeks or
sooner, after U.S. regulators on April 19 approved battery
protections to contain a fire and keep fumes from reaching the
cabin. The European Aviation Safety Agency approved the fixes
April 23 for carriers in that region, according to a statement.  Uncontrolled Overheating  The failure on a  Japan Airlines (9201)  787 Jan. 7, which spread to
all eight of the battery’s cells after a short circuit in one,
violated the FAA’s safety conditions for the Dreamliner, set in
2007, Hersman said. One prohibited a cell failure from
triggering uncontrolled temperature increases that would spread
to other cells, a condition known as a “thermal runaway.”  “That’s exactly what we saw in Boston,” Hersman said.  The FAA’s engineers assigned to oversee the 787 knew little
about lithium-ion battery technology and had to learn on the job
while assessing Boeing’s design, an agency manager said.  The engineers were new to the subject when Boeing proposed
using lithium-ion batteries on the model, Steve Boyd, manager of
the FAA’s airplane and flight crew interface branch, said today.  “When the first lithium-ion proposal was made, we had
people who were expert in batteries, but not necessarily
specifically with lithium-ion technology,” Boyd said.  ‘Extremely Experienced’  While FAA engineers may not be considered lithium-ion
specialists, they have learned since those early days and are
capable of assessing the technology’s safety, Boyd said.  “We had an extremely experienced group of people working
on this,” he said. The average experience of the agency’s team
of engineers on the project is about 30 years, he said.  Hersman, after saying on April 23 that a top Boeing
executive had engaged in “obvious obfuscation,” yesterday
turned her attention to why the FAA signed off on the batteries.  She asked whether the batteries had met the safety
standards placed on them by the agency.  “I don’t necessarily know how to answer that particular
question,” said Jerry Hulm, a Boeing systems engineer.  The 787 received two to three times as many safety tests as
Boeing’s previous model, the 777, said Doug Lane, Boeing’s
director of commercial-airplane regulation. That was because of
“increased rigor” by the FAA, Lane said.  Safety Standards  The FAA defended its use of Boeing employees to sign off on
some new aircraft approvals. Delegating such authority to
employees of aircraft manufacturers has been done since the
1920s, said Dorenda Baker, the agency’s aircraft-certification
service chief.  “Delegation, I want to emphasize, does not mean lack of
FAA involvement,” Baker said. The agency had final authority on
decisions by Boeing employees, she said.  Company employees were allowed to approve designs they had
worked on, Lane said in response to a question.  Boeing and the aviation agency were pressed by safety board
officials on their assumptions that there was little chance a
battery could fail, and on testing methods that led to that
conclusion.  “We used the state of the art in the industry at the
time,” Mike Sinnett, a Boeing vice president and the 787’s
chief engineer, told the safety board.  Boeing concluded in tests before the plane was certified to
fly that an internal short circuit in the battery system
couldn’t trigger a fire, according to preliminary reports from
the board. The company shot a nail into a battery cell to
simulate a short and it didn’t burn.  Previous Failure  Boeing has since concluded that the nail test isn’t a good
way to simulate an internal short, Sinnett said. “We don’t feel
that it was conservative enough.”  Without knowing what triggered the two battery incidents,
it’s impossible to know whether the FAA’s conditions for battery
safety were met, Boyd said.  A 2009 battery failure at a company that made components
for the electrical system was caused by an internal short-
circuit. Details of the event at a Hamilton Sundstrand Corp.
plant in Rockford,  Illinois , which hadn’t been disclosed,
appeared in records released April 23. The safety board says
multiple shorts triggered the 787 fire in Boston on Jan. 7.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  of Kyoto, Japan, made the 787 battery packs.
The charger is manufactured by Tucson, Arizona-based Securaplane
Technologies Inc. Both suppliers sell the products to  Thales SA (HO) ,
which then provides them to Boeing.  Battery Redesign  GS Yuasa redesigned the battery twice to improve safety
before the 787 entered service, including after the 2009
incident in Rockford, Takahiro Shizuki, manager of GS Yuasa’s
large lithium-ion battery technical unit, told the safety board.  The agency is still trying to identify the underlying
causes of the Boston fire. The reasons a battery aboard an  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  overheated and released fumes in Japan during
the second incident on Jan. 16 also haven’t been determined. The
airline changed its name to ANA Holdings Inc. this month.  Boeing, which has an order backlog for more than 800
Dreamliners, with a list price starting at about $207 million,
halted deliveries during the grounding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  