-- Senate Postpones Move to End Air-Controller Furloughs
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-25T22:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/faa-leader-vows-controller-furloughs-won-t-impact-safety.html
The Senate halted efforts to
legislate an immediate end to furloughs of air-traffic
controllers, as delays blamed on staffing shortages continued at
some of the largest U.S. airports.  The Senate won’t take up legislation before going on a
recess that ends on May 6, said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Swelling flight delays since controllers began to be
furloughed on April 21 have become the focus of the debate on
mandatory spending cuts known as sequestration and fueled calls
from airlines and airport operators for a solution.  “Common sense tells all of us that this can’t go on,”
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said
in an interview today. “It does need a quick resolution.”  Senators  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, and Mark Udall,
a Colorado Democrat, introduced a bill today to let the Federal
Aviation Administration use airport-improvement funds to pay
air-traffic controllers, as efforts accelerated to end flight
delays caused by forced budget cuts.  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat, and South Dakota’s  John Thune , the panel’s
ranking Republican, worked on another proposal today that would
have given the FAA more authority to move money around within
its budget.  Jentleson said there isn’t enough time for lawmakers to
complete their work before the recess, or for leaders of both
parties to forge agreement on when to move it through.  “There’s not yet an agreement on which to vote, and a
consensus on when to vote,” he said today.  The Senate is leaving  Washington  tonight and won’t return
for more than a week.  Sequester Effects  The efforts to free up more money for the FAA comes as it
and other government programs are being cut under the automatic
budget cuts.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development is losing
$938 million in its Housing Choice Voucher program, which will
deny assistance to an estimated 140,000 low-income families
seeking temporary housing, according to the Washington-based
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.  Head Start, an educational assistance program for poor
children funded by the  Department of Health  and Human Services,
is scheduled to cut 70,000 slots for preschoolers, the agency
said. That’s triggered lotteries in  Indiana  for remaining
positions in the program.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney yesterday said the
Obama administration is willing to consider resolving the FAA’s
budget woes separately from other agencies.  ‘Band-Aid Measure’  “If Congress wants to address specifically the problems
caused by the sequester with the FAA, we would be open to
looking at that,” Carney told reporters. “But that would be a
Band-Aid measure.”  Collins said she’d discussed her approach with
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood who, she said, called it
“an effective, workable solution.”  LaHood’s spokeswoman, Sasha Johnson, declined in an
interview today to discuss the secretary’s conversations with
lawmakers because they were private.  The House’s transportation leader said during a press
briefing today he’s been “resisting” the Senate’s approach.  One Penny  “We don’t need to spend one more penny on the FAA,”
Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican and
chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee, said.  The FAA has the authority it needs to shift funds to limit
controller furloughs, Shuster said.  “If the Senate produces something, we’ll take a look at
it,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican.  Thune, in an interview with Bloomberg Television, wouldn’t
predict whether a bill would move in the Senate.  “We have put together what we think would be a solution to
this problem, at least in the near term,” he said.  The proposal would give the FAA more authority to use other
accounts to pay for air-traffic controllers, Thune said.
Senators  John Hoeven , a North Dakota Republican, and  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, have proposed similar
legislation.  Houston, Newark  Of about 3,000 flight delays reported yesterday, at least
863 were due to staffing reductions in airport towers and
regional facilities, the FAA said today in a statement. Among
the cities affected were  New York , Washington,  Los Angeles  and
 Dallas .  Some departures at Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental
Airport were being delayed as much as 45 minutes because of
staffing as of 4 p.m. local time, according to the FAA’s travel
website.  “Other/staffing” was also cited at  New Jersey ’s Newark
Liberty as some inbound flights were delayed an average of 2
hours, 18 minutes, and at New York’s Kennedy International
Airport, where some arrivals were running about a half-hour
late, the website showed. Late-afternoon delays at New York’s
LaGuardia stemmed from wind and weather conditions, the FAA
reported.  Other major U.S. airports were operating normally,
according to the FAA website, which showed earlier today that
staffing shortages slowed landings at  Chicago ’s O’Hare
International, the nation’s second-busiest airport.  Airport Grants  The  American Association  of Airport Executives, an
Alexandria, Virginia-based trade group representing more than
5,000 airport operators and businesses, said today it would
object to any plan that takes funds from airports to make up for
budget cuts.  “AAAE is supportive of ending the controller furloughs
caused by sequestration, but not by raiding the FAA’s capital
account to pay for operating expenses,” President Todd Hauptli
said in an e-mail.  The FAA gave $3.5 billion in grants to airports in its 2012
budget. That money, which comes from taxes on airline tickets
and  aviation fuel , is exempt from budget cuts under
sequestration.  Huerta yesterday defended his decision to furlough about 10
percent of U.S. controllers, telling House appropriators he had
no choice under government-wide budget cuts and that there will
be “no effect on safety” for airline passengers.  “This is government not working when we’re sitting here
holding the traveling public hostage in the midst of
sequestration,” JetBlue Airways Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Dave Barger said today, adding that he’s “encouraged” by
efforts to resolve the issue.  Huerta testified that he must look to controller salaries
as the FAA seeks $637 million in cuts. Seventy percent of the
agency’s operating budget is in payroll, and 40 percent of that
amount goes to air traffic controllers, he said.  Asked whether he could concentrate furloughs at less-
congested airports, Huerta said the FAA has to avoid picking
“winners and losers” among airlines by sparing larger hubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  