-- FastJet to Add South Africa Unit With Aid of President’s Son
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-04-24T10:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/fastjet-to-expand-into-south-africa-backed-by-president-s-son.html
FastJet Plc (FJET) , seeking to become the
first pan-African discount airline, said it will add flights in
South Africa, backed by local investors and a 2 million-pound
($3 million) share placing with a London institution.  FastJet will start offering tickets in a few weeks for the
first flight from Cape Town to Johannesburg on May 31, it said
today in a statement. The London-based company traded 14 percent
lower at 1.73 pence as of 11:17 a.m. in the U.K. after saying it
would sell new shares in the placing at 1.25 pence apiece.  FastJet is seeking to expand beyond Tanzania, where it
commenced services in November, as part of a plan to establish a
low-cost African network using a fleet of Airbus SAS A319
planes. An effort to build a South African service using
bankrupt local carrier 1time has been dropped, it said today.  “Air fares in South Africa have skyrocketed since 1time
ceased flying at the end of last year, and many planes are
operating at full capacity,” FastJet Chairman David Lenigas said
in the statement. The carrier will add other routes once twice
daily Johannesburg-Cape Town flights are bedded in, he said.  Presidential Link  The new unit will be established via an investment vehicle
known as Blockbuster, which will be 75 percent owned by South
Africans including Edward Zuma, son of the nation’s president.  FastJet, backed by EasyJet Plc founder Stelios Haji- Ioannou, said it will issue 160 million new shares to finance
the expansion, with binding commitments for the placement
secured from a U.K. fund that it didn’t identify.  FastJet, whose majority shareholder is hotels, ports and
agribusiness specialist  Lonrho Plc (LONR) , has declined 55 percent so
far this year, valuing it at 37 million pounds.  The company said today that it has abandoned plans to
acquire South African operating rights from 1time in the absence
of assurances from creditors that they would accept a bid.  The carrier will instead use a license held by Federal
Airlines to commence flights after Blockbuster -- likely to be
renamed FastJet Holdings in coming months -- struck a deal with
the local company. Blockbuster’s involvement will also ensure
compliance with South Africa’s airline ownership laws.  737 Lease Plan  Blockbuster is in talks with leasing companies about the
rental of a Boeing Co. 737 aircraft and crew while it awaits
approval from South African regulators to deploy A319s, FastJet
Chief Executive Officer Ed Winter said in an interview.  Federal Air focuses heavily on the tourism trade, providing
flights to game reserves with a variety of smaller aircraft not
generally suited to FastJet’s operations. The new venture could
ultimately require as many as 10 jetliners, Winter said.  “There is a real place for somebody to come in and create
a competitive marketplace,” he said, adding that international
operations from South Africa should follow.  FastJet has moderated its expansion plans while awaiting
rights from  Tanzania  to fly internationally from its existing
bases. It yesterday announced an agreement with Five Forty
Aviation Ltd. to resolve a legal dispute over rights in  Kenya 
which should advance plans for an operation there, Winter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  