-- Federal Reserve Has Fueled Housing Rebound, Pimco’s Cudzil Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-04-24T14:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/federal-reserve-has-fueled-housing-rebound-pimco-s-cudzil-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s debt buying
has helped housing both by holding down borrowing costs for home
buyers and pushing investors to purchase properties instead of
bonds, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Michael Cudzil said.  “It’s definitely had a positive impact on the housing
market,” Cudzil, an executive vice president who specializes in
mortgages at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .
Along with helping traditional borrowers, the lower bond  yields 
created by the central bank have “forced money away from
center. You’re actually starting to see money moving out of the
 capital markets  and into real estate.”  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity
firm, is among institutional investors rushing to buy up homes
to rent out, helping prices in 20 large metropolitan areas  rise 
9 percent through January from March 2012, after falling 35
percent from a 2006 peak, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller
index.  Values will rise 8 percent to 12 percent over the next two
years, boosted in part by the near-record  affordability  created
by the low  mortgage rates  the Fed has engineered, Cudzil said.  The central bank started its third round of asset purchases
known as quantitative easing in September with $40 billion in
monthly buying of mortgage bonds, before also adding $45 billion
of Treasuries to the program. Rates on 30-year mortgages
averaged 3.41 percent last week, after reaching an all-time low
of 3.31 percent in November, according to Freddie Mac surveys.  Pimco, manager of the world’s largest bond fund, expects
the Fed to start slowing its debt buying by September, before
ending the expansion of its balance sheet early next year,
Cudzil said.  Mortgage rates probably won’t experience a sharp jump when
the Fed stops buying, increasing only 0.15 percentage point to
0.2 percentage point, he said. Ideally, the private sector will
be strong enough to pick up the slack at the time the Fed begins
tightening, he said.  “Whether or not that transition can happen remains to be
seen,” he said. “The answer is still up in the air.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
Thomas R. Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  