-- Femsa Drops Most in Three Years After Profit Trails Estimates
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-04-24T21:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/femsa-drops-most-in-three-years-after-profit-trails-estimates.html
Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD) ,
owner of Latin America’s largest convenience-store chain, fell
the most in three years after first-quarter sales and profit
fell short of analysts’ forecasts and its South American soft-
drinks unit’s revenue declined.  Shares of Femsa, as the Monterrey-based company is known,
dropped 6.1 percent to 141.76 pesos at the close of trading in
Mexico City, the biggest decline since Jan. 11, 2010. Bottling
unit  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL)  slid 7.1 percent to 204.10 pesos, the
second-largest decrease on Mexico’s benchmark IPC index of 35
stocks after homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB.  The company’s bottling business and its Oxxo convenience
store chain may be heading for slower growth in the coming
years, according to Citigroup Inc. analysts Alexander Robarts
and Sergio Matsumoto.  “Femsa is at a strategic crossroads, since its Latin
American drinks segment and Oxxo in  Mexico  probably won’t be
able to sustain their growth rates in five years,” Robarts and
Matsumoto wrote in a report dated yesterday in which they
maintained their neutral recommendation. Reduced growth will
pressure Femsa “to sow the seeds that will help it maintain its
sales and profit growth in the future.”  The company will meet with bond investors beginning next
week to explore an international debt sale as  interest rates 
remain low and it seeks to move ahead with a “good pipeline”
of potential deals, Chief Corporate Officer Javier Astaburuaga
said today on a conference call discussing first-quarter
results.  Falling Traffic  Femsa’s operating profit slid 1.8 percent to 5.12 billion
pesos ($420.5 million), missing analysts’ average estimate of
5.96 billion pesos. Sales of 56.2 billion pesos also fell short
of expectations of 58.8 billion pesos. Net income climbed 13
percent to 2.61 billion pesos.  The company recorded a pretax profit of 4.5 billion pesos
from its 20 percent stake in  Heineken NV (HEIA) , which bought Femsa’s
beer unit in 2010. The Amsterdam-based brewer fell 5.1 percent,
the most in 20 months, after reporting an unexpected decline in
first-quarter sales today.  While revenue at the Oxxo unit climbed 14 percent, store
traffic fell 1.2 percent. Same-store sales rose 4.8 percent,
bolstered by a 6.1 percent increase in the average receipt. The
company opened 135 net new stores in the first quarter, bringing
its total store count to 10,736.  “The report was below what we expected due to the weakness
reported in the soft-drinks unit’s volumes and the currency
conversion effects in that business unit,” Invex analyst
Montserrat Anton Honorato wrote in a note to clients. She has a
“hold” recommendation on the company.  “We also found negative surprises in the Oxxo chain, such
as a fall in store traffic, something we hadn’t seen in the time
we’ve been covering this company (since 2007),” Anton Honorato
wrote.  Strong Peso  Coca-Cola Femsa’s first-quarter sales were little changed
at 33.6 billion pesos, less than the average estimate of 35.5
billion pesos among eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. While
revenue in Mexico and Central America rose 8.5 percent, sales in
 South America  slid 6.3 percent as the  Mexican peso  strengthened
against the Venezuelan, Brazilian and Argentine currencies over
the past year.  Profit fell 7.7 percent to 2.43 billion pesos, while
operating income dropped 5.6 percent to 4.07 billion pesos
compared with an average estimate of 4.87 billion pesos by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Femsa owns  49 percent  of the
bottler, with Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Co. owning 29 percent and
22 percent in the hands of the public.  Shares of Coca-Cola Femsa, the largest Coke bottler in
 Latin America , closed at a record high in Mexico City yesterday
after climbing 15 percent this year before today. Femsa climbed
17 percent through yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  