-- Fertilizer Plant Sued by Victims, Insurers in Fatal Blast
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-04-24T01:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/fertilizer-plant-sued-by-victims-insurers-in-fatal-blast-1-.html
Adair Grain Inc., which owns the
fertilizer plant that exploded last week in West,  Texas , was
sued by townspeople and insurance firms seeking damages over the
deadly blast.  At least 30 residents of the small town and four local
insurance agencies are suing the family-owned fertilizer plant,
according to court records and the victims’ lawyers. The April
17 explosion killed at least 14, injured more than 200 and
damaged more than 70 homes and businesses in a five-block area.  “We filed quickly for one reason -– to be able to
participate in the investigation as soon as the federal
government releases the scene,” said Paul Grinke, a Dallas
lawyer who filed the lawsuit April 19 in state court in Waco on
behalf of four local insurance agencies and 17 of their
customers. “The calls just keep coming in. We’re over 30
individual clients now, including some who were uninsured.”  Andrea Jones Gutierrez, a 40-year-old single mother, has
sued the plant owner in a separate action for the loss of “all
her worldly possessions,” physical injuries and emotional
distress. She lived across the street from the West Fertilizer
Co., in the apartment complex destroyed in the blast.  “Looking at the pictures of that apartment complex, it’s
hard to think anyone would be alive, and I believe there may be
some fatalities there,” Randy Roberts, Gutierrez’s lawyer, said
in a phone interview today. “When Andrea first heard the
commotion, she stepped outside on the side of the complex
opposite from the plant just at the moment of the explosion, and
the building shielded her from the brunt of the blast.
Fortunately, her son was at church at the time, or he wouldn’t
be here today.”  Daniel Keeney, a spokesman for West Fertilizer, said the
company isn’t commenting on pending litigation.  ‘Fact Finding’  “Our focus remains on the fact finding,” he said. “We
continue to do everything we can to understand what happened to
ensure nothing like this ever happens again in any community. To
that end, the owners and staff of West Fertilizer Co. are
working closely with investigating agencies. We have encouraged
all employees to assist in the fact finding to whatever degree
possible.”  Roberts said he “seriously doubts” that Donald and Wanda
Adair, who own the fertilizer plant and its Adair Grain parent
company, have enough personal or corporate assets to cover all
the blast damages.  “There’s not any sprawling corporate network behind Adair
Grain,” Roberts said. “I’d be surprised if there’s enough.”  Insurance Policy  Grinke said his firm’s research indicates the plant may
have had only a $1 million primary insurance policy.  “I’ve not been made aware of any umbrella policy or excess
insurance coverage,” he said. “This was a mom-and-pop shop.”  At least nine of the 14 victims killed in the blast were
first responders, Grinke said, and their families may be
entitled to compensation from the U.S. government.  Grinke said many residents of West, a Central Texas farming
community located about 20 miles from Waco, are rallying around
the Adair family, with no apparent desire to sue a respected
neighbor.  “I have no smoking gun” that proves the Adairs made
mistakes that caused the blast, Grinke said. “I’ll go wherever
the evidence leads, and if the evidence proves Mr. Adair had
nothing to do with it, I’ll be the first to dismiss my suit.”  The cases are Acadia Insurance v. Adair Grain Inc.,
2013-1646-5, and Gutierrez v. Adair Grain, 2013-1653-5, 414th
District Court of McLennan County, Texas (Waco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  