-- Fiat Said to Target N.Y. Listing in Retreat From Italy
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-04-25T08:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/fiat-said-to-consider-n-y-listing-after-chrysler-merger.html
Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest
manufacturer, may retreat further from its heritage by selecting
 New York  as the primary exchange for its stock after a planned
merger with Chrysler Group LLC.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is evaluating the
Turin-based company’s switch from Milan, reflecting the
carmaker’s shift to the U.S. for most of its profit and revenue,
said four people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. A Fiat representative
declined to comment.  The executive, who runs both Fiat and Chrysler, plans to
combine the two manufacturers to forge a global automaking group
to challenge  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Fiat is
looking to buy the rest of Chrysler after accumulating a 58.5
percent stake since taking control in 2009 as the U.S. company
emerged from bankruptcy.  Fiat may keep Milan as a secondary listing, another person
said. While no final decision has been made and other
possibilities have been considered, the move would be highly
political and symbolic for debt-ridden  Italy  as it struggles to
emerge from a humbling cycle of recessions.  Fiat  gained  as much as 18 cents, or 3.9 percent, to 4.81
euros, the highest since Jan. 22, and was up 3.3 percent as of
9:58 a.m. in Milan trading. The stock has climbed 26 percent
this year, valuing the company at 5.97 billion euros ($7.78
billion).  Italian Influence  Fiat is a key part of Italy’s commercial fabric. Its name
is an acronym for Fabbrica Italiana Automobili Torino, or
Italian Car Factory of Turin. The company, pushed by the Agnelli
industrial family, played a significant role in Italy’s
emergence as a manufacturing power after World War II.  “Italy and Turin should understand that the old Fiat, as
we knew it, doesn’t exist anymore,” said Giuseppe Berta, a Fiat
historian and business professor at Milan’s  Bocconi University .
“The carmaker now has the U.S. as its biggest market, so I
would be surprised if Marchionne doesn’t choose the New York
Stock Exchange.”  The Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company has become the
group’s cash machine as Fiat struggles to end losses in  Europe ,
which totaled more than 700 million euros last year. Fiat
generated 75 percent of 2012 operating profit in  North America .  Six out of nine Fiat’s analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
expect the combined company to be listed in the U.S., where it
may have better access to capital.  Court Dispute  “It makes a lot of sense for Marchionne to list Fiat-
Chrysler in the U.S.,” said Erich Hauser, an analyst for Credit
Suisse in  London . “Refinancing costs are typically lower and
aren’t so much subject to the funding costs of sovereign
bonds.”  Before the listing decision can be finalized, Fiat first
has to buy the remaining 41.5 stake owned in Chrysler from
United Auto Workers retiree health-care fund, or VEBA. The two
sides are in court disputing the price for part of the shares
that Fiat is seeking to buy under options held by the Italian
company.  Marchionne expects a Delaware court to decide on the issue
by the end of June. A hearing is scheduled today at the Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington, where lawyers will argue their
case for the valuation of the shares in the options.  The resolution of the court case would help provide
“clarity” on the merger by the end of the year, the CEO said
earlier this month.  New Stock  While Fiat says it doesn’t need to raise money to buy the
Chrysler stake, a combined NY-listed stock could help Marchionne
with his plan to shore up the group’s capital “in the medium to
long term” by issuing new shares alongside the listing.  “Marchionne may offer to pay the VEBA for their holding
partly with cash and the rest with stock of a new company,”
said  Michael Tyndall , an analyst at Barclays in London. “This
would be formed by merging Fiat and Chrysler and would have a
primary listing in New York.”  Financing talks with banks on Chrysler are under way and
Fiat may get additional loans from banks to buy the holding, two
of the people said. The Italian carmaker is approaching banks to
refinance a 1.95 billion euro credit line before the deal,
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Marchionne, 60, who grew up in  Canada , has said the U.S. is
an option to improve access to investors. Fiat “should somehow
look at the U.S. market for its possible benefits,” he said
March 19 in Geneva when asked if he would move the main listing
of the combined entity to the U.S.  Fiat Industrial  “Fiat has opened itself up fundamentally and irreversibly
to the outside world,” he told investors at the April 9 annual
general meeting.  The Agnelli family, which still controls Fiat through its
holding company  Exor SpA (EXO) , has already agreed to move  Fiat
Industrial (FI) ’s headquarters outside Italy after a combination with
its CNH division. The capital goods company that Fiat spun off
in 2011 is planning to merge with its farm-equipment division
 CNH Global NV (CNH)  and use CNH’s listing in NY for the combined
entity.  “Our heart and our head are in the many regions where we
operate,” John Elkann, Exor chairman and head of the family,
told reporters in Milan this month, when asked if Fiat will keep
its headquarters in Turin after the merger with Chrysler.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  