-- Fisker Says Bush Energy Department Urged Loan Application
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-04-24T23:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/firker-says-energy-department-urged-loan-application.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the
electric-car maker that missed its first payment on a U.S. loan
this week, sought taxpayer financing at the urging of President
 George W. Bush ’s administration, its co-founder said.  The company, which fired three-quarters of its workforce
this month, began its slide for a variety of reasons, Henrik Fisker said at a congressional hearing today.  After the U.S. Energy Department pushed the company to
apply for a loan, suppliers provided parts that were subject to
safety recalls, its battery supplier went bankrupt and
Superstorm Sandy destroyed shipments of assembled cars, he said
in  the remarks .  “Some have alleged that the company only received the
loans due to political connections,” said Fisker, who resigned
from his company March 13. “I am not aware and do not believe
that any improper political influence was used in connection
with the company’s loan application or subsequent negotiations
with the  Department of Energy . We were approached and encouraged
to apply for a loan by the department.”  Fisker was among the witnesses who testified before a
subcommittee of the Republican-controlled House scrutinizing the
$529 million in loans to Fisker, which Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  last year called a “loser” and a
recipient of “crony capitalism.” The company, based in
Anaheim,  California , hasn’t produced a car since July.  Detroit Show  President  Barack Obama ’s administration announced a
conditional loan approval for Fisker in September 2009, eight
months after he took office.  Henrik Fisker, though, said he was approached at a
sustainability conference in California by John Mizroch,
formerly an acting assistant energy secretary, “soon after”
the company debuted the concept of its $103,000 Karma at the
 Detroit auto show  in January 2008.  “We discussed the technology that Fisker Automotive was
developing and he encouraged the company to apply” for a loan,
which it did at the end of the year, he said.  Mizroch, who left the department in January 2009 and is now
a consultant, said that while he has known Fisker since he
worked there, he doesn’t recall talking with him about the
 advanced-vehicles loan program , which wasn’t created until later
in 2008.  “I think Henrik’s recollection is inaccurate,” Mizroch
said in an e-mail. “I have no recollection of talking to Henrik
about the AVTM program while I was at DOE.”  Fisker declined to answer reporters’ questions after the
hearing.  ‘Bad Loan’  The vehicle loan program was created in a law passed by
Congress, and signed by Bush, to spur development of more fuel-
efficient vehicles including plug-in electrics.  “It is hard to understand why the Department of Energy
ever thought Fisker was a viable company that should receive
taxpayer money,” Representative  Jim Jordan , the  Ohio Republican 
who is chairman of the subcommittee, said in an e- mailed
statement. At the hearing, he criticized the choice of Fisker as
a recipient given its  credit rating , lack of collateral and poor
 cash flow .  The company raised private capital “before we heard of”
the U.S. loan program, Bernhard Koehler, Fisker’s chief
executive officer for  Europe  and the  Middle East , said in
 prepared testimony . Fisker, for whom Koehler had been chief
operating officer, raised $1.2 billion from investors, Koehler
said.  Access Frozen  While Fisker’s access to its loan was frozen in June 2011,
the company and the Energy Department didn’t make that public
until the following year.  Fisker missed its first payment due on the loan on April
22. It drew down about $193 million of its balance before the
Energy Department cut off its access after the company missed
milestones it was required to meet for production of the Karma.  Nicholas Whitcombe, former acting director of the Energy
Department’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan
Program, defended the loan program and the decision to lend to
Fisker.  “The department has acted decisively to protect the
taxpayers’ interest since it became evident that Fisker faced
financial difficulties,” Whitcombe, who now works in a
different loan office at the agency, said in his testimony.
“The department is continuing to communicate with Fisker
regarding its obligations under the loan agreement, and is
committed to ensuring that the taxpayers’ interests are
protected to the maximum extent possible.”  Loan Program  Whitcombe said there were about 150 applications to the
vehicle loan program. Five loans were granted.  In June 2010, less than two months after Fisker’s loan was
finalized, Sandra Claghorn, then an Energy Department loan
official, said in an e-mail released by the committee that the
company’s request to draw money might not be honored because it
wasn’t meeting loan requirements.  The “Fisker draw request may be in limbo due to lack of
compliance with financial covenants,” Claghorn said in the June
2, 2010 e-mail.  “The document shows that one person at a meeting discussed
the possibility that Fisker might not meet a financial
commitment, which had to be certified as met by the company
before a loan disbursement,” Aoife McCarthy, an Energy
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The department
received that certification five days later, and subsequently
disbursed on the loan.”  The same e-mail from Claghorn talked about the status of
loan applications from other companies seeking funding from the
vehicle loan program, which last granted a loan when it had $4
billion remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 