-- LG Electronics Profit Plunges 91% Amid Stagnant TV Demand
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-04-24T10:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/lg-electronics-profit-misses-estimates-amid-falling-tv-prices.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
second-largest television maker, posted a 91 percent drop in
first-quarter profit as a stagnant market hurt TV sales. The
 shares  fell.  Net income dropped to 22.1 billion won ($20 million) in the
three months ended March 31 from 247.5 billion won a year
earlier, Seoul-based LG said in a statement today. That was well
below the 208.7 billion-won average of 23 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating profit  fell to 349.5 billion won from 401.7
billion won a year earlier, LG said. Total sales increased to
14.1 trillion won from 13.2 trillion won, helped by a better
performance at the company’s mobile phone business.  Profit at the TV-making unit declined from a year earlier
as demand for plasma-display sets decreased, LG said. LG, which
trails  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in TV shipments, has said it
plans to increase deliveries 15 percent this year by offering
sets with new display technologies and more advanced functions.  “LG lagged behind Samsung in the high-end TV race while it
also was pressured by some players like Vizio in the lower-end
category, forcing it to cut prices,” Kwon Sung Ryul, a Seoul-
based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., said before the earnings
release. “A strong TV rebound isn’t likely this year. Only
about a low-single percentage growth is expected at best.”  LG fell 0.4 percent to close at 90,000 won in Seoul trading
Today, compared with a 0.9 percent gain in  South Korea ’s
benchmark Kospi index. The shares have gained 22 percent this
year.  OLED TVs  While demand for plasma-display sets dropped, sales of LCD
TVs increased in  Europe  and  emerging markets  including  China , LG
said.  The company’s Chief Financial Officer, David Jung, said in
Seoul that the consumer electronics maker will see higher sales
and improved operating profit in the second quarter, mainly
driven by new smartphone and TV product releases. “For the full
year, we will sell about 45 million smartphones,” Jung said. In
2012, LG sold 26.3 million smartphones.  LG said Jan. 2 it started selling a 55-inch TV set with a
display using organic light-emitting diodes, or OLEDs, in South
Korea for 11 million won, giving the company a head start in
mass-marketing the technology. The company will expand OLED TV
sales to  North America , Europe and other Asian markets in the
first quarter, it said at the time.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said Feb. 19 it aims to
start selling OLED TVs in the first half of this year.  TVs with OLED screens offer sharper and brighter images
than current liquid-crystal-display models and consume less
power. They are also thinner as they don’t require the use of a
backlight.  LCD Shipments  Worldwide shipments of LCD sets, the biggest TV segment,
fell for the first time in 2012, NPD Group Inc.’s DisplaySearch
said on March 21. The global average selling price for flat-
panel TVs declined 2 percent, the  Santa Clara , California-based
researcher  said.   Global deliveries may increase 7 percent to 216 million
units in 2013, DisplaySearch said on March 13.  LG shipped 10.3 million smartphones including its flagship
 Optimus (MLOPT)  models in the first quarter, boosting revenue from the
business 29 percent from a year earlier, the company said.
Operating profit at the unit increased almost fourfold to 133
billion won.  LG released its upgraded flagship smartphone, the Optimus G
Pro, in South Korea on Feb. 20 as it seeks to regain market
share lost to Apple Inc. and Samsung. LG also is rolling out a
cheaper Optimus series to compete with fast-growing Chinese
manufacturers.  The Optimus G Pro features  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, a  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  quad-core processor and a 13-megapixel
rear-facing camera. The device also has a function that lets
users record from the front and rear cameras simultaneously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  