-- General Dynamics Quarterly Profit Rises as Sales Decline
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-04-24T20:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/general-dynamics-profit-rises-as-sales-fall-short-of-estimates.html
General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the maker
of Abrams tanks and Gulfstream business jets, rose the most in
four years after beating analysts’ estimates for first-quarter
profit.  Net income from continuing operations increased 1.2 percent
to $571 million, or $1.62 a share, compared with $564 million,
or $1.57 a share, a year earlier, the  Falls Church , Virginia-
based company said today in a statement.  Analysts forecast  $1.50
a share, the average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales fell 2.3 percent to $7.4 billion.  General Dynamics rose 6.9 percent to close at $71.73 in  New
York  trading, the biggest one-day gain since January 2009.  The company is focusing on cost-cutting and increasing
margins after reporting a $2.1 billion fourth-quarter loss that
new Chief Executive Officer Phebe Novakovic attributed to ill-
advised acquisitions and declining  defense spending . The company
didn’t alter its 2013 forecast for profit of $6.60 to $6.70 a
share made in January.  “General Dynamics’ first-quarter performance reflects our
continued focus on operations, cost improvement and cash
generation, as well as our commitment to meeting our customers’
requirements,” Novakovic said in the statement.  Analysts had predicted sales of $7.54 billion, the average
of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Automatic U.S. budget cuts took effect March 1. The across-
the-board reductions were crafted by President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans as a penalty for failing to agree on a
deficit reduction strategy. They will strip $1.2 trillion from
national security and domestic programs over nine years unless a
compromise is reached.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense company,
said yesterday its first-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates
as sales declined 2 percent compared with a year earlier.
Lockheed cautioned that the automatic budget reductions may push
2013 sales to the low end of its prior forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  