-- Germany’s Altmaier Wants Rare-Earths Recycling to Reduce Imports
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/germany-s-altmaier-wants-rare-earths-recycling-to-reduce-imports.html
Germany  wants companies to harvest
metals including rare earths from recycled electronics as
Europe’s biggest economy seeks to become less dependent on
imports from China and other nations.  Germany could significantly reduce rare earth imports if
companies would recycle products such as mobile phones and
computer hard drives, Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said.  “We want to sensitize the economic players to that,”
Altmaier said yesterday on the sidelines of a meeting by the UN-
administered  International Resource Panel  in Berlin. Germany has
a target to double the efficiency with which it uses resources
by 2020 from 1994 levels, he said.  Germany is at the forefront of efforts in Europe, the U.S.
and  Japan  to diversify sourcing of rare-earth elements used in
everything from  wind turbines  and flat-screen TVs to weapons
systems after China, the biggest supplier, announced in 2010 it
would limit production.  Demand for some Chinese rare earths has declined recently
as companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  recycle
the metals and employ substitutes. In November, Japan, the
world’s biggest importer of rare earths, signed an agreement to
buy more of the metals from India to diversify supply.  While companies are already recycling some electronics,
they’re mainly targeting gold, ignoring other potentially
valuable metals, which are lost in the process, Altmaier said.  “We are throwing away 99 percent of the rare earths we’re
using,” Ernst Ulrich von Weizsaecker, the UN panel’s co-chair,
said at the same press conference.  Altmaier said he wants closer international cooperation on
resources, urging the creation of “an adequate framework” to
hold regular talks on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  