-- German Industrial Property Rentals Drop on Economic Uncertainty
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-04-24T11:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/german-industrial-property-rentals-drop-on-economic-uncertainty.html
Demand for warehouse space in
 Germany  fell in the first quarter as companies signed fewer
leases amid concern that  Europe ’s largest economy may take
longer than expected to recover.  Companies agreed to rent 619,200 square meters (6.69
million square feet) of industrial properties, 29 percent less
than year earlier, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said in a
statement today.  “It’s mostly due to weaker demand because the signings
aren’t there, but there’s also a lack of supply,” Rainer
Koepke, head of German industrial properties at the Chicago-
based firm, said by telephone. As a result, average rents in
Germany’s five biggest cities rose 2.5 percent to 4.53 euros per
square meter, JLL said.  Business confidence in Germany unexpectedly fell from a 10-
month high in March and a report today showed a further drop in
April. The country’s economy may have entered a recession in the
first quarter after unseasonably cold weather in March dragged
on growth.  While lease signings slowed, more companies built their own
warehouses. Industrial property construction by warehouse
operators such as retailers and shippers rose 43 percent to
679,000 square meters,  Jones Lang  said.  Combining lease signings and new construction, total take-
up of industrial space fell 4 percent to 1.3 million square
meters. Full-year take-up will probably be 4.3 million to 4.7
million square meters, compared with 4.7 million in 2012, JLL
said.  “The total will only reach last year’s level under a best-
case scenario,” Koepke said in the statement.  Construction by warehouse operators will probably rise,
while lease signings will continue to fall, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  