-- Getting Japan to Guzzle American Gas
-- B y   G a r y   C l y d e   H u f b a u e r
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/getting-japan-to-guzzle-american-gas.html
(Corrects scale of U.S. natural gas production in sixth
paragraph, size of exports in seventh.)  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
expected a sharp debate at home when he said his country wanted
to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership. He may not have
anticipated a sharp debate in the U.S.  After all, rarely does  Washington  have the pleasure of
opening new trade negotiations when the potential  benefits  are
so heavily stacked in the U.S.’s favor.  Why so? Because Japan’s nontariff barriers -- protecting
major sectors of the economy, including services, agriculture
and selected manufactures -- start from much higher levels than
equivalent U.S. barriers, and the TPP aims to reduce them all,
preferably to zero. Japan’s inclusion in the trade pact will
 boost  American exports, create American jobs and make both
economies more efficient, now and well into the future.  Few sectors stand to gain so much as the growing U.S.
liquefied-natural-gas industry. Japan’s membership in the TPP,
coupled with long-term U.S. supply assurances, will deliver
exponential  LNG export growth  to a huge market hungry for
alternative energy supplies. The timing couldn’t be better:
Right now, America’s competitive advantage in exploration and
extraction is unrivaled.  Japan , the world’s third-largest economy, is also the
single-largest buyer of natural gas. Given the country’s
indefinite moratorium on expanding the nuclear-energy program,
Japan’s reliance on natural gas is sure to increase. In fact,
Japan faces the prospect of replacing some 12,000 megawatts of
nuclear-generating capacity. The total dearth of natural-gas
resources means that Japan must rely heavily on LNG  imports  as
an alternative source of clean power.  Gas Riches  Even though the U.S. is one of the world’s largest and most
advanced natural gas  producers  (the industry is already
responsible for half a million jobs), and the U.S.-Japan
security alliance is critical, the U.S. hasn’t yet capitalized
on Japan’s need for assured LNG.  In 2012, Japan imported a record 87 million tons -- an
increase of 11 percent compared with the previous year -- from
nations such as Qatar, Russia,  Australia  and  Indonesia . But the
U.S. share of this business has been tiny.  After the Fukushima disaster, Japan was able to meet its
immediate energy needs by paying premiums for the diversion of
LNG shipments from intended markets. But Japan harbors a
determined interest in long-term agreements with U.S. exporters.
Abundant American  supplies , their reliability (with the right
U.S. policies), and the prospect that U.S. LNG will be among the
cheapest all make American LNG an ideal long-term source.  Under current U.S. law and Energy Department regulations,
the export of LNG to Japan can be ensured only by a free-trade
relationship with the U.S., and the only prospect for this
relationship is the TPP agreement. To be sure, the Energy
Department could amend its rules so that LNG could be exported
to any country, with or without a free-trade pact.  A reform of this sort is being debated by senior energy
officials, and President  Barack Obama  will probably have the
last word. But even if the current regulations are changed,
Japanese LNG buyers and U.S. LNG sellers will all feel much more
secure with a guarantee of free trade in energy written into the
TPP. LNG export and import terminals, and specialized ships to
carry the LNG, require investment of $10 billion or more, and
the payback time is typically 20 years. Companies contemplating
investments of this size and duration need legal security.  A trade pact deal that includes Japan will open new and
lucrative markets to U.S. exporters in other sectors, including
services, agriculture, automobiles, select manufactures, and
possibly coal from the Powder River Basin.  Creating Jobs  Meanwhile, Japan will continue to expand its already large
stock of direct investment in the U.S. Both through trade and
investment, the  TPP with Japan  will support far more U.S. jobs
than a TPP without Japan.  Obama declared on his first presidential trip to  Asia , back
in November 2009, that the U.S. would engage with the other TPP
countries -- Australia, Brunei,  Chile ,  Canada ,  Malaysia ,  Mexico ,
 New Zealand ,  Peru ,  Singapore  and  Vietnam  -- to shape an
effective, mutually beneficial regional-trade agreement.  Japan’s  inclusion  will immediately elevate the stature of
this 21st-century pact into an opportunity to renew the U.S.-
Japan partnership. It will establish firmer rules for resolving
commercial differences between the world’s No. 1 and No. 3
economies, and ensure that the pact covers roughly 40 percent of
global gross domestic product. It recognizes the importance for
the U.S. of trans-Pacific trade and affirms Japan as a strategic
ally.  Not least, it ensures that the U.S. LNG industry can lead
the world to a cleaner, more efficient and more affordable
energy future.  (Gary Clyde Hufbauer is the Reginald Jones senior fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Clyde Hufbauer at  ghufbauer@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 