-- Glaxo Profit Falls on Divestments as Approvals Awaited
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-24T11:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/glaxo-profit-falls-on-divestments-as-approvals-awaited.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, said first-quarter profit fell 6 percent
after losing revenue from several products it divested.  Earnings excluding some items fell to 1.93 billion pounds
($2.95 billion), or 26.9 pence a share, from a restated 2.05
billion pounds, or 26.9 pence, a year earlier, London-based
Glaxo said in a statement today. That beat the 25.2-pence
average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales fell 3 percent to 6.47 billion pounds after Glaxo
sold 17 over-the-counter products to Prestige Brand Holdings
Inc. and after  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  took over the promotion of
the overactive bladder treatment VESIcare. Analysts had
estimated revenue of 6.42 billion pounds.  Glaxo is counting on regulatory decisions on six drugs as
it seeks to boost sales 1 percent this year and earnings per
share by 3 percent to 4 percent.  Glaxo fell 0.3 percent to 1,673.50 pence as of 12:05 p.m.
in  London . The shares have returned 21 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 32 percent
return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  The company has filed for U.S. approval of the lung drugs
Anoro and Breo Ellipta, dolutegravir for HIV, dabrafenib and
trametinib for skin cancer, and albiglutide for Type 2 diabetes.  Advisers to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
recommended last week that Breo Ellipta be approved to treat
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, also known as smoker’s
cough. Sales of the drug may reach 703 million pounds in 2020,
according to Tim Anderson, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. The FDA’s decision on Breo is scheduled for May 12.  Priority Review  Dolutegravir will get a priority review by the FDA, with a
decision expected Aug. 17, as it aims to challenge Gilead
Sciences Inc., maker of the world’s best-selling AIDS medicine.  Results from late-stage studies of experimental treatments
darapladib for heart disease and MAGE-A3, a cancer treatment,
also will be released this year.  Glaxo has completed a review of its Lucozade and Ribena
drink brands, and has decided to sell them, the company said
today. The brands don’t fit with either the company’s health-
care products business or its emerging-markets business, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Witty said in February.  If sold, the brands could generate as much as 2.5 billion
pounds for Glaxo, according to analysts at Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  