-- GM Plans 230 Million-Euro Car-Research Center Expansion
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-24T10:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/gm-plans-230-million-euro-car-research-center-expansion.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
second-biggest carmaker, plans to spend 230 million euros ($299
million) on a model-development center for its Opel and Vauxhall
brands as part of its effort to restore profit in  Europe .  Spending will be focused on adding testing facilities at
its research center at Opel’s headquarters in the Frankfurt
suburb of Ruesselsheim, and on its proving ground in Dudenhofen,
Germany, the Detroit-based manufacturer said in a  statement 
today. The budget is in addition to an investment plan of 4
billion euros through 2016 for new cars and engines announced
earlier this month, said Ulrich Weber, an Opel spokesman.  GM’s European operations have accumulated $18 billion in
losses since 1999, and the company has a target for the business
to break even by 2015. In addition to a cost-reduction program
that involves shutting a plant in  Germany , GM’s European revival
strategy includes introducing 23 models and 13 engines through
2016 to regain market share.  Combined new car registrations in March by Opel and
Vauxhall dropped 10 percent in Europe, about equal to the
regional market contraction. The European car industry is
heading into its sixth straight year of sales declines, and
deliveries may reach a 20-year low.  “The development done at Ruesselsheim will be on engines
and transmissions for Europe and the rest of the world,” Opel
Chief Executive Officer Karl-Thomas Neumann said in the
statement. “This move will give us global responsibility in
engine development.”  The management and the more than 6,000 employees at the
Ruesselsheim development center also agreed to more flexible
working conditions, Opel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  