-- Gol Tries Cutting Biggest Debt With IPO for Smiles Unit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-26T13:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/gol-tries-cutting-biggest-debt-with-ipo-for-smiles-unit.html
(Corrects value in first and third paragraphs, number of
shares in third paragraph. Story was published April 24.)  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,
the world’s most-indebted airline, is planning to eliminate some
of those obligations by raising at least $534 million based on
the value of its most-loyal fliers program.  The results of an initial public offering of the Smiles
mileage plan, the fifth IPO this year in  Brazil , will be
announced tomorrow after the close of regular trading. Two of
the previous offerings were priced at the low end of estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IPO comes as Gol struggles to fill seats and boost
revenue because fewer Brazilians are flying, fuel bills keep
rising and its U.S. dollar-denominated debt is coming due. Gol
said in a filing this month it’s offering as many as 52.2
million shares for 20.70 reais to 25.80 reais each to reap as
much as 1.35 billion reais ($673 million).  “Gol decided to do this now because the company needs
money,” said Bianca Faiwichow, an analyst at Gbm Brasil Dtvm in
Sao Paulo who rates the stock as market outperform. “Investors
know this and that will probably put pressure on the price.”  The Sao Paulo-based carrier’s debt swelled as Brazil’s real
weakened 18 percent since the end of 2010, boosting the value of
dollar debt. Total debt rose 4 percent to 5.19 billion reais in
2012, of which 1.72 billion reais is short term and due in
coming years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gol
posted a record 1.51 billion-real  loss  last year.  Debt Comparison  Its ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization was 24.6 as of Sept. 30, the
latest date for which comparable airline data were available.  About 70 percent of Gol’s debt is denominated in dollars,
while 93 percent of its  revenue  is in reais. Gol’s spending on
fuel rose 31 percent in the five years ended in 2012, based on
its expense for  each seat flown  a kilometer.  A spokesman for Gol declined to comment on the Smiles IPO,
citing the pending release of first-quarter  earnings  results
next month.  Gol jumped 14 percent through yesterday since Dec. 20, the
day before saying it was separating the Smiles plan and weighing
an IPO. That beat the 10 percent slide for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index. The shares rose 2.7 percent to 13.19 reais at the
close in Sao Paulo.  Selling Points  Frequent-flier programs make money by selling miles to
banks or hotels to give to customers. Stand-alone operators such
as  Multiplus SA (MPLU3)  can sell points to carriers, banks and
retailers, and then buy airline seats and other rewards at a
discount, pocketing the difference.  Gol seeks to replicate some of the success of Multiplus,
which has more than  doubled  since Latam Airlines Group SA held
the IPO of its unit in 2010. Last year, Sao Paulo-based
Multiplus’s sales  grew  18 percent to 1.48 billion reais. The
company carries no debt.  “Multiplus’s is a solid business,” said Felipe Silveira,
an analyst at Coinvalores in Sao Paulo. “Smiles is the biggest
competitor to Multiplus in the Brazilian market.”  After posting a rally since 2010, Multiplus plunged 32
percent this year through yesterday,  compared  with a 4.3 percent
decline in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index and an 8.5 percent
gain for Montreal-based  Aimia Inc. (AIM) , the only other publicly
traded loyalty program.  Multiplus Drag  Dragging on Multiplus stock were events including Latam’s
plans for a secondary offering at the unit, tighter rules at
banks such as Itau Unibanco Holding SA for credit-card holders’
award redemptions, and the IPO proposal by Smiles, which has a
partnership with state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s gas station
unit. The shares rose 0.7 percent to 32.50 reais today.  For Smiles, a pledge by Greenwich, Connecticut-based
private-equity firm General Atlantic to invest as much as 400
million reais at a maximum price of 20.70 reais a share, the
minimum in the expected range, offers “certainty that there
will be demand,” Faiwichow said in a telephone interview.  A press official for General Atlantic at MHP Communications
in  London  declined to comment, as did a press official for
Multiplus.  Other IPOs in Brazil in 2013 have been priced at the low
end of estimates. Financial software developer  Senior Solution
SA (SNSL3M)  sold shares in March at 11.50 reais, 2 reais less than the
bottom estimate. Also at the low end of the range was utility
 Alupar Investimento SA (ALUP11) , which sold stock April 22 at the bottom
of its forecast range and started trading today.  Smiles Demand?  High demand may drive Smiles shares above the minimum
price, making the stock more expensive, said Matheus Mufarej, an
analyst at Victoire Brasil Investimentos, which  owns  77,000
shares of Gol, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
2.1 billion reais under management.  “We are not entering the deal because we think the risk is
a little high, and the demand exists so the stock won’t be
cheap,” he said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “We
would prefer to enter Multiplus because it’s  cheaper .”  Multiplus traded yesterday at  18 times  estimated 2013
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Smiles may
trade at 19 to 27 times earnings, Faiwichow estimated. Aimia,
the largest loyalty program by market value, traded at a ratio
of 10.  Smiles has 20 percent of the frequent-flier market in
Brazil, while Multiplus controls the rest, Mufarej said.  Gol may be counting on luring loyalty customers by offering
more favorable terms. Multiplus buys tickets at a higher price
from Latam than Smiles does from Gol, Mufarej said. Smiles miles
also are valid longer and Smiles customers can use cash to
complement their miles, Faiwichow said.  “The loyalty program business is a solid one,”
Coinvalores’s Silveira said. “High consumption over the past
few years has resulted in cash flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  