-- Greek State Workers Plan Parliament Rally Against Job-Cut Law
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-04-24T15:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/greek-state-workers-plan-to-rally-parliament-against-job-cut-law.html
Greece ’s biggest union for state-
employed workers will stage a rally outside Parliament on April
28 as lawmakers meet to approve plans to fire 15,000 workers.  The rally will be held at 6:30 p.m. as the bill is debated,
according to a statement from Athens-based Adedy, which
represents about half a million Greek civil servants. The union
also plans to picket the  Finance Ministry  in  Athens  on April 26.  Greece’s government and international creditors reached an
agreement on conditions to receive more aid, including firing
state workers, on April 15, paving the way for the disbursement
of the 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion) remaining from a
previous review. It’s the first time the government has agreed
to dismiss workers employed by the state.  Identifying redundant positions and adopting a system that
will lead to mandatory exits for about 150,000 civil servants by
2015 is a requirement of international lenders to release
further aid payments. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said
April 16 the public sector workforce will decline by 160,000
people by 2015, meeting the minimum required.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said on April 15 that the
decision reached with the so-called troika of creditors -- the
European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and European Central
bank -- will allow the country to replace the dismissed
employees with younger, better-skilled staff.  More than three years after revealing that Greece had
misled its euro partners on the state of its finances, the
nation remains reliant on loans from the euro area and the IMF
to pay pensions and wages. To qualify for payments from the
total of 240 billion euros pledged to the country, it has to
continue meeting economic targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  