-- Guggenheim Hires Ex-Lehman Executive Schiffman in Deals Push
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-24T17:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/guggenheim-hires-ex-lehman-executive-schiffman-in-deals-push.html
Guggenheim Partners LLC, the $180
billion asset-management firm whose executives own a stake in
the Los Angeles Dodgers, hired Glenn H. Schiffman, the former
head of Asia-Pacific investment banking at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., to expand its investment banking unit.  Schiffman, who also served as head of investment banking
for the Americas and chief executive officer of Nomura
Securities North America and most recently was a partner at
Raine Group LLC, will be a senior managing director at
Guggenheim, according to a statement today from the Chicago and
New York-based firm.  “Over the years, I’ve had the opportunity to work with
Glenn on both sides of the table in numerous projects,” Alan
Schwartz, executive chairman of Guggenheim, said in the
statement. “His extensive experience advising across domestic
and international situations will be invaluable to Guggenheim
and to our clients.”  Guggenheim is hiring executives and expanding into
businesses including merger advisory, digital media and hedge
funds. CEO Mark Walter brought in Schwartz, former CEO of Bear
Stearns Cos., in 2009 to help build operations such as full-
service investment banking. Barclays Plc’s Andrew Taussig, who
was head of investment banking for retail companies, joined
Guggenheim last month, according to records on the website of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Henry Silverman, former chief operating officer of  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , joined last year and in March was named
head of the real estate and infrastructure business. The firm
also hired Ross Levinsohn this year to oversee a newly formed
digital media unit.  Walter and Guggenheim Baseball Management led the $2.15
billion purchase of the Los Angeles Dodgers, announced in 2012.
In September, Guggenheim, along with Mandalay Entertainment and
Mosaic Media Investment Partners LLC, agreed to buy Dick Clark
Productions, which produces “New Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and “The
Golden Globes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  