-- Li Ka-Shing Seen Winning Hong Kong Strike as Ships Go Faster
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-25T13:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/li-ka-shing-seen-winning-hong-kong-strike-as-ships-move-faster.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing  moved to
end a four-week strike at his docks in Hong Kong, hiring new
workers to handle ships and demanding protesters leave his
building in the city’s Central District.  The new workers and the return of some strikers to work has
cut the waiting time for ships to an average 20-to-25 hours,
compared with about 60 hours when the strike started, Hongkong
International Terminals Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The docks are operating at about 90 percent of
capacity.  The biggest industrial action ever faced by Li has led at
least 100 vessels to skip Hong Kong in favor of nearby ports.
Some dock workers, who are seeking better pay and working
conditions, remain camped around Li’s Cheung Kong Center
building in the central business district even after he gave
them a noon deadline to leave.  “The gradual recovery of operation is weakening the
strikers’ bargaining power,” Lawrence Li, an analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. said by phone. “It puts the workers in a
very difficult situation.”  The workers, who walked out of their jobs March 28, will
continue to press for better pay and working conditions, and
won’t rule out further escalation of protest, said Wong Yu-loy,
a representative of the Union of  Hong Kong  Dockers.  ‘Cheung Kong Center’  “We will continue to think about escalating actions,”
Wong said. “To be honest, we did expect the strike to last a
long period, but I have to say that we didn’t expect it could
last such a long time, four weeks. But we are determined.”  The workers surrounded Li’s 70-story building -- home to
the offices of Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Inc. -- last week
after rejecting a pay raise aimed at ending the strike. Dozens
of striking workers are sleeping in tents surrounding the
building. They have put up caricature pictures of Li while
police and security guards patrol the area.  Cheung Kong Center told the workers that if they didn’t
leave by noon, they could be subject to criminal prosecution,
according to a notice the building management put up today. As
of 8 p.m. in Hong Kong, the demonstrators with their tents
surrounding the entrances showed no signs of moving.  The  High Court  of Hong Kong today refused to grant an
interim injunction sought by the building’s owner to bar
striking workers from demonstrating at the premises,  Radio
Television Hong Kong  reported, citing Judge Derek Pang.
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (13) , which owns the building through unit
Turbo Top Ltd., said in a statement that the court is “set to
hear arguments from all parties with regards to the injunction
application next Friday.”  Occupy Movement  When protesters of the Occupy movement were given a
deadline last year to leave the premises of HSBC Holdings Plc’
Asian headquarters, court bailiffs only moved them out more than
two weeks later.  A section of a road around terminals in Hong Kong’s Kwai
Tsing district was blocked today, according to a notice from the
transport department. Some of the striking workers were
demonstrating in that area.  Li is  Asia ’s richest man with a total wealth of $27.4
billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .
Hutchison Whampoa gained 0.1 percent to HK$83.05.  Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust (HPHT)  was unchanged at 83.5 cents in  Singapore .  Government Mediators  Contract workers of Li’s Hongkong International were
offered a 7 percent raise by their employers, compared with the
workers’ demand for a 23 percent increase amid rising living
costs and record  home prices . Government mediators have helped
narrow the differences between employers and workers, Labor
Secretary Matthew Cheung told reporters April 17.  Some workers were told they will lose their jobs on April
19 as Global Stevedoring Service Co., one of the contractors
which employs them, decided to wind up operations because it
wasn’t able to meet the workers’ salary demand.  The striking workers are in a weak position as they account
for only a small portion of the total workforce, said Paul Tsui,
chairman of  Hong Kong Association of Freight Forwarding and
Logistics Ltd. , which represents 345 freight forwarders in the
city.  “Even though the operations are getting better, we still
hope it can be resolved soon, because it hurts everybody in the
city,” Tsui said.  Shanghai, Singapore  Hongkong International Terminals is operated by Hutchison
Port Holdings Trust, whose largest shareholder is Li’s Hutchison
Whampoa. Hutchison Port, along with partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) ,
dominates half of the capacity at Hong Kong, the world’s third-
largest container port behind Shanghai and Singapore.  The striking workers represent about 12 percent of 3,500 to
3,800 contract workers Hutchison Port hires in Hong Kong,
according to its latest  annual report .  The daily financial loss caused by the strike has been
“significantly” reduced in the last two weeks, Hongkong
International said in the statement on April 23, without
elaboration. The daily loss was narrowed to HK$2.4 million
($309,000) on April 5 from HK$5 million earlier, according to
the company.  Evergreen Marine Corp Taiwan Ltd., which had diverted
vessels to Shenzhen after the delays, hopes the labor issue can
be resolved soon, it said in an e-mailed statement on April 23.
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. ships have skipped 13 dockings in the
city because of the strike, it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The striking workers, mostly crane operators and
stevedores, earn HK$55 an hour, according to the union. That’s
less than the HK$60.70 they were paid in 1995, the union said.
The workers had a pay cut in 2003 during the outbreak of severe
acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  