-- IBM Said to Transfer Hardware Chief Adkins to Corporate Strategy
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ibm-said-to-shift-hardware-chief-adkins-to-corporate-strategy.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  reassigned the head of its hardware division to a new
role, a person familiar with the matter said, making a change
after a 17 percent drop in the division’s sales last quarter.  Rod Adkins will be senior vice president of corporate
strategy, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
information is private.  Tom Rosamilia , who has been overseeing
corporate strategy, will take charge of the hardware business,
reporting to  Steve Mills , senior vice president of software, the
person said.  IBM, the biggest computer-services company, is making the
personnel shift as it seeks to further reduce its dependence on
hardware. The division reported sales of $3.11 billion in the
first quarter, down from $3.75 billion a year earlier, as the
company struggled to distinguish its products, such as servers,
in a market that increasingly views them as commodity products.  “I don’t know if his numbers could have been better given
the conditions right now,” Laurence Balter, an analyst at
Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,  Washington , said of
Adkins. “They’re not necessarily putting him in a corner.”  James Sciales, an spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
declined to comment on the executive changes. The Wall Street
Journal reported the moves earlier yesterday.  Adkins had been a senior vice president, and remains one in
his new position, which previously didn’t carry that rank, the
person familiar with the change said.  IBM is in talks to sell its low-end server business, with
 Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  as the most likely bidder, a person familiar
with the matter said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  