-- Ibovespa Gains as Commodities Advance Pushes MMX Higher
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-24T21:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ibovespa-gains-as-commodities-advance-pushes-vale-higher.html
The Ibovespa gained for a fifth
day, the longest winning streak in seven months, as speculation
central banks will move to spur growth sent commodities higher,
boosting the outlook for Brazilian raw-material producers.  Petrochemicals producer  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  rallied to the highest
since September after JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc.
both raised their recommendations to the equivalent of buy.
Sugar-cane processor  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3)  rose to a
one-month high, and mining companies  Vale SA (VALE5)  and  MMX Mineracao e
Metalicos SA  followed metals higher.  The Ibovespa added 0.2 percent to 54,984.23 at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo . Thirty-seven  stocks  rose on the measure
while 28 fell. The real strengthened 0.6 percent to 2.0103 per
dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24  raw materials 
advanced 1.2 percent as speculation mounted that the European
Central Bank will cut its key  interest rate  to a record next
week.  “Economic data in Europe have been coming in a bit weaker,
which spurs bets that the central bank may lower the benchmark
lending rate to shore up growth,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, an
analyst at Futura Corretora in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone
interview. “These bets are fueling a rebound in commodities,
which is positive for Brazilian producers.”  European policy makers have indicated they may consider a
rate cut at their May 2 meeting. Central bank President  Mario Draghi  said April 19 he hasn’t seen any improvement in economic
data in the region as a whole, after hinting at the beginning of
the month he might lower borrowing costs if the recovery
faltered. Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said a day later
that it could lower rates if data show a need for it.  MMX rose 7.6 percent to 2.13 reais. Vale gained 0.7 percent
to 32.10 reais.  Tax Breaks  Cosan advanced 1 percent to 46.51 reais, extending a two-
day gain to 4.2 percent, the biggest for such a period since
January. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that
Brazil will give tax deductions and extend low-cost credit to
mills in a bid to lift ethanol output and reduce fossil-fuel
imports.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration will also lower
some taxes on raw materials used in the chemical industry,
spurring Citigroup to raise its recommendation for Braskem to
buy. The shares jumped 1.1 percent to 16.35 reais today.  “Tax cut brings relevant upside” for Braskem, Citigroup’s
analysts Pedro Medeiros and Fernando Valle wrote in a note to
clients. “This tax incentive helps Braskem’s deleveraging story
and adds significant profitability in the next few years.”  Alupar Debut  Alupar Investimento SA (ALUP11)  tumbled 5.4 percent to 17.50 reais
in its Sao Paulo trading debut. The Brazilian electricity and
transmission company said on April 22 it’s raising 851 million
reais by selling 46 million units for 18.5 reais each, at the
low end of its target range.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  has retreated 13 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has lost 7.8 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8 billion reais
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a daily average of 7.64 billion reais this year through
April 22, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  