-- Microsoft Sends Invitations for May 21 Xbox Event
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-04-24T18:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/microsoft-sends-invitations-for-may-21-xbox-event.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  plans a “special
unveiling” related to the Xbox, suggesting that the world’s
biggest software maker use the event to introduce the latest
version of its game console.  The event will be held at Microsoft’s Redmond, Washington,
headquarters, according to the e-mailed invitation. It will also
be shown online, via the Xbox Live service and the Spike TV
network.  The software maker is planning a new version of the console
to maintain its 27-month lead over  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.
in a market projected to  expand  to $70 billion in 2017. It’s
also adding features to the Xbox designed to help it withstand
the shift to games downloaded to computers and mobile devices
from packaged products.  Microsoft will “share our vision for Xbox and give you a
real taste of the future,” Larry Hryb, the Director of Xbox
Programming who goes by the name Major Nelson, on his official
Xbox  blog . He said Microsoft will will continue to discuss its
plans and show its games lineup in May at the E3 show in  Los
Angeles .  Microsoft will use an  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  processor
in the next Xbox game console, seeking to cut the cost of
building machines and get developers to create more titles,
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.
Xbox has led console sales in the U.S. for the last 27 months,
according to market-research firm NPD Group.  Competitor Consoles  Sony unveiled the PlayStation 4, the newest version of its
own console, in February and plans to release it in time for the
 holiday shopping season . Microsoft had considered holding its
event in April and scrapped that plan, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this month. The company saw little
competitive pressure from Sony’s announcement, the people said.  Nintendo’s Wii U, another competitor, has been selling
below the company’s initial forecasts. In January, the company
said it expected to sell 4 million units in the fiscal year
ending March 31, down from a previous outlook for 5.5 million.  Traditional console makers face competition from cheaper
machines like Ouya Inc.’s online gaming device, and changes in
game play that favor inexpensive titles for mobile devices such
as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab.  U.S. retail sales of packaged video games fell 21 percent
last year to $8.9 billion, according to researcher NPD Group,
while revenue from games downloaded to computers and mobile
devices rose 16 percent to $5.9 billion. Globally, the market
including hardware and accessories was $67 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  