-- Eli Lilly Profit Beats Estimates on Lower Costs
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-04-24T20:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/lilly-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-as-cymbalta-sales-rise.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said first-quarter
profit exceeded analysts’ estimates as the company cut jobs and
had a lower tax rate from the reinstatement of a research and
development credit.  Earnings excluding one-time items were $1.14 a share,
beating by 9 cents the average of 16 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose 53 percent to $1.55
billion, or $1.42 a share, helped by a diabetes drug deal with
Amylin Pharmaceuticals LLC, Indianapolis-based Lilly said today
in a statement.  Revenue was unchanged at $5.6 billion as higher prices
helped offset a drop in prescriptions for the schizophrenia drug
Zyprexa, which brought in $5 billion a year before generic
copies came on the market in 2011. The company is cutting
hundreds of jobs as it prepares for the patent loss of its top-
seller Cymbalta at the end of the year. Investors have been
focused on Lilly’s earnings after the biotechnology company
Amgen Inc. posted lower than expected revenue yesterday.  “Lilly reported what appears to be a generally good
quarter,” said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in
New York. “Hopefully this reasonably clean print will help
offset some of the fear that the poor Amgen quarter last night
may have instilled in the hearts of pharma, biotech investors
given this year’s massive outperformance.”  Lilly fell 3.9 percent to $56.05 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 40 percent in the past 12 months.  New Medicines  Lilly Chief Executive Officer John Lechleiter has said the
company is counting on new medicines to help revive growth.
Lilly said today it has begun a rolling submission with the  Food
and Drug Administration  for the stomach-cancer treatment
ramucirumab and plans to seek approval for five medicines this
year.  The company benefited in the first quarter from a 2012 U.S.
research tax credit that wasn’t renewed until January. Lilly
said its effective  tax rate  in the quarter was 20.7 percent when
the one-time impact of the tax credit for 2012 was accounted
for, compared to a rate of 24.3 percent in the same period a
year earlier.  Lilly also had an additional $495 million gain from
transferring rights outside the U.S. for the diabetes treatment
exenatide to Amylin.  Lilly reaffirmed its 2013 earnings  forecast . The company
said in January it expected earnings excluding one-time items to
be $3.82 to $3.97 a share.  Sales of Cymbalta rose 19 percent to $1.33 billion in the
quarter and revenue from the erectile dysfunction drug Cialis
was up 11 percent to $515 million.  Zyprexa sales fell 49 percent to $284 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  