-- Immigration Reform Boosts Bureaucrats Not Business
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/immigration-reform-invites-bureaucratic-meddling.html
Immigration reform might not be
able to fix every shortcoming of U.S. policy. The risk now is
that it might make the system worse.  This is what will happen if the bipartisan “Gang of 8”
senators’  proposal  to change the high-skilled visa program is
included in the final legislation, all in the name of protecting
American jobs. The only jobs protected will be those of labor
bureaucrats.  The technology industry has a hard time obtaining work
permits, called  H-1B visas , for foreign workers because the low
annual cap on these visas is  filled  within the first few weeks
of the year. This forces companies that don’t win the visa
lottery to wait another year to try again.  Furthermore, foreign nationals who get an H-1B sometimes
have to wait decades to gain permanent residency or green cards
because of backlogs created by the low cap and limits on numbers
from individual countries. During this time, their lives are on
hold. Their spouses can’t work. They can’t change jobs in the
same company, much less move to a new one, without having to
begin the process again. With no certainty that their green-card
quest will ultimately  succeed , many of them forgo buying homes
or otherwise putting down roots in the U.S.  The proposed measure would raise the base H-1B visa cap
from 65,000 to 110,000 immediately and up to 180,000
subsequently. It would also offer 25,000 visas, up from 20,000,
to foreign students who graduate from U.S. universities in
science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields.  Reducing Backlogs  More significantly, these graduates would no longer be
subject to the green-card cap and, if they wanted, could get the
green card without first having to obtain an H-1B. This would
relieve the backlog somewhat and cut wait times for all
technology applicants.  Although the changes aren’t adequate, they would have
represented  progress  had the Gang of 8’s plan left it at that.
In exchange for these fixes, however, the measure would hand the
Labor Department sweeping new powers over employers to ensure
that they don’t replace Americans with foreign nationals.  Since 1998, “H-1B dependent” employers -- those with 15
percent or more of their workforce on  H-1Bs  -- have had to
attest that they are hiring foreign nationals only after making
a good-faith effort to recruit qualified Americans. This
includes advertising through channels prescribed by the Labor
Department and interviewing a requisite number of candidates.  The employers must also be prepared to justify the
discharge of any American worker 90 days before or after hiring
an H-1B employee. They have to demonstrate either that the
employee’s departure was voluntary or caused by poor performance
or unacceptable behavior. A company that is found to be
willfully violating the law can be barred for three years from
hiring foreign workers and slapped with thousands of dollars in
fines.  Instead of freeing companies from such mandates, the Gang
of 8’s  plan  would impose them on every company that hires even a
single H-1B visa holder.  It gets worse.  Currently, the Labor Department can start investigations to
ensure that companies aren’t firing Americans to hire foreign
nationals. To do so, however, officials have to receive a
complaint from an aggrieved party who is willing to go on the
record. Or there has to be evidence of violations that the labor
secretary has scrutinized and certified as credible.  Under the proposed changes, anyone -- even an anonymous
tipster -- could set off an investigation. In addition, the
secretary would no longer be required to certify the evidence --
the administrative equivalent of showing probable cause and
obtaining a court warrant.  Unchecked Powers  Any Labor Department bureaucrat who decided, for whatever
reason, to investigate a company -- after, say, reading a
newspaper article or relying on hearsay -- could certify his own
evidence and proceed as he sees fit, according to Stuart Anderson of the National Foundation for American Policy, a
research organization that  studies  immigration issues.  “Basically, Labor Department investigators will get
unchecked powers to launch fishing expeditions of companies,”
he says.  As if the prospect of losing control over personnel
decisions and inviting intrusive federal scrutiny isn’t enough
to render the H-1B program useless, the Gang of 8’s proposal
goes further. Under current law, employers must pay foreigners
the same wages as American workers. But the senators, including
Democrat  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  and Republican Lindsey Graham
of  South Carolina , want to require that foreign nationals be
paid “significantly more.”  How much more? Essentially, the proposed reforms would
eliminate the first tier of the four-tier formula that is
currently used to calculate prevailing wages in an industry,
Anderson says. This would mean that employers would have to pay
foreign nationals who are just out of college the same wage as
an American with several years of experience in the company.
Anderson estimates that this could add up to $10,000 to $18,000
more for every H-1B hired.  Supporters of this  formula  say it would protect American
workers from being replaced by younger foreign counterparts. In
reality, it is aimed at pricing foreigners out of the labor
market.  Such labor protectionism won’t save American jobs. If the
U.S. technology industry is forced to pay a premium for talent
as well as open itself to government harassment, it will be more
tempted to outsource operations to friendlier climes, hardly a
recipe for  job creation . The proposed H-1B “reforms” deserve
no place in the  final  law.  (Shikha Dalmia, a contributor to Bloomberg View, is a
Detroit-based senior analyst at the Reason Foundation. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia in Detroit at  shikhadalmia62@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 