-- India Bad-Loan Battle Reassures Holinger on Yield Drop
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-04-25T05:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/india-bad-loan-battle-reassures-holinger-on-yield-drop.html
Indian banks’ dollar borrowing
costs will extend their decline to a fourth quarter as lenders
follow orders for an unprecedented cut in bad loans, Holinger
Asset Management AG and KBC Asset Management SA predict.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, sold $1
billion of 5 1/2-year notes on April 18 at 255 basis points
above U.S. Treasuries, compared with the 375 basis-point premium
it paid to issue similar-tenor paper in August, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average  spread  on Indian dollar bonds has
fallen 39 basis points to 328 this year and touched a two-year
low of 309 on March 14, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. A
similar gauge for Asia climbed nine basis points.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government on April 17
directed state-run banks to slash gross bad loans this fiscal
year ending March 31 to 1 percent of total assets from 4.1
percent in September.  India ’s lenders will also need to raise as
much as 1.75 trillion rupees ($32 billion) from equity sales to
meet Basel III capital rules, the central bank estimates.  “The government is keen and making efforts to straighten a
lot of things, and one priority is the balance sheet of banks,”
Koen Vanderauwera, a bond-fund manager at KBC Asset in
Luxembourg, who holds more than $90 million of Indian corporate
bonds including debt in SBI, said in a telephone interview on
April 19. “Offerings from strong banks should attract investors
and would get the benefit of the optimism which persists.”  All-Time Low  Average dollar  yields  for all Indian issuers fell to an
all-time low of 3.805 percent on March 18 and are at 3.92
percent, HSBC indexes show. The measure fell 194 basis points in
the previous three quarters. A similar  gauge  for all Asian debt
in the U.S. currency was at 3.50 percent. The yield on SBI’s
6.439 percent perpetual dollar bond fell 15 basis points this
month to 6.71 percent, after dropping 245 basis points in
preceding nine months.  The government is discussing issues related to bad loans,
audits and project evaluations with state-run banks, Rajiv Takru, secretary at the department of financial services in the
Ministry of Finance, said in an April 17 interview in New Delhi.
Lenders should improve internal accruals to reduce dependence on
the government for funding requirements, he said.  SBI’s bond risk fell this year, after the biggest annual
decline in three years in 2012. The cost to insure its debt for
five years against non-payment using credit-default swaps has
dropped 26 basis points this year to 200, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. The swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  ‘Worst Behind’  “Investors perceive the worst for the banking sector on
bad loans is behind,” Daniel Gonzenbach, a portfolio manager
helping oversee $4.2 billion of emerging-market assets at
Zurich-based Holinger Asset, said in a March 12 telephone
interview. “There is no reason to believe the bad-loan
conditions won’t improve, which will be the single largest
factor in making their debt attractive.”  Soured debt as a proportion of total bank lending climbed
to 3.6 percent in September, the highest in at least five years,
as the economy slowed, according to the last such data released
the central bank on Dec. 28. India’s gross domestic product
expanded 5 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, least in a
decade, according to government estimates.  Monetary Easing  Reserve  Bank of India (BOI)  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has
responded to flagging demand by lowering the repurchase rate by
50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, this year to 7.5
percent.  “The bad loan situation isn’t moving in a direction the
way bankers and policy makers expected it to after the monetary
easing,” N. Seshadri, executive director at Mumbai-based Bank
of India, the fourth-largest state-run lender by assets, said by
telephone on April 23. “Further monetary policy easing will
determine whether or not bad loans drop significantly.”  Bonds are rallying on signs of further rate cuts. The yield
on 10-year government  bonds  declined 9 basis points last
quarter, and offer an  extra  603 basis points over U.S.
Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the
benchmark 8.15 percent debt due June 2022 was little changed at
7.74 percent. The rupee rose 0.4 percent to 54.1550 a dollar in
Mumbai. Markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  Rupee-denominated sovereign bonds returned 14 percent in
the past year, the most after Philippine notes among Asia’s 10
biggest local debt markets tracked by HSBC.  ‘Significant Reversal’  The chairman at Mumbai-based State Bank of India, Pratip Chaudhuri, expects bad loans to decline in the six months ending
Sept. 30 as lenders cut loans that are not backed by collateral.
The bank’s bad debt dropped to 490 billion rupees in the quarter
ended March 31, from 534 billion rupees in the previous period,
he said at a April 16 media briefing in Mumbai.  “We are going to see a significant reversal in the bad
loan situation because banks are cutting unsecured lending and
are going after liquidating the existing bad loans,” Chaudhuri
said in a Bloomberg TV India interview on April 23. “Our
efforts will reduce bad loans for at least the next couple of
quarters.”  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram in February
pledged to add 140 billion rupees to boost capital at state-run
lenders for the year that began April 1. That will help banks
that need to more than triple the amount of core capital lenders
must hold from 2019 to meet Basel III rules.  “What the government has outlined is going to be
unprecedented and is the most significant development in the
past several years,” M. Narendra, Chairman of Chennai-based
 Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) , said in an April 19 telephone interview.
“Banks will depend less on the government for capital when the
target is achieved and it will lift the efficiency of the
banking system as a whole.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  