-- Indonesia Fuel-Price Increase May Benefit Rupiah, Siregar Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-04-24T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/indonesia-fuel-price-increase-may-benefit-rupiah-siregar-says.html
Indonesia  may raise fuel prices
next month as policy makers seek to reduce subsidies, Deputy
Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar said, predicting confidence in
the rupiah will improve as fiscal management is strengthened.  The government is studying plans to increase subsidized-
fuel prices across all categories or by vehicle type, Siregar
said in an interview in his office in Jakarta yesterday. The new
policy may encourage  Standard & Poor’s  to boost Indonesia’s
credit rating to investment grade, he said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has sought to cut fuel
subsidies and allocate more funds to infrastructure to spur
expansion. The government limited the use of partially
subsidized diesel in January after protests derailed plans to
raise prices in 2012, and S&P said this month that a delay in
structural reforms, especially rationalization of energy
subsidies, is a constraint in Indonesia’s credit quality.  “We have to” raise prices in May, Siregar said. “The
situation already has created such a condition that it’s no
longer sustainable” in terms of management of the budget and
confidence in economic stability, he said.  S&P rates the Indonesia one step below investment grade at
BB+. It was returned to investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service last year and by  Fitch Ratings  in late 2011.  Prices may be increased by at least 2,000 rupiah (21 U.S.
cents) a liter from 4,500 rupiah currently, Siregar said. That
may limit the  budget deficit  to 2.4 percent of gross domestic
product instead of a shortfall of more than 3 percent, he said.  Fiscal Prudence  “The rupiah is affected by the overall confidence of our
fiscal management mostly,” Siregar said. While it isn’t clear
if the new fuel policy will strengthen the rupiah, “at least in
terms of confidence, I would say it helps,” he said.  The rupiah was the biggest loser against the dollar after
the Japanese yen last year among 11 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It has gained 0.8 percent so far this year.  “The time is ripe for fuel-price increases, apart from
political risks, but we need more wholesome measures, not
piecemeal,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, suggesting prices
be raised by more than is currently proposed, accompanied by
direct cash transfers to the poor. “The rupiah should
strengthen but bond yields may go higher amidst inflation
risks.”  Subsidy Review  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for last year’s proposed fuel-price increase. He has
said that Indonesia should review its subsidy bill and use the
savings to boost infrastructure, calling for fiscal prudence.  In his annual budget announced in August, the president
allocated 274.7 trillion rupiah for energy subsidies, compared
with 193.8 trillion rupiah for  capital spending . The country
spent 211.9 trillion rupiah on fuel subsidies in 2012.  Consumer price gains quickened to 5.9 percent last month
from a year earlier and  Bank Indonesia  has held  borrowing costs 
for 14 meetings. While gross domestic product has risen above 6
percent for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the
three months through December at the slowest pace in more than
two years as exports fell amid a decline in commodity prices.  The Indonesian economy probably expanded about 6.3 percent
last quarter, Siregar said. The government may lower its target
for  growth  this year to a range of 6.3 percent to 6.5 percent,
from 6.8 percent previously, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Stephanie
Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  