-- Iran’s Hosseini Discusses Economy, Oil, Rial (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-04-24T14:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/iran-s-hosseini-discusses-economy-oil-rial-transcript-.html
Shamseddin Hosseini,  Iran ’s
minister of economic affairs and finance, spoke yesterday
with Bloomberg’s Kambiz Foroohar and Peter Green about the
country’s economy, oil exports and currency.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  KAMBIZ FOROOHAR, BLOOMBERG NEWS: How concerned are
you about rising inflation in Iran, and what measures are
you taking to stop inflation?  SHAMSEDDIN HOSSEINI, IRANIAN ECONOMIC MINISTER
(translated): In Iran, when we talk about 30 percent
inflation rates, we must be aware of never comparing that
situation at that rate with an inflation rate of 2 to 3
percent.  In Iran, when you even look back at that year in
which the world absorbed a big oil shock of 1973, it was
then that unfortunately the potential for rising inflation
was bestowed upon us. There are many reasons, many
different ways in which this comes about, but I think the
main factor is that from then on, the main way of
supplying, securing government budget currencies became the
reliance on oil.  FOROOHAR: Sure, but this has been going on for 35, 36
or even 50 years. What are you doing about 30 percent
inflation now?  HOSSEINI: I will get to that.  As we said, the need
to reform the ways of dealing with inflation need a
foundational reconstruction, if you will. For example, we
need to have reforms in the construct of the budgetary
income; the very framework of the potential of income must
be reformed.  FOROOHAR: You mean how the government spends its
money?  HOSSEINI: So for example, in order for the government
to be over-reliant on oil revenues, maybe you can switch to
tax revenues. The government must also reform the way in
which it effectuates its own payments. For many years, we
were paying hidden energy subsidies. So another way in Iran
to bring these reforms about is the reform in the targeted
subsidies. We had these programs of reform, and we still
do.  I’m sure you are aware that we undertook a program of
foundational reform. Until we reach the point of reform in
the revenue and the expense framework of the government so
that the potential can also increase, because wrong prices
give the wrong address, it’s a waste of energy, and they
have protected - low protected levels. We must increase
productivity, and the need is to fix the price
differentiations, distortion in prices.  FOROOHAR: Which distortions?  HOSSEINI:  Last year we undertook efforts, for
example, due to shocks absorbed based on the  exchange rate 
and the instability in the exchange rate of foodstuff such
as grains and flower, it became so that it wouldn’t see
that kind of overwhelming increase. You’re aware that we
provided those with preferential exchanges.  FOROOHAR: Anything else?  HOSSEINI: So this is one issue.  We looked at another
point, which was one of the main needs of the people, which
was dwelling, housing, particularly the medium income and
the lower classes of society. Two and a half million units
- dwelling units were built under the name of dwelling
housing of kindness. So we don’t only take attention to the
level of the index. We also pay attention to the construct
of it.  But the other point I would pay close attention to is
last year we tried to bring about a savings - a mode of
savings in expenditure policies vis-a-vis income last year
we didn’t - we did not distribute the financial resources
in the government budget on big projects, big projects - a
lot of projects. We concentrated and focused on projects
that had the progress rate of over 60 to 65 percent
progress- these projects could better start giving back.  FOROOHAR: Any examples?  HOSSEINI: For example, roads. We have roads that had
progress rates of 65 or 70 percent, and we concentrated on
those until they became operational and opened. Perhaps
under normal conditions, the money would have (inaudible)
and these would not have been finished and started to be
operational -  HOSSEINI: The limited funds focus on more limited
projects so that when they are closer to becoming
operational, then certainly they will be able to cross the
finish line. In other words, the money that the government
is spending in very short distances turns into services and
goods production. But this policy saw considerable savings
in the financial sector vis-a-vis expenses, not
construction and building expenses.  We tried to allocate resources…. we eliminated many
of the non-urgent expenditures vis-a-vis the monetary
policy. We tried ….there were effects that led to an
increase - to the expansion of the monetary base, which
leads in turn to an increase in liquidity. With a use of
policies of bearer (ph) bonds through the central bank, we
were able to bring back this liquidity and guide it towards
activities that receive priority.  So let me give you - let me sum it up for you. In
order to mitigate and confront inflation, there are a
series of foundational reform policies such as the targeted
subsidies reform that we started that is followed
throughout the world, it is being focused upon and
represented as a model. We took the law - the legislation
to the parliament for - for tax reforms, and we also have
in progress policies for monetary and fiscal policies, and
of course mitigating policies so as to benefit the people.  We started new actions, which was based upon steps
taken earlier. We’re just augmenting it at present. That’s
something that if things can be done by the hands of the
people through the people themselves, we put that burden of
that responsibility on their own shoulders,  the expansion
of the private sector. For example, petrochemicals must be
given in the hands of private companies, same with metal-
producing factory must be run by the people.  HOSSEINI: In other words, the expansion and progress
of the private sector. The public funding - the funding of
these is to be provided through public-private partnerships
(inaudible) become the reason for things to move along at a
much quicker pace so work gets done, but there is no need
for - for an increase in liquidity. So let me sum up it
again. So we started a financial reengineering, and this is
the cause for that financial dominance will decrease on the
- on the monetary policy. So your question was not that
difficult, but it was technical. So at a deeper level, I
wanted to share with you some of the technical aspects of
it.  PETER GREEN, BLOOMBERG NEWS: I spent 20 years in
Eastern  Europe  and writing about state-controlled economy
that went through privatization, sometimes selling to
private investors, sometimes giving shares to the public
then organized the company in a capitalist manner. How does
your plan compare with the privatization methods of former
communist regimes?  HOSSEINI: First of all let me tell you, if you’re not
aware, that we were never socialist. So when - when you
talk about financial reforms in Iran, the financial reforms
undertaken way back then in former socialist countries.
Privatization, yes. Economic reform. You’re right. We were
a mixed economy under which a much bigger share was in the
hands of the government. The private - in some sections,
the private sector did not have - was not operational - was
not allowed to be operational.  So we removed those obstacles that were forbidding
them from being involved in operations -- the president is
always attending grand inauguration ceremonies at vast
companies which are built at the hands of the private
sector. This private sector now has the capability to buy a
production facility from us and manage it .  GREEN: Is that your intention, to sell off the
government-owned industry to private hands?  HOSSEINI: And also give them permission, give them
the right atmosphere within which to operate.  It’s also a
lot of economic services and financial services. I want to
focus your attention to this. In Eastern Europe, there was
no private sector. Private ownership did not exist. Markets
did not exist, but all of these existed in Iran, so we’re
strengthening it. We have an aim from - to - from a
government market structure to go to a construct market
governmental structure. So the shares will vary here.  Allow me to complete this thought. Now in Iran, we
have sold the Bank Saderat and - and commercial bank and
export bank to the private sector. But many private banks,
which I don’t want to name of course, have been created in
this path. Insurance in the same fashion. Vehicle,
automobile manufacturing industries even passenger airlines
in the same fashion. So number one, we eliminated road
blocks to activity wherever it was. And what was also
purely in the hands of the government, we’re transferring
on to the public.  Allow me to give you one example. We - we turned over
- we turned - we transferred over 600 firms, state firms,
more than 600. And one of them that took place last week,
as a matter of fact, had a Persian Gulf holding. The
initial price of it was over $9 billion, a holding company
of petrochemical production firms that offer share in all
those firms.  GREEN: If I could just ask one last question on this:
how do you see the share of the state’s ownership of the
economy  percentage targets that you would like to reach,
and where are they now?  HOSSEINI: The main part of our privatization is done
in our stock market. In Eastern Europe, there wasn’t any
stock market. There wasn’t any stock market. But in Iran,
we have a market even before these policies, the stock
market expanded. In addition to  developed overseas
markets. We actually opened the energy market. Even we
opened merchandise and stock market. Actually, we are
implementing the very last economic reforms.  GREEN: What is the - for you the target state control
of the economy and the target private control of the
economy by percentage?  HOSSEINI: The laws pertaining to these types of
reforms, the industries have been broken into three
categories under the umbrella of economic activities have
been divided into three sections, one of which the
government is under no circumstances free to operate. So
the government has been forbidden from, in which the
government cannot be - cannot claim an ownership of more
than 20 percent. In a small circle of activity, such as the
- upstream oil and gas-development, the government has
management and ownership.  So I can answer you in this fashion. Other than the
upstream that I talked about, and a  limited number of
industries, which are about 10, such as the National
Iranian Oil Company, such as the central bank, in other
areas the government can turn over up to 100 percent to the
private sector and their share  therefore, can reach 100
percent. Twenty percent is not mandated for the government
to claim ownership at that level of maximum 20 percent. It
can.  FOROOHAR: How concerned are you about the fall of the
Rial?  HOSSEINI: We believe that the management of the
currency has two different spearheads. One is in our hands.
The other is in the hands of others. Therefore, what I
personally think doesn’t have that much importance. What we
can get to, what we can obtain is what is important. We had
a thought, which was to have a boost of - of assurance in
the economy, and we created a center for currency exchange
in which the - the real offerers and the real purchasers of
currency can be present.  So what I mean is there is no room for speculation
because the other one who is in the currency exchange
market, for example, the offerers of euro dollars
(inaudible) mighty dollar comes from here from the European
Union. They would have more effect on speculators. We do
not unequivocally allow any speculation in the market. If
you’re an importer, a real, legitimate importer, you can
come and purchase currency. If you’re a real traveler
headed for outside the country, you can come and purchase
currency,  foreign currency is clear can be present there
as the offerers. It -  FOROOHAR: Is the minister saying that he’s powerless
to control the rial?  HOSSEINI: What I’m saying is that the government
under these conditions cannot forecast, therefore prevent,
many of the shocks.  We increase trust for those who are
actively involved in economy. So the center that I just
described to you is management of the market of currency
exchange, not to control the exchange rate center for the
requester - for the real requesters of currencies offered
with very small fluctuations.  If you see this has been active for about seven
months. The level of fluctuation is extremely low. We have
three currency levels we have one exchange rate which is -
which is determined in the exchange rate - in the exchange
center for the importers of foodstuff and pharmaceutical
drugs, only on the condition to transparently offer proof
of the legitimacy of transactions with precise, specific
prices, we will return them the difference with the because
it was the beginning of this policy, we were forced to
practice this preferential treatment, if you will, in the
rate.  This year, we have - we have been forecasting to
return the difference, something that during the past
decade we - we initiated in order to stabilize the rate.
But we don’t deny there are those that operate on the
periphery of the legitimate market. And those are the ones
who speculate, and that market is clearly, unequivocally
illegal.  FOROOHAR: Do you have a target rate for Rial?  HOSSEINI: Allow me to answer your question in a
different way. If I cannot convince you, I will explain
further. I say let’s not talk about what is preferred, what
is - what is desired. Let’s speak of the fundamentals. In
my opinion (inaudible) and I think all of the - all of the
analysts are in agreement, in our country, the real
exchange rate in our country is less than 2,000 tomans.  FOROOHAR: Two thousand?  HOSSEINI: Two thousand. We believe that the political
pressures of life have caused for the exchange rate to be
higher than the real rate established by the fundamentals
that I just alluded to. The market decides what the price
is …. That market - the market that we are managing and
overseeing, it hovers around 25,000 rials, the answer to
your question.  But I have a question for you. If at a certain point
non-economic events take place, for example, you take away
the right of the offerers or buyers, then there is the
possibility, I’m sure you will agree, for the price of
those certain category of goods to increase. Now, has this
been caused or brought about by financial and economic
fundamentals or political limitations? We have a great deal
of foreign currency reserves - I apologize, of reserves,
that they don’t allow this to be exchanged and for it to be
transferred or moved around.  FOROOHAR: Excuse me for one second. What the minister
is saying is that they - you have huge foreign currency
reserves. You have - you have huge amounts of currency why
do you need to change? You can exchange that - you can
exchange it in Iran rates.  HOSSEINI: Currently, sir, at least in the country
that you’re from, you’re not very familiar with the
banking. what good is the dollar for us in Tehran? What
good is the euro for us in Tehran? What good is the yen for
us? This is the question that was asked by over $2.2
billion of our money, of that nation’s money, was taken by
Shell. Pharmaceutical drug importing companies need those
funds so that we can import the needed drugs into the
country.  And apparently, the British politicians are quite
content and happy to exert undue pressure on the nation of
Iran. And also, their human rights lobbying friends have
decided to . And of course, Shell Oil is said to have some
$2.2 billion of Iran’s money in their own hands and at
their own disposal, money that they owe. But because of our
humanity and because of their success in getting our money,
we congratulate them.  Let’s go back to what you were saying. This money
exists. It is our money. It is forbidden to be transferred
and moved around. It doesn’t become part of the cycle of
currency. We have $48.5 billion dollars in the NDF. This is
not including the reserves of the central bank.  Allow me to tell you something very interesting -
something very interesting. During the previous year in
which our oil-related revenues were decreased, 23 percent
of that very revenue we put in the national development
fund. So we made it hard on ourselves, but we decided to
sacrifice our benefit temporarily to make it easier in the
future. This year, we have increased it to 26 percent  and
years ago we reached the conclusion that not become -
should not be turned into government expenditure because of
the conversation we had earlier about the analysis of
inflation. But we had a plan to go through this step by
step. Others want to see us hurry on our path, and we
become more specialized and we gain more knowledge and
know-how to get it done.  FOROOHAR: What was the dollar value of last year and
this year, the 20 percent?  HOSSEINI: We’re not talking about dollars. When we
sell each barrel of oil, (inaudible) very minimum, 20
percent of that revenue is deposited directly into an
account completely separated from the government budget -
operational budget. So these funds, these will become tools
at the disposition of the private sector.. In other words,
towards the direction of that foundational reform that I
alluded to earlier.  So the only thing we’ve done is not to just remove
some obstacles on the role of the private sector’s
involvement, but even financially we have strengthened.
Before, we were crowding them out - the government was
crowding them out. Today, we’re crowding them in. We give
them funds. We give them loans so that they come and - and
build  power plants , so that they come and build refineries
and do other allowed and legal financial activities, so our
economic activity is quite transparent and clear and
comprehensive .  FOROOHAR: Are you concerned about the fall in the
value of gold?  HOSSEINI: No. Allow me to share this with you. We
have used - we are very rationalized in making the choices
that we make. At very good timing, we transferred our
reserves from the dollar into gold when the euro dollar - I
apologize, dollar into euro when the euro was very cheap
(inaudible) a part of the reserves were turned into gold.
The  gold reserves  were purchased quite cheaply for us.
Apparently, some have done some things in order for gold to
become more expensive. Now that it’s falling, as you said,
it will - granted that it’s falling now, it will certainly
not reach the laws at which we bought them. It will not
even hover near it.  And keep in mind, until such times that the likes of
Europe and the  United States  and  China  and so on have a
currency war, as you say, the market will not allow gold to
fall below a certain level. Perhaps it will decrease in
price, but certainly it will never go back to the numbers -
to the value in numbers it had four years ago.  FOROOHAR: Which is when you transferred the exchange?  HOSSEINI: We started almost in that timeframe.  FOROOHAR: Do you have any projections for the growth
rate this year and next year?  HOSSEINI: Clearly, we’re quite realistic. Our private
sectors see very fast growth. Last year, the same,  I
shared with you the non-oil exports in the sector of
agriculture (ph), in the sector of tourism.  And I even shared with you my assessment  for us to
adjust ourselves to each wave of the sanctions and the
central bank acme under sanctions, of course we experienced
much harsher pressure in the  currency market , even in the
 capital market  in the good - in the market for goods
(inaudible) time, a certain calm returned to the situation,
and they’ve even experienced growth since then.  FOROOHAR:  Growth?  HOSSEINI:  They can be managed. And I do believe that
they have reached a point in which the damage to those who
initiated and executed the sanctions on us is becoming much
more clear. The thing that I’d like to tell you is that
this year our growth rate will be positive. In my opinion,
it will be better than last year. And next year, in my
opinion, will be better than this year. And everyone, all
the - all the experts who analyze have the same forecast.  HOSSEINI: - very little based on pessimism or
optimism.  FOROOHAR: I noticed that IMF said economy declined
last year?  HOSSEINI: I have certain conversations with them.
They must make known to us the sources from which they’ve
derived their conclusion. They should have come to official
sources and - and gotten the real numbers for what they
were. They were just basing their conclusion on
projections. I am convinced that their assumption is quite
wrong.  FOROOHAR: So what are the minister’s numbers for last
year, this year and next year?  HOSSEINI: The last numbers that we have were
published in  - 2011. There are two - two specific sources
- two legitimate, official sources in our country, the
census - the official census center for Iran and the
central bank. The census center for Iran for the year 2011,
considering the oil exports, determined the growth rate at
4.7 percent for certain. And the central bank has set it at
3 percent for certain.  FOROOHAR: For 2011 or 2012?  HOSSEINI: 2011. Why do I say without oil sector?
Because oil, due to sanctions, has - has been something
that has caused a decrease oil exports out of the equation,
then this growth rate - both of these growth rates will be
higher in 2012, which encompasses part of the Persian
calendar year of (inaudible). Some sectors have slowed
down. Some have - have yielded positively.  But since the beginning of the new Persian calendar
year of 1391 on March 21 of 2013, it has been only a month
and I do not have official numbers as of yet. We’re only
one month into but those will be published soon, keep in
mind that all - all of the aggregate that I mentioned
earlier, and since they’re not for certain and official, I
don’t announce them. And according to the laws according to
the fifth plan of the parliament, we’re not even allowed by
law to announce it. So the center for must first approve of
these numbers before they’re made official. It is therefore
that we are practicing restraint. So in reality, we’re
being subdued by the laws.  But the forecasts that have been talked about for
2012 even though we overcame many difficulties in various
sectors. If in reality (inaudible) unexpected actions -
politically-driven actions are not brought upon us again by
the outside, (inaudible) of sanctions, I have no doubt that
2013 will be much better.  GREEN: Just one - one last question.  HOSSEINI: Do you want to come to Tehran and follow up
with me then?  GREEN: Please.  GREEN: There’s an election coming up, big election.
Inflation is up to here. People do better using their rial
notes to wrap tobacco  and smoke them.. Why would anybody
in Tehran or anywhere else in the country hold rials?  HOSSEINI:  You should come to Iran and see Tehran
firsthand and talk to people to find out. One of the war
fronts that has been imposed upon them and opened upon them
is exactly that exchange market, that currency exchange
market. And they have decided to - to stand strong in that
very market that I described. These wrong calculations and
equations are one of the main thrusts and reasons behind
these wrongly-executive and conceived sanctions. And in
1979, each dollar was worth 70 rials. Now it’s 25,000. But
did the people abandon the revolution? People will never
trade in the revolution for money or hard currency of any
kind.  Happiness and well-being is not cheap. It’s not in
being cheap or obtaining something inexpensively. It’s in
scientific progress and knowledge. Just as someone could
ask you as a reporter, as a journalist, let me just pay you
$1,000 extra, but write what I tell you to write, which is
far removed from the truth. What if someone came to you
with that (inaudible) we live with our values.  **END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS
TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO
THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL,
NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-
PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS
TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN
CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION
EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF
THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY
OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY
REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<603682.1057402.3.4.1.0.25>#
 