-- Islanders Secure NHL Playoff Spot; Rangers Fail to Clinch Berth
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-24T04:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/islanders-secure-nhl-playoff-spot-rangers-fail-to-clinch-berth.html
The  New York Islanders  clinched a
National Hockey League playoff berth for the first time since
2007, while the  New York Rangers  lost to stay in a three-way
tussle for a postseason place.  The Islanders lost 4-3 in a shootout against the  Carolina
Hurricanes  and booked a spot in the playoffs when the  Washington
Capitals  defeated the Winnipeg Jets 5-3 last night.  The Islanders (24-16-6) have 54 points, two more than
Ottawa and the Rangers (24-18-4), who lost 3-2 to the Florida
Panthers last night. The Senators (23-16-6) hold seventh place
and have played one fewer game than the Rangers, who now hold
the eighth and final playoff spot -- one point ahead of the
Jets. The Rangers have two games remaining, while the Jets have
one game left.  The Capitals (26-18-2) secured the Southeast Division title
with the victory against the Jets and are currently seeded third
behind the Pittsburgh Penguins and Boston Bruins in the Eastern
Conference.  At PNC Arena in Raleigh,  North Carolina , Riley Nash and
Jeff Skinner scored in the shootout to give the Hurricanes the
win against the Islanders.  John Tavares scored with 61 seconds left in the third
period for the Islanders to tie the game 3-3 and force overtime.
Brad Boyes and Josh Bailey scored the other goals for New York.  At BB&T Center in Sunrise, Florida, Marcel Goc scored a
power-play goal in the third period to break a 1-1 tie as the
Panthers stopped the Rangers from clinching a playoff place.  Taylor Pyatt and Derick Brassard scored for the Rangers,
who have games left at Carolina tomorrow and at home against the
 New Jersey Devils  on April 27. Winnipeg hosts Montreal in its
final game tomorrow.  The Senators are at Washington tomorrow, before hosting the
 Philadelphia Flyers  two days later and ending the regular season
with a visit to the Bruins on April 28.  The playoffs begin April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  