-- Italy Led by Letta Brings Berlusconi Back as Winner
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-04-25T09:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/italy-led-by-letta-brings-berlusconi-back-to-governing-as-winner.html
Silvio Berlusconi , the three-time
prime minister and two-time convicted lawbreaker, won a path
back to power in  Italy  by outmaneuvering rivals during an eight-
week political stalemate.  A year and a half after resigning in near-disgrace, the 76-
year-old billionaire became the key figure in talks that began
today to form the next Cabinet after the  Democratic Party ’s
Enrico Letta was appointed prime minister. Berlusconi and his
241 lawmakers, the second-biggest contingent, hold the votes
Letta, 46, needs to secure a parliamentary majority.  Berlusconi is one of the last of his generation standing
after outgoing Premier  Mario Monti , 70, was rejected by voters
in February and 61-year-old Pier Luigi Bersani was discarded in
a Democratic Party mutiny. Berlusconi’s resilience, even as he
battles criminal charges from tax fraud to sexual misconduct,
has gained him the admiration of allies and adversaries alike.  “Silvio Berlusconi is the real winner,” Nichi Vendola, an
opponent and head of the Left, Ecology and Freedom party, said
April 20 after the owner of broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS)  laid the
groundwork to be part of the governing alliance. Vendola, a
Bersani ally, said today he won’t support Letta.  Inconclusive Feb. 24-25 elections split parliament in three
blocs and left the Democratic Party, the top vote getter, with
no clear path to a majority. The party, known as the PD,
initially refused to consider a deal with Berlusconi while
Bersani fruitlessly pursued Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement,
the third-biggest force.  Bond Rally  That strategy failed, and Bersani conceded defeat April 19.
The next day, Berlusconi and the PD eased the deadlock by
joining to re-appoint President Giorgio Napolitano, 87, to a
seven-year term. Letta’s mandate, given by the president after
consultations with party leaders except Grillo, who has
renounced traditional politics, signalled a broader accord.  Investors took the gridlock in stride, sending Italian
borrowing costs down since the election. Ten-year bond yields
reached a 28-month low this week, rallying on Napolitano’s
return. The yield rose for a second day today, adding 11 basis
points, to 4.12 percent at 11:15 a.m. in Rome, on speculation
the rally was overdone.  “I am appealing to all political forces and their sense of
responsibility,” said Letta yesterday at the presidential
palace in Rome. “All of the essential reforms must be done
together with the largest possible participation.”  Party Negotiations  Letta started consultations with parties today to seek
common ground on a government program and divide Cabinet
positions. Berlusconi traveled to  Dallas  to attend the
dedication of former President  George W. Bush ’s library, buying
him time. Letta will probably report back to Napolitano to
formally accept the mandate on April 28, with confidence votes
in Parliament due the following day, Ansa reported yesterday,
citing unidentified people close to the designated premier.  Italian voters haven’t abandoned Berlusconi, who rejects
accusations and findings of guilt as the result of political
vendettas. More than a quarter of voters looked to him in the
election as the person to lead the country out of recession. His
popularity, opinion polls show, has only grown since then.  That rising support is giving Berlusconi leverage on
minister choices and government program. His People of Liberty
party, or PDL, is pushing for the abolition and refund of a
property tax, known as the IMU, on first homes. The PDL is also
resisting the possible appointment of Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri and will seek to control the Economic
Development ministry, which regulates the media, La Repubblica
reported today, citing no one. A failure to strike a deal could
prompt Napolitano to call snap elections.  ‘Next Round’  “The Letta government is an opportunity for Berlusconi to
regroup, catch his breath and prepare for the next round of
elections,” said Federico Niglia, international history
professor at Rome’s Luiss University.  Berlusconi’s return to prominence comes almost 18 months
after the  European debt crisis  toppled his last government, and
six months after he received the first of two criminal
convictions. Berlusconi is appealing the  tax-fraud  and wire-
tapping verdicts, and he has denied the charges in a Milan trial
in which he stands accused of paying for sex with a minor.  Letta’s push to engage Berlusconi would reunite what were
the two biggest parties in Monti’s coalition, which split up in
December. While Berlusconi has said he is willing to cooperate,
he has also threatened to send Italy back to the polls if he
doesn’t get what he wants in a partnership government.  “We don’t have to have significant things to satisfy
markets,” said Fabrizio Fiorini, chief investment officer at
Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA. “It’s enough to just not erase the
things Monti did.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  