-- Mitsubishi Estate Expects Record Sales From Retail Space
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-04-24T06:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/mitsubishi-estate-sees-record-sales-from-retail-space-this-year.html
Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s
largest developer by value, said revenue generated from its
retail space will probably reach a record this fiscal year as it
expands to benefit from an expected increase in consumption.  Rental income from tenants of Mitsubishi Estate’s retail
space will rise to about 560 billion yen ($5.6 billion) in the
year ending March 2014, said Masaaki Kono, director and
executive vice president of the Tokyo-based company. That would
be an 18 percent increase from an estimate of 475.5 billion yen
for last fiscal year just ended in March, he said. Rents account
for about 10 to 15 percent of store sales, Kono said.  Mitsubishi Estate has accelerated developing shopping malls
and outlets in recent years to close gap with its competitor
 Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801)  amid a shift in demand as  department store 
sales have declined for more than a decade. Mitsubishi Estate is
opening three retail facilities in Chiba and Shizuoka
prefectures near Tokyo, and Osaka in April, the most ever in a
month, bringing total number of retail assets to 28, Kono said.  “We have been working really hard to catch up in the past
five, six years with Mitsui Fudosan,” Kono said in an interview
in Tokyo on April 22. “We will probably focus more on quality
than quantity from now on.”  Mitsubishi Estate rose for the first time in three days,
gaining 1.9 percent to 3,150 yen at the close of trading in
 Tokyo . The stock has surged 54 percent this year, compared with
the 63 percent advance by the 44-member Topix Real Estate Index.  Prime Space  Rents for prime retail space in Tokyo is the second-most
 expensive  in Asia at $975 per square foot per year, according to
Los Angeles-based property broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  Hong Kong
which charges the most retail rent ranked at top with $4,335 per
square foot per year, it said.  The total store space owned and managed by Mitsubishi
Estate reached 200,000 tsubo (661,160 square meters) this month
after the opening of two retail facilities, Kono said. One tsubo,
a standard measure of property area in  Japan , is 3.3 square
meters, or 35.5 square feet.  That is less than half of 1.77 million square meters (19
million square feet) of commercial space Mitsui Fudosan owns or
manages, based on data compiled by the company. Mitsui Fudosan
generated 736 billion yen of sales from retail space as of March
2012, according to the company.  Mitsubishi Estate opened a shopping mall in Shizuoka
prefecture, west of Tokyo, on April 12, targeting customers in
their 30s with family, the company said. The mall, first of its
kind under Mark Is brand, has 36,000 square meters of store
space that provides wider hall way and resting space for small
children and elderly, it said.  ‘Lifestyle Changes’  “With the lifestyle changes as population ages and fewer
children are been born, retail properties can’t survive if they
don’t adjust accordingly,” Kono said.  A week after the opening of the mall in Shizuoka, the
developer unveiled its ninth outlet with 21,700 square meters of
store space in Chiba prefecture, east of Tokyo. The outlet,
located 10 minutes by bus from Narita Airport, is targeting
Asian travelers in addition to Japanese shoppers, it said.  Mitsui Fudosan, also based in Tokyo, is expecting its full-
year profit to rise for the first time in four years as new
shopping malls such as Mitsui Outlet Park Kisarazu and DiverCity
opened during the reporting period that ended March,
contributing to leasing revenue.  Twelve companies including Mitsubishi Estate on April 26
will open Grand Front  Osaka , a joint project with 44,000 square
meters of store space including a 600-seat beer and wine museums
where more than 450 types of alcoholic drinks will be served.  “It used to be typical for shopping centers to just sell
apparels,” said Kono. “Instead of that, we want to create a
place where people can get together and have fun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  