-- Liverpool’s Luis Suarez Banned 10 Games for Biting Opponent
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-24T14:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/liverpool-s-luis-suarez-banned-for-10-games-for-biting-opponent.html
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  was
suspended 10 games by  England ’s Football Association for biting
an opponent during a match.  Suarez yesterday admitted biting Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic on the arm during a 2-2 draw between the teams three
days ago but denied the F.A.’s claim that the standard three-
match ban was insufficient.  “A three-person independent regulatory commission today
upheld the F.A.’s claim that a suspension of three matches was
clearly insufficient and the player will serve a further seven
first-team matches in addition to the standard three,” the
governing body said in a  statement . “The suspension begins with
immediate effect.”  Suarez, who is second in the Premier League with 23 goals
this season, has until midday on April 26 to appeal the
additional seven-game ban, the F.A. said.  “Both the club and player are shocked and disappointed at
the severity of today’s independent regulatory commission
decision,” Liverpool Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said in a
 statement  on the club’s website. “We await the written reasons
tomorrow before making any further comment.”  The 26-year-old was suspended seven games for biting an
opponent while playing in the Netherlands and the controversy
has cast doubt on the Uruguayan’s future in English soccer.  Previous Incidents  Suarez has been Liverpool’s standout player since joining
from Amsterdam club Ajax in January 2011, though he’s faced
criticism and punishment for his actions on the field. He served
an eight-game suspension last season after being found to have
racially abused Manchester United defender  Patrice Evra .  Liverpool fined him an undisclosed amount for the bite. In
addition, Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  has spoken to
Suarez, and will be “working with him further on his
discipline,” Ayre said in a statement two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  