-- Japanese Pensions Selling JGBs on Abe’s Stimulus, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-04-24T07:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/japanese-pensions-selling-jgbs-on-abe-s-stimulus-jpmorgan-says.html
Japanese pensions are selling
domestic bonds as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to spur
inflation stoke concern rising  interest rates  will erode the
value of their holdings, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  survey showed.  Retirement funds held 29 percent of their assets in
Japanese bonds at the end of March, down from about 31 percent
the previous year, a survey by JPMorgan’s Tokyo-based asset
management unit showed. Alternative asset holdings including
 hedge funds  increased 2.3 percentage points to 11.8 percent,
according to the survey, which was based on 128 pension plans
overseeing a total 11.7 trillion yen ($117 billion).  Japanese pension funds, which have traditionally invested
mainly in bonds, are seeking other assets to maintain steady
returns and fund retiree benefits in the world’s most rapidly
aging society. The country’s public pension fund and insurers
including Nippon Life Insurance Co. plan to cut their JGB
holdings after Abe’s called for unlimited money printing.  “Abenomics is changing their attitude toward risk,” said
Hidenori Suzuki, the head of the strategic advisory group at
JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s become
clear that pension funds are reducing domestic bond holdings and
adding assets with higher returns such as foreign bonds and
alternative investments, as they become more concerned about
interest rate increases from monetary easing measures.”  Currency Hedges  Expectations for action by Abe’s administration and the BOJ
have led the  Topix index  of shares to rally 61 percent and the
yen to slump 24 percent against the dollar in the past five
months. The yield on  Japan ’s 10-year government bonds will rise
to 0.92 percent by September 2014 from 0.595 percent as
inflation picks up, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Pension funds are also planning to raise infrastructure
investments, while increasing foreign exchange hedging, the
survey showed.  The Government Pension Investment Fund, one of the biggest
buyers of JGBs, said in February that it may reduce its holdings
of the bonds and buy more emerging market stocks and alternative
assets on concern Abe’s policies will reduce its returns.  Nippon Life Insurance, Japan’s biggest life insurer, said
earlier this week it may buy more foreign debt and cut holdings
of long-term domestic securities if yields in Japan stay low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  