-- Chicken Breeder Japfa Shrugs Off Bird Flu to Market Dollar Bonds
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-04-24T09:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/japan-corporate-bond-risk-falls-to-three-year-low-swaps-show.html
PT Japfa Comfeed Indonesia (JPFA) , the
animal feed maker and chicken breeder, is marketing a sale of
U.S. dollar-denominated bonds as  China  tackles an outbreak of
avian flu. Credit risk in the Asia-Pacific region fell.  The company is considering selling five-year securities at
about 6.5 percent, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  Sinochem Group , China’s biggest supplier of chemical
products, is offering dollar perpetual notes, while Xinyuan Real
Estate Co., REI Agro Ltd., and BOC Aviation Pte also plan sales
in the U.S. currency, separate people said.  Chinese authorities are battling to control the spread of
bird flu, which has so far killed 22 in the country, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from reports released by the
national and provincial governments, and the  World Health
Organization  in Geneva. Market responses have been muted. The
cost of insuring Asia-Pacific corporate and sovereign bonds from
non-payment fell, with a measure of company risk in Japan
declining to the least in three years, according to traders of
credit-default swaps.  “I don’t see much impact so far from avian flu concerns on
corporate issuance as a whole,” said Louisa Lam, a Hong Kong-
based credit analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “We’re still seeing
good demand from the primary market and a long pending supply
pipeline.”  Baby Chicks  Japfa Comfeed plans to raise $200 million to refinance
existing debt and for capital expenditure and general corporate
purposes, the person with knowledge of the details said. The
company has the equivalent of $231 million of debt  outstanding ,
and this is its first sale in the U.S. currency, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Most of Japfa Comfeed’s revenue last year came from sales
of  animal feed , according to its 2012 annual report. About 29
percent was from commercial farming, which includes chicken and
cattle breeding, and 12 percent from day-old chicks, the report
shows.  Sinochem, which is marketing securities via unit Sinochem
Global Capital Co. at about 5.375 percent, hired Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Agricole CIB, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings
Plc, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered Plc, Societe Generale
CIB and UBS AG to manage the sale, the person familiar with the
matter said.  Developer Sale  Beijing-based developer Xinyuan Real Estate is considering
selling its notes at a yield of about low-to-mid 13 percent, a
separate person said. The issue may be given a B+ grade by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings Ltd., the person said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  REI Agro, an Indian rice processor, is marketing five-year
bonds at about 12 percent via unit Ammalay Commodities JLT,
according to a person familiar with that matter. BOC Aviation,
which leases aircraft, plans to sell 10-year notes at about 285
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, another
person said.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index, comprised of default swaps
for 50 companies, was at 88.5 basis points at 4:44 p.m. in
 Tokyo , according to Citigroup. The level is the lowest since
85.63 basis points on April 16, 2010, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index declined 2.5 basis points
to 110.9 basis points as of 11:03 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Deutsche Bank AG. The benchmark is on track for its lowest close
since March 19, according to CMA.  Asia Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 2 basis points to 111 as of 8:29
a.m. in Hong Kong, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
prices show. The gauge is also set for its lowest close since
March 19, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  