-- Etihad’s Jet Air Stake Wins India Foothold Before AirAsia
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-04-25T10:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/jet-airways-india-agrees-to-sell-stake-to-etihad-to-fuel-growth.html
Etihad Airways PJSC’s purchase of a
24 percent stake in  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  boosts its position
in a high-growth market that’s being targeted by new entrants
including  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  as the state invites foreign investment.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad, seeking to build the sheikdom into
an intercontinental transfer hub, will purchase 27.26 million
Jet shares at a cost of 20.6 billion rupees ($379 million), or
754.74 rupees apiece, 32 percent higher than the previous close.
Shares of the Indian carrier jumped the most in almost two
months in  Mumbai  trading today.  Indian carriers are seeking equity injections after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government agreed to allow overseas
carriers to buy holdings of as much as 49 percent. AirAsia, the
region’s biggest budget operator, last month formed a venture
with Mumbai-based  Tata Group  to set up a local low-fare airline.  “This acquisition will give a tremendous amount of
competitive advantage to Etihad,” said  Kapil Kaul , head of the
Indian unit of the CAPA Centre for Aviation. “They need to feed
their hub, and there can’t be any better market than India, two
or three hours away with 1.3 billion people and a growing
economy. Jet would use the money to deleverage. It’s a win-
win.”  Jet Air rose 11 percent to 634.80 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai, after earlier gaining as much as 20 percent.
The market was closed yesterday for a public holiday when the
announcement was made. SpiceJet Ltd., India’s only listed
discount carrier, surged 18 percent.  AirAsia Plan  AirAsia won approval in March from India’s Foreign
Investment Promotion Board to hold a 49 percent stake in a new
airline venture with Tata Sons and Telestra Tradeplace Inc.  The Malaysian company aims to start Indian operations in
September, with the venture operating out of Chennai in the
south of the country.  Some seats could be offered for free, a company official
with knowledge of the matter said last month, a strategy that
could undermine a recovery at Jet, SpiceJet and other Indian
carriers which are raising fares after cash-strapped  Kingfisher
Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  ended operations in October.  Etihad’s Jet deal, which targets a market where travel is
forecast to triple by 2021, is the latest in a series of
minority investments by the third-biggest Gulf carrier.  The state-owned company has a 29 percent holding in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  and stakes in Air Seychelles Ltd.,  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , and is in talks that
could lead it to buy 49 percent of Serbia’s JAT Airways.  ‘Fundamental’  Jet, India’s biggest publicly traded airline, had 116
aircraft as of Sept. 30, including  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS
models, and is selling and leasing back planes to free up cash
and repay $600 million of its $2.3 billion  debt  by March 31.  “The Indian market is fundamental to our business model of
organic growth, partnerships and equity investments,” Etihad
Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said in a statement. The
deal will deliver immediate sales growth, which with potential
savings will deliver a contribution of “several hundred million
dollars for both airlines over the next five years,” he said.  Indian airlines  need cash to fund expansion, cut debt and
improve liquidity, CAPA’s Kaul said, adding that Jet is “an
outstanding” business which should emerge as a more
professional company under the guidance of Etihad.  Etihad said the deal lifts its commitment to Jet to $600
million, including the purchase of three pairs of slots at
London Heathrow airport for $70 million in February and a $150
million investment in a majority stake in the Jet Privilege
frequent-flier program. Etihad will also provide a five-year
loan of $400 million to Jet, according to Bloomberg TV India.  Jet, which serves 125 locations, including  Abu Dhabi ,
Bahrain, Doha, Dubai, Jeddah, Kuwait and Muscat in the Gulf
region, agreed in December to expand a code-share pact with
Etihad, which operates services to nine Indian locations.  Yesterday’s transaction will allow Jet passengers from 23
Indian cities to gain access to an expanded global network,
Etihad said. The Indian carrier will enhance services from Delhi
and Mumbai and introduce flights from Hyderabad and Bangalore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net  