-- Jinko and First Solar Rise on Renewable-Energy Bill
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-24T20:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/jinko-and-first-solar-rise-on-renewable-energy-bill.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co. and  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  were among solar companies that surged after four
U.S. senators introduced legislation that would let renewable-
energy projects qualify for a tax-advantaged corporate structure
currently used by oil, natural gas and pipeline projects.  Jinko rose 14 percent to $6.49 at the close in New York,
the most since April 9. First Solar gained 12 percent and the
NYSE Bloomberg Global Solar Energy Index of 103 members rose 2.6
percent.  The measure would let renewable-energy companies form
master-limited partnerships, giving them the ability to raise
funds like a corporation and pay taxes as a partnership,
according to a statement today from Senator Chris Coons, a
Delaware Democrat. He introduced the bill with Michigan Senator
Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat, and Republican Senators Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska  and Jerry Moran of  Kansas .  MLPs have “helped the oil and natural gas industry deliver
the abundant and affordable energy that powers our economy
today,” Murkowski, the top Republican on the Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, said in the statement. “Through a
small change in the tax code, this legislation will provide
renewables with the same opportunity.”  The bill is similar to a prior version focused on renewable
power generation and biofuels projects that was introduced last
year and failed to pass. The re-introduced bill widens the scope
of projects that would qualify to include energy-efficient
buildings, waste heat-to-power systems, carbon capture and
storage and biochemicals.  Bipartisan Support  The measure has support from Republicans and Democrats in
both houses of the U.S. Congress, Murkowski said earlier this
week.  The proposal is supported by at least one oil and gas
group. Jack Gerard, president of the American Petroleum
Institute, the industry’s main lobbying group, said MLPs would
provide an incentive for private investors and help wean
renewable energy producers from federal subsidies.  “Having a new vehicle to introduce some capital with some
additional liquidity and a lower cost of capital probably would
help demand,” Ben Schuman, an analyst with Pacific Crest
Securities LLC in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  