-- Kazkommertsbank Swings to 2012 Net Loss as Provisions Quadruple
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-04-24T15:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/kazkommertsbank-swings-to-2012-net-loss-as-provisions-quadruple.html
Kazkommertsbank,  Kazakhstan ’s
largest lender, said it swung to a loss of 131 billion tenge
($867 million) last year as impairment charges quadrupled.  Provisioning charges amounted to 286.3 billion tenge
compared with 66.1 billion tenge in 2011, the Almaty-based bank
said today in a statement. Reserves for credit-impairment losses
represented 32.5 percent of gross loans in 2012, up from 24
percent a year earlier, according to the statement.  “Based on the analysis of the possible impact of planned
changes in the regulations, the bank identified negative
consequences for its regulatory capital, open currency position
and liquidity,” it said. “The impact of these negative
consequences was avoided as a result of additional one-off
specific provisions under IFRS out of excess capital and
earnings of 2012.”  Concerns about Kazkommertsbank’s falling profitability
prompted a downgrade last year of its debt and deposit rankings
by Moody’s Investors Service, which reduced the lender’s
foreign-currency senior unsecured debt rating two steps to Caa1,
seven levels below investment grade. Kazkommertsbank questioned
the assessment at the time, denying any worsening of
profitability during the past year.  “There were no changes in asset quality,” Sergey Mokroussov, a managing director, said on a conference call today
with analysts and investors.  Rating Affirmed  Fitch Ratings  affirmed Kazkommertsbank’s rating at B with a
stable outlook last week, saying it “reflects limited recent
changes in the bank’s credit profile.” While the ranking
reflects its weak asset quality, it also takes into account
Kazkommertsbank’s “significant loss absorption capacity,
positive pre-impairment profitability, manageable refinancing
schedule and currently comfortable liquidity,” Fitch said.  “We are satisfied with the significant growth of profit
before provisions and taxes as a result of improvements in
interest margins, fee and commission income and control of
costs,” Chief Executive Officer Nina Zhussupova said in an e-
mailed statement. Without the provision charge, profit rose 11
percent last year, in line with the bank’s expectations, she
said.  Profit before provisions and taxes increased 28 percent to
125 billion tenge, the lender said.  Kazkommertsbank estimates lending will remain “flat” this
year, according to a  presentation  published today on its
website. It predicts its retail portfolio and loans to small and
medium-sized businesses will grow 15 percent, according to the
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  