-- Kerry Meets With Afghan, Pakistani Leaders on Reconciliation
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-04-24T15:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/kerry-meets-with-afghan-pakistani-leaders-on-reconciliation.html
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
hosted a meeting of Afghan and Pakistani officials today for
what he described as extensive, productive and constructive
dialogue aimed of bolstering trust between both countries and
speeding possible reconciliation talks with the Taliban.  “It’s fair to say there’s good feelings among all of us,”
Kerry said, “that we made progress in this dialogue in terms of
those discussions, but we’ve all agreed that results are what
will tell the story, not statements at a press conference.”  Kerry met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Defense
Minister Bismullah Khan Mohammadi as well as Pakistani General
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani and Foreign Secretary Jalil Jilani. The
talks took place over about three-and-a-half hours at the
residence of the U.S. Ambassador to NATO in Brussels.  Kerry earlier attended a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
ministers’ meeting in  Belgium  to work, in part, on determining
how the alliance will support Afghan forces after 2014, when its
combat role in the country will end.  The meeting is part of “a continuing trilateral discussion
with respect to the security and other issues regarding
relationships in the region, as well as the road forward heading
toward 2014, a critical transformational period,” Kerry said
earlier today.  Kerry said talks would continue on the political and
security track and that all three would have “some very
specific homework to do.”  Garden Stroll  After about two hours of talks, Kerry took Karzai and
Kayani out for a stroll around a garden inside the 27-acre
grounds.  Attempts to bring the two countries together have been
stymied by distrust between  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan , whose
security services have close ties to the Taliban and other
militant groups. Pakistan maintains these ties in order to wield
influence inside Afghanistan after NATO troops pull out, an
administration official said.  Karzai has said that Pakistan is crucial to bringing the
Taliban and other militant groups into negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  