-- Kiewit, Macquarie Picked to Lead Goethals Bridge Project
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/kiewit-said-to-be-selected-to-lead-new-goethals-bridge-project.html
A group led by Kiewit Corp. and a
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  unit won a Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey contract to finance, design and build a $1.5 billion
replacement for the 85-year-old Goethals Bridge.  The span connecting New Jersey to New York City’s Staten
Island is a key route for trucks and commuters in the
metropolitan region. Known for its four narrow and congested
lanes, the bridge provides a link to Newark Liberty
International Airport and the Elizabeth-Port Authority Marine
Terminal.  “As we move forward with continuing constraints on our
resources, we’re financing necessary infrastructure and at the
same time minimizing the use of public funds and public debt
capacity,” Port Authority Executive Director Pat Foye said
yesterday at a board meeting in  Manhattan .  Kiewit Infrastructure Co., a unit of the Omaha, Nebraska-
based mining and construction company, will lead the design and
building of the bridge, while Macquarie Infrastructure and Real
Assets Inc., a unit of the Sydney-based company, is heading up
the financing, said Chris Valens, a Port Authority spokesman.
Other members of the consortium include Washington-based Parsons
Transportation Group, Cranford, New Jersey-based Weeks Marine
Inc. and Kansas City, Missouri-based Massman Construction Co.  Financing Plans  The financing will consist of $100 million in equity, a
$500 million federal loan, tax-exempt bonds and a bank loan,
Foye said. The Port Authority will pay back the consortium over
40 years, making annual payments that start at $60 million.  The Goethals project marks the transportation agency’s most
extensive use of a public-private partnership to build
infrastructure, an approach backed by President  Barack Obama .  It’s also the second major bridge replacement in the
metropolitan region. The state of New York is building a new
$3.9 billion Tappan Zee Bridge across the Hudson River.  The Port Authority board also approved a $1.3 billion
program to raise the Bayonne Bridge, which connects the New
Jersey city with Staten Island, to allow bigger container ships
to reach New York-area ports. A separate joint venture between
Kiewit and a unit of Skanska AB was awarded the contract to
raise the span’s roadway to 215 feet (66 meters) from 151 feet.  Job Creation  Combined, the two bridge projects are expected to create
more than 4,750 construction jobs, paying about $600 million in
wages, agency officials said.  Traffic volume on the Goethals, which opened in 1928 and is
named after Major General George W. Goethals, builder of the
Panama Canal, reached 14 million New York-bound vehicles in
2010, according to the Port Authority.  “If you have the misfortune to be on that bridge the same
time a tractor trailer is going over the bridge, you essentially
have one lane moving,” said Port Authority Chairman David Samson.  The new 900-foot-long span will be located south of the
existing structure, over the Arthur Kill, a channel separating
New Jersey and Staten Island.  Construction is expected to begin this year and will be
finished in late 2017. The Port Authority said it won’t start
paying the developer until 70 percent of the bridge is
constructed, minimizing the risk.  Bigger Bridge  The new span  will have  six 12-foot-wide lanes and 12-foot-
wide shoulders and include a central strip wide enough to
accommodate mass-transit service. A 10-foot-wide sidewalk and
bike path will run along the northern edge of the New Jersey-
bound roadway.  The agency will own the bridge, continue to set  tolls  and
manage day-to-day operations, Foye said. Drivers crossing the
Goethals currently pay a toll of $13 cash or $10.25 with an E-
ZPass. The charge is for vehicles heading into New York.  The project will benefit from a $500 million  federal loan 
and tax-exempt private-activity bonds. The loan, with interest
rates comparable to U.S. Treasury bonds, has a repayment term of
as long as 35 years. Thirty-year Treasury bonds had a yield of
2.9 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The public-private partnership for the new Goethals will
save the Port Authority 10 percent in construction and
maintenance costs, Foye said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  