-- N.Y.’s Suffolk Co. Had Accidental Default on Clerical Miss
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-24T21:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/n-y-s-suffolk-county-had-accidental-default-on-clerical-error.html
New York ’s Suffolk County, home of
the Hamptons beach towns, was short $722.65 on April 15 on an
interest payment for its municipal bonds because of a clerical
mistake rectified one day later.  Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co., escrow agent for the
county, accidentally neglected to make the full payment. It
completed the entire $1.15 million payment on April 16,
according to a securities filing.  Suffolk delivered the money on time, yet the trustee missed
the payment, said Richard Tortora, president of Capital Markets
Advisors LLC, which works with the county on its finances. The
company has offices in Great Neck, New York.  “M&T had the money when they needed it,” Tortora said in
an interview. “They had the schedule, but through some kind of
administrative glitch on their part, M&T missed it, which is
shocking. But it happened, unfortunately.”  The county’s median household income from 2007 through 2011
was $87,187, compared with the U.S. median of $52,762, according
to U.S. Census data.  “We have contacted the comptroller’s office to apologize
for our error, we have taken immediate steps to determine its
cause and we will ensure that it never happens again,” Michael Zabel, spokesman for Buffalo, New York-based M&T, said via e-
mail.  Fitch Ratings  last month cut the county’s $1.4 billion of
general-obligation bonds one level to A, sixth-highest, because
of budget deficits and concern about the county’s ability to
attain stable financial operations,  Karen Wagner , a Fitch
analyst, wrote in a March 25 report. The outlook is negative.  The Long Island county is among municipalities in the
region still rebounding from  Hurricane Sandy , which hit the
Northeast on Oct. 29, with winds and driving flood waters that
killed 125 people in 10 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  