-- Nasdaq First-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates on Technology
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-04-24T17:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/nasdaq-profit-gains-on-technology-information-revenue.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. stock exchange, reported first-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as revenue from information
services and technology increased.  Earnings excluding some items increased to 64 cents a share
in the three months ended March 31 from 61 cents a year ago, the
New York-based company said in a statement today. That beat the
62-cent average forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company said it may pay $10 million to resolve a Securities and
Exchange Commission investigation into the mishandling of
 Facebook  Inc.’s initial public offering.  Costs from the botched IPO weighed on first-quarter profits
at a time when Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld is
diversifying the business to offset a global decline in stock
trading. In the last few months the exchange has bought eSpeed,
an electronic platform for trading U.S. Treasury bonds, the
shareholder-relations unit of Thomson Reuters Corp. and a 25
percent stake in TOM, a Dutch alternative trading system focused
on options.  “While the volume environment remained challenging, our
portfolio of corporate, trading, technology and information
businesses continue to deliver consistent revenue and earnings
performance,” Greifeld said in the statement. “We are
confident that a recovering economy and increasing investor
confidence will eventually lead to stronger tailwinds for our
businesses.”  Facebook Costs  Charges related to the Facebook IPO led to a 51 percent
drop in first-quarter net income, to $42 million, or 25 cents a
share, from $85 million, or 48 cents a share, a year earlier.
The profit figure includes the $10 million set aside for the SEC
probe as well as the $62 million regulators have cleared as
 Nasdaq ’s plan to compensate brokers for the Facebook debut.  Nasdaq shares slipped 2.8 percent to $27.67 at 1:50 p.m.
New York time, headed for the lowest close since Jan. 24.  The $62 million compensation pool will go to traders who
lost money after a design flaw in the exchange’s computers
delayed Facebook’s open and left them confused about how many
shares they owned. Computer systems used to establish Facebook’s
opening price on May 18 were overwhelmed by order cancellations
and updates during the “biggest IPO cross in the history of
mankind,” Greifeld said two days after the offering.  Greifeld received 18 percent more in compensation for 2012
even as his bonus was reduced due to the  Facebook IPO .  Core Expenses  For the full year, Nasdaq forecast core operating expenses
in the range of $910 million to $930 million. In addition,
Nasdaq expects $50 million to $60 million for “new initiative
spending” and $12 million related to a 2013 accounting
reclassification of certain Corporate Solutions expenses.  Average daily volume  for equities listed on all U.S.
exchanges was 6.35 billion shares in the first quarter, 6.8
percent down from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There will be a beta return, a cyclical return to equity
volumes,” Greifeld said on a call with analysts today. “We’ll
be the beneficiary of that, and we’ll enjoy that, but clearly,
our job is to not sit around and wait for that. It’s to make
sure that we’re building our business independent of the volume
environment.”  Nasdaq OMX’s biggest rival,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed in
December to be acquired by futures bourse
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. for $8 billion in a move that
underscored the growing importance of derivatives in the face of
shrinking volume worldwide.  ‘Strategic Acquisitions’  Nasdaq, which has a program called GIFT to fund projects
such as the new derivatives market in  London , said it will also
seek “strategic acquisitions.”  Revenue from the market services unit, accounting for 43
percent of net exchange revenue, fell to $182 million in the
first quarter from $190 million a year ago. The unit includes
cash equities, where volume is declining, derivatives and access
and broker services.  The information services division, accounting for 26
percent of revenue, took in $108 million during the quarter, up
from $102 million, the exchange said. The unit covers market
data and index licensing.  The technology solutions unit, which comprises 18 percent
of revenue, generated $73 million in the first quarter, compared
with $66 million a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  