-- Netanyahu Says Threat of Strikes Won’t Deter Economic Reforms
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-04-24T11:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/netanyahu-says-threat-of-strikes-won-t-deter-economic-reforms.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said strikes won’t stop planned economic reforms, even
as the Histadrut labor federation threatened to take action over
the government budget.  “We intend to implement a series of reforms to increase
competition in the economy,” Netanyahu told Israel’s
parliament, the Knesset, today. “No strike will deter us from
carrying out measures that benefit every Israeli citizen.”  Employees at  El Al Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL)  and two other local
airlines walked out April 21 after the government approved an
“Open Skies” agreement with the European Union to open new
routes and increase competition in  air travel . The strike ended
the next day after the  Finance Ministry  agreed to cover the
companies’ added security costs.  Netanyahu said similar reforms are also planned to increase
competition at Israeli ports, break down corporate monopolies
and lower the cost of living.  Histadrut head Ofer Eini called on the government today to
start talks immediately on planned cuts in the 2013-2014 budget,
and threatened to take action if it doesn’t.  Proposed budget reductions “can seriously damage the
economic situation of workers and pensioners,” Eini said in an
e-mailed statement. “If immediate negotiations don’t take
place, we will use every means at our disposal.”  There is a 35 billion-shekel ($9.67 billion) deficit in
 Israel ’s 2013-14 budget, Finance Minister Yair Lapid said
yesterday. While budget proposals were presented this week to
Netanyahu, no decisions have yet been taken, Deputy Finance
Minister Mickey Levy told Israel Radio yesterday.  The Histadrut represents about 800,000 workers, including
most of Israel’s public sector employees, according to
spokeswoman Dafna Cohen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  