-- Netflix to Raise Capital ‘as Needed’ to Fund Originals
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/netflix-to-raise-capital-as-needed-to-fund-originals.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the biggest online
video-subscription service, said it will raise capital “as
needed” to fund original programming while its expansion
outside the U.S. absorbs cash.  “Since we are otherwise using domestic profits to fund
international markets, we will raise capital as needed to fund
the growth of originals,” Netflix said in a document outlining
the company’s “Long Term View” on its investor-relations
 website  yesterday.  Over the next few years, Netflix projects it will dedicate
less than 10 percent of content spending toward its growing
originals slate. The company invests more than $2 billion a year
on programming, including licensing and creating shows. Netflix,
which sold $500 million in bonds this year, is funding exclusive
shows like “House of Cards” and “Hemlock Grove” to keep
ahead of rivals including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Netflix shares have risen 134 percent this year, making the
company the the top performer in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index. The stock
was little changed at $216.72 yesterday in New York.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, converted $200
million of zero-coupon notes into stock this week, eliminating
the obligation. On Jan. 29, Netflix offered $500 million in
5.375 percent senior notes due in 2021, using $225 million to
pay off higher-interest notes and earmarking the rest for
general purposes.  ‘Would Consider’  On Netflix’s earnings conference call this week, Chief
Financial Officer  David Wells  said the company would consider
raising capital in the future, though the company had no current
plans.  “Yes, we would consider it and I would say we’re fine on
capital at this point,” Wells said, in response to a question
from an analyst about whether the company would raise more debt.  The company had more than $1 billion in  cash  and short term
investments at the end of the first quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has said efforts like
the political thriller “House of Cards” and horror-genre
“Hemlock Grove” can help fend off competitors by offering
differentiated content to customers.  In May, the revived “Arrested Development” begins
streaming, followed by “Orange Is the New Black,” a comedic
drama set in prison from “Weeds” creator Jenji Kohan;
“Derek,” about life in a senior center from  Ricky Gervais ;
and, later in the year, season two of “Lilyhammer.”  Netflix said this week that it plans to begin service in an
unnamed European country by the end of the year, after expanding
into  Canada , the U.K., Latin America and four Nordic countries.  The expenses for growth and content will pay off as
consumers increasingly tune out of traditional television and
look to click-and-watch video for their content, the company
said in its long-term outlook yesterday.  “While hugely popular, the linear TV channel model is ripe
for replacement,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  