-- New Tobacco Chief Promises U.S. Action as Industry Waits
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-24T19:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/new-tobacco-chief-promises-u-s-action-as-industry-waits.html
The new health regulator in charge
of tobacco said the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  will begin
to take action soon on major decisions from the effects of
menthol to the marketability of newer products.  Mitch Zeller, appointed head of the FDA’s Center for
Tobacco Products last month, said his first days on the job have
been consumed by reviewing the risks of menthol, sifting through
industry requests for new product clearances and weighing
whether to expand the agency’s authority over e-cigarettes,
cigars and other tobacco products.  “I know that all interested parties from industry to
public health have been waiting for signs of public action,”
Zeller said at a conference in  Washington  today. “I am keenly
aware of the level of public frustration.”  While Zeller didn’t give specifics on timing, the industry
has expected his appointment would hasten agency decisions.  “There is going to be a probably more significant or at
least a speeding up of some of the activity at the FDA,” Daniel Delen, chief executive officer of  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the
second-largest U.S. seller of tobacco, told analysts yesterday
on a conference call.  The FDA was given authority over tobacco products through
the 2009 Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act.  The industry, led by companies such as Richmond, Virginia-
based  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
Reynolds, are awaiting FDA determinations on almost 3,700
requests that products be considered substantially equivalent to
older products so they can continue to be sold, Alfred Kevin
Altman, a consultant for the Council of Independent Tobacco
Manufacturers of America, said at the meeting sponsored by the
Food and Drug Law Institute.  Marketing Rules  New tobacco products marketed after Feb. 15, 2007, must be
cleared for sale by the FDA. A tobacco product marketed before
March 22, 2011, can continue to be sold if the FDA issues an
order that it is substantially equivalent to an older product or
one that has been declared substantially equivalent.  Zeller blamed some of the delay on incomplete industry
submissions while the tobacco industry said the FDA keeps
changing what it wants from them. James Swauger, vice president
of regulatory oversight at Reynolds American’s R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco Co., said he has reworked substantial equivalency
submissions three or four times for the FDA.  Menthol Risk  The FDA also is weighing whether menthol cigarettes are
more dangerous than unflavored versions, a determination that
could lead to a ban. A panel of outside advisers to the agency
determined in a March 2011 report that removing menthol
cigarettes from sale in the U.S. would benefit public health.  The panel report on the health impact of menthol cigarettes
was required by 2009 legislation that gave the agency authority
over the tobacco industry.  “I’m encouraged by him saying that things will start
moving again,” Murray Kessler, the CEO of  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , which
makes the top-selling menthol cigarette Newport, told analysts
today on a conference call.  Kessler said he plans to meet with Zeller in the next
couple of weeks since officials at the Greensboro, North
Carolina-based company haven’t met with FDA officials in the
last few months.  Altria, the parent company of  Philip Morris USA  and largest
seller of tobacco in the U.S., sells menthol cigarettes under
the Marlboro, Virginia Slims and Parliament brands, among
others. Reynolds American sells the mint-flavored product under
its Camel, Salem and Kool brands.  Altria also recently began making Marlboro NXT, a cigarette
that allows smokers to switch to menthol flavor by crushing a
capsule in the filter.  Zeller also said he sees an opportunity to create a
“comprehensive nicotine policy” at the agency.  “I see this as one of the big issues in public health,”
he said. He wouldn’t be more specific.  The FDA also regulates nicotine replacement therapies, such
as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Nicorette gum, through its drug center,
which weighs the safety and effectiveness of products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  