-- New York City Plans World’s Biggest Indoor Ice Facility in Bronx
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-24T15:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/new-york-city-plans-world-s-biggest-indoor-ice-facility-in-bronx.html
New York City plans to create
the largest indoor ice facility in the world, with a former
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  asset manager investing $275 million to turn a
vacant Bronx armory into a 750,000-square-foot skating palace.  KNIC Partners LLC, founded by Kevin Parker, a former asset
management head at  Germany ’s largest bank, will transform the
Kingsbridge Armory into a center with nine regulation-size rinks
expected to attract 2 million visitors a year, city officials
said. The first five rinks are set to open in late 2018.  The landmark armory, built between 1912 and 1917, takes up
a full city block and has been vacant since 1996. Officials said
they expect the development will create 260 permanent jobs and
890 construction jobs in the Bronx, the poorest of the city’s
five boroughs.  KNIC Partners will lease the facility for 99 years and
direct 5 percent of annual gross revenue, or about $1 million
per year, to the city, Tom Corsillo, a spokesman for KNIC
Partners, said today in a telephone interview.  “The construction of the world’s largest indoor ice rink
facility will create recreational opportunities for millions of
visitors and local residents, and most importantly create
hundreds of jobs for the local community,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg said in a statement.  Bronx Pride  The facility, including a 5,000-seat main rink, will host
hockey tournaments, figure and speed-skating competitions, and
ice shows. KNIC Partners plans to offer free after-school sports
and academic tutoring programs for disadvantaged youth.  “This project is about opportunity, first and foremost,
and we are confident the Kingsbridge National Ice Center will
become a source of pride for the Bronx and all of  New York  City
for generations to come,” Parker said in a statement.  The development will begin a public and environmental
review and is expected to break ground in late 2014, city
officials said.  An earlier 2009 plan for the Bronx armory called for
Related Cos. LP to redevelop the structure into a $324 million
retail and entertainment center. The City Council rejected that
project after the developer didn’t agree to require retail
tenants to pay a minimum wage of $10 an hour. The plan would
have created 1,200 permanent and 650 construction jobs in the
Kingsbridge neighborhood of the Bronx, Bloomberg said at the
time.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  