-- NFL to Reinforce Policy on Discrimination for Sexual Orientation
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-24T16:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/nfl-to-reinforce-policy-on-discrimination-for-sexual-orientation.html
The  National Football League  will
reinforce its policy against discrimination based on sexual
orientation this season, an initiative that includes a letter to
players and posters in locker rooms throughout the league.  The New York-based NFL said it reviewed its “long-
standing” anti-discrimination policy following its February
scouting combine, where several prospective players said they
were asked questions about whether they had girlfriends or were
married.  The NFL further discussed the policy with its teams at
league meetings in March after the office of New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman opened an inquiry into the matter.
After the review, the  Attorney General’s office  asked the NFL to
ensure its anti-discrimination policy is well-communicated,
widely disseminated and effectively implemented.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail that the league
will “reiterate and reinforce that policy in writing to our
players, teams and staff in the near future.”  Posters will be displayed in locker rooms of all 32 teams
conveying the NFL’s anti-discrimination policy, while the league
will conduct training on the matter -- including for rookies and
those involved in hiring and scouting new players -- and
strengthen protocols concerning the reporting of complaints of
discrimination or harassment by players.  “My office is committed to ensuring equal protection under
the law for all employees and job applicants no matter where
they work, and I applaud the NFL for working cooperatively with
our office to address these issues,” Schneiderman said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are sending a powerful message that
discrimination and harassment will not be tolerated in any
form.”  Brainstorming Session  Domonique Foxworth, the president of the NFL Players
Association, said in a statement that the union appreciates the
effort to end discrimination and hold “NFL owners accountable
to the highest professional standards in our workplace.”  Former Baltimore Ravens player Brendon Ayanbadejo, a gay-
rights advocate, last month attended a meeting at NFL
headquarters during which three organizations with ties to
sports and the gay community brainstormed how the league could
prepare for an openly gay player. Ayanbadejo said that in his
discussions with football players who are contemplating coming
out, the subject of a joint announcement has been discussed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  