-- Nintendo Forecasts Profit Surge as New Games Drive Wii U
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-04-24T20:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/nintendo-forecasts-profit-surge-as-new-games-drive-wii-u.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
maker of video-game machines, forecast a surge in profit as the
yen slides and the company accelerates new game releases to
drive sales of Wii U consoles and 3DS hand-held players.  Net income will rise to 55 billion yen ($553 million) in
the 12 months ending March 31 from 7.1 billion yen a year
earlier, the “Super Mario” creator said yesterday in a
 statement . The forecast compares with the 50.8 billion-yen
average of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  A weaker yen, which resulted in a 39.5 billion-yen gain
last year, is helping Nintendo weather lower-than-expected sales
of the Wii U amid a shift in gaming to smartphones and tablets.
President Satoru Iwata plans new titles for the console and is
adding top-selling Japanese games for the 3DS including “Animal
Crossing: New Leaf” to global markets.  “The key is game software,” said Takashi Oka, an analyst
at TIW Inc. in  Tokyo  who rates the stock neutral, or hold. “The
3DS and Wii U will sell well if Nintendo provides titles, since
not everyone plays games on smartphones and tablets.”  Nintendo climbed 4.6 percent to close at 11,950 yen in
 Osaka  trading yesterday before the earnings announcement. The
Kyoto-based company has gained 30 percent this year, compared
with a 33 percent surge in  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. The shares gained as much as 5 percent in Frankfurt
trading after the earnings release. American depository receipts
rose 1.1 percent to $14.66.  Iwata expects to sell 9 million Wii U consoles in the 12
months ending March, compared with 3.45 million sold last fiscal
year. The 53-year-old forecast 3DS sales of 18 million, up from
13.95 million last year.  Target Affirmed  The Wii U, priced starting at $300, features a 6.2-inch
touchscreen controller that lets users wirelessly connect to the
console and shift the display between the device and a TV. It is
the industry’s first new home-gaming console since 2006, the
year Nintendo released its predecessor, the Wii.  The company doesn’t plan to cut the Wii U’s price to drive
sales, Iwata said in Osaka yesterday.  “Sales momentum is improving in  Europe  and the U.S.,”
Iwata said. “We’re preparing to introduce software seamlessly
throughout the year.”  Nintendo reiterated a 100 billion yen full-year operating
profit target, compared with a 36.4 billion yen loss for the
year ended March 31. The company will probably post a profit of
70 billion yen this year, according to the average of 19 analyst
projections compiled by Bloomberg.  Software Delay  A weaker Japanese currency is boosting the repatriated
value of overseas earnings for the nation’s exporters. The yen
has depreciated about 13 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this
year, touching a four-year low of 99.95 on April 11, while
weakening about 12 percent against the euro.  The Wii U failed to meet sales targets amid a delay of
software releases, Iwata said yesterday. The release of “Pikmin
3” in Japan was delayed to July from this spring, according to
company announcements. “Game & Wario” was pushed back to March
28 from the beginning of the year.  “We seem to always end up with a lack of software in the
beginning when we introduce a new platform,” Iwata said.
“That’s a big regret.”  Nintendo will face tougher competition this year from rival
console makers in a market that’s shrinking amid the shift to
mobile devices.  Sony Corp. (6758)  said in February that it will release a
PlayStation 4 before the year-end holiday season, its first
upgrade in seven years.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said yesterday that it
will introduce the successor to its  Xbox 360  at an event in May.  “It’s unclear whether Nintendo can sell the 3DS and Wii U
as it plans,” said Satoshi Yuzaki, general manager at Takagi
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The 3DS and Wii U lack the power of
appeal.”  U.S. retail sales of video-game hardware, software and
accessories fell 10 percent from a year earlier to $992.5
million last month, according to NPD Group Inc. Hardware sales
fell the most, declining 32 percent, the  Port Washington , New
York-based research firm said April 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  