-- Northrop to Lockheed Profits Unscathed by Budget Cuts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-04-24T20:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/northrop-to-lockheed-profits-unscathed-by-budget-cuts.html
Three top weapons makers said
across-the-board U.S. budget cuts that began March 1 won’t hurt
their profits for the year.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  left
their full-year outlooks unchanged today as they reported first-
quarter net income that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , the No. 1 defense contractor, reported much of the
same yesterday.  The companies’ quarterly results and 2013 outlooks clash
with dire predictions from industry officials, who last year
used words such as “devastating” and “Armageddon” to
describe the effects of the $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts
known as sequestration.  In the first quarter, “the sequester has proved a non-
event,” Richard Whittington, a Drexel Hamilton LLC analyst in
 New York , said in an e-mail. Companies prepared for the
reductions by cutting costs, “so profit margins are coming in
above guidance and historical rates,” he said.  Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed yesterday reported net
income of $2.33 a share, beating the average estimate of $2.04,
while maintaining its forecast for a profit of $8.80 to $9.10 in
2013.  Northrop, based in  Falls Church ,  Virginia , said profit was
$2.03 a share, compared with the average estimate of $1.73. It
reaffirmed its January outlook for full-year profit from $6.85
to $7.15 a share. Northrop rose 3.2 percent to $73.77 in New
York trading, reaching its highest level since March 3, 2008.  F-35 Jet  General Dynamics, also based in Falls Church, said net
income from continuing operations increased 1.2 percent to $1.62
a share, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.50 a share.
It stuck with its January forecast for profit of $6.60 to $6.70
a share in 2013.  General Dynamics, the third-largest Pentagon contractor,
rose 6.9 percent to $71.73, the biggest gain since Jan. 28,
2009.  “We do not see sequester as a significant threat to”
results in 2013, Chief Executive Officer Phebe Novakovic said
today on a conference call with analysts. “Most of our sales
are in our backlog.”  Northrop, the No. 5 U.S.  defense  contractor, and Lockheed
Martin both benefited from higher revenue on the F-35 jet, the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons system. The Pentagon has
protected funding for the program.  Sales Decline  While the companies don’t expect their profits to be hurt
by sequestration, sales already have been pinched by budget
cuts.  All three weapons makers reported declines in sales in the
first quarter. General Dynamics had a 2.3 percent decrease in
revenue in the quarter compared with a year earlier.  “Orders have been weak and backlogs are down,’ analyst
Whittington said, referring to the top contractors’ results. He
said if the automatic cuts remain in effect, ‘‘that will
pressure sales and most likely margins in the back half of the
year, and even more in 2014.”  Wes Bush, Northrop’s CEO, said it’s “very likely” that
cuts will reduce revenue next year,  “To think that the sequester somehow just dissipates and
goes away and doesn’t impact the future is putting your head in
the sand,” he said today on a conference call with analysts.  Defense contractors may be underestimating the effect the
automatic reductions will have this year, William Loomis, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said in a phone
interview.  “It’s going to impact the industry more than what the
industry is thinking about right now,” said Loomis, who has
hold ratings on the three contractors.  Defense Cuts  The reductions, which will strip $41 billion from defense
programs by Sept. 30 and a total of $1.2 trillion across federal
agencies over nine years, may start hurting top weapon makers by
the third quarter, Loomis said.  At Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
which received 18 percent of its revenue from the government
last year, automatic cuts may trim profit by 10 cents a share in
2013, according to Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes.  “We’re starting to see a little bit of it in terms of the
order intake,” with sales of spare airplane equipment to the
military dropping about 10 percent in the first quarter, Hayes
said yesterday on a conference call with analysts. “It’s just
going to take a while for it to play out.”  Among the company’s concerns is that furloughs by the U.S.
 Federal Aviation Administration  may boost commercial airline
costs and curb demand for spare parts, he said.  Hand-Launched Drones  Smaller contractors such as  Harris (HRS)  Corp. and  Aerovironment
Inc. (AVAV)  haven’t been unscathed.  Melbourne, Florida-based Harris, which sells communications
equipment to the military, on April 11 cut its profit and sales
outlook for the year because of delayed orders from U.S.
agencies.  Aerovironment, a maker of hand-launched surveillance drones
based in Monrovia,  California , surprised investors on March 5 by
reporting a 35 percent drop in third-quarter revenue amid a
slowdown in military orders.  “We’ve experienced acquisition delays in the past that
have impacted planned revenues within a period, but never of
this magnitude,” CEO Tim Conver said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  