-- Norway Rate Policy Can’t Ignore Credit Imbalances, Vikoeren Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-04-24T09:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/norway-rate-policy-can-t-ignore-credit-imbalances-vikoeren-says.html
Norway’s  interest rate  policy needs
to guard against credit-driven imbalances to help attain the
inflation target over time, the head of the central bank’s
monetary policy department said.  “We should reach our inflation target, we should try to
stabilize variations in production growth and in addition we
want to conduct a robust monetary policy to avoid the building
up of imbalances that make it difficult to reach the inflation
target over time,” Norges Bank Executive Director Birger
Vikoeren said in an interview in Oslo today. “Our monetary
policy is a balance of these three considerations.”  The bank has tried to balance efforts to prevent the
housing market from overheating without fueling krone
appreciation that’s already driven  inflation  down well below its
2.5 percent target. As it battles on two fronts, signs of
imbalance are growing.  Norway’s financial regulator warned yesterday that the
prevailing optimism in western  Europe ’s largest oil producer can
easily evaporate and trigger retrenchment among households. At
the same time, Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen signaled last
month he’s ready to cut rates to stem krone appreciation.  Vikoeren said today he shares the watchdog’s concern over
household debt and house prices, even as the krone is a
“challenge” to bank’s inflation target.  House prices have doubled since 2002 and rose an annual 7
percent last month, according to the Norwegian Association of
Real Estate Agents. Household debt will swell to more than 200
percent of disposable incomes this year, the bank estimates.  Only Inflation  Low interest rates have fueled house price gains after
 Norway ’s central bank held its benchmark interest rate at 1.5
percent for more than a year. Policy makers last month signaled
a possible cut to match a 2009 record low as they try to fight
krone gains.  Vikoeren reiterated today that if the central bank only
looked at inflation, it would have cut rates.  The inflation rate, adjusted for taxes and energy prices,
fell to an annual 0.9 percent last month from 1.1 percent in
February, according to Statistics Norway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  