-- Novartis Profit Rises 7% on Lack of Generic Diovan
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-04-24T15:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/novartis-profit-rises-7-on-lack-of-generic-diovan.html
Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  first-quarter profit
rose 7 percent as a generic challenger to the company’s second-
best-selling medicine failed to enter the market.  Earnings excluding some costs increased to $3.25 billion,
the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts predicted profit of $3.12 billion, the average of seven
estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. Chief Financial Officer
Jonathan Symonds, 54, is resigning and will be replaced by Harry Kirsch, 48, the finance head of Novartis’s drug unit, the
company said.  Novartis,  Europe ’s biggest drugmaker, benefited from
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.’s (RBXY)  failure to market a copycat version
of the Diovan hypertension drug. Sales growth from new
treatments such as the Gilenya multiple sclerosis pill are
slated to help replace revenue from the cancer medicine Gleevec
and Diovan. The two products are the company’s biggest sellers,
with revenue of $9.1 billion last year. They may reap just $5.2
billion in 2015 after losing patent protection, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “All divisions were strong with the exception of Alcon,
which was hampered by sluggish revenues in the surgical
business,” Andrew Baum, a London-based analyst at Citigroup,
said in a note to clients today. “The surprising departure of
the well-respected Novartis CFO Jon Symonds is likely to
dominate investor attention.”  Generic Rivals  Novartis also reiterated its forecast for a mid-single-
digit percentage decline in profit this year, and repeated that
sales will be in line with those of 2012, excluding currency
swings. Competition from generic medicines will cut sales by as
much as $3.5 billion in 2013, the company said.  The Alcon eye-care division’s sales climbed 1 percent to
$2.57 billion.  The company said incoming Chairman Joerg Reinhardt will
receive annual compensation of 3.8 million Swiss francs ($4
million) in a mix of cash and stock, with an additional payment
of 2.6 million euros ($3.4 million) over the next two years to
make up for a loss of income from  Bayer AG (BAYN) , his former employer.  His predecessor Daniel Vasella, who was criticized by some
investors for the amount of his pay, received 2012 compensation
of 13.1 million francs.  Sales increased 2 percent to $14 billion, matching the
average estimate.  Novartis fell 0.4 percent to 69 francs in Zurich. The stock
has gained 25 percent this year including reinvested dividends,
compared with a 20 percent return for the  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Job Cuts  Yesterday, the U.S. sued the company for alleged health-
care fraud, saying Novartis paid kickbacks to pharmacies for
switching transplant patients to its drug Myfortic. Novartis
“disputes these claims and will defend itself,” Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said on a conference call with
reporters.  The company will cut 300 jobs at its struggling plant in
Lincoln,  Nebraska  to focus the site on producing solids and
powders after it received mixed reviews in U.S. Food and Drug
Administration inspections. The measures will cost $100 million.  Pharmaceutical sales were unchanged at $7.9 billion, as
volume growth offset generic competition.  Ranbaxy Failure  Ranbaxy, which had the exclusive right to sell a generic
version of Diovan in the U.S. beginning Sept. 21, failed to win
regulatory approval to begin marketing the product. There’s
still no generic version of the Diovan standalone drug, Jimenez
said on a conference call with reporters.  Revenue for Diovan, which lost U.S. patent protection last
year, dropped 23 percent to $918 million. Novartis’s Sandoz unit
has been marketing a generic of the combination drug Diovan HCT.  Sales of Gleevec, the company’s second-best selling
product, rose 1 percent to $1.14 billion. Revenue for Tasigna,
the company’s successor drug to Gleevec, increased 36 percent to
$284 million.  Sales in the vaccines division rose 9 percent to $327
million. Revenue from the Sandoz generic-drug unit advanced 6
percent to $2.26 billion as it benefited from last-year’s $1.5
billion acquisition of Fougera Pharmaceuticals and sales of
biosimilars as well as volume growth. Novartis’ consumer-health
unit had revenue of $987 million, an increase of 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  