-- Novartis Sued by U.S. for Fraud Over Payments to Pharmaci
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/novartis-sued-by-u-s-for-fraud-over-payments-to-pharmacies-2-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  was sued by the U.S.
for alleged health-care fraud, saying the company paid kickbacks
to pharmacies for switching transplant patients to its drug
Myfortic.  The U.S. sued Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis in federal
court in  Manhattan  yesterday, claiming it violated the  False
Claims Act  by paying kickbacks, disguised as rebates and
discounts, to at least 20 pharmacies for switching patients to
Myfortic from drugs sold by other companies. The scheme caused
the Medicare and Medicaid programs to pay tens of millions of
dollars in false claims, according to the government’s
complaint.  “Hundreds, possibly thousands, of transplant patients have
undergone switches in their medication as a result of
recommendations from pharmacies that were based on undisclosed
financial, rather than independent clinical, considerations,”
lawyers from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
said in the complaint.  The U.S. is seeking triple damages, restitution and civil
penalties. In a statement yesterday, Bharara called Novartis “a
repeat offender,” saying the company had settled kickback
claims less than three years ago.  2010 Settlement  In September 2010, Novartis agreed to pay $422.5 million to
resolve criminal and civil charges that it paid kickbacks and
illegally promoted drugs for off-label uses. As part of the
settlement, the company signed a five-year corporate integrity
agreement with the  Department of Health  and Human Services,
which required reforms including a compliance program relating
to promotional activities. The 80-page agreement provided that
Novartis may be excluded from participation in federal health
care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for a “material
breach.”  Donald White, an HHS spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a voice-mail message yesterday after regular business hours
asking whether the department plans to pursue exclusion against
Novartis.  Novartis said in a statement yesterday that it disputes the
government’s allegations and will defend itself in the case.
Julie Masow, a Novartis spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
agreement with HHS.  By filing the complaint, the U.S. joined in a suit filed
under seal against Novartis in 2011. The identity of the private
plaintiff who filed the original lawsuit and documents filed
before yesterday in the case remain under seal.  Kickback Claims  Myfortic is an immunosuppressant drug used to help prevent
 organ rejection  in kidney transplant patients. The U.S. claims
that, from 2005 until the present, Novartis offered kickbacks to
pharmacies that agreed to convince doctors to switch patients to
Myfortic. The drug’s main competitors are  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
CellCept and, since 2009, generic versions of CellCept,
according to the government.  In 2011, the Medicare Part B reimbursement for Myfortic was
more than twice that for generic CellCept, according to the
government.  The U.S. said it told Novartis and other drug companies in
1994 that offering financial benefits to pharmacies for
influencing doctors to switch patients from one prescription
drug to another could violate the federal anti-kickback statute.  The complaint named five pharmacies that participated in
the alleged scheme, including the outpatient pharmacy at Baylor
Hospital in  Dallas . Prosecutors said Novartis also negotiated
with  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  in 2011 to switch patients using on-site
Walgreen pharmacies at transplant centers and Walgreen’s mail-
order division to Myfortic from CellCept and generic CellCept in
exchange for payments. The complaint didn’t include whether any
deal was reached.  Jim Graham, a Walgreen spokesman, declined to comment on
the allegations in the lawsuit. Julie Smith, a Baylor Hospital
spokeswoman, had no immediate comment.  The case is U.S. v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 11-
cv-08196, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  