-- Novartis Sued by U.S. for Fraud Over Payments to Pharmaci
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-24T21:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/novartis-sued-by-u-s-for-fraud-over-payments-to-pharmaci.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  was sued by the U.S.
for allegedly making illegal payments to pharmacies for
switching transplant patients to its drug Myfortic, the second
time in less than three years the company has faced federal
claims it used illegal kickbacks to increase sales.  The U.S. sued Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis in federal
court in Manhattan yesterday, claiming it violated the False
Claims Act by paying kickbacks, disguised as rebates and
discounts, to at least 20 pharmacies for switching patients to
Myfortic from drugs sold by other companies.  “Novartis caused the public to pay tens of millions of
dollars for kickback-tainted drugs that were dispensed by
pharmacists who were in cahoots with the company,”  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday.  The U.S. is seeking triple damages, restitution and civil
penalties. In the statement, Bharara called Novartis “a repeat
offender,” saying the company had settled kickback claims less
than three years ago.  2010 Settlement  In September 2010, Novartis agreed to pay $422.5 million to
resolve criminal and civil charges that it paid kickbacks and
illegally promoted drugs for off-label uses. As part of the
settlement, the company signed a five-year corporate integrity
agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services,
which required reforms including a compliance program relating
to promotional activities. The 80-page agreement provides that
Novartis may be barred from participation in federal health care
programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for a “material
breach.”  The U.S. claims that Novartis offered the Myfortic
kickbacks from 2005 to the present. In 2011, within months of
signing the corporate integrity agreement, Novartis negotiated
with  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  to try to get the drug store chain to join in
the alleged illegal scheme, the government said.  Novartis said in a statement yesterday that it disputes the
government’s allegations and will defend itself in the case.
Julie Masow, a Novartis spokeswoman, declined to comment on the
agreement with HHS. Jim Graham, a Walgreen spokesman, declined
to comment.  Open Matter  “This is an open matter,” the HHS inspector general’s
office said in a statement today. The office declined to say
whether Novartis violated the corporate integrity agreement or
what actions the office may take.  “Conduct that violates the False Claims Act may or may not
violate the terms of a CIA,” according to the statement. The
agreements are focused on setting up compliance programs and
don’t guarantee a company won’t violate the law, the inspector
general’s office said.  By filing the civil complaint, the U.S. joined in a suit
filed under seal against Novartis in 2011. The identity of the
private plaintiff who filed the original lawsuit and documents
filed before yesterday in the case remain under seal.  Myfortic is an immunosuppressant drug used to help prevent
organ rejection in kidney transplant patients. The drug’s main
competitors are  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s CellCept and, since 2009,
generic versions of CellCept, according to the government. In
2011, the Medicare Part B reimbursement for Myfortic was more
than twice that for generic CellCept, according to the
government.  Anti-Kickback Statute  The U.S. said it told Novartis and other drug companies in
1994 that offering financial benefits to pharmacies for
influencing doctors to switch patients from one prescription
drug to another could violate the federal anti-kickback statute.  The complaint named five pharmacies that participated in
the alleged scheme, including the outpatient pharmacy at Baylor
Hospital in  Dallas .  “We are not a defendant, nonetheless we are looking into
the allegations,” Julie Smith, a Baylor Hospital spokeswoman,
said today.  In the 2011 negotiations with Walgreen, Novartis tried to
get the drug store chain to encourage use of Myfortic, through
its on-site pharmacies at transplant centers and its mail-order
division, instead of CellCept and generic CellCept, in exchange
for payments, according to Bharara’s office. The complaint
didn’t say whether any deal was reached.  The case is U.S. v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 11-cv-
08196, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  