-- Oakmark Funds Sell Dell Stake After Blackstone Backs Out
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-04-24T16:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/oakmark-funds-sell-dell-stake-after-blackstone-backs-out.html
William Nygren, whose Oakmark
mutual funds owned about 1.6 percent of  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares, said
he sold his stake after  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  withdrew its bid to
buy the computer maker.  “Our numbers suggested Dell should be worth a premium to
the $13.65 offer from management, but then a potential acquirer
with access to non-public information decided to end its quest
to acquire Dell at a higher price,” Nygren said in an e-mailed
letter, referring to Blackstone. “Since they had information we
didn’t, we believed it was prudent to assume they might be
right.”  Blackstone, which had made a non-binding offer in March
challenging plans by  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC
to take the computer maker private, pulled out of the bidding on
April 20 amid concerns about a worsening global slump in
personal computer sales. Personal-computer shipments plummeted
14 percent in the first quarter, the worst decline since
researcher IDC began tracking data in 1994.  Some of Dell’s largest shareholders, including Southeastern
Asset Management Inc. and T. Rowe Group Inc., have opposed the
Silver Lake offer, arguing that the proposed purchase price is
too low.  Dell  gained  1.4 percent to $13.27 at 12:54 p.m.  New York 
time. The stock had risen as high as $14.64 on March 25, when
Dell said it received rival offers during its go-shop period
that may be superior to the original bid.  Buyout Engineers  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment on
Nygren’s decision, as did T. Rowe Price spokesman Brian Lewbart.
Southeastern Asset Management, the largest outside shareholder
in the company after founder Michael Dell, also declined to
comment, said spokesman Jed Repko.  Blackstone had assembled bankers and buyout engineers, as
well as dozens of potential co-investors and consultants since
April 8 to grill  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell’s executives about
divisions and model its prospects, people familiar with the
situation said this month.  Its exit from Dell bidding followed reports that
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  is in talks to sell its
low-end server division to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  Servers have been a
bright spot for Dell, posting 18 percent sales growth in the
most recent quarter.  Nygren, who is based in  Chicago , held Dell shares in three
Oakmark funds he co-manages, the $8.7 billion Oakmark Fund, the
$3.5 billion Oakmark Select Fund and the $814 million Oakmark
Global Select Fund. All three funds have outperformed at least
93 percent of rivals over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Surprised, Disappointed’  “At Oakmark, we have always paid extra attention to the
actions of investors who have access to information public
investors don’t have,” Nygren wrote in his letter. Nygren said
he was “surprised and disappointed” when Blackstone withdrew
after getting a closer look at Dell’s financial situation.  Southeastern, which owns almost 7 percent of Dell, has
argued that Dell is worth at least $24 a share. In a February
letter, the asset manager described the original buyout offer as
“an effort to acquire Dell at a substantial discount to
intrinsic value at the expense of public shareholders.”  The Memphis, Tennessee-based company has said several times
it wanted to remain a Dell shareholder so it could participate
in the future growth of the business.  T. Rowe Price, based in Baltimore,  Maryland , owns 4.7
percent of Dell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  