-- Obama Wants to Make Sure You Don’t Retire Rich
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/obama-wants-to-make-sure-you-don-t-retire-rich.html
A bullet point on Page 18 of
President  Barack Obama ’s  2014 budget  sounds ominous: “Prohibit
Individuals from Accumulating Over $3 Million in Tax-Preferred
Retirement Accounts.” That it appears in a section titled
“Strengthening the Middle Class” is odd since such a proposal
would seem to undermine the goal.  Why, at a time when the government is looking to reform
entitlement programs because it can’t keep the promises it has
made to future generations, does Obama want to reduce the
incentive to save? It makes no sense.  Suddenly, the political agenda becomes obvious. Mitt Romney’s $102 million individual retirement account became  an
issue  during the 2012 presidential election. Instead of offering
a solution to prevent wealthy individuals from putting deeply
discounted stock in their IRAs and earning huge, tax-free
profits, Obama is looking to score political points.  “He’s taking a cheap shot at  Mitt Romney  rather than
helping lower- and middle-income Americans save for their
retirement,” says Jason Fichtner, a senior research fellow at
George Mason University’s Mercatus Center in Arlington,
Virginia. “He’s going after a very small segment of the
population that has in some way managed to save wealth in a tax-
deferred vehicle.”  A very small segment -- for a very small return. Limiting
an individual’s total retirement balances to about $3 million,
enough to finance “an annuity of not more than $205,000 per
year in retirement,” would raise $9 billion over 10 years,
according to Obama’s budget proposal. Why, it makes it sound as
if the danger is saving too much, not too little.  Do-Nothing Saving  Fichtner has spent the  last 15 years  -- at the Joint
Economic Committee of Congress and  Social Security
Administration  before going to Mercatus -- looking for ways to
help lower- and middle-income people save for retirement. And he
has come up with some terrific solutions.  For starters, Fichtner would adopt a system of automatic
enrollment. By forcing individuals to opt out rather than opt
in, saving becomes a passive choice. Think of it as the default
setting. You do nothing, which is the path of least resistance,
and you receive the benefit. Research by  Harvard University ’s
Raj Chetty has shown that  nudging people to save  in this manner
is more effective than the existing tax break.  To his credit, Obama’s budget includes automatic IRA
enrollment and payroll deductions for those who lack employer-
based 401(k) plans, considered to be the best way to induce
people to save.  Next, Fichtner would address the current deductibility
limits, which he says are “upside-down”: The higher the
marginal  tax rate , the bigger the  benefit from the deduction .
The existing system gives incentives to those who don’t need
any.  He suggests changing the deductibility of 401(k) and IRA
accounts to a nonrefundable tax credit. Instead of giving an
individual in the 10 percent income-tax bracket a 10 percent
benefit, give a dollar-for-dollar credit on his income tax. For
high-income savers, the credit would be capped.  Operationally, capping pretax savings would be a nightmare.
The amount of money required to generate an annuity of $205,000
at today’s interest rates is greater than if they stood at, say,
5 percent. What happens then? Is the additional principal
returned to the individual and taxed at his current rate? What
happens when  interest rates  fall, requiring more savings to
guarantee the maximum annuity payment?  You get the point. It should be obvious that the proposal
to cap retirement accounts was designed to punish the rich
rather than strengthen the middle class. The result is something
that’s “unworkable, unmanageable and un-administrable,”
Fichtner says, rather than good retirement policy.  Romney’s IRA  There is a much simpler solution to Romney’s IRA. If the
problem is ensuring that partners in private-equity firms don’t
put low-cost-basis shares into their IRAs, the government could
stipulate that only cash be invested.  Perhaps a more important question is whether the government
should be subsidizing saving in the first place. In a recent
 working paper , Chetty and four co-authors found that the tax
subsidy for retirement savings accounts cost the government $100
billion a year. That puts it among the  top five tax
expenditures , or loopholes that are really  government spending 
by another name. And it’s much less effective than automatic
saving.  The well-to-do don’t need a tax incentive to save. At some
point, they have all the homes, cars, yachts and airplanes they
could ever want. And while saving is certainly a worthier
pursuit than many of the activities government subsidizes,
studies suggest there are more effective ways to achieve that
goal. So why pay people to do what they are already doing?  We shouldn’t, Fichtner says. “But we should make sure we
help those who aren’t doing it, do it.”  That sounds like something out of the Obama playbook.
Having just paid a  lower effective tax rate  (18.4 percent) than
his secretary this year, the president may want to rethink his
fairness doctrine. That might help him to differentiate between
good ideas for retirement saving, such as automatic enrollment,
and purely political ones. At least we can hope.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  