-- Obama Seeks Texas Cash for 2014 Before Bush Dedication
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-25T02:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/obama-seeks-texas-cash-for-2014-before-bush-dedication.html
President  Barack Obama  pledged to
reach out to Republicans even if it means angering fellow
Democrats as he raised money for his party’s congressional
candidates in 2014.  Obama was the featured speaker at a fundraiser in  Dallas 
last night before going today to the dedication of former
President George W. Bush’s library and a service for victims of
a fertilizer plant explosion in West,  Texas .  “I’m going to spend the next year and a half doing
everything I can” to bridge differences with congressional
Republicans, “even if some of you think I’m a sap,” Obama said
yesterday. “Occasionally, I may make some of you angry.”  Tickets for the 60-person event benefitting the Democractic
National Committee ranged from $10,000 per person to $32,400,
according to the party.  Obama has committed to helping bring in money at eight
fundraising events for the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, the political arm of his party in the House, and
eight for its Senate counterpart. Last month, he was the main
attraction at four fundraisers in the San Francisco area.  The ultimate goal, he said, is for Democrats to be setting
the agenda in Congress, and that would mean wresting control of
the  House of Representatives  from Republicans.  Winning Elections  “That’s why we’re fighting, that’s why we’re here,” he
said yesterday. “We win elections so that we have the
possibility of delivering to the American people.”  While Texas has been a Republican stronghold in statewide
and federal elections, Obama said there are a “whole lot of
people in Texas who need us.”  Obama also made reference to the terrorist attack at the
Boston Marathon that killed three and injured more than 260 and
the fertilizer plant explosion in Texas that left 14 dead.  “Obviously it’s been a tough couple of weeks for the
country,” he said. “There are no words that are satisfactory
when you’re confronting these kinds of losses.”  “I don’t want to pretend we can somehow put a positive
gloss” on horrific events, he said, adding that Americans can
recover through the “strength, courage, fellowship” of others.  Obama spoke at the home of Naomi Aberly, one of the
president’s top bundlers, or people who collect large sums of
campaign cash. She raised between $200,000 and $500,000 for
Obama’s 2008 presidential effort and more than $500,000 for his
2012 re-election, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in  Washington . Her husband is Laurence Lebowitz,
president and chief investment officer of the Investment Fund
for Foundations, which oversees about $10 billion for charities.  Bush Library  Today, Obama will attend the dedication of the $250
million, 23-acre complex that includes the presidential library,
museum and the  George W. Bush  Institute, a forum for public-policy debate. The Dallas event will mark the first time since
January 2009 that five living U.S. presidents will gather in the
same place.  Obama, who campaigned against Bush’s policies and opposed
the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , will set politics aside for
the day and join Bush and former Presidents  Jimmy Carter ,  George H.W. Bush , and  Bill Clinton  on the campus of  Southern Methodist
University .  In a recorded interview broadcast yesterday on NBC’s
“Today” show, Obama described Bush as “gracious” during the
transition and said he’s always had a friendly relationship with
his predecessor in the White House.  Unique Job  “Obviously, we had some deep disagreements in terms of
policy, but there’s no doubt that anybody who takes on this job
has a greater appreciation for the challenges involved,” Obama
said.  The younger Bush has remained largely out of the spotlight
since leaving office in 2009, spending his time raising money
for the policy center, mountain biking, going to Texas Rangers
baseball games and taking up a new vocation: painting.  “There’s a lot of issues that people would like to get my
opinion on, and I really decided to stay out of the public
arena,” Bush said in an interview with ABC News broadcast
yesterday.  One recent poll suggests voters are moderating their views
of the wartime president. When Bush left office, his job-approval rating had plunged to 22 percent, the lowest of any
president in more than 70 years, according to a  New York 
Times/CBS News poll.  Today, 47 percent of those surveyed said they approved of
how Bush handled his eight years in office, his highest rating
since December 2005, while 50 percent disapproved, according to
a  Washington Post-ABC News poll  published April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  