-- Mobile Helping Bridge Gender Gap in Emerging Markets, Panel Says
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-04-24T04:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/mobile-helping-bridge-gender-gap-in-emerging-markets-panel-says.html
Mobile phones  are creating
opportunities for women in  emerging markets  to advance in
business and society, even as they trail men in adoption of the
devices, a panel of technology and philanthropy executives said.  Information available on handsets is bridging the gender
gap in remote parts of the world, giving women access to health-
care information and professional advice, Nelson Mattos, vice
president of product and engineering for Europe and emerging
markets at  Google Inc. (GOOG) , said at an event organized by the World
Affairs Council and Bloomberg.  Low-priced feature phones prevalent in emerging markets can
tap into the Web, helping to educate women and allow them to
communicate, he said. More women are getting connected via
mobile phones, though not as quickly as men. A woman is 21
percent less likely to own a handset than a man in low- and
middle-income countries, according to a  report  by Vital Wave
Consulting.  “Mobile technology is creating opportunities for women
that did not exist before,” Mattos said. “Health care is the
one that has benefited the most, particularly in remote areas.”  In one study by the  Grameen Foundation  in  Ghana , women used
phones to find advice on pregnancy and childcare, Mattos said.
Women there incorrectly believed that they should stop feeding
when they felt pain in their breasts, he said.  “Imagine the consequences of a two- or three-day old child
who is getting nothing to eat,” Mattos said. “They actually
managed to break that myth and say, ‘No, it’s exactly the
opposite. You should feed so the pain goes away.’”  Broader Access  About 6 billion people in the world have mobile phones,
 according  to the  United Nations . While women are slower to adopt
new technologies including mobile devices, the number of women
who do is expected to grow dramatically in the next few years,
 Rodger Voorhies , the director of the Financial Services for the
Poor initiative at the  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , said on
the panel.  “We have to get the right applications and the right
empowerment strategies,” Voorhies said. “They’re most
vulnerable when they’re disconnected. They’re most vulnerable
when they’re not known.”  Women in  Saudi Arabia  are signing up for Twitter’s Web-
based short-messaging service to read news and voice their
opinions, said Katie Jacobs Stanton, the company’s vice
president of international market development, who was also on
the panel.  The technology industry is traditionally male-dominated,
yet women in emerging markets are starting to pursue those types
of careers. Women outnumber men in some computer-science classes
in the  Middle East  because the professions typically allow them
to work in an office or from home, Mattos said.  “Women oftentimes are even more isolated than men in low-
income communities,” Voorhies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  