-- Lockheed Martin Poised to Win Orders for Up to 71 F-35s
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-24T19:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/lockheed-martin-poised-to-win-orders-for-up-to-71-f-35s.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  may receive a
U.S. order in June for as many as 60 F-35 jets, consolidating
the sixth and seven production contracts for the costliest
weapons system, according to the Pentagon’s program manager  The contract may be valued at about $9 billion, according
to a person familiar with negotiations between the Pentagon and
Lockheed who declined to be named discussing the private talks.
The number of F-35s may rise to as many as 71 if orders from
other nations are included.  “We believe we can have a negotiation settlement” by May
31 “followed by final contract award in June,” Air Force
Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, manager of the Pentagon’s
F-35 program, said in prepared testimony today for a Senate
Armed Services Committee panel.  The Pentagon has worked to protect the F-35 from the
federal spending cuts called sequestration. Some of the money
for the next group of fighters already has been obligated,
sparing those funds from the across-the board reductions. Other
funds may be subject to the cuts, which  Air Force , Navy and
Pentagon officials continue to assess.  The F-35’s estimated cost for a fleet of 2,443 aircraft has
risen to $395.7 billion, up 70 percent from $233 billion in 2001
in current dollars, according to the Pentagon.  Bogdan, who has pressed Lockheed to do a better job
containing costs for the F-35, said the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company will absorb a greater share of any overruns than under
previous contracts.  ‘Worst Relations’  A contract signed in June would come about seven months
after a preliminary agreement in late December. That’s far
faster than the 14 months needed to negotiate the fifth F-35
contract, a pace that underscored strains between Lockheed and
the Pentagon, its  biggest customer . The fifth contract for 32
aircraft was valued at as much as $3.8 billion.  In September, Bogdan said relations with Lockheed, the
world’s largest defense contractor, had deteriorated to “the
worst I’ve ever seen.”  “It should not take 10 or 11 or 12 months to negotiate a
contract with someone we’ve been doing business with for 11
years,” Bogdan said at the time.  The lessons learned should help speed the process in
pending negotiations over the next lot, Marillyn Hewson, who was
the company’s chief operating officer, said Dec. 14 in an
interview.  Hewson, who is now chief executive officer, said  “the
reason why it took longer is that there was a real need to
understand the cost, on both sides, from the government side,
from Lockheed Martin’s side.”  ‘Design Sound’  Bogdan gave a generally upbeat assessment of the F-35’s
progress in his statement today.  “The basic aircraft design is sound and we can deliver on
our promises,” Bogdan said. “Our progress continues at a slow
but steady pace.”  Frank Kendall, the  Pentagon’s chief weapons buyer, told
reporters today that that “I feel much more comfortable” about
the F-35 program than “I did a year and half ago.”  Lockheed Martin’s performance since a strike of its
aerospace workers ended in July “has been fairly stable and the
program has seen marked improvement in design stability,”
Bogdan said.  Bogdan was less optimistic on development of the jet’s
software. He said he had “moderate” confidence in Lockheed’s
capability to deliver mid-level versions needed to train on the
aircraft and give it an initial combat capability.  On-time delivery of the so-called Block 3F software that’s
designed to give the F-35 full combat capability by 2017 is more
at risk, Bogdan said.  Software Quality  Lockheed and its subcontractors “still need to improve
both the speed and quality of software development” to “catch
up from previous software delays,” he said.  Lockheed reported a first-quarter profit yesterday that
beat analysts’ estimates as sales declined 2 percent compared
with a year earlier. Revenue from the F-35 was “up slightly”
compared with the same quarter a year earlier, according to the
company. The fighter jet accounted for 14 percent of the
company’s sales last year, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  