-- Oil’s Big Five Squeezed by Crude Drop as Spending Soars: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-04-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/oil-s-big-five-squeezed-by-crude-drop-as-spending-soars-energy.html
The biggest  oil companies  are
failing to increase earnings as crude trades near a nine-month
low, production wanes and costs rise.  For only the second time since 2009, Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP)  will all
report lower quarterly profit when they announce earnings in the
coming week, analysts’ estimates show. The group, which is
investing a record $155 billion this year to bolster output, is
disappointing investors: the companies’ shares have gained an
average 2 percent this year as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
jumped 11 percent.  “It’s going to be a very rough ride for the majors,” said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York  who
rates Exxon the equivalent of a hold. “If oil prices go down
from here, no major integrated  oil company  will beat the S&P. We
cannot hope they’ll be able to squeeze costs faster than falling
oil prices.”  Benchmark  Brent crude , used to price two-thirds of global
sales, has dropped 9 percent this year to $101 a barrel as
fracking technology opens wells in the U.S., prompting BP to
predict the nation may top  Saudi Arabia  as the biggest producer
of oil and liquid fuels. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week
cut its forecast for average Brent prices in 2013 to $100 from
$110 as supply grows.  At the same time, producing oil and natural gas is becoming
harder for the world’s largest energy companies. Output at the
five so-called supermajors reached its zenith in 2004 at 16.9
million barrels a day of oil equivalent. Production has slipped
7 percent since then to 15.7 million barrels last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Capital Intensity  “The recent fall in  oil prices  is hardly likely to change
sentiment toward this group of companies, whilst capital
intensity has continued to rise as industry inflation
continues,” Iain Reid, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC in
London, said in an e-mailed note to investors. “The global
majors have as a group been a poor investment for some time.”  The U.S. will surpass Russia and Saudi Arabia this year to
become the largest liquid fuel producer, BP said Jan 16. Liquids
output, which includes oil, natural gas liquids and biofuels,
will be boosted in the U.S. by tight oil extracted by the same
technology that sparked a boom in shale gas.  The quest for new deposits to replace shrinking established
fields is costing a record amount this year and all five
companies have pledged to maintain or increase capital
expenditure to bolster output. BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in February that the inflation rate for oilfield
services and supplies is running at about 10 percent a year.  Exxon Today  Exxon reports first-quarter earnings today. The Irving,
Texas-based company will post net income of $9.25 billion,
compared with $9.45 billion a year earlier, according to the
average of  four estimates compiled by Bloomberg . Chevron will
say net income fell to $5.83 billion after $6.47 billion a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  In Europe, analysts estimate that Total’s adjusted profit
fell 5.7 percent to $2.99 billion. BP will say next week that
profit in the first quarter slipped to $3.47 billion from $4.8
billion a year earlier, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will say on
May 2 that profit slid to $6.6 billion from $7.28 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Lower prices are also squeezing margins. Brent crude
declined 4.9 percent from a year earlier to average $112.64 a
barrel in the first quarter. New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, fell 8.4 percent to $94.36.
U.S. gas prices gained 39 percent from a decade low to average
$3.48 per million British thermal units.  Occidental Petroleum  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the largest oil producer in the
continental U.S., announced in February it was seeking a
successor for CEO Stephen Chazen after less than two years on
the job as the company lost a fifth of its market value last
year on rising costs and lower-than-expected production growth.  BP and Total have focused on selling off less profitable
operations and emphasized frontier exploration, where the
payoffs from new discoveries are biggest.  “It’s now apparent to the majors that you need a high-
quality portfolio to maintain earnings,” said  Jason Kenney , an
analyst at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in Edinburgh. “We’re in a period
of inflation in the sector, and there’s value leakage in every
spot along the chain.”  While profits from selling crude oil are falling, the
business of turning crude into gasoline and other products has
improved. Global refining margins were $17.80 a barrel in the
first quarter compared with $14.75 a year earlier, according to
BP’s refining marker margin.  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have spun off their
refining business to add to their share prices. The biggest oil
producers may now also have to try something radical to reward
their shareholders, Oppenheimer’s Gheit said.  “Companies will have to look outside of the box to create
value,” said Gheit. “It won’t be as simple as it has been for
the past two years. Rising oil prices can be the tide that lifts
all boats, but it will also bring them back down again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  