-- Olam Survives as Short-Seller Block Proves Investors’ Friend
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-04-25T11:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/olam-survives-as-short-seller-waters-proves-shareholders-friend.html
Short-seller  Carson Block ’s charge
that  Olam (OLAM)  International Ltd. will fail, his first attack on a
Singapore company, is a victory for shareholders after it made
the commodity trader more responsive to investors.  “We have listened to our fiercest critics as well as our
most ardent advocates,” Olam Chief Executive Officer Sunny
Verghese said today at the company’s annual business review, its
first since Block questioned Olam’s finances in November.  Olam will slash capital spending by around S$1 billion
($808 million) from fiscal 2014 to 2016 and sell assets to
reduce debt, the world’s second-largest rice trader said at the
review. The company also dropped its $1 billion earnings target
for 2016.  In the five months since Block and his Muddy Waters LLC
questioned Olam’s accounts, the commodity trader has raised
$712.5 million selling bonds, scrapped a sugar deal and sold
almond orchards to boost cash. The company also won increased
backing from Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state investment
firm, which now holds 24 percent of Olam, buoying shareholder
confidence.  “Short-sellers act as a disciplining mechanism for firms
to be more prudent in the way they operate,” Melvyn Teo,
director at BNP Paribas Hedge Fund Centre at Singapore
Management University, said before the review. “It’s comforting
to some investors that Temasek increased its holding of Olam.”  Short Interest  Short interest in Singapore-based Olam  as a percentage of
shares outstanding peaked at a record 13.4 percent on Nov. 15,
according to data compiled by Markit and Bloomberg. It declined
to 7.8 percent as of April 19, still the highest among the 30
companies in the city’s benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Temasek is Olam’s largest shareholder, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, after it raised its stake from about 16
percent in November. The investment firm remains “comfortable
with Olam’s credit position and longer term prospects,” Temasek
spokesman  Stephen Forshaw  said today by e-mail.  Muddy Waters in a November report questioned Olam’s debt,
acquisitions and accounting and likened it to Enron Corp., the
Houston-based company that was once the world’s largest energy
trader before it plunged into bankruptcy in December 2001
following revelations it was using off-balance-sheet vehicles to
hide billions of dollars in losses and inflate the stock price.
Olam rejected the allegations and sued the short-seller, a case
it abandoned this month after investor feedback.  Cash Flow  Muddy Waters declined to say whether it had profited from
its bet against Olam or whether it was currently shorting the
stock, in an e-mail reply to questions yesterday. Block first
revealed he was betting against the stock on Nov. 19.  “While Olam slowing its spending could be viewed as a
tacit admission that we were correct, we believe the change is
too little, too late to save this company - particularly given
its massive debt load,” Muddy Waters said in an e-mail today.  Olam in 2011 revised its target for profit after tax to $1
billion by 2016, up from a goal of $454 million by 2015 set two
year earlier. Net income was S$370.9 million ($299 million) last
fiscal year. The company will spend about S$1.7 billion this
fiscal year and part of next, and won’t be free cash flow
positive until at least fiscal 2014, it said in January.  Olam said today it would be free cash flow positive by
fiscal 2014, cutting spending and targeting S$1.5 billion in
asset sales and by scaling back operations to reduce its gearing
ceiling, or the ratio of its debt to equity, to 2 times from 2.5
times.  Spending Target  “The market will take this positively,” said Tanuj Shori,
a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst based in Hong Kong. “They played
into what the market wanted to see.”  Investors most frequently complained about Olam’s spending
targets and the company not aiming to be cash flow positive in
the near term, he said. “People will applaud this because
people wanted them to do it,” he said.  Olam shares  -- pushed as low as S$1.395 after Block’s
allegations -- have rebounded in Singapore trading. They closed
unchanged today at S$1.67, before the announcement was made,
compared with S$1.74 before Block’s first assault. Other bets by
Block have yielded different results.  Tree-plantation operator Sino-Forest Corp. plunged 74
percent before eventually filing for bankruptcy. American
depositary receipts of  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the Shanghai-
based advertising company that Block said overstated its
network, gained 16 percent in the past year.  “Short-sellers are extremely important to markets,” said
Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings, who holds some Olam
stock. “Most of the frauds are found by short-sellers.”  New Rules  For shareholders, there’s also new rules on short-selling,
first proposed in 2010, that may help investments decisions. The
Singapore Exchange set a  regulation  from March 11 that requires
orders to be marked as a short-sell -- selling borrowed shares
to buy back later at a lower price. It also started daily
reports on short-sales volume and value.  Still, some say shareholders have already won.  “Olam is now approaching their annual strategy review with
an emphasis on making Olam a stronger company going forward and
therefore less vulnerable to similar attacks,” said David Gerald, president of the Securities Investors Association of
Singapore, in comments made before the review. “Usually it is
the investors who will lose, but fortunately it has not been so
in this case,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  