-- Hong Kong Says More Sunshine Led to Smoggy Days This Year
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-04-24T05:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/hong-kong-road-smog-worsens-in-first-quarter-on-more-sunlight.html
Hong Kong  recorded more than twice
as many hours of very high roadside pollution in the first
quarter, blaming an increase in sunshine for contributing to the
smog in the city’s financial and shopping districts.  Roadside monitors recorded 1,372 hours when the pollution
index exceeded 100 in the first three months, compared with 580
hours for the same period in 2012, data compiled by the city’s
 environmental department  show. There were 180 more hours of
bright sunshine, a 78 percent gain from a year ago, according to
Hong Kong Observatory’s data.  “The weather explanation sounds logical, especially given
windless days,” said Kwong Sum-yin, chief executive officer of
Clean Air Network, a non-profit advocacy group. “Having said
that, the problem in Hong Kong is if you can see the pollution
from the roadside, it’s coming from the tailpipes of old dirty
vehicles. This problem hasn’t been tackled yet.”  Emissions from Chinese factories across the border and old
vehicles in the former British colony have choked residents this
year as slower air flow trapped pollutants. Hong Kong Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying is offering HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) in subsidies to replace old diesel vehicles after a
government audit last year showed that the city’s  air quality 
has worsened since 2007.  “The weather in the first three months of 2013 was drier
and with a lot more sunshine, which was more conducive to
photochemical smog formation,” the Environmental Protection
Department said in an e-mail response to queries.  Premature Deaths  The roadside monitors were measuring air quality at
Central,  Mong Kok  and  Causeway Bay . The index has a range from 0
to 500, with readings above 100 classified as very high
pollution. The government’s failure to retire aging buses and
trucks is a key cause of pollution that results in more than
3,000 premature deaths a year, according to think tank  Civic
Exchange .  “Our approach to traffic management and pollution control
presumed that most of the time the winds will blow,” said Bill
Barron, associate professor at the  environment division  of  Hong
Kong University  of Science and Technology. “When the winds
stop, that’s just a reminder of how much we’ve come to rely on
the cleansing effect of the winds.”  The average wind speed  fell  13 percent in the first three
months from the same period a year earlier, data from the Hong
Kong Observatory show.  Roaring Cars  The rising number of vehicles plying the streets haven’t
helped. Licensed vehicles climbed by 4.1 percent as of January
this year, compared with a year ago, the latest data from the
Transport Department show.  Leung’s plan to replace aging vehicles is a “good sign,”
said Kwong. “But it is still under negotiation and we’re still
waiting. I would urge the government not to go on with the
industry for so long because the people in Hong Kong have
already sacrificed their health for long enough.”  Hong Kong is also working with the government in  Guangdong
province , which borders the city, to reduce emissions so as to
cut the regional ozone level, the environmental protection
department said in its statement.  The Chinese city will raise its standard for measuring air
quality for the first time since 1987, using World Health
Organization measures as a reference, it said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  