-- Too-Big-to-Fail Bill Seen as Fix for Dodd-Frank Act’s Flaws
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-24T19:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/too-big-to-fail-bill-seen-as-fix-for-dodd-frank-act-s-flaws-2-.html
“Too-big-to-fail” legislation
unveiled in Washington today is needed to rein in the biggest
U.S. banks because the Dodd-Frank Act has failed to guard
taxpayers against future bailouts, the bill’s sponsors said.  The four largest banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America  Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co -- “are
nearly $2 trillion larger than they were” before getting U.S.
aid to help them weather the 2008 credit crisis, Senator  Sherrod Brown  said in a news conference today.  “If big banks want to continue risky practices, they
should do so with their own assets,” said Brown. “Our bill
will ensure a level playing field for all financial institutions
by ending the subsidy for Wall Street megabanks and requiring
banks to have adequate capital.”  Brown and Senator  David Vitter , a Republican from
 Louisiana , whose plan is opposed by key lawmakers, are proposing
a 15 percent capital requirement for so-called megabanks as a
way to reduce risk and remove the perception that they would get
bailouts in a crisis. Mid-size and regional banks, those between
$500 billion and $50 billion in assets, would need to have 8
percent capital relative to assets.  “It is our intent to have much more protection against a
crisis and against a taxpayer bailout in a crisis, and it is our
intent to level the playing field and take away a government
policy subsidy, if you will, that exists in the market now
favoring size,” Vitter said during a roundtable meeting at the
 National Press Club  yesterday.  Mid-size ‘Losers’  The $500 billion threshold effectively puts a cap on growth
for regional banks such as  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and
BB&T Corp., which would be “losers” under the bill, according
to Joseph Engelhard, a former Treasury Department official who
is now senior vice president at Capital Alpha Partners LLC., a
Washington-based firm that “offers predictive insight for
capital-markets professionals,” according to its website.  “To the extent this bill gets close to passage it will
make the Fed and other regulators work even harder to implement
Dodd-Frank in a tougher way,” Englehard said in an interview.  Dodd-Frank was enacted in 2010, two years after a credit
crisis that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and taxpayer bailouts that helped sustain other leading
financial firms. Implementation has been slowed amid
disagreement within regulatory agencies and legal challenges to
some rules.  Traditional Banking  At least six banks have assets above the $500 billion
threshold Vitter cited yesterday for the highest capital
standard: JPMorgan, Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , all based in New York, as well as  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America  and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo.  Brown, 60, and Vitter, 51, say their bill would limit the
government safety net to traditional banking operations and
require affiliates and subsidiaries of large banks to be
separately capitalized. It would provide regulatory relief to
community banks including changes to a qualified mortgage rule,
creating an independent bank examiner ombudsman for those
institutions and adopting privacy notice simplification.  The legislation faces obstacles to enactment, starting in
the Senate Banking Committee, where Chairman  Tim Johnson , a
South Dakota Democrat, has said regulators should finish work on
Dodd-Frank before determining whether it solves too big to fail.
Senator  Mike Crapo , the Idaho lawmaker who is the panel’s top
Republican, said in an interview yesterday that setting capital
standards is job for regulators, not legislators.  ‘Tough Regulation’  Brown and Vitter are also opposed by Senator  Carl Levin ,
the Michigan Democrat who excoriated banks for their pre-crisis
risk-taking in his role as chairman of the Senate’s Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  “I want to have tough regulation, which is what I think
Dodd-Frank stood for and explicitly says,” Levin said in an
interview yesterday. “I’m fighting for that. I can’t at the
same time give up on that and say ‘break up the banks.’”  Supporters of the Brown-Vitter plan say further measures to
curb risk are needed because the Dodd-Frank Act failed to
address the systemic threat posed by the largest banks. Bankers
have said those seeking additional steps aren’t considering the
regulations in the 2010 law including so-called living wills
that will lay out how financial firms are to be unwound after a
collapse and FDIC resolution authority for failed companies.  ‘Right Direction’  “Dodd-Frank allows the regulators to do what Brown-Vitter
is doing because it gives them the ability to set  capital
requirements  but the requirements they set are very low and rely
on risk weights,”  Anat Admati , a professor at  Stanford
University , said today in an interview. “This a step in the
right direction definitely.”  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee, said at the ICBA
conference today that he opposes the idea of downsizing banks.
The problem of too big to fail can be solved through changes in
bankruptcy law, Hensarling said.  “Enactment in this Congress remains a big challenge,”
said  Jaret Seiberg , senior policy analyst at Washington Research
Group, a unit of Guggenheim Securities LLC. “There simply is
not any support from the key congressional leaders that one
would need to make adoption a good bet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  