-- Total’s Production Goals Hinge on Mega-Projects Starting on Time
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/total-s-production-goals-hinge-on-mega-projects-starting-on-time.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest
oil company, expects to meet its output targets as new
multibillion dollar projects come online and reverse earlier
declines.  Total is sticking to a schedule for oil and natural gas
production to start this year at five fields including Sulige in
China, Anguille in Gabon, Angola LNG, Kashagan and OML 58
Upgrade, which will add 160,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day,
Yves-Louis Darricarrere, the head of exploration and production,
said in a presentation on April 22 in the Shetland Islands.  The company is seeking to increase output by an average of
3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015 even as production dropped
last year and the year before. Chief Executive Officer
Christophe de Margerie has pledged to explore more aggressively
for new discoveries to revive growth as well as starting mega-
projects from Angola to  Kazakhstan .  “We are on track to achieve these targets,” Darricarrere
said during a press conference April 22. ’’Projects must be
carried out on time.’’  The commissioning of Kashagan in Kazakhstan is moving
forward, Darricarrere said in an interview April 23 in Oslo. “A
review is underway to determine the start date. It should be in
the coming months.”  The Caspian Sea field is slated to produce as much as
370,000 barrels of oil a day. It’s scheduled to begin output by
June, about eight years later than initially planned and with
costs nearing about $46 billion, almost double early estimates.  Production Growth  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) , Total
and KazMunaiGaz each hold 16.8 percent of Kashagan, after the
international partners agreed in 2008 to cut their stakes in
favor of the state. Japan’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  owns 7.56 percent.  Total has forecast a production growth rate of 2 percent to
3 percent this year and a longer-term goal of reaching about 3
million barrels of oil equivalent a day production capacity in
2017. This compares to output of 2.3 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day last year.  Production last year was hurt by a natural gas leak at the
Elgin platform that forced the evacuation and shutdown of the
North Sea deposits for almost a year. The company resumed
operations at the fields last month.  Shell and  BP Plc (BP/)  are the two largest  oil companies  in
Europe by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  