-- Total’s Elgin-Franklin Field Producing at Half Pre-Accident Rate
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/total-s-elgin-franklin-field-producing-at-half-pre-accident-rate.html
Total SA (FP) ’s production from the
Elgin-Franklin field in the North Sea is now half what it was
before a leak shut operations for almost a year.  Output at the field about 240 kilometers (150 miles) east
of Aberdeen in  Scotland  resumed March 9 and has reached 55,000
to 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, according to Philippe
Guys, managing director of Total E&P UK. Production before the
incident was about 120,000 barrels a day and provided about 2
percent of Total’s annual  output .  The leak forced the evacuation of the field, the deepest in
the North Sea and among the largest so-called high-pressure,
high-temperature developments in the world. While 10 wells have
been abandoned and six are being evaluated to see whether they
can be brought back into production, the incident hasn’t cast
doubt on the operation of other wells under extreme pressure and
temperature at the field, according to Guys.  The three wells that account for current output “meet our
operational criteria” such as standards for pressure on
casings, said Patrice de Vivies, senior vice president for
Northern Europe.  The leak at the G4 well at Elgin occurred within two years
of a blowout at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  and
initially shook investor  confidence  in the French explorer. A
final report by the HSE, a U.K. regulator, is expected within
weeks on the causes of the accident, which Total blames on
corrosion of a well casing and an unexpected release of gas.  ‘Unique Event’  Later this year, Total will try to replicate the corrosion
damage in a laboratory to determine whether other wells under
the same pressures and temperatures could be at risk. So far,
the explorer has concluded the leak was caused by phenomena
present only at the G4 well.  “It was a unique event within this environment,” said
Guys, who was speaking with other senior management at a press
conference on the Shetland Islands April 22.  In addition to the corrosion on the casing, there was a
sudden and unexpected release of gas from a geological formation
called Hod about a kilometer above the G4 well’s producing
reservoir.  Total and Vallourec SA, the maker of the piping, recovered
about 2.3 kilometers of the damaged casing in October and
concluded cracks were caused by the interaction of bromine
contained in fluid used in the well 14 years earlier and grease
on the casing, de Vivies said.  New Wells  Bromine wasn’t used by Total in other wells at Elgin and
Franklin although it’s used by operators elsewhere, he said.  Total is studying drilling new wells at the field to bring
production back to what it was before the incident by 2015, the
company has said. Output from the West Franklin Phase 2
development is scheduled for 2014, part of Total’s plan to spend
about $20 billion in the  North Sea  over five years.  Total runs Elgin and Franklin with a 46 percent stake and
has drilled new wells and added platforms in recent years to try
to slow their decline. The explorer estimates production could
last “at least” another two decades.  The complex, which began pumping oil and gas in 2001,
delivered about 7 percent of U.K. output before the leak.  Other operators of similar wells have contacted Total to
ask what they’ve learned about the causes of the accident, the
executives said.  Expansion of the field “very probably” could include
tapping into Hod, the reservoir from which the gas leaked, de
Vivies said. “There’s still a lot left to produce at Elgin-
Franklin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  