-- Total Sees Progress With Uganda on Lake Albert Oil Development
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-24T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/total-sees-progress-with-uganda-on-lake-albert-oil-development.html
Total SA (FP) , along with partners
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and China National Offshore Oil Corp., have yet
to reach an agreement with Uganda on a billion-dollar oilfield
development in the Lake Albert Basin.  “It’s not completely finalized,” Yves-Louis Darricarrere,
Total’s head of exploration and production, said in an interview
in Oslo. “A lot of progress has been made,” including in talks
with Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni , he said.  The sticking point between the  oil companies  and Ugandan
authorities remains the potential size of a refinery that would
be developed to process crude from the East African nation, he
said.  The French executive spoke after Museveni’s office said
April 15 that Cnooc and Total had agreed to build a 30,000-
barrel-per-day refinery, an increase from previous plans to
start with a 20,000 barrel-per-day facility. Uganda favors
upgrading the refinery to a daily capacity of 60,000 barrels
because of growing demand, though oil companies are opposed to
the expansion, according to the government.  “In order for the project to be developed and financed
there has to be a crude export pipeline,” Darricarre said. “We
are in agreement to build a refinery, but one that will supply
the local needs of  Uganda . The rest should be exported. We
haven’t been able to agree with Ugandan authorities on this.”  Total has said the three partners may spend as much as $14
billion to develop the oilfields. Work could begin next year and
production could start by the end of 2017.  Uganda’s oilfields are estimated to hold 3.5 billion
barrels of crude. Total, Tullow and Cnooc hold equal stakes in
oil blocks EA-1, EA-1A, EA-2 and Kingfisher in the Lake
Albertine region near the border with the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo. The partners are negotiating with the government to build
an export pipeline to Kenya’s coastal city of Mombasa as well as
the refinery.  Getting agreement on the crude-processing plant “is
essential for us to move ahead,” Darricarrere said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  