-- Motorola Solutions Falls as Profit Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-24T20:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/motorola-solutions-tumbles-after-profit-sales-trail-estimates.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , the maker
of industrial gear such as two-way radios and bar-code scanners,
fell the most in more than two years after projecting second-
quarter profit and sales that trailed analyst estimates.  The stock  tumbled  9.3 percent to $56.02 at the close  New
York  time, the biggest decline since the company spun off its
mobile-phone unit in January 2011. The decline cut the shares’
gain to less than 1 percent this year.  Corporate customers are still working to rebound from the
economic slump, causing them to put off orders, Chief Executive
Officer  Greg Brown  said in an interview today. That forces
Motorola Solutions to be more dependent on its government
customers at the federal, state and municipal level, which
together account for about 70 percent of  revenue .  “Enterprise is disappointing and is taking longer to
recover,” Brown said. “We saw customers delay or defer some
key purchases” in logistics and retail in particular, he said.  Earnings per share from continuing operations will be 66
cents a share to 71 cents a share in the second quarter, the
Schaumburg, Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected 85 cents a share, the average of 15  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales this quarter will be unchanged to a decline of 2
percent. Analysts projected sales to rise 5 percent to $2.25
billion, on average.  Business demand from outside the U.S. is problematic, Brown
said. “ Europe  continues to muddle along. China and  Japan  have
softened modestly,” he said. “All those ingredients make for a
modest recovery.”  Motorola Solutions today also reported first-quarter
earnings of 66 cents a share, excluding some items, missing the
67 cents predicted by analysts on average. Revenue rose 1
percent to $1.97 billion. That fell short of the $2.05 billion
estimate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  