-- Motorola Mobility Risks Complaint Amid Race for Pact
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-24T07:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/motorola-mobility-risks-complaint-amid-race-for-eu-google-pact.html
As  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s antitrust clash
over search-engine fair-play nears a possible settlement, its
Motorola Mobility Holdings unit is embroiled in a separate
European Union probe into its control of key patents in gadgets
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox console.  Motorola Mobility, which Google bought last year for $12.4
billion, is suspected by the EU’s antitrust regulator of
blocking competition by hampering rivals’ use of its essential
technology patents. It faces a possible formal complaint from
the European Commission as a result of the probe, according to
three people who asked not to be named because the process is
private.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as Motorola
Mobility, Microsoft, Apple and Samsung Electronics Co., trade
victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust
chief, already sent Samsung a formal complaint over its patent-
use and is targeting “rules of the game” to prevent companies
from unfairly leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  “If they send statements of objections does that mean that
they think standard-essential patents are abused? I don’t think
it does, because all these cases are about very specific
circumstances,” said Douwe Groenevelt, an EU antitrust lawyer
with law firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek in Brussels. “The
commission wants to come across as taking the issue seriously,
but these statements of objection do not at all signify that the
commission thinks these patents cannot be used for
injunctions.”  Android Software  The EU opened a formal probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, last
April, following complaints by Microsoft and Apple. The two U.S.
companies accused Motorola Mobility of seeking injunctions to
block their use of patents they said the Google unit had
declared to be essential for the production of standard-
compliant products and had promised to licence on terms that are
“fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory.”  Motorola Mobility’s patent licensing practices “comply
with the law in the EU and all other countries where Motorola
operates,” Katie Dove, a spokeswoman for the unit, said by e-
mail. “We don’t take injunctions lightly, and only use them in
cases where we’re dealing with an unwilling licensee.”  Industry-standard technology helps ensure products such as
mobile phone antennas and global-positioning system software can
operate together when made by different manufacturers.  Almunia declined to comment on the EU regulator’s next
steps in the probe as part of an e-mailed response to questions
from  Bloomberg News .  Top Court  A German tribunal’s  request for guidance  from the bloc’s
top court in a case involving Huawei Technologies Co. is a
potential precedent-setter, said Nicolas Petit, a law professor
at the University of Liege in  Belgium .  Almunia has said there’s no need for the commission to wait
for judges at the  European Court  of Justice to take the lead on
clarifying what the technology companies can and can’t do.  The commission needn’t delay “if we are ready to adopt
decisions setting for the first time -- from the antitrust point
of view -- a doctrine on the use of standard-essential patents
and the licensing of those patents,” he told an American Bar
Association event in  Washington  earlier this month.  His interest in Motorola Mobility coincides with attempts
to wring concessions from its parent company, the world’s
biggest search engine company, in a bid to settle a probe dating
back to  2010 .  U.S. Probe  Competitors, such as Microsoft, want the EU to extract
changes after the U.S. closed a 20-month investigation into
whether  Mountain View , California-based Google unfairly promoted
its own services in search results. The Federal Trade Commission
in January concluded that Google was motivated more by wanting
to improve its search results than by a desire to stifle
competition.  Almunia has said he’s preparing to seek responses to
Google’s recently submitted remedies from rivals and consumers.  The commission may be trying to exert pressure on Motorola
Mobility to reach “a settlement such as the one it has been
pursuing with Google,” Petit said in a phone interview.  “These are complex cases in the sense that the commission
needs to come up with a new test,” Petit said. “These cases
would be very difficult for the commission to make.”  Almunia has said the EU investigation on patents differs
from corresponding parts of the U.S. probe into Google that
ended earlier this year when the company agreed to lift
injunctions for patents it inherited from Motorola Mobility.  The situation “in the European market and in the cases we
are dealing with in  Europe  is not the same,” Almunia said at
the time.  Mixed Success  The commission has had mixed success with antitrust cases
over patents. It settled a probe of memory-chip designer
 Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  in 2009 over so-called patent ambush but dropped
a four-year investigation into  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker
of chips for mobile phones, after companies withdrew their
complaints over excessive royalties on technology patents.  After receiving the commission’s objections, companies can
defend themselves in writing or at an oral hearing before the
EU’s antitrust authority decides to impose fines.  An EU settlement avoids any fines and a decision on whether
a company broke antitrust rules. Companies can be fined as much
as 10 percent of their annual revenue if they break the terms of
a legally binding settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  