-- House Panel Passes Debt-Cap Bill That Puts Bondholders
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-04-24T23:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/house-panel-passes-debt-cap-bill-that-puts-bondholders.html
With a debt-limit battle looming,
Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives are looking to
inoculate themselves against charges they’re willing to risk the
government’s credit in order to force spending cuts.  The House Ways and Means Committee today passed a
measure intended to ensure that U.S. government bondholders
continue to be paid and that Social Security benefits aren’t
interrupted even if a stand-off over raising the borrowing cap
causes a cash crunch.  “The legislation provides an ironclad plan to avoid the
risk of default going forward,” said panel Chairman Dave Camp,
a  Michigan  Republican. The measure was approved on a party-line
22-14 vote.  Congress will need to raise the debt ceiling later this
year and Republicans want to avoid a repeat of the 2011 battle
that ensued as the previous limit neared. The party was bloodied
by complaints that its members were willing to risk default when
they demanded spending cuts before raising the cap.  The latest debt-limit increase expires next month, and
House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, is demanding
spending cuts equivalent to any increase. Lawmakers probably
won’t have to raise the cap until their monthlong August recess
because accounting maneuvers can be used to stave off default
for several months.  Bond Payments  The legislation advanced today exempts from the borrowing
cap payments to bondholders as well as interest owed to the
Social Security trust fund, a move needed to ensure benefits
won’t be interrupted. It would leave it up to the Obama
administration to decide which of the government’s bills to pay
with tax receipts.  The plan is based on the assumption that the government can
avoid default if it pays bondholders on time even if payments on
bills, such as those from defense contractors, are delayed.  Democrats scoffed, saying even if investors are paid on
time, they’ll be spooked by things like bill-payment delays.  “We need to pay our debts -- we should not be saying we’ll
pay some but we won’t pay other bills,” Representative Sandy Levin of Michigan, the committee’s top Democrat, told Bloomberg
Television. “The full faith and credit, really, of the U.S. is
at stake,” he said. “That’s playing with fire.”  The bill is probably doomed in the Democratic-controlled
Senate. The legislation is H.R. 807.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net . 