-- Toyota Outsells GM for Fifth Quarter Amid Yen-Led Recovery
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-04-24T06:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/toyota-outsells-gm-for-fifth-straight-quarter-amid-yen-recovery.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  outsold all
automakers for a fifth straight quarter as the yen’s
depreciation sharpens the Japanese company’s edge over  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Worldwide sales at Toyota, including those of subsidiaries
 Hino Motors Ltd. (7205)  and  Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262) , reached 2.43 million
units in the January-to-March period, spokeswoman Shino Yamada
said today. That compares with GM’s 2.36 million units and VW’s
 2.27 million vehicles reported earlier this month.  The Japanese company has been projecting since late
December that sales will climb to almost 10 million units -- a
milestone no automaker has ever breached -- in 2013. Since then,
business conditions have improved further as the yen extended
its depreciation against all major currencies, bolstering
Toyota’s earnings prospects and raising its market value by more
than $50 billion this year alone.  “Toyota will probably keep the top spot this year,” said
Kentaro Hayashi, an analyst at Tachibana Securities Co. “But
the gap may narrow because GM is planning to launch many new
models.”  In 2008, Toyota ended GM’s 77-year reign as the world’s
largest automaker, holding on to the top annual sales spot until
2011, when it surrendered the title after production was
disrupted by natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand .  Sales rebounded in 2012, allowing the Japanese automaker to
deliver 9.75 million units and regain its global No. 1 title as
the recession receded, the carmaker added products and was
spared from disruptions from natural disasters.  Rebounding Earnings  Earnings are rebounding too. Net income in the year ended
March probably tripled to 908 billion yen and will climb 52
percent this fiscal year, according to the average  analyst
estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Behind that recovery is the yen, which has tumbled 19
percent against the dollar since mid-November, when it became
clear Shinzo Abe would become prime minister.  “The new government is very speedy and aggressive in their
actions,” Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , speaking as chairman of
the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said last month.
“With the moves in the foreign exchange markets stabilizing,
there is no doubt a sense that we’re beginning to see a silver
lining.”  U.S. Gains  Among its regions, Toyota’s sales in the U.S., its biggest
overseas market, increased 8.7 percent last quarter to 529,444
units, according to industry researcher Autodata Corp. While the
gain helped the carmaker’s  share  of the U.S. market expand to
14.4 percent from 14.1 percent, the gap between GM and Toyota’s
market share widened 0.2 percentage points, according to the
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher.  Chevrolet sales helped GM’s first-quarter sales in its home
market increase 9.3 percent to 664,963 units. After its U.S.
market share slipped to an 88-year-low last year, the carmaker
is boosting its efforts to bring out about 20 new vehicles in
the country this year.  Still, Toyota’s overall deliveries slipped during the first
quarter, led by a slump in its home market. Sales in  Japan  fell
13 percent to 650,651 units after a government subsidy for
purchases of fuel-efficient cars expired in September, Toyota
said.  To revive domestic sales, “there is an urgent need to
invoke appropriate tax system reforms and policy initiatives,”
said Takaki Nakanishi, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said in a report dated April 17.  The Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association expects
domestic sales to fall 12 percent this year.  China Slump  While Toyota has said it doesn’t expect sales in China to
fully recover before autumn, this year’s sales growth will also
hinge on a recovery there. The Japanese carmaker recorded its
first annual sales decline last year in  China  since at least
2002 and had to push back plans to make the country its third
million-unit market after a territorial dispute triggered a
consumer backlash.  “Our original expectation was for sales to come back in
half a year, but now our plan is to push harder after our new
product introductions in the fall,” Hiroji Onishi, Toyota’s
China head, said in Shanghai April 21 referring to deliveries in
China.  Toyota’s sales -- excluding Daihatsu and Hino -- in the
world’s biggest car market fell 13 percent last quarter,
spokesman Ryo Sakai said.  In  Europe , quarterly sales of Toyota and Lexus cars fell 10
percent, Sakai said. The region’s industrywide sales fell 9.7
percent to 3.1 million cars in the same period, after annual
deliveries dropped for a fifth consecutive year in 2012 on a
recession stemming from the European sovereign-debt crisis,
according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association.  Volkswagen, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , reported a 5.9
percent sales decline in the region in the first quarter.  -- Editors: Young-Sam Cho, Frank Longid  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  