-- P&G Drops as Forecast Trails Estimates on Currency Impact
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-04-24T20:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/p-g-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-amid-demand-in-u-s-.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  declined the
most in more than four years after projecting fiscal fourth-
quarter earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates because of
currency fluctuations and marketing costs.  P&G, the maker of Gillette razors and Tide detergent,  fell 
5.9 percent to $77.12 at the close in  New York , the biggest one-
day drop since Jan. 30, 2009. The shares have advanced 14
percent this year compared with an 11 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Earnings per share in the quarter ending June will be 69
cents a share to 77 cents a share, the Cincinnati-based company
said in a statement today. Analysts projected 81 cents, the
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald last year embarked on
a turnaround plan to cut $10 billion in costs through 2016 and
renew focus on the company’s leading businesses after market
share shrank. McDonald has been under pressure from activist
investor  Bill Ackman , who bought a $1.8 billion stake last year
and pushed to replace him.  “It’s going to be important that they throw out some
pretty aggressive targets for fiscal ’14,”  Jack Russo , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in an
interview. “There’s so many elements that should provide
tailwinds for them.” He recommends buying the shares.  Marketing Expenses  Results in the current quarter will be affected by
increased marketing expenses for new product introductions,
Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller said on a conference call
today. Foreign currency exchange is also expected to reduce net
sales by 2 percent in the period, P&G said.  New product introductions and expansion in developing
markets will boost  sales , along with market share gains in
categories such as laundry, executives said on the conference
call. P&G held or increased market share in categories
accounting for more than half of its total sales in the fiscal
third quarter, up from 30 percent overall as of June 2012, and
boosted share in the U.S. to two-thirds from 15 percent.  Sales growth excluding currency fluctuations will be toward
the lower end of the company’s forecast range of 3 percent to 4
percent this year, Moeller said on the call.  ‘Frustrating’  “It’s frustrating,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said today in a telephone
interview. “They’re investing in the business, and they’re not
getting a great rate of return. We want to know what’s wrong,
because clearly something is wrong.”  During the conference call, Dibadj asked about the
“dichotomy” between what he called management’s upbeat tone
versus “disappointing top-line results, at least from
investors’ and analysts’ views.”  “If everything is going to plan, why is it impossible to
get to the high end of your top-line growth range for the
year?” he said. He has an outperform rating on the shares, the
equivalent of a buy.  Net sales  in the fiscal third-quarter ended March 31 rose 2
percent to $20.6 billion, P&G said today. That trailed the $20.7
billion average of analysts’ estimates.  Net income rose 6.4 percent to $2.56 billion, or 88 cents a
share, from $2.41 billion, or 82 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Excluding some items, profit was 99 cents.
Analysts projected 96 cents, the average of 23  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pension Costs  “Why do they have such a high p/e ratio when they are such
a single-digit grower?” Laurence Balter, chief market
strategist for Oracle Investment Research in Fox Island,
 Washington , said today in a telephone interview. He is one of
two analysts to recommend selling selling P&G shares among 33
ratings compiled by Bloomberg.  Balter said he’s concerned about rising debt and
“ballooning” pension costs.  P&G will assess various factors including pension costs
before issuing its forecast for next year, Paul Fox, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We remain confident in our growth strategy,” Fox said.
“We are making steady progress and know where we need to
focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  