-- Paamco Seeks Asian Institutional Money for Hedge-Fund Strategies
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-04-24T01:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/paamco-seeks-asian-institutional-money-for-hedge-fund-strategies.html
Pacific Alternative Asset
Management Co., an $8.6 billion U.S. fund-of- hedge-funds , is
seeking to raise money from pensions and sovereign wealth funds
in  Asia  to diversify its investor base.  U.S. investors account for 85 percent of its clients,
mostly institutional, with the rest spread across Asia,  Europe 
and the Middle East, said David Walter, Singapore-based director
for the  Irvine , California manager known as Paamco. The company
is looking at Asian managers employing relative-value strategies
and those investing in high-yield stocks, he said.  Paamco, which invests in emerging hedge-fund managers
around the world for clients including the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , is seeking to capitalize on
growing demand in Asia for alternative investments such as hedge
funds and real estate. Almost three in 10 institutional
investors in the region say increasing holdings of alternative
and non-correlated assets is one of their highest priorities
over the next 12 months, according to a  survey  in September by
 Natixis (KN)  Global Asset Management.  “Asian investors are becoming more sophisticated and open
to alternative investments,” Walter said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There is now great potential to expand
our relationships in the region.”  Pension funds in  Japan ,  Australia  and  South Korea  are among
those showing interest, while in other countries in the region,
demand from sovereign wealth funds and endowment-type investors
are seen, Walter said.  ‘More Sophisticated’  “In both cases, as investors get more sophisticated, they
are increasingly going directly into large global hedge funds,”
he said. “That’s where we see interest -- is working with them
in building customized portfolios of emerging managers to
complement their existing holdings.”  Funds-of-funds research individual offerings to spread
investors’ money across a variety of holdings. Paamco typically
puts money with managers through managed accounts that are
customized to administer risks, Walter said, declining to
comment on the performance.  Paamco is currently invested in about 10 managers focused
on the region, with the majority of them in equities, and some
in credit, currencies, rates and commodities, he said. The
managers are mostly based in  Hong Kong  and Singapore, with one
each in the U.K. and the U.S., he said.  ‘Identifying People’  The biggest challenge for the region’s managers and those
investing in Asian hedge funds is the performance, Walter said.
The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund  Index (MXWO)  returned about 10 percent
in 2012, trailing the 13 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of
developed nations.  “I feel strongly there is alpha in the region and that as
markets and economies develop, these opportunities will persist
and grow, but the key is identifying people who can capture
them,” Walter said, referring to returns in excess of those of
the benchmarks. “As we invest in emerging managers, we have to
spend a lot of our time getting these guys up to speed.”  Walter argued that the break-even point for Asian hedge
funds where invested managers become profitable has quadrupled
to about $100 million from about $25 million since the 1990s.  “Persuading institutional investors to look to invest in
markets with a less certain outcome and rule of law should
command a premium, and that is what the industry needs to
achieve,” Walter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Singapore  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  