-- Paulson to Open Second Real Estate Fund After Assets Fall
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-04-24T21:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/paulson-to-open-second-real-estate-fund-after-assets-fall.html
Billionaire  John Paulson  is
starting another private-equity fund to invest in real estate,
marking the second time this month that his money-management
firm has revealed plans to raise additional assets.  Paulson & Co., which is based in  New York , will seek
capital for Paulson Real Estate Fund II LP as well as an
offshore affiliate, according to a private-placement notice it
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April
22. The funds haven’t begun taking money from clients, according
to the filing.  The investment firm’s assets under management have declined
to $18 billion from a peak of about $38 billion in early 2011
after money-losing bets tied to gold, the European sovereign-
debt crisis and the  U.S. economy . The hedge-fund manager was
scheduled to give a presentation today on Paulson Partners
Premium LP Fund, described in invitations sent earlier this
month as a risk-arbitrage fund for investors “looking to
mitigate income taxes.”  Armel Leslie , a Paulson spokesman who works for Walek &
Associates in New York, declined to comment on the latest real
estate fund filing.  Paulson’s firm, having generated $15 billion of profits in
2007 by betting against subprime mortgage bonds ahead of the
housing market collapse, started a real estate recovery fund two
years later to buy land from decimated homebuilders. In 2008,
the firm began a recovery hedge fund to purchase shares in
banks, brokerages and insurance companies beaten down in the
global financial crisis.  The initial Paulson property fund, run by  Michael Barr , a
former managing director at Lehman Brothers Real Estate
Partners, bought land from developers that already had the
necessary building permits and infrastructure, such as sewers
and roads. Paulson Real Estate Recovery Fund also participated
in the firm’s $30 million investment during October in William
Lyon Homes, a  Newport Beach , California-based developer that
filed for a $200 million initial public offering on April 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  