-- Payday Loan Curbs Considered by Three U.S. Regulators
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-04-24T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/payday-loan-curbs-considered-by-three-u-s-regulators.html
Federal regulators are moving to
curb or eliminate high-interest, short-term lending that may
ensnare consumers in a cycle of debt as they draw one loan to
repay another.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, following a study
that focused on repeat usage of so-called payday loans made by
storefront lenders and deposit advance products offered by
banks, today said it will consider imposing waiting times
between loans.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency plan to issue new guidelines to
banks tomorrow that are similar to rules from the early 2000s
that stamped out another form of payday lending, according to a
person familiar with their plans.  CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said that the agency’s
research found that the industry’s longstanding argument that
the loans help consumers who are occasionally strapped for cash
is not necessarily true.  “Payday and deposit-advance loans, while designed for
short-term emergency use, are leading many consumers into long-
term, expensive burdens,” Cordray told reporters.  In its  study , the bureau said it would consider “the
effectiveness of limitations, such as cooling-off periods, in
curbing sustained use and other harms.”  New restrictions on payday lending would fulfill a
longstanding goal of consumer groups that fought for the
creation of the CFPB in the Dodd-Frank law of 2010. It could
also crimp business at lenders including Advance America Cash
Advance Centers Inc., a unit of  Grupo Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*) ,  Cash America
International Inc. (CSH) ,  EZ Corp. (EZPW) , Community Choice Financial Inc.
and Ace Cash Express Inc.  Storefront Lenders  The study, conducted by the CFPB over the past year,
concerns loans that are offered by storefront lenders and are
secured by a check, post-dated to a borrower’s next payday.
Lenders do not typically gauge a borrower’s credit, and loans
are repaid in full with one balloon payment that covers interest
as well, usually after two weeks.  Similar loans, often called deposit-advance products, are
offered by banks, which debit repayment directly from a checking
account.  Cordray said that the agency’s indictment of short-term
loans applies equally to the versions offered by traditional
banks, which have started to offer them as part of a search for
new revenue. Banks including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) ,  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  have
offered some type of deposit-advance loan.  Little Difference  “What we found is there is not much difference, from the
consumer’s perspective, between payday loans and deposit advance
loans,” Cordray said in a conference call with reporters.
“They have similar purposes and, it turns out, similar usage by
consumers.”  Jamie Fulmer, senior vice president for public affairs at
Advance America, said the CFPB’s study is not based on the
actual experience of its customers.  The agency needs to consider what other options they have
for short-term credit, the risks of driving them to other
products that are more expensive or less regulated.  “The bureau cannot draw any meaningful conclusions to
inform policy until it follows up this preliminary review with
the difficult work of understanding the rationale of cash-
advance customers,” Fulmer said in an e-mail.  The FDIC and the OCC have teamed up to create guidance that
bank examiners will apply in supervising banks, according to the
person briefed on their plans. The person spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the plan is not public.  Close Scrutiny  The regulators will express significant concerns about the
misuse of deposit advance products and promise close scrutiny of
any bank offering the loans or proposing to do so, the person
said. The language will resemble rules from the early 2000s that
eventually forced banks to stop partnering with payday lenders
to evade state regulations.  The new rules will require banks to measure a borrower’s
ability to repay the loans, the person said. They will have to
disclose an annual percentage rate for the loan, wait a full
billing cycle between loans and ensure that a customer pays off
any loan before getting a new one, according to the person.  Consumer groups have long charged that the loans prey on
low-income people by concealing costs and ensnaring them in an
expensive debt cycle. They say consumers often get additional
loans to cover the first one, resulting in a snowballing of the
debt.  Banning Loans  For that reason, groups like the Durham, North Carolina-
based Center for Responsible Lending and the Consumer Federation
of American consider the loans usurious, and have argued for
restricting or banning them. The CFPB has said annual  interest
rates  can hit 521 percent.  The industry has argued the loans provide credit to a
population that sometimes needs emergency small-dollar credit
but is underserved by traditional forms like credit cards.  At a hearing in Birmingham,  Alabama  last year, Cordray
promised to “dig deep” on the subject of repeat usage, and
that subject forms the core of the CFPB’s new report.  The bureau used data from its supervision of storefront
payday lenders to create a data set for its research. CFPB
officials briefing reporters declined to specific how many
companies contributed data.  A sample of 15 million storefront loans informed the
agency’s research, according to the report. These lenders made a
total of about 90 million loans in 2012, according to John
Hecht, an analyst with Stephens Inc.  Frequent Borrowing  Nearly half -- 48 percent -- of all storefront payday
borrowers had more than 10 transactions with payday lenders in
the 12-month period covered by the study. Also, 14 percent of
all borrowers had 20 or more loans.  The median storefront payday loan was for $350, for 14
days, and cost $15 per $100 borrowed. That made for a median
annual percentage rate of 322 percent, according to the study.  At banks, the media deposit advance was $180, according to
the study, while the duration and APR varied significantly.
Users of these loans were also more likely to face fees from
overdrawing their accounts, CFPB said.  Storefront lenders made $30.1 billion of the $48.7 billion
in total payday loans made in 2012, according to Hecht, with
online lenders providing the rest. The industry’s revenues were
about $9.3 billion, with storefronts earning slightly more than
half of that.  Online versions of payday loans require clients to have
payments directly debited from their bank account. Those were
not included in the report and will be the subject of more
study, CFPB said.  “Consumers are at risk of using these products in ways
that go beyond their intended purpose,” Cordray said.
“Designed as short-term solutions to an emergency need, it is
unclear whether borrowers fully understand that, for many of
them, the consequences will linger far longer than they
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  