-- Pentagon Reviews Contractor Profit Guidelines for Weapons
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-24T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/pentagon-reviews-contractor-profit-guidelines-for-weapons.html
The Pentagon is reviewing
guidelines used to negotiate profits for contractors under an
initiative to improve weapons-buying practices.  The review is intended to “align profitability more
tightly” with efforts to make defense programs more affordable,
according to a memo released today by Frank Kendall, the
undersecretary for acquisition.  The Pentagon has been increasing the use of fixed-price
contracts that require companies to shoulder a greater share of
cost overruns. The review of profit guidelines is included in
the final version of the  Department of Defense ’s “Better Buying
Power 2.0” initiative headed by Kendall.  “Profit is the key lever in motivating contractors to
perform in alignment with DoD goals,” Kendall said in the memo.
The industry “must be profitable or there will not be an
industrial base, but the profits DoD provides should be
consistent with the risks industry takes and the return needed
to attract the required capital.”  While current  profit levels  “in the aggregate are
reasonable and sustainable” they “are not tied tightly enough
to successful performance in meeting DoD goals,” he said.  Incentives under review “also provide opportunities for
companies to realize profits above” the levels defined  “based
on their performance,” according Kendall.  Kendall told the Pentagon’s director of defense pricing to
report by July 1 on the status of revised profit guidelines and
of a new “Incentive Training Guide” for contracting
specialists.  Calling for innovative methods for controlling costs,
Kendall said, “Our workforce should be encouraged by leaders to
think and not automatically default to a perceived ‘school
solution’ just because it is expected to be approved more
easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  