-- Perry Aims to Poach Illinois Jobs as Texas Blast Lingers
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-04-24T14:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/perry-aims-to-poach-illinois-jobs-as-texas-blast-lingers.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  strutted
into Illinois this week, hoping to convince employers to move
south to the land of no income tax and less  government
regulation .  The explosion of a fertilizer plant that killed at least 14
people in his home state last week won’t alter his sales pitch.
The blast, which leveled part of the town of West, Texas, didn’t
stem from an employer-friendly attitude toward regulation,
zoning and other strictures, the three-term Republican governor
said in an April 22 interview in  Chicago .  “There are probably places all across the country where
cities have grown up around manufacturing of some form or
fashion,” Perry said. “Is the response going to be we’re going
to move all of these -- either the business or the residential -
- away from these places? And are the people willing to pay that
cost?”  Perry preceded his visit with an $80,000 advertising
campaign last week that, as one radio ad put it, Illinois
businesses ought to “get out while there’s still time.”  While the explosion at Adair Grain Inc.’s West Fertilizer
Co. plant, about 80 miles (129 kilometers) south of  Dallas ,
hasn’t been mentioned in blunt rebuttals from Illinois Governor
 Pat Quinn  and Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , both Democrats, it
provides fresh fodder for the tradition of states trashing each
other to attract employers.  ‘Big Talker’  “I think his efforts in Illinois will be as successful as
his presidential campaign,” said Quinn, 64, calling Perry “a
big talker” during a news conference in Springfield, the state
capital, the same day as the Adair explosion.  Emanuel offered his own rebuttal April 22, alluding to
Perry’s inability during a 2011 presidential debate to remember
the trio of federal departments he vowed to eliminate.  “I hope when he comes, he remembers all three of his
reasons,” the mayor said. “It’ll be a real test for him.”  The state-versus-state competition is a familiar one, and
these two represent distinct portraits.  Illinois , with a March
unemployment rate of 9.5 percent and the worst-funded pension
system among the states, is a Republican talking point among
governors like Perry.  Texas, where the jobless figure was 6.4 percent, is
portrayed by many conservatives as the ideal business climate
and by Democrats as a laissez-faire state of high poverty and
low-quality services.  “Cost versus benefit is what we battle with all the
time,” Perry said, adding that Texas is a state that “does not
believe in over-burdening businesses.”  Republican Visitors  Since Illinois raised its income-tax rate in 2011 to
partially close a  budget deficit , the state has been visited by
job-poaching Republican governors including New Jersey’s  Chris Christie , Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , Indiana’s  Mitch Daniels  and
Oklahoma’s Mary Fallin.  In addition to killing 14 people, the Texas fertilizer-plant blast injured about 200 people and destroyed dozens of
buildings, including residences and a nursing home. The force of
the blast was felt more than 50 miles away. President  Barack Obama  and first lady  Michelle Obama  will attend a memorial
service for victims of the blast tomorrow at Baylor University
in nearby Waco.  The facility held 270 tons of ammonium nitrate as of Dec.
31, according to state records. The highly explosive chemical is
responsible for some of the most deadly industrial accidents and
terrorist attacks. Timothy McVeigh used it in 1995 to destroy
 Oklahoma  City’s Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168
people.  Death Toll  Perry said it would be “a little premature” to reach a
conclusion about the cause of the explosion and a course of
action. Still, he said it is “stunning” that the loss of life
wasn’t greater. “How there were only 14 people who lost their
lives is a bit of an amazement to me,” he said, referring to
the plant’s proximity to homes and a school.  While the city “grew up around that plant,” Perry said,
local zoning regulations may need to be reexamined.  “Is it a legitimate question to ask, ‘Should the city have
allowed [housing] to be built there?’ It’s a legitimate
question,” he said.  State and federal investigators are trying to determine the
cause of the explosion in the town of 2,800 people. Nicola
Persico, director of the Kellogg Public Private Initiative at
Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said it
is “fair to say” there will be more regulation of these
facilities as a result of the blast.  “Maybe it will be regulation through zoning instead of
inspection, to make sure the plants are located far apart from
dwellings,” Persico said.  For Related News and Information:  With assistance from Jack Kaskey in Houston. Editors: Flynn
McRoberts, Pete Young  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 Jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  