-- Peru Cuts Anchovy Fishing Quota to Boost Shoals, Triveno Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-04-24T19:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/peru-cuts-anchovy-fishing-quota-to-boost-shoals-triveno-says.html
Peru , the world’s largest  fishmeal 
exporter, will see anchovy catches by companies including
 Copeinca ASA (COP)  and  Austevoll Seafood ASA (AUSS)  drop by a quarter as the
country seeks to boost stocks depleted by last year’s El Nino
phenomenon, a government official said.  Anchovy quotas will be cut to 2.05 million metric tons in
the fishing season that starts next month from 2.5 million tons
a year earlier, Fisheries Minister Gladys Triveno said. Peru’s
oceanographic institute Imarpe will determine the quota for the
next season starting in November, she said.  “We’re seeing a rebound in fish stocks to 10.8 million
tons from 5.3 million tons in November, but we prefer to be
cautious,” Triveno said today in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum  in Lima. “We may be able to recover this year if
we take care of our resources.”  Anchovy catches plunged 48 percent to 3.7 million metric
tons in 2012 as an El Nino weather pattern sent fish into deeper
waters, according to the National Fisheries Society. Fishing is
Peru’s largest export earner after the mining, oil and natural
gas industries.  Prime  fishmeal  prices, which jumped 63 percent over the
past year to a record $2,230 a ton through April 10, helped spur
a 5 percent increase in Peru’s fish export revenue to a record
$3.27 billion last year, according to the fishing group.  Peru will award the first tuna licenses in the second half
in a bid to diversify the country’s fishing industry into
higher-value species including giant squid, eel and mackerel,
Triveno said. Companies will invest a total $148 million this
year in plant upgrades and conversion of idle trawlers to catch
tuna, according to the fishing group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  