-- Peruvian Sol Plunges as Weakness Raises Chance of Intervention
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-04-24T21:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/peruvian-sol-plunges-as-weakness-raises-chance-of-intervention.html
Peru’s sol slid to a nine-month
low, raising the possibility that the central bank may intervene
to strengthen the currency, according to economists at  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Nomura Holdings Inc.  The currency slid 0.5 percent to 2.625 per  U.S. dollar , the
biggest drop since March 6  and the weakest closing level since
Aug. 2., according to prices compiled by Datatec.  “You can’t just allow this,” said  Benito Berber , a
strategist at Nomura in New York. “We’re very close to
intervention action. If it moves another 1.5 points they’ll
intervene. For a highly dollarized economy this isn’t
justified.”  Alejandro Cuadrado, a strategist at BBVA in New York, also
said the bank may intervene if the sol continues to weaken.  Technical studies based on trading patterns suggest that
the currency’s decline is overdone. The sol has burst through
its 20-day upper Bollinger Band at 2.6128 per dollar. The 14-day
relative strength indicator reached 78.7, where a value above 70
suggests the sol is oversold.  Currencies of other raw-materials exporters such as Chile,
 New Zealand  and  South Africa  appreciated today as commodities
gained. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials
advanced 1.2 percent.  The sol has lost favor with international investors after
underperforming regional peers and as the country’s trade
surplus has fallen, according to  Mario Guerrero , an economist at
Scotiabank Peru SAA.  The central bank last intervened to support the sol in May
last year, Guerrero said.  Peru’s sol has depreciated 2.8 percent this year after
gaining 10 percent in 2011 and 2012, the most among 25 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “There is a shortage of dollars onshore,” said Eamon Aghdasi, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York.
“Between the central bank buying dollars and raising reserve
requirements for banks, they have removed enough dollars from
the economy that there’s something of a squeeze.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  