-- Peugeot First-Quarter Revenue Exceeds Estimates on China
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-24T07:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/peugeot-first-quarter-revenue-drops-as-europe-sales-slide.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second biggest carmaker, beat analyst estimates for first-
quarter revenue as delivery growth in China and Latin America
limited a decline caused by a recession in its home region.  Peugeot shares rose the most in 3 1/2 months after posting
sales of 13 billion euros ($16.9 billion). Revenue, which fell
6.5 percent from a year earlier, exceeded the 12.7 billion-euro
average of eight analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Deliveries, excluding component kits for assembly, fell 2.5
percent to 674,200 vehicles.  The European car market, contracting a sixth consecutive
year, may shrink 5 percent in 2013, Peugeot said. The company’s
first-quarter vehicle sales rose 25 percent in Latin America and
31 percent in  China . Peugeot reiterated plans to cut automotive-
unit cash consumption in 2013 by half to 100 million euros and
break even in operational cash flow by the end of 2014.  “We continue to remain skeptical about PSA achieving this,
but confirmation should provide some comfort,” Philip Watkins,
a London-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said today in a report
to investors.  Peugeot jumped as much as 11 percent to 6.02 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since Jan. 7, and was up 9.1 percent at
9:20 a.m. That propelled the stock to an 8.7 percent increase
this year, valuing the carmaker at 2.11 billion euros.  Europe’s Role  The manufacturer of the Peugeot 208 hatchback and Citroen
C4 sedan posted a 576 million-euro operating loss last year as
price cuts failed to win buyers amid a recession among countries
using the euro. Europe accounted for 62 percent of the company’s
deliveries and 68 percent of revenue in 2012.  Peugeot’s first-quarter deliveries in Europe fell 15
percent, according to the ACEA car-industry group. Including
figures from Albania and former Yugoslavian countries, vehicle
sales in the region dropped 17 percent, and its market share
narrowed to 12.3 percent from 12.9 percent a year earlier,
Peugeot said today. Russian sales plunged 27 percent.  The manufacturer’s earnings-restoration strategy includes
eliminating 11,200 jobs in France, or 17 percent of its domestic
 workforce , closing a car factory in the Paris suburb of Aulnay
and developing new models and cooperating on parts purchases
with Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)   The Aulnay site, scheduled to be shut next year, may be
closed as early as 2013 as strikes disrupt production, Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said today on a
conference call with analysts. A further contraction in Europe’s
automotive market in 2014 may make new savings measures
necessary, he told journalists on a separate call.  ‘Competitiveness’ Talks  “These measures include the start of negotiations with
French unions about competitiveness, and the possibility of
adapting capital expenditures,” de Chatillon said. He declined
to say whether Peugeot is looking at widening its job-cut
targets. The workforce was reduced by more than 1,300 positions
in the first quarter, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin laid out a strategy
in February for Peugeot to deliver 50 percent of its vehicles
outside  Europe  by 2015. Gregoire Olivier, head of Peugeot’s
Asian operations, raised the company’s sales target in China for
this year by 11 percent on April 20, saying he’s “very
confident” the manufacturer will reach a 5 percent market-share
target in the country by 2015.  New models going on sale globally this year include the
Peugeot brand’s 2008 crossover, as well as new versions of the
C4 Picasso minivan and DS3 compact.  Currency Effects  Exchange-rate effects held back first-quarter revenue by
about 2 percent, with the Argentinian peso and U.K. pound among
the currencies having the strongest influence, de Chatillon
said. At the same time, raw-material costs declined, “so we’re
pretty close to our budgetary targets,” he said. Joint
component purchases with GM under the alliance have begun, the
CFO said.  The manufacturer arranged last year for French state
guarantees on as much as 7 billion euros of new bond sales by
its Banque PSA Finance car-lending arm, as well as 11.5 billion
in refinancing for the unit, to maintain an investment grade for
the division at Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s Rating  Moody’s cut the banking arm one level into junk on April
16, following a reduction of the parent company’s debt to four
steps below investment grade five days before. Banque PSA
remains hampered by the vehicle sales drop at Peugeot because
its loans are restricted to the parent company’s brands, the
credit-reporting company said. Peugeot responded that the state
guarantee and the debt refinancing keep Banque PSA “protected
against any further downgrade.”  Peugeot allocated a board seat to the French state and to a
labor representative in return for the government’s backing of
the bank division’s debt. The European Union is reviewing the
guarantees because of rules limiting state aid to private
companies. It granted temporary approval in February to French
government coverage of a 1.2 billion-euro debt sale. The lending
arm sold a bond of that size last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  