-- Philadelphia Record Seen as Deal Talk Bars Public: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-04-24T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/philadelphia-record-seen-as-deal-talk-bars-public-muni-credit.html
Philadelphia, which has the lowest
credit grade among the five most-populous U.S. cities, is
planning its largest general-obligation issue on record after
holding an unprecedented closed-door conference to draw buyers.  Municipal officials last week convened their first
gathering with investors, letter-of-credit providers and Wall
Street analysts, Treasurer Nancy Winkler said at a briefing. The
goal of the two-day event, which was off-limits to the public
and press, was to showcase Philadelphia’s strengths even as it
grapples with the highest debt burden of the nation’s five
biggest cities and a jobless rate exceeding the U.S. average.  While Philadelphia debt is keeping pace with the biggest
rally since November in the $3.7 trillion municipal market, the
economic strains are still curbing the appetite of investors
such as John Flahive at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in  Boston .  “When you add up all these things, it’s still challenging
and we will continue to be cautious,” said Flahive, who helps
manage $22 billion in munis. “It’s not going to make us run out
and load the boat.”  $400 Million  Philadelphia plans to sell $400 million of general-
obligation securities in June, of which $218 million would fund
capital projects, with the remainder going to retire higher-cost
debt, said Winkler, 55. She was appointed in 2011 by Mayor
Michael Nutter, a 55-year-old Democrat. It would be the largest
fixed-rate, long-term issue for the city since at least 1990,
when Bloomberg data begin.  The city, where about 26 percent of the population of 1.5
million lives in poverty, is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s,
three levels above speculative grade. S&P raised the credit one
step a year ago, citing a budget surplus and elimination of a
2011 deficit.  In comparison, New York, the nation’s biggest metropolis,
is graded AA by S&P, five levels higher. Los Angeles,  Chicago 
and Houston are all ranked at least three steps above
Philadelphia.  Still, Philadelphia debt has benefited from investors
seeking higher-yielding assets as interest rates on city and
state obligations remain below their 50-year average, said John Donaldson, who helps manage $750 million in munis at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co.  Matching Rally  Philadelphia has matched top-rated munis in gains this
month. Buyers require about 2.4 percentage points of extra yield
for city bonds callable in August 2016, little changed since
local debt began rallying in mid-March, Bloomberg Valuation data
show.  The June deal will benefit from “positive momentum” from
the administration achieving surpluses, said Todd Sisson, who
attended the conference and is a senior analyst at Wells Capital
Management in  Charlotte , North Carolina. The company oversees
$34 billion in munis, including Philadelphia debt.  City officials told investors they expect to end 2013 with
a $128.1 million surplus, after a $137.2 million deficit in
2009, according to a presentation from the conference.  “They’ve done a good job righting their ship,” Sisson
said. “I walked away with a more favorable opinion of the
city.”  Winkler said officials compiled a list of debt holders and
prospective investors, with input from underwriters who paid for
the conference. She declined to name the companies of the 147
attendees because she didn’t receive their permission to
publicize the information, she said. She didn’t identify the
companies that covered the $8,500 cost of the event because the
city hasn’t received all the contributions, she said.  Press Protest  Bloomberg News wrote Nutter April 4 objecting to the
press’s exclusion from the conference. The Associated Press, the
Philadelphia Inquirer, and the Arlington, Virginia-based
nonprofit Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press supported
the protest.  Conference participants asked about negotiations with labor
unions, Winkler said. The city hasn’t reached new agreements
with three of its four unions, and is appealing an arbitration
award to its firefighters that would have imposed more than $200
million in new costs over five years, according to a
presentation from the conference.  The metropolitan area’s 8.7 percent February  jobless rate 
was a percentage point above the national figure. Philadelphia
is also shouldering a debt burden of 11.6 percent of property
values, the highest of the five largest cities, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  Pension Effort  Philadelphia said in its slideshow to investors that
efforts to bolster its pension system are part of its
negotiations with city workers. The plan is 47.6 percent funded
this year, bond documents say. That’s below the 80 percent
threshold recommended, according to the Center for Retirement
Research at Boston College.  Officials also fielded questions about the school system,
Winkler said. Donaldson, who was invited but didn’t attend,
called the school district Philadelphia’s “number one financial
headwind.”  Facing a $304 million deficit for 2014, school officials
have asked the city for $60 million and the state for $120
million. In March, they voted to shut 9 percent of public
schools.  Debt Rally  In the municipal market this week, issuers led  Wisconsin 
are offering almost $8 billion of bonds as yields on benchmark
10-year munis are the lowest since January.  The  1.74 percent  interest rate on AAA munis due in 2023
compares with 1.71 percent on similar-maturity Treasuries, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  ratio  of the two yields, a gauge of relative value, has
been above 100 percent on all but one day since March 12,
showing that local debt has cheapened relative to Treasuries.
The figure was as low as 86 percent in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  