-- Philippine Bonds Gain as SDA Rate Cut Seen Tomorrow; Peso Gains
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-24T08:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/philippine-bonds-gain-as-sda-rate-cut-seen-tomorrow-peso-steady.html
Philippine bonds rose on
speculation the central bank will cut the interest rate on its
special-deposit accounts, spurring investment in local debt. The
peso snapped a two-day decline.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will lower the  SDA  rate to 2
percent from 2.5 percent at tomorrow’s meeting after two
reductions this year, according to 12 of 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Three predicted a cut to 2.25 percent, while
one forecast no change. All 19 surveyed on the benchmark
overnight borrowing rate said it would be kept at 3.5 percent.  The yield on the 9.125 percent bonds due September 2016
fell 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 2.1 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate is at the
lowest since the notes were first sold in 2006.  “The market is expecting a 50-basis-point cut in the SDA
rate, which could be supporting the rally in bonds,” said
Deanno Basas, investment director for fixed income at ATR KimEng
Asset Management Inc. in  Manila . “After that, authorities may
review what else can be done in the facility.”  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 41.285 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, fell 11 basis points to 4.70 percent.  Rate Corridor  The central bank isn’t ruling out a further cut in the so-
called SDA rate and is “always thinking of additional
measures” to manage liquidity, Felipe Medalla, a member of the
central bank’s Monetary Board, said on April 18. Inflation
slowed to 3.2 percent in March from a five-month high of 3.4
percent in February, the government reported this month.  Bangko Sentral cut the rate it pays on about $46 billion in
the SDAs by half-a-percentage point each in January and March,
while holding its benchmark measure at a record low as it shifts
to an interest-rate corridor approach, which Governor Amando
Tetangco said last month was intended to give greater policy
flexibility.  The central bank announced on April 18 that it’s doubling
the amount of dollars residents can freely buy and broadened the
range of approved outward investments to spur capital outflows
and slow the peso’s gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  