-- Poland Prioritizes Cheaper Power in Shift Away From Coal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-24T21:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/poland-prioritizes-cheaper-power-in-shift-away-from-coal.html
Poland’s main priority in revamping
its  energy policy  is to reduce the cost of electricity as it
shifts away from its reliance on coal-fired generation, the
nation’s environment minister said.  Marcin Korolec said he’d like to phase out subsidies for
both renewable energy and fossil fuels, though the country also
needs to replace power stations some of which are more than 40
years old.  “We are in quite a big crisis,” Korolec said today at a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance conference in New York. “We need
new investment, but we are living in this paradigm of expensive
energy prices. We are facing tremendous questions. Technology
will answer the question, and price will answer it.”  The comments indicate how Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s
government will balance demands to meet European Commission
environment rules while limiting electricity costs. The
Commission has censured  Poland  for its delays in implementing
mandates for renewable energy, and the government this month
announced plans to reduce subsidies for clean power.  Poland was one of the nations that blocked the commission’s
proposal for boosting the price of carbon dioxide emissions.
It’s also hosting the annual round of United Nations global
warming talks, which start in November in Warsaw.  Korolec expressed skepticism about technology that captures
carbon from smokestacks and stores it underground, called CCS,
something that could scrub pollution from Poland’s coal plants.
Utility scale CCS plants haven’t opened yet.  View on CCS  “CCS is a beautifully romantic story, but I don’t see
it,” Korolec said during a panel discussion. “It is cheaper to
build a gas plant.”  David Sandalow , assistant secretary for public policy at
the U.S. Energy Department, agreed that even the latest carbon
capture technologies are too costly to be competitive with other
forms of reductions such as  energy efficiency  and wind power.  “It’s still expensive to strip out carbon from exhaust
streams,” Sandalow said on the panel. “We believe it’s
important because we need some form of CCS to have an impact on
 climate change .”  Korolec suggested he’d like to scrap any form of support
for energy. “Maybe we have to introduce a phase-out of energy
subsidies in all areas, a phaseout of fossil fuel and also
renewable energies and concentrate on those technologies which
are commercial,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  