-- Portugal Telecom CEO Predicts Growth as Brazil Network Develops
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-04-24T14:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/portugal-telecom-ceo-sees-big-growth-as-brazil-network-develops.html
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  has great
potential for growth in  Brazil  as investments in the country’s
communication network will let it reach new Internet, television
and telephone clients, Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  said.  “What we have verified in Brazil is that there is a big
growth market,” Bava said in a speech in Lisbon late yesterday.
Investments in infrastructure ahead of the 2014 soccer  World Cup 
and the Olympics in 2016 will lead to “enormous jumps” in the
quality of telecommunication services in Brazil, he said.  Portugal Telecom is betting on its Brazilian unit  Oi SA (OIBR4)  to
counter falling sales in its home country, which is in its third
year of recession after seeking a bailout in 2011. Oi, Brazil’s
largest landline carrier, is investing about 20 percent of its
revenue each year, or 6 billion reais ($2.97 billion), in its
network to offer video, Internet and voice calls on mobile
devices and landlines, Bava said.  Portugal Telecom’s decision in 2011 to buy a stake in Oi,
formerly known as Telemar Norte Leste SA, has been
“fundamental” for the company to continue to grow, Bava said.  Mobile penetration in Brazil is about 130 percent compared
with a penetration rate of 43 percent for fixed broadband
Internet, according to Bava. That means there are 1.3 mobile SIM
cards for each person. As the country expands its communication
network, this “big asymmetry” is expected to diminish, he
said.  “ Mexico  has a broadband Internet penetration of 73 percent
to 75 percent and there is no reason for Brazil not to have the
same penetration rate,” he said. Penetration in pay television
will “probably triple,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  