-- PPR Acquires Italian Jeweler Pomellato to Boost Luxury Offering
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-04-24T08:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ppr-acquires-italian-jeweler-pomellato-to-boost-luxury-offering.html
PPR SA (PP) , the French owner of Gucci
and sporting goods maker  Puma SE (PUM) , said it will buy a majority
stake in  Italy ’s Pomellato from closely held RA.MO SpA to expand
its jewelry offerings.  The deal is subject to competition authority approval and
is expected to be completed in the coming weeks, Paris-based PPR
said today in a statement. Andrea Morante, a co-shareholder of
RA.MO alongside Pomellato founder Pino Rabolini, will remain
chief executive officer of the Milan-based jeweler, PPR said.
Financial terms and the size of the stake were not disclosed.  PPR shares rose as much as 4.2 percent, and were 2.4
percent higher at 176.65 euros by 10:21 a.m. in Paris.  Pomellato, known for its M’ama non m’ama stacking rings as
well as the Dodo brand, has an enterprise value of 270 million
euros ($351 million) to 300 million euros, according to Thomas Mesmin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris. The acquisition is
PPR’s fourth in the past year as it seeks to more than double
its revenue to 24 billion euros by 2020.  “We have great ambitions for the Pomellato group,” PPR
CEO Francois-Henri Pinault said in the statement. The company
“will be able to step up the pace of its growth and expand its
geographic footprint.”  Tilda Swinton  Pomellato, whose trinkets have been worn by Oscar-winning
actress  Tilda Swinton , had sales of 146 million euros in 2012,
PPR said. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were about 23 million euros last year, a person
with knowledge of Pomellato told Bloomberg in March.  “We see as a positive that PPR increases its exposure to
branded jewelry,” said Mario Ortelli, an analyst at  Sanford
Bernstein , who forecasts 9 percent compound annual growth for
the category in the next five years.  Pomellato received expressions of interest from at least
four luxury goods makers including  Prada SpA (1913) , according to a
person familiar with the situation. PPR said in January it is
looking to acquire brands that don’t overlap with its existing
portfolio. The company, which plans to change its name to Kering
in June, has bought stakes in Chinese jeweler Qeelin, British
fashion designer Christopher Kane and tannery France Croco in
the past year.  “Becoming global brands is no longer an option for
Pomellato and Dodo, it is a necessity,” Morante said in the
statement. “With this in mind, we have undertaken a lengthy
review of our best strategic alternatives and reached the
conclusion that joining Kering was far and away the most
favorable course of action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  