-- Prostate Cancer Test Causing Sepsis Spurs Biopsy Concerns
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-04-24T21:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/prostate-cancer-test-causing-sepsis-spurs-biopsy-concerns.html
Doctors are changing their approach
to prostate biopsies as evidence mounts that the danger of
complications from the procedure may outweigh its usefulness
identifying some cancers.  An increasing incidence of potentially lethal, difficult-
to-treat bloodstream infections tied to prostate biopsies has
become so serious that urologists are reassessing when, how and
even if they do the procedure.  To reduce the risks, doctors are turning to a longer,
costlier -- but ultimately safer -- approach to detect tumors
that entails avoiding the bacteria-laden rectum. And though
global evidence is scant, in Australia data shows doctors are
scaling back their reliance on biopsies altogether. In the U.S.,
doctors say anecdotal evidence also suggests prostate biopsies
are probably decreasing.  “People have started to sit up and say, ‘hey, maybe we
need to rethink what we’re doing,’” said Nathan Lawrentschuk,
an associate professor of surgery at the University of Melbourne
and a urologist at Melbourne’s  Austin Hospital .  The response reflects the growing threat of bowel-dwelling
bacteria that even the world’s most powerful antibiotics are
unable to snuff out. It’s also adding to the debate about the
importance of diagnosing prostate cancer. While it’s one of the
most common malignancies of men, tumors are slow-growing in most
cases and treatment often causes impotence and incontinence.  Sepsis Risk  Doing a tissue biopsy of the prostate to detect cancer
typically entails sending an  ultrasound-guided needle  about a
dozen times through the rectum to collect specimens from the
walnut-sized gland that sits under the bladder.  The test carries an infection risk because the needle can
take bacteria from the bowel into the prostate, bladder and
bloodstream. The  15-minute procedure , usually performed in a
doctor’s office under local anesthetic or light sedation, can be
dangerous if the bacteria are resistant to antibiotics given at
the time of the biopsy. Bacteria that escape into the
bloodstream can cause  sepsis , a condition that can lead to
multiorgan failure and death.  “Greater recognition of the infectious risks of biopsy has
led us to be much more careful about who we select for prostate
biopsy,” said  Stacy Loeb , assistant professor of urology and
population health at  New York  University. “All patients should
be evaluated for risk factors for resistant bacteria and
infection, and should be counseled about the risks and benefits
of proceeding to biopsy.”  PSA Screening  The most common reason to perform a biopsy is an abnormal
result from PSA  screening , a blood test for a protein produced
by prostate cells known as prostate-specific antigen. The test
is controversial because, while it may signal the likelihood of
prostate cancer, it can’t  definitely detect  it. Nor can it
distinguish among benign tumors, slow growing cancers and deadly
malignant ones. That’s led many doctors to question the wisdom
of using PSA screening results to make treatment decisions.  “The risk of sepsis has made all of us think a little bit
longer before recommending a biopsy,” said  David Bell , head of
urology at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, adding
that he tends to avoid the transrectal approach in repeat
biopsies.  Bell says he’s now more tolerant of a slightly abnormal PSA
and looks for other supporting reasons to indicate a biopsy is
necessary, such as when PSA increases rapidly over time or is
especially high. Other factors to consider include whether a
palpable nodule develops, or if the patient has African ancestry
or has a family history of early-onset prostate cancer or death
from prostate cancer.  Fewer Biopsies  In  Australia , the number of prostate biopsies performed per
capita has declined the past three years from a peak in 2009,
government  records  show.  More than 800,000 prostate biopsies are done in the U.S.
each year. There isn’t good quality data in the U.S. to track
frequency trends, New York University’s Loeb said. Anecdotal
evidence, however, suggests the “overall number of biopsies is
decreasing,” Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the
American Cancer Society, said in an e-mail.  The declining biopsy rate in Australia reflects concern
about infection, as well as the availability of alternative
tools, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to identify
patients most likely to benefit from it, said Mark Frydenberg,
head of urology at  Monash Medical Centre  in  Melbourne .  Minimize Risk  “The best way to minimize the risk is by not having a
biopsy at all,” Frydenberg said. “If you do need a biopsy,
then the decision rests between going down the  transperineal 
route or transrectal route.”  The  perineum , the skin between the bottom of the scrotum
and the anus, is a safer entry point because it can be cleaned
with antiseptic, unlike the rectum, said Lindsay Grayson, Austin
Hospital’s head of infectious diseases.  The lower risk of infections means urologists can take more
core samples of the prostate, especially of the part of the
gland that’s difficult to reach from the rectum, Frydenberg
said.  On the downside, the procedure takes at least twice as long
to perform, requires heavier patient sedation, six people in an
operating theater, and equipment costing about $100,000, he
said.  No studies have examined the infection risk from prostate
biopsies globally. Instead doctors are trying to gauge the scope
of the problem from  studies  emerging from North America,  Europe 
and Asia.  The chance of being hospitalized within a month of a biopsy
increased fourfold in Ontario in less than a decade, reaching
4.1 percent in 2005 from 1 percent in 1996, Robert Nam and
colleagues at Toronto’s Odette Cancer Centre, wrote in a  study 
published in the Journal of Urology in 2010. Almost three-
quarters of the hospitalizations were infection-related.  ‘Barbaric’ Procedure  “Given the recent spike in infection complications after
prostate biopsy, the ideal method to diagnose prostate cancer
must be pondered,”  Matthew Gettman , professor of urology at the
Mayo Graduate School of Medicine in Rochester,  Minnesota , wrote
in an  editorial  in the journal European Urology last May.
“Despite local anesthetics, the whole procedure is barbaric,
and it is surprising that the issue of infection has not come to
light years ago.”  Infectious complications have typically occurred in 3
percent to 5 percent of prostate biopsy patients at Austin
Hospital, Lawrentschuk said. Doctors have sought to curb rising
rates of infection by using increasingly powerful antibiotics.
The problem is resistance is building to even the broadest-
spectrum drugs, forcing doctors to look for other ways to
minimize risks. “That’s huge,” said Brawley, of the American
Cancer Society.  Anecdotal Reports  “You do hear these anecdotal reports of deaths, but I have
only heard of one in Melbourne in the last three or four
years,” Lawrentschuk said. “In terms of sepsis and admissions
to the ICU, they seem to be more common. Even if the sepsis
rates aren’t higher, the stakes are higher because you are
getting organisms that are trickier to treat.”  The  Moffitt Cancer Center  in Tampa,  Florida , has revised
its biopsy protocol over the past two years with the help of
infectious disease physicians to minimize complications, said
Wade Sexton, a urologist and director of the hospital’s urologic
oncology fellowship program.  Rectal Swabs  In addition to being as selective as possible with initial
biopsies and repeat procedures, the center now performs rectal
swabs on every patient undergoing a prostate biopsy within one
month of the procedure to make better informed choices about
what antibiotics to use based on any resistant bugs found,
Sexton said.  “This is a step we’re taking to try to minimize the risks
as best as possible until additional evidence becomes
available,” he said. “Whether this approach is cost-effective
remains to be determined.”  Patients who have traveled to South Asia, Southeast Asia
and other regions where there is a high incidence of infections
caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria are told to wait at least
six months from their return to have a prostate biopsy,
Lawrentschuk said. Where there is a more urgent need, travelers
are given a different  antibiotic  -- one from the last-resort
class known as carbapenems.  Doctors are also testing  fosfomycin , a broad-spectrum
antibiotic discovered in Spain in 1969, for its ability to
penetrate the prostate. Preliminary results of research carried
out at Austin Hospital suggest it’s promising, Lawrentschuk
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  