-- Psoriasis Drug Like Biogen’s BG-12 Linked to Brain Disease
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-04-24T22:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/psoriasis-drug-similar-to-biogen-s-bg-12-linked-to-brain-disease.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s Fumaderm, an
early formulation of the company’s just approved multiple
sclerosis pill Tecfidera, was tied to three cases of a brain
infection more often linked to its potent medication Tysabri.  Fumaderm has been sold in Germany for almost two decades to
treat psoriasis. All three patients had the skin condition and
risk factors for the brain disease known as progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy, doctors said. The three cases
were disclosed in letters today to the  New England Journal of
Medicine , along with a fourth case in a psoriasis patient given
a pharmacy-made drug including Tecfidera’s active ingredient.  The risk deserves attention since other medicines with the
same active ingredients are emerging and may be used to treat a
broader range of ailments, said one set of researchers from VU
University Medical Center in Amsterdam. Three years of fumaric
acid was probably an important factor in the development of the
brain infection known as PML in one 74-year-old patient, said
researchers led by Ummehan Ermis from Rheinisch-Westfalische
Technische Hochschule Aachen, in Aachen,  Germany .  “Long-term treatment with fumaric acid and prior treatment
with other immunosuppressants may have increased this patient’s
risk of PML,” the researchers wrote. Before implicating the
drug’s ability to depress white blood cell counts as the
probable reason for the infection, “we ruled out other causes
of immunodeficiency and cancer,” they said.  Company Comment  There haven’t been any cases of PML in 2,600 patients
treated with Tecfidera, including those who have been on the
drug for four or more years, said Kate Niazi-Sai, a Biogen
spokeswoman, in a telephone interview. The company provided the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration information about the cases
before the drug won approval, and the agency raised no concerns,
she said.  While Fumaderm is known to reduce levels of infection-
fighting white blood cells known as lymphocytes, severe
depletion occurs in only about 3 percent of cases, Biogen
officials said in a letter in the journal. Patients with low
lymphocyte levels should be taken off the drug. In the two cases
detailed in the journal, one patient had depressed levels for
two years and the other for five years before PML was diagnosed.  Fumaderm and Tecfidera are “chemical cousins,” not
identical copies, said Eric Schmidt analyst at Cowen & Co. in
New York. Many psoriasis patients in Germany get the Tecfidera
“look-a-like” drug, he said.  “I think people are going to shake this thing off,”
Schmidt said. “It’s old data and not relevant to Tecfidera,
given that it’s not the same drug. There are confounding
variables,” he said. The patients were taking other medications
as well, and had “diseases that might have predisposed them to
develop PML to begin with,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Sasha Damouni at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  