-- Quinn Emanuel, Allen & Overy, Simpson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/quinn-emanuel-allen-overy-simpson-business-of-law.html
Sheila Birnbaum, co-head of
Skadden, Arps, Meagher & Flom LLP’s mass-torts and insurance
group, is joining  Quinn Emanuel  Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, where
she will co-head the global product-liability and mass-torts
practice. Skadden product-liability lawyer Mark Cheffo also
joins Quinn Emanuel as a partner.  “We have worked with both Sheila and Mark for a long time
and we have the greatest admiration for their skills,” Faith Gay, co-chairwoman of Quinn Emanuel’s national trial practice,
said in a telephone interview. “Their counseling and strategic
advice in mass torts will take our practice to a new level.”  Birnbaum was national counsel for Dow Corning Corp. in
breast-implant litigation and for Aventis CropScience in several
class actions and multidistrict litigation over biogenetic corn.
More recently, she was appointed special master of a 9/11
victims’ compensation fund.  “The opportunity to join Quinn Emanuel was an offer I
could not refuse,” Birnbaum said in a statement. “Its pure
litigation model is a more natural fit with my practice.”  Cheffo has represented defendants in product-liability,
insurance and mass-torts litigation during the past 23 years,
the firm said. His clients have included drugmakers Pfizer Inc.,
Endo Health Solutions Inc. and Amgen Inc., as well as medical-
device manufacturers and designers of bioengineered agricultural
products. Cheffo has served as lead counsel in multi-district
proceedings.  “Sheila has been a trailblazer both in the legal
profession in general and at Skadden,” Eric Friedman, Skadden’s
executive partner, said in an e-mailed statement. “We thank her
and Mark for their contributions, and we wish them well in their
next chapter.”  The Quinn Emanuel additions follow on the heels of two
other high-profile lateral partner hires for the firm. Weil
Gotshal & Manges LLP litigators Michael Lyle, the firm’s
Washington office manager, and Eric Lyttle, are joining Quinn
Emanuel, though a start date hasn’t been determined yet.  “Mike and Eric have deep expertise in the products area.
With the accretion of the new hires from Skadden and Weil, plus
our existing lawyers, we are a contender if not the best
products liability practice in the country,” Gay said.  A Weil spokeswoman didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment
on Lyle and Lyttle’s departures.  Quinn Emanuel, which specializes in business litigation,
has more than 600 lawyers at 12 offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia .  Littler Hires Seven Shareholders from Ogletree Deakins  Littler Mendelson PC hired seven Ogletree, Deakins, Nash,
Smoak & Stewart PC shareholders at several offices, led by labor
and employment lawyer Don Prophete. Prophete, who will be a
shareholder in Littler’s  Kansas City ,  Missouri , office, was
formerly vice president of Olgetree Deakins and a founding
partner of its Kansas City office.  The group joining Littler includes Damon Hart,  Boston ;
Irene Gallagher, Denver; Nikki Hininger Howell and Nicholas
James Walker, Kansas City; Anjanette Cabrera,  New York ; and
Robert Ortbals Jr.,  St. Louis .  “Littler is in a unique position with its vast geographic
reach and deep resources to attract high quality, sizeable
lateral groups as part of its growth strategy,” Thomas Bender,
firm co-president and managing director, said in a statement.
“This is a win-win move, with Don bringing an impressive team
and client roster to Littler.”  Prophete focuses his practice on employment litigation. He
also gives employment counseling to executives at multinational
companies at several industries.  Littler Mendelson has more than 970 attorneys and 57
offices in the Americas.  Corporate/M&A Lawyer Hans Diekmann to Join Allen & Overy  Allen & Overy  LLP added to its German corporate/mergers and
acquisitions practice with the appointment of Hans Diekmann as a
partner in its Dusseldorf office. He was previously at Shearman
& Sterling LLP, where he has been a partner since 1999.  Diekmann advises on corporate law,  capital markets  and M&A
transactions. Before joining Shearman & Sterling, he worked in
the legal department of Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  Allen & Overy employs about 5,000 people, including about
512 partners at 42 offices worldwide.  Government Lawyers  White House Lawyer Anne Small Returns to SEC as General Counsel  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday
that White House legal adviser Anne K. Small will become the top
market regulator’s general counsel.  Small has served as a special assistant and associate
counsel to President  Barack Obama , and worked for the SEC as
deputy general counsel from March 2011 to October 2011, when she
joined the White House, the SEC said in a statement.  Small’s hire shows how new SEC chairman Mary Jo White, who
took over April 10, is moving quickly to build her team of top
advisers and managers. White announced yesterday that George Canellos and Andrew Ceresney will co-direct the SEC’s
enforcement division. The general counsel oversees regulatory
developments and provides legal advice to the commission.  “I’m delighted that Annie will be returning to the agency
at a time when our rule writing is in full swing and our
enforcement program continues to pursue cases involving some of
the most complex transactions,” White said in a statement.
“The commission will benefit from her experience, judgment, and
tremendous talent.”  For more, click here.  Deals  Blackstone to Buy Credit Suisse’s Strategic Partners Unit  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest buyout firm, on its agreement to
acquire  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Strategic Partners unit, which
buys stakes in other private-equity funds.  Terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed. Schulte Roth &
Zabel LLP served as counsel to Credit Suisse on the deal.  Simpson Thacher partner Brian Stadler is leading the team
for Blackstone. SRZ’s team was led by M&A partner Christopher S. Harrison,  investment-management  partners Steven J. Fredman and
Joseph A. Smith and tax partner Philippe Benedict, and included
employment and employee benefits partner Laurence M. Moss.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising Strategic Partners’
senior management. The Davis Polk team includes partners Leor S.
Landa, investment management/private funds group; Edmond T. FitzGerald, executive compensation advice; Frank J. Azzopardi,
intellectual property advice; and John D. Amorosi, mergers and
acquisitions advice.  Strategic Partners manages about $9 billion in assets, New
York-based Blackstone said April 22 in a statement. The firm
expects to complete the purchase in the third quarter.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, in July
said it planned to sell two private-equity units in its asset-
management division to exit more illiquid businesses after
regulations such as the Volcker Rule sought to limit risk-taking
by financial companies.  The purchase of Strategic Partners is Blackstone’s first
foray into the secondaries business and will add to an array of
businesses it manages that includes traditional leveraged
buyouts, real-estate private equity, hedge fund-of-funds and
mergers and restructuring advice.  Blackstone managed $218 billion in assets as of March 31.
Strategic Partners will operate as a separate new unit within
Blackstone, Oriane Schwartzman, a spokeswoman for the firm, said
in a telephone interview.  Litigation  Chesapeake Assails BNY’s ‘Incoherent’ Reading of Bond Terms  A  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  lawyer, Stephen Ascher, attacked
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s assertion that the energy
company waited too long to redeem $1.3 billion in notes early at
par.  Chesapeake sued BNY Mellon, the bonds’ issuing trustee,
last month in federal court in New York after the bank said the
gas producer’s planned notice of early redemption, which it sent
to investors on March 15, would miss a deadline in the notes’
indenture paperwork allowing it to call the bonds six years
early at 100 cents on the dollar. BNY Mellon said the redemption
had to be completed by that date, with notification to investors
a month earlier.  “Like Caesar, Chesapeake was forewarned that March 15 was
a drop-dead date,” Ascher, a lawyer from Jenner & Block LLP,
said yesterday in his opening statement in a nonjury trial of
the dispute. “ BNY Mellon  said no, beware the Ides of
February.”  Chesapeake, the second-biggest natural-gas producer in the
U.S., has said it would pay about $400 million in interest over
the life of the 6.775 percent notes due March 2019. At stake is
the Oklahoma City-based company’s bid to refinance the debt and
save about $100 million by tapping lower  interest rates .  U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer, who is overseeing the
case on an emergency basis, has said he’ll aim to rule on the
three-day trial by May 9, less than a week before the early call
is scheduled to be formally executed.  Chesapeake on April 11 lost a pretrial request for BNY
Mellon and investor River Birch Capital LLC, which initiated the
challenge, to hand over e-mails showing the motive behind the
bid to block the notes’ early redemption.  Bank of New York Mellon initially agreed with Chesapeake in
February that the early redemption would meet the deadline. The
trustee changed its position after River Birch argued Chesapeake
had started the process too late, Chesapeake said.  Chesapeake made the early call after the lawsuit was filed
because Engelmayer said he didn’t think the investors had a
strong argument for a demand they made -- that the gas company
should pay a “make-whole payment” of $400 million for the
notes if Chesapeake lost its lawsuit over the deadline.
Chesapeake said it will cancel the early call if it loses the
case, and BNY Mellon later dropped that argument.  Chesapeake contends the March 15 deadline stated in the
indenture was for the notice of early redemption to be sent to
noteholders; BNY Mellon claims that the call should have been
formally completed by that date, and that the notice should have
been sent to investors a month earlier on Feb. 13. Both sides
argue the language in the indenture documents backs their
respective interpretations of the March 15 deadline.  “BNY’s interpretation is not only unreasonable, it is
incoherent,” Ascher said yesterday.  Steven Bierman, an attorney for BNY Mellon who is a partner
at Sidley Austin LLP, said that under New York law, any
ambiguity in a contract should be interpreted against the party
that drafted it and not against investors who weren’t
represented in negotiations.  “March 15 is a bright line between redeeming the notes at
par and redeeming at the make-whole price,” Bierman said.
Chesapeake’s view “is completely unsupportable,” he said.  Engelmayer in earlier hearings called the language in the
indenture “ambiguous” and said he needed to see evidence and
hear testimony from people who worked on negotiations for the
notes and helped draft the indenture about how the language was
chosen to determine the meaning of the deadline.  Employees from the law firm Bracewell & Giuliani LLP, which
advised Chesapeake on the notes, and Morgan Stanley, which was
an underwriter, will testify at the trial, as will Chesapeake
Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso, Richard Ziegler, the
company’s lawyer, said in an April 21 court filing.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  