-- Rail Plot Suspect Esseghaier Says Law Code Not Holy Book
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-04-24T18:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/rail-suspect-esseghaier-says-criminal-code-not-a-holy-book.html
Chiheb Esseghaier, charged with
planning to derail a passenger train in  Canada , was detained
after a court appearance today in which he took issue with the
criminal code, saying it’s “not a holy book.”  Esseghaier, 30, was arrested April 22 along with Raed Jaser
over their alleged plans to derail a VIA Rail train, in a plot
police say was supported by al-Qaeda members in  Iran .
Esseghaier, of no fixed address, faces five charges including
conspiring to murder for the benefit of a terrorist group,
according to court documents.  His alleged accomplice, Toronto-resident Raed Jaser, 35,
was detained yesterday after a brief court appearance. Jaser
plans to seek bail, his lawyer John Norris said.  Esseghaier was represented by Aaron Rinzler, a lawyer who
works with Legal Aid Ontario. A woman translated questions for
Esseghaier into Arabic before he told the Toronto court he
didn’t need a translator. Rinzler didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  “I wish to have one comment,” said Esseghaier, wearing a
black sports jacket with a blue stripe and thin black-rimmed
eyeglasses. “All of those conclusions was taken out based on
the criminal code. We know that this criminal code is not a holy
book, it’s just written by a set of creations and the creations
are not perfect because only the creator is perfect.”  The charges against Jaser and Esseghaier came three days
after U.S. forces captured Dzhokar Tsarnaev, a 19-year-old
suspect in the  Boston Marathon bombings .  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the two arrests
are symptomatic of a global threat.  Esseghaier is a native of  Tunisia , the Globe and Mail
reported. Doug Best, RCMP Superintendent, said this appears to
be the first known terror plot in Canada supported by al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  