-- Raymond James Beats JPMorgan as Best Brokerage: Riskless Return
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-04-24T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/raymond-james-beats-jpmorgan-as-best-brokerage-riskless-return.html
Raymond James  Financial Inc., the
brokerage that posted profits for 100 straight quarters, is
showing investors that simplicity is key to generating gains.  With headquarters 1,200 miles from  Wall Street , the St.
Petersburg, Florida-based company produced the best risk-
adjusted return of nine U.S. brokerages, banks and advisory
firms since 2009, the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank , ranked third as
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  were among the worst performers.  Investors compare Raymond James, which has a business model
that’s easy to grasp and shields the  balance sheet  from risk, to
an asset manager as it mainly relies on fees. Unlike larger
rivals, the brokerage gets most of its sales managing investor
money, earning 64 percent of annual revenue in the last fiscal
year from its private-client group. That gave Raymond James the
stability to weather a financial crisis that caused larger banks
to write off billions of dollars in loans.  “You threw everything but the kitchen sink at the
financial-services industry and this company sailed through
rather successfully,” said  Dan Veru , chief investment officer
at Palisade Capital Management LLC, which owns Raymond James
shares and manages $3.8 billion. “That largeness that used to
be an advantage, I don’t think it’s such an advantage anymore.”  Financial Crisis  Raymond James returned the most to investors with the
lowest risk, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The volatility of
its shares was third-lowest of the nine firms examined and 27
percent below Morgan Stanley’s. The results track the
performance of the companies starting in 2010, the first
calendar year after the financial crisis, which led investors
and lawmakers to question the manageability of universal banks.  Advocates of the universal-bank model, including JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, have said large
companies need big, global lenders that have deep balance sheets
to underwrite loans worldwide and can better absorb losses when
something goes wrong.  Raymond James may be proving that diversity in financial
services doesn’t lead to higher shareholder returns. On a risk-
adjusted basis, the brokerage returned 3.14 percent to investors
since the end of 2009 through the end of this year’s first
quarter, compared with adjusted losses of 0.52 percent at Morgan
Stanley and 0.4 percent for  Charlotte , North, Carolina-based
Bank of America, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Evercore, Greenhill  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory firm founded by former
U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , also outperformed
the biggest banks, the data show. On a risk-adjusted basis, New
York-based Evercore, run by CEO Ralph Schlosstein, returned 1.2
percent to investors since the end of 2009, the second-best
performance behind Raymond James’s.  Greenhill & Co., founded by Robert Greenhill, had the worst
risk-adjusted return among nine firms evaluated by Bloomberg.
The company lost 0.68 percent on a risk-adjusted basis from the
end of 2009 through March 31. Its shares dropped 33 percent in
that span, the most in the group, which also includes Hamilton,
Bermuda-based  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , based in San
Francisco.  “We are quite comfortable with our relative performance
given that, including  dividends , our IPO investors have more
than tripled their investment over a period when the bank stock
index has roughly halved,” Greenhill CEO Scott Bok, 53, said in
an e-mailed statement, referring to the company’s May 2004
initial public offering.  Swing Dramatically  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses. The ranking shows how publicly traded, stand-
alone retail brokerages and deal advisers compare with large
banks that are dominant in those businesses.  Raymond James, led by CEO Paul C. Reilly, 58, doesn’t have
a large fixed-income trading operation, and  investment banking 
complements its retail business, Doug Sipkin, an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP, said in a phone interview.
That has helped the brokerage to avoid pitfalls that cause
losses at bigger banks, he said.  Steve Hollister, a Raymond James spokesman, said the
company can’t comment because it’s scheduled to announce fiscal
second-quarter results today. Spokesmen for Bank of America,
Morgan Stanley and Evercore declined to comment. JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs had no comment.  Morgan Keegan  Raymond James acquired Regions Financial Corp.’s Morgan
Keegan unit last year in a $930 million deal that combined two
of the biggest brokerages in the U.S. Southeast. That happened
as the number of firms registered with the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority fell the  fastest  since at least 2009.  Smaller brokerages, including WJB Capital Group Inc. and
Ticonderoga Securities LLC shuttered operations amid a slump in
trading and a shortage in capital. Reilly said in February 2012
that some companies failed because they weren’t big enough to
access the debt markets.  “Raymond James figured this out, whereas a lot of firms
that were in their same league five years or 10 years ago
didn’t, and disappeared as a result,” said Josh Brown, who
helps oversee about $350 million at Fusion Analytics Investment
Partners LLC in New York and doesn’t own Raymond James shares.  Now, with U.S. equity markets near record highs, Raymond
James is poised to benefit. The firm earns most of its revenue
through fees in a model that’s based on assets under management.
That means revenue climbs when market values rise rather than
when clients trade more, said Joel Jeffrey, an analyst at Stifel
Financial Corp.’s KBW unit.  ‘Other Issues’  Improving stock markets boosted results at Bank of America,
led by CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, and Morgan Stanley, which both
reported that first-quarter income from  wealth management  jumped
by about one third from a year earlier.  That didn’t impress investors. Shares of the two banks fell
after results were announced as “other issues” overshadowed
brokerage performance, Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward
Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said earlier this month.  Some analysts question whether shareholders can wring value
from the biggest banks by breaking them into pieces. Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit has “unrealized value” and is
ripe for divestiture, CLSA Ltd.’s Mike Mayo said in January.  The largest U.S. lenders are trading at a 25 percent to 30
percent discount to more-focused competitors, Wells Fargo & Co.
analysts led by Matthew H. Burnell wrote in an April 10 note.
That could lead shareholders to demand breakups if valuations
remain depressed, they wrote.  Goldman ‘Uninvestable’  JPMorgan analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said this month
that investment banks including New York-based Goldman Sachs are
“uninvestable” because of pressure on earnings and the unknown
impact of global financial regulations.  “Given the challenges posed by increasing regulation,
higher  capital requirements , and well-publicized trading/market
challenges, it’s not surprising that investors remain reluctant
to assign a ‘full’ valuation to the universal banks,” the Wells
Fargo analysts wrote.  Evercore  generated  87 percent of adjusted net revenue from
investment banking in 2012. That includes revenue from advising
clients on deals, its institutional-equities unit and private-
funds group. The rest comes from  investment management .  Shares of Evercore climbed to a record in March after
revenue and profit reached all-time highs. The company has been
taking a bigger share of advisory fees after hiring senior
managing directors during the past two years, while surging
corporate profits and cheap borrowing costs encourage deals.  Independent Advice  Executives of advisory firms such as Evercore and Greenhill
say that clients value independent advice, meaning they seek
guidance from a company that’s not involved in financing the
deal.  Greenhill  shares  hit a six-year low in 2011 as an increase
in departures of top advisers coincided with its decision to pay
a greater share of compensation in stock. Greenhill has
rebounded 77 percent since then.  Raymond James, which said in January that it has been
profitable for 100 straight quarters, is run like the “old Wall
Street partnerships,” and shareholder capital is viewed as
their own, Palisade Capital’s Veru said.  “This is how you run a brokerage,” he said. “These guys
do it and do it very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  