-- RBA to Invest Foreign Currency Reserves in China, Lowe Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-24T06:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/rba-set-to-invest-foreign-currency-reserves-in-china-lowe-says.html
Australia’s central bank plans to
invest about 5 percent of its foreign currency reserves in  China 
as it deepens ties with the world’s second-largest economy,
Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  The decision “represents the first time that the RBA will
have invested directly in a sovereign bond market of an Asian
country other than  Japan ,” Lowe said in a  speech  today in
 Shanghai . “It reflects the broader economic relationship
between China and Australia and our increasing financial ties.”  The announcement bolsters China’s efforts to raise the
international profile of its currency without ending controls on
capital movements. The move follows Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s unveiling of direct trading between the yuan and
the Aussie on a visit to China two weeks ago, tightening ties
with her nation’s top trading partner.  “By opening their  capital markets  to central banks like
 Australia ’s, China is taking a step in liberalization for
foreign investors,” said Martin Whetton, an interest-rate
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “Given the strong
economic ties between the two nations, Australia was an obvious
candidate to be allowed to make this investment. The bigger
question will be if this is followed by investments from other
central banks.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will join central banks from
 Thailand , South Korea and Hong Kong in seeking a quota to buy
Chinese assets. The RBA held foreign currency assets of A$38.25
billion ($39.2 billion) as of March, according to its  website .  ‘Important Milestone’  The move is “another important milestone in deepening our
financial and economic linkages with China,” Australia’s
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an emailed statement. “Strong
financial linkages between our economies will ensure that
Australia is even better positioned to benefit from the shift in
global economic growth towards Asia.”  Australia’s economy has been boosted by a resource
investment boom to meet commodity demand from developing nations
including China, its largest trading partner.  The move reflects “greater diversity of our investments”
and will help the RBA’s understanding of Chinese markets, Lowe
said today. China’s central bank has approved an initial
investment quota, he said. The Australian dollar became the
third major currency to directly trade with the yuan on April
10, after the greenback and Japan’s yen.  Lowe, responding to audience questions, said the RBA plans
to invest in onshore  government securities  and do so by the end
of the year.  Biggest Trader  Asia’s largest economy took about a third of Australia’s
exports in February and is its major customer for  iron ore  and
coal exports. Trade in goods and services between the two
nations was valued at A$127.8 billion in the year to June 30,
2012, Australian government figures show.  Chinese investment in Australia has risen more than five-
fold since 2006 and reached about A$20 billion at the end of
2011, while Australian investment in China stood at about A$17
billion in 2011, Lowe said, adding the data probably understate
the size as some funds are channeled through financial hubs like
 Hong Kong .  “A significant share of the growth in Chinese investment
in Australia thus far has been foreign direct investment,” Lowe
said. “This has been largely in the resources sector, although
recently there has been some diversification, including into the
services and real estate sectors.”  High Dollar  Australia’s dollar averaged $1.0381 in the past two years,
compared with 71.3 U.S. cents in the prior two decades, spurred
by near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and Japan and the
investment boom. Lowe, comparing his nation’s financial system
overhaul of the 1980s with the challenges ahead for China, said
free markets can still raise questions for policy makers.  “One current example of this is related to the very high
value of the Australian dollar, which is clearly making for
difficult conditions in certain parts of the Australian
economy,” he said. “The quantitative easing that has taken
place in a number of countries is having a significant effect on
exchange rates of freely floating currencies, and this is having
ramifications for monetary policy in these economies.”  The RBA has held the cash rate at 3 percent this year after
reducing borrowing costs in six steps for a total of 1.75
percentage points in the 14 months through December. Policy
makers are trying to buoy industries outside of mining and
offset the drag on the economy from the strength of the
currency.  Gillard, in an April 22 interview refrained from
criticizing the exchange rate of China. Asked whether the  yuan 
was overvalued, the prime minister said that “I won’t be
specifying what level any one currency should be at, but
philosophically we do look for freer-trading currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  