-- Lew, Brainard Urge Congress to Reinforce IMF’s Loan Capacity
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-04-24T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/treasury-s-lew-urges-congress-to-reinforce-imf-lending-capacity.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
urged Congress to fulfill a U.S. pledge to reinforce the war
chest of the  International Monetary Fund , saying the lender has
helped mitigate financial crises from the Middle East to Europe.  “When financial instability occurs in many places around
the globe, such as in Europe, it creates headwinds for our
economy,” Lew told a House Appropriations subcommittee today.
“Without IMF support, more countries would experience even
larger financial stresses, and the  U.S. economy  would suffer
through reduced demand for U.S. exports and lower foreign
investment in the United States, threatening millions of jobs.”  President  Barack Obama  earlier this month asked for
Congress to approve a plan on the IMF’s lending capacity that
tries to make good on a pledge made 2 1/2 years ago. The 2010
agreement among IMF member nations would double the amount the
IMF has readily available for lending to about $717 billion and
gives emerging market countries such as  China  a bigger voting
share at the global lender.  In separate testimony today, Treasury Undersecretary for
International Affairs Lael Brainard pledged to push the IMF to
toughen its analysis of member countries’ exchange rates.  “The IMF is now providing much greater in-depth coverage
of exchange rates, as well as related analysis on reserves,
current-account imbalances and capital measures,” she said in
prepared remarks to a House Financial Services subcommittee.
“We will continue to urge the IMF to actively exercise its
oversight role in this area.”  IMF Backers  The timing of the request is less than ideal as Congress
grapples with the effects of automatic spending cuts known as
sequestration. What’s more, the IMF needs new champions on
 Capitol Hill  after the departure of two longtime supporters,
Republican Senator  Richard Lugar  and Democratic Representative
 Barney Frank .  While Brainard said the request doesn’t change the U.S.
financial participation in the IMF,  John Campbell , the
Republican chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee
on  Monetary Policy  and Trade, said the transfer from the  credit
line  was not neutral.  The administration is seeking to boost the U.S.’s share, or
quota, at the Washington-based IMF by shifting about $63 billion
from an existing credit line.  ‘Firmly Disagree’  “I firmly disagree with the administration that this is
simply a bookkeeping entry,” Campbell, a lawmaker from
 California , said in a statement. “Taxpayers would be taking on
additional risk with the funds in quota” instead of in a crisis
credit line, he said.  The panel will review the administration’s request “in the
context of a fiscal consolidation to which you, I, and many
other policy makers agreed,” Campbell said. “We would each be
derelict in our duty to the taxpaying public to make one-off
appropriations of large sums of money without being transparent
in our budget priorities.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  last week said
Obama’s move to include the request in his 2014 budget gave her
confidence the U.S. would “join the club of the many, many
member states that have ratified the reform.”  The agreement can’t take effect without approval by the
U.S., the fund’s largest shareholder. While the permanent funds
are raised, the plan in turn decreases a pool of supplementary
resources that is used only during crises and needs to be
activated every six months.  U.S. Delayed  “The U.S. may soon find itself in an embarrassing
situation of being the only” country among Group of 20 peers
not to have passed the measure, Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told IMF member nations last week in  Washington .  While the administration says the transfer will have no
impact on the budget, it will be up to Congress to decide
whether to appropriate a share of the total as loan-loss
reserves.  “These actions are necessary to maintain strong U.S.
leadership and influence in the IMF, and to restore the IMF’s
core capital structure,” Lew said. “Our investment is safe and
smart, and it is secured by the IMF’s rock solid balance sheet
in which total assets exceed total credit outstanding.”  Four years ago, the  Congressional Budget Office  determined
an appropriation of about $5 billion was necessary to cover the
new commitments under the temporary line of credit of about $100
billion.  In his prepared remarks, Lew said American national-
security interests were at stake in the governance and funding
changes at the Washington-based fund.  “The IMF is now working to help bring about economic
stability in the  Middle East  -- in Egypt, Jordan, Morocco,
Tunisia, and Yemen -- by providing critical policy advice and
financial support to help secure the political gains of the Arab
Spring,” he said. “Avoiding a financial crisis during this
delicate period of political transition will help these
countries avoid more destabilizing political upheavals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  