-- Trelleborg Profit Tops Estimates as Cost Cuts Offset Sales Slump
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-04-24T12:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/trelleborg-profit-tops-estimates-as-cost-cuts-offset-sales-slump.html
Trelleborg AB (TRELB) , the world’s biggest
maker of vibration-dampening gear, reported first-quarter profit
that beat analyst expectations as cost cuts offset declining
sales and a joint-venture added to income.  Net income slipped to 489 million kronor ($74.1 million),
beating the 403 million-krona average in a Bloomberg survey
analysts. That compared with 494 million kronor a year earlier.
Sales declined 6 percent to 5.39 billion kronor. Shares of the
Trelleborg, Sweden-based company rose as much as 6 percent after
the report.  Trelleborg has sought to expand its presence beyond western
Europe to counter falling demand caused by European sovereign-
debt crisis and added new production facilities in  Brazil ,  India 
and  China  last year. Sales in western  Europe  declined to 56
percent of the group’s total last year from 67 percent in 2006,
according to the annual report. The company said it sees second-
quarter demand on par with that in the first quarter.  “Trelleborg noted a strong first quarter despite weaker
market conditions,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Nilsson said
in a statement. “Once again, the group displayed strength and
stability in the face of a volatile market.”  TrelleborgVibracoustic, a joint venture with Freudenberg &
Co KG, contributed 110 million kronor on to operating profit,
Trelleborg said. The business makes antivibration solutions for
light and heavy vehicles and was formed in July last year. The
operating margin increased to to 11.8 percent in the quarter
from 11.6 percent a year earlier. Trelleborg targets an
operating margin of 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  