-- Renault First-Quarter Revenue Falls 12% on European Drop
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-25T07:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/renault-first-quarter-revenue-falls-12-on-european-drop.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, said first-quarter revenue fell 12 percent as an
intensifying car-market contraction in  Europe  that’s now in its
sixth year overwhelmed delivery growth outside the region.  Sales dropped to 8.27 billion euros ($10.7 billion) from a
restated 9.37 billion euros a year earlier, the Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Revenue was less than the 8.57 billion-euro average of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Renault and larger competitor  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  cut their
forecasts for industrywide European car sales in 2013 as a
recession in the 17 countries that use the euro pushed the
automotive market in Europe to a two-decade low. Renault
reiterated targets for its carmaking division of a positive
operating margin and positive free  cash flow  this year.  “You saw a huge destocking at the dealer level, and
therefore the revenue was a negative surprise, but I think this
will revert over the year,” Sascha Gommel, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG with a hold recommendation on Renault shares,
said by phone.  The European car-market contraction also contributed to
first-quarter operating-profit declines of 26 percent at
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s largest auto manufacturer, and 56
percent at Daimler AG, owner of the Mercedes-Benz luxury brand.
Daimler reduced its full-year forecast for earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time items yesterday, saying profit will
fall rather than match the 2012 level.  Market Bottom  Renault  shares   were up 12 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 50.66
euros as of  09:07 a.m. in Paris trading. The French
manufacturer has advanced 25 percent this year, valuing the
company at 15 billion euros.  Renault’s margin and cash-flow forecasts depend on no
further worsening in the European car market, Chief Financial
Officer Dominique Thormann said yesterday on a conference call
with analysts. Industry deliveries in the region are probably
“not far from the bottom,” he said.  Currency effects reduced Renault’s first-quarter revenue by
251 million euros, the French company said in a presentation.
Shifts in the value of  Argentina ’s peso and  Brazil ’s real
against the euro were the main contributors, Thormann said.  The French company’s first-quarter deliveries in Europe
fell 12 percent. It predicted that the region’s car market will
contract 5 percent this year rather than a 3 percent drop
forecast earlier. Paris-based Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest
carmaker, also forecast a 5 percent drop in full-year industry
sales in the region yesterday, instead of a decline in a range
of 3 percent to 5 percent.  Growth Regions  Sales by Renault in the Eurasia region, which includes
former Soviet states, jumped 21 percent, the company said.
Middle Eastern and African vehicle sales rose 9.1 percent and
registrations in the Asia-Pacific market increased 3.8 percent.
Renault’s sales in the Americas fell 8 percent, led by a 19
percent drop in Brazil because of the shutdown of a factory
during a capacity-expansion project.  Renault and Peugeot have been among the top vehicle
discounters in the past year in  Germany , Europe’s biggest
market, according to  Autohaus PulsSchlag  magazine. Renault,
which sees price pressure remaining high in the region, reduced
customer incentives there by 2 percentage points during the
first quarter and it’s working on a “virtuous pricing policy,”
Jerome Stoll, the company’s head of sales, said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  