-- Republicans Will Clobber Obamacare Until They Hug It
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-04-24T22:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/republicans-will-clobber-obamacare-until-they-hug-it.html
After  John Boehner  was elected
leader of the  House Republicans  in 2006, Fox News host  Chris Wallace  asked him what was, at the time, an obvious question:
“Medicare prescription drug benefit,” Wallace said. “How do you
think it’s working?”  This might have been a moment for Boehner to brag about one
of the  Republican Party ’s most significant legislative
achievements. Or, if politics didn’t permit patting himself on
the back, perhaps he could have tried some elegant spin. But
Boehner didn’t mince words: “The implementation of the Medicare
plan has been horrendous,” he replied.  This wasn’t news. In 2003, Republicans had passed, and
President  George W. Bush  had signed, the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act. The process itself was
notorious: Republicans intimidated Medicare’s actuary into
withholding cost projections and, after the bill looked to be
failing in the House, held the vote open for hours past the
deadline as Republican leaders twisted arms and promised
payoffs. In 2004, the House Ethics Committee  issued  a “public
admonishment” to Republican Majority Leader Tom DeLay for
essentially bribing a fellow Republican for his vote.  In 2006, the bill went into effect. It was a disaster.
Computer systems didn’t communicate with one another. Seniors
were confused. Some of the poorest and sickest enrollees --
“dual eligibles” who qualify for aid under both Medicare and
Medicaid -- weren’t able to get their drugs. It was so bad that
in his 2006  State of the Union  address, Bush “said nothing about
the new Medicare prescription drug program, an initiative
Republicans once hoped to trumpet but has angered many seniors
in its implementation,” reported the  Washington  Post.  Blame Game  Washington was so consumed by the blame game that even non-politicians felt moved to defend themselves. “I was offended by
a Jan. 14 front-page story that said that one problem with the
Medicare Part D prescription drug program is poorly trained
pharmacists,” wrote one Washington Post reader. “As a
pharmacist, I want to say that we were dealt a lemon with this
program.”  A 2006  hearing  before the Senate Special Committee on Aging
could’ve been a moment for Democrats to hammer the prescription
drug bill. Instead, Senator  Herb Kohl  of  Wisconsin , then the top
Democrat on the panel, said it was important “to put aside any
partisan thoughts to work together to get this program running.”
 Hillary Clinton , then a senator from  New York  pushing an
alternative prescription drug plan, was similarly constructive.
“I voted against it, but once it passed I certainly determined
that I would try to do everything I could to make sure that  New
Yorkers  understood it, could access it, and make the best of
it,” she said. She went on, in true Clinton fashion, to
recommend an informational brochure her staff had put together.  The kinks in the program were eventually worked out. Today
Medicare Part D is widely considered a success. Costs have come
in below expectations -- though in large part because
pharmaceutical companies have invented fewer expensive new drugs
than expected. Seniors are happy with the program. The
Republican Party considers it a huge achievement -- even a model
for future policies. “Our reforms draw upon the lessons of
Medicare’s prescription drug program,” promised Representative
 Paul Ryan . Democrats, rather than attempting to repeal or
overhaul Part D, used the Affordable Care Act to expand it.  There are lessons here about the difficulty of implementing
large programs, the dangers of extrapolating from a program’s
first months to gauge its long-term success and what it means to
be a loyal opposition. The Republican Party isn’t learning them.  ‘Train Wreck’  Republicans have done everything possible to keep Obamacare
from getting up and running smoothly. They’ve refused to sign
off on any budget that includes the necessary money for
implementation. At a hearing last week where Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of  Montana  warned of a “train
wreck” if the rollout wasn’t effectively managed, Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the ranking Republican on the committee, attacked
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  for
implementing the law with existing funds.  “A quick review of the HHS budget in brief seems to suggest
that you are diverting funds from other areas of the department
to put toward implementation,” Hatch said. “Would you describe
the authority under which you believe you have the ability to
conduct such transfers and whether or not you believe the
Congress should be notified when these transfers occur?”  Consider the implicit argument there. The Affordable Care
Act is the law of the land, and the Obama administration is
legally bound to implement it. Having denied the necessary
funding to do so, Republicans now want to hinder the
administration’s ability to transfer other funding, to ensure
that Obamacare becomes the disaster Republicans have promised.  The more horrendous the rollout, the more effectively
Republicans can run against Obamacare in 2014. That might work:
I wouldn’t be surprised to see Obamacare end up as a net
negative for Democrats in the 2014 election -- much as Medicare
Part D was for Republicans in 2006. But by the 2016 presidential
election, it’s likely to be a law that Democrats brag about and
Republicans scamper to get behind. And the final act of this
depressing little political play will be Republicans embracing
this policy that they did everything to destroy, and trying to
build on it.  Don’t believe it? Some Republicans are already arguing that
Ryan’s Medicare  premium support plan  simply brings Obamacare to
Medicare. “The great irony of Obama’s triumph, however, is that
it can pave the way for Republicans to adopt a comprehensive,
market-oriented healthcare agenda,” wrote Avik Roy and  Douglas
Holtz-Eakin , two influential Republican policy advisers. They
argue that “both Representative Paul Ryan’s ‘premium support’
proposal for Medicare and Obamacare’s exchanges are modeled on
the Swiss system,” and that Republicans should push to have
Medicare beneficiaries “gradually migrate into the exchanges’
premium-support systems.”  See? Republicans can go from arguing that Obamacare should
be repealed to arguing that it needs to be expanded in a flash.
But not until they’ve squeezed every political benefit from
making its implementation disastrous.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 