-- Risk of Miscalculation Over North Korea Has Grown, Dempsey Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-24T22:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/risk-of-miscalculation-over-north-korea-has-grown-dempsey-says.html
The risk of a miscalculation in the
dispute over North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs has
increased, and  China  takes the tensions “very seriously,” the
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff said yesterday.  North Korea is “in a period of prolonged provocation
rather than cyclical provocation,” Martin Dempsey told
reporters yesterday after arriving in Beijing April 21 and
meeting officials including President Xi Jinping.  Dempsey’s visit is part of a series of high-level contacts
between the U.S. and China this month to discuss issues
including cybersecurity and the North’s nuclear program.
Tensions on the Korean peninsula have been high since February,
when Kim Jong Un’s regime tested a nuclear device in defiance of
the United Nations Security Council.  “The risk of miscalculation is higher and I think the risk
of escalation is higher,” Dempsey said. “They are on a path
that will certainly increase risk in the region.”  China is North Korea’s largest trading partner and Beijing
regards the neighboring country as a strategic buffer with U.S.-
backed South Korea. In a visit to China earlier this month,
Secretary of State John Kerry said China needs to “put some
teeth” into restraining Kim’s regime.  “I will leave here with the belief that the Chinese
leadership is as concerned as we are,” Dempsey said. “We think
there is still time for North Korea’s leaders to back away from
provocations and we hope they take the opportunity to do so.”  ‘Any Moment’  The North is ready to conduct another nuclear test “at any
moment,” South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
said on April 23. North Korea vowed to strengthen its nuclear
program after a U.S. State Department report found the country
guilty of “egregious and pervasive” human rights abuses.  North Korea’s continued pursuit of ballistic missiles and
nuclear weapons threatens international security and “seriously
undermines regional stability,” the 28 foreign ministers of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization said in a statement April 23.  In a sign of greater cooperation, China said its North
Korea envoy,  Wu Dawei , will visit  Washington  this week for
talks. U.S. Deputy Secretary of State William Burns is also
visiting Beijing this week.  South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se said during a
visit to Beijing yesterday that his country and China agreed to
set up a 24-hour hotline to address North Korea issues, the
Yonhap News Agency reported.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  