-- Rock Gets Brutal as Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Knife Launch Attack
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-04-24T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/rock-gets-brutal-as-yeah-yeah-yeahs-knife-launch-attack.html
After some four years away, the
Yeah Yeah Yeahs looked in danger of needing a new name.  The “Who Who Whos” was looking more appropriate than the
original -- which, by the way, isn’t in homage to the Beatles’
“yeah yeah yeah.” The trio is from New York, so you can
pronounce it like a disbelieving Brooklyn “yeah, yeah, yeah.”
Maybe say it after you’re told the new CD, “Mosquito,” is
excellent and worth the wait.  The band returns to its raw roots on the title track.  Karen
O  sounds like Siouxsie Sioux in punk’s heyday as she intones
“I’ll suck your blood.” The cover has a nasty picture of a big
insect about to do just that to a baby.  The group, now 13 years in the business, has moved away
from the dance synths that fired “It’s Blitz.” This time, we get
disco, gospel choir and roots reggae. Most of it works superbly.
Rating: ****.  “The Terror,” by U.S. experimental rockers the Flaming
Lips, also flirts with everything from jazz to psychedelic rock.  Leader  Wayne Coyne  employs his studio mastery not just to
show off. According to a news release, this is an album about
life and love. Aren’t they all? The downbeat songs such as “You
Are Alone” come close to matching the previous high of “Do You
Realize?” Rating: ****.  The man known to his family as William Adams -- and to most
of us as will.i.am -- has been endlessly inventive in his
production and writing for the Black Eyed Peas.  This doesn’t always gel when he goes solo, as on
“ #willpower ,” which is propped up by a lot of supporting stars.
Friends such as Eva Simons, Britney Spears, Justin Bieber and
Miley Cyrus provide vocals on his singles over the past year,
all of which are included. Rating: *½.  “Shaking the Habitual,” by Swedish electronic act the
 Knife , is an over-ambitious 96-minute sprawl. The track “Old
Dreams Waiting to Be Realized” crosses the 19-minute mark and
even the single “Full of Fire” lasts for nine. It’s not as
catchy as its predecessor, “Silent Shout.” Rating: **.  Phoenix  looks set to break out of cult status, having
headlined the  Coachella Festival  in  California  this month and
released “Bankrupt!”  The Frenchmen were long eclipsed by their friends in Daft
Punk and Air. They could give the Knife some lessons on economy,
packing 10 catchy tracks into 40 minutes. Rating: ***½.  The cover of Nick Cave’s “Push the Sky Away” was branded
sexist in some Twitter posts because it shows the fully-clad
singer and a naked woman. Cave was quick to point out that the
model is his wife and it was part of a magazine fashion shoot.  Now that the fuss has died down, the CD itself can be
judged a worthwhile reunion with the Bad Seeds, more considered
and less rushed than other recent outings. “ Jubilee Street ” is
Cave’s best song in years. Not all of them are this good.
Rating: ***.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lance Esplund  on art,  Jeremy Gerard 
on New York theater and  Mike Di Paola  on preservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 