-- Rubber May Drop to Lowest Level Since 2009: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-04-24T01:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/rubber-may-drop-to-lowest-level-since-2009-technical-analysis.html
Rubber may fall to the lowest since
2009 by October, extending a  bear market  that started this month,
according to technical analysis by research company JSC Corp.  The 50-day moving average for the most-active contract on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange declined below the so-called cloud 
on Ichimoku charts this month, signaling futures will extend
losses for another six months, said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst
at the Tokyo-based company. Rubber may drop below 205.6 yen a
kilogram ($2,068 a metric ton), an almost three-year low reached
in August 2012, he said.  Rubber slumped into a bear market on April 1 as expanding
stockpiles in  China  signaled easing demand from the world’s
largest consumer of the commodity used in tires. The country’s
economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the first quarter from
7.9 percent in the three months through December.  “I can’t see any technical signs for the trend to turn
around,” Shigemoto said. “The market is also fundamentally
weak as the low-production season in  Thailand  is ending,
worsening oversupply.”  RCMA Commodities Asia Group raised its forecast for surplus
in global supply by 62 percent to 353,000 tons on April 1,
citing slower demand growth in China and  Europe . The low
production period, or so-called wintering season, normally ends
in May in Thailand, the world’s largest producer and exporter.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. The Ichimoku chart analyzes
midpoints of historic highs and lows, or so-called resistance
and support levels, with a breakout from above or below the
cloud pointing to a trend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  