-- Trucks Oust Buffaloes as Aquino $6.5 Billion Adds Roads: Freight
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-04-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/trucks-oust-buffaloes-as-aquino-6-5-billion-adds-roads-freight.html
Farmer Rene Ravalo loads coconuts
onto a truck in the Philippines for the 30-minute trip to market
on a road built last year. It previously took half a day for a
water buffalo to inch the goods down a mountain track.  “Selling our produce is much easier now,” Ravalo said in
Magsaysay, his village 1,570 kilometers (975 miles) south of
Manila. He’s gaining from  record  spending on roads, ports and
airports, set by the government at 268 billion pesos ($6.5
billion) in 2013 to boost a transport network the  World Economic
Forum  ranks the second worst in major Southeast Asian nations.  The expenditure has helped remake the archipelago into the
region’s fastest-growing economy after decades of lagging behind
peers, International Monetary Fund data show.  Fitch Ratings 
promoted the Philippines to investment grade for the first time
last month, as President Benigno Aquino fights corruption and
tax evasion to limit the budget deficit.  “Deficient infrastructure has been a key development
constraint and Aquino is starting to address this,” said Norio
Usui, senior country economist for the Philippines at the Asian
Development Bank in Manila. He estimated total investment needs
at almost $12 billion annually, mostly for transport and power
generation, to support an economy that the IMF forecasts will
expand more than 6 percent for a second year in 2013.  Aquino is trying to overcome a legacy of depressed
investment, caused partly by contract disputes and regulatory
reversals that led companies including Frankfurt, Germany-based
Fraport AG, an airport services provider, to leave the country.  Cement, Pepsi  Construction and cement businesses such as  Lafarge Republic
Inc. (LRI) ,  Holcim Philippines Inc. (HLCM) ,  DMCI Holdings Inc. (DMC)  and  EEI Corp. (EEI) 
will gain from the infrastructure drive, said Paul Joseph Garcia, senior vice president at BPI Asset Management Inc. in
Manila. He helps manage about $18.5 billion of assets.  Consumer businesses such as  Pepsi-Cola Products Philippines
Inc. (PIP)  and  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  will also benefit as better transport
spurs growth and increases incomes, he said. Consumer spending
 accounts  for more than 70 percent of the $225 billion economy,
making it the key engine of growth.  Lafarge and DMCI are based in Makati City.  San Miguel  is
headquartered in Mandaluyong City, Holcim in Taguig, EEI in
Quezon City and Pepsi-Cola in Muntinlupa City.  “Aquino is capitalizing on the favorable sentiment
surrounding the Philippines, recognizing you can’t sustain high
growth rates of above 6 percent without accompanying
infrastructure development,” said Christian de Guzman, a
sovereign analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Singapore.  Stocks Surge  Aquino’s agenda -- which led Time magazine to select him as
one of the world’s 100 most  influential  people this year -- has
buoyed stocks and the nation’s currency.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index is the second-best
performer in the world since he took power in June 2010, rising
107 percent. The peso has climbed 12 percent versus the dollar.  Key projects include the Laguindingan International
Airport, due to open in June on the second biggest Philippine
island, Mindanao. This year, Aquino’s administration is set to
begin construction or expansion of three other airports and a
port.  The push to bolster outlays includes 8.3 billion pesos in
2013 for farm-to-market roads, such as the new gravel link that
helps connect Magsaysay to the town of Lupon.  The farm-to-market initiative cuts losses from rotting and
aims to spread development more widely, Budget Secretary Butch Abad said in a statement last month. The  World Bank  estimates 18
percent of the 95 million population lives on under $1.25 a day.  Sari-Sari Stores  The benefits for Magsaysay, which is set among mountains in
Mindanao, go beyond reduced use of buffalo as pack animals, a
centuries-old practice still common among poor farmers.  Small convenience outlets, known as sari-sari stores, are
flourishing as goods including  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  toothpaste
and  Unilever (ULVR)  soap flow in more easily. The road has also spurred
purchases of  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) 
motorbikes, with over 40 buzzing around a village of 740 people.  “Before, we couldn’t even eat fish,” said Emelita
Mawalik, who owns one of the sari-sari shops. “Now, merchants
come to our village to sell us tilapia, round scads and ox-eye
scads. Can you imagine? They climb to us now.”  After coming to power almost three years ago, Aquino
identified more than $17 billion in projects from  power plants 
to railways where companies can participate through public-
private partnerships, aside from the outlays purely by the
government.  Slow Pace  So far, only three such contracts have been awarded: an
elevated highway connecting airport terminals in Manila, the
construction of about 9,300 classrooms and a toll road leading
to provinces south of the capital.  The pace has to pick up, according to Jeff Ng, an economist
at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore.  “They’re being selective in choosing the right
proposals,” Ng said. “But the government needs to fast-track
these projects. We’re watching out for more rollouts this year
and next.”  The Philippines must also develop its  capital markets 
further, especially the insurance industry, as “limited
availability” of long-term financing in local currency hampers
the funding of infrastructure projects, according to the ADB.  IMF data shows  investment  was about 19 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012, down from more than 24 percent in 2002
and below the 30 percent in  Asean-5  as a whole. That groups
Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam.  Vested Interests  The ADB’s Usui said infrastructure spending must at least
double from the current 2 percent to 3 percent of GDP.  While reforms to move the economy away from consumption
toward investment are necessary, such changes have
“historically been difficult to implement, given the vested
interests in the status quo,” the World Bank said in a December
 report .  Aquino’s predecessors,  Gloria Arroyo  and  Joseph Estrada ,
were embroiled in corruption scandals that hurt efforts to
liberalize the economy. Arroyo, who took power after Estrada was
ousted by a popular revolt in 2001, has been charged with
plunder.  Investor optimism under Aquino pushed stock valuations to
an all-time high of 20.4 times projected 12-month profits on
April 22, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s spurring
concern the shares are too expensive, given past reform efforts
have faced obstacles and flagged. The peso has dropped about 1
percent in the past month.  Investment Grade  Still, Aquino has been “successful in pushing policies
that created a higher level of confidence in the Philippines, in
contrast to the past when promises never came true,” said
 Edward Teather , a Singapore-based senior economist at UBS AG.  The president is now campaigning to increase his party’s
share of the Senate in elections scheduled for May 13, seeking
to buttress his popular mandate.  Fitch Ratings boosted the Philippines to BBB- in March, the
lowest investment grade, citing remittances by overseas workers,
moderate budget deficits and a “strong” policy-making
framework.  Standard & Poor’s  in July raised its rating to a step below
investment grade, with Moody’s Investors Service following in
October. S&P raised the outlook to positive in December.  GDP expansion  averaged more than 6 percent in the three
years through 2012, compared with 3.1 percent from 1980 through
2009. The figures for Asean-5 are 5.9 percent and 5.1 percent.  The Philippines placed 88 out of 144 economies in a World
Economic Forum 2012-2013 index of transport infrastructure,
behind Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, and ahead of
Vietnam. That’s up from 106 in 2010-2011.  Road Expansion  There’s a “medium” probability that the government will
achieve its goal of increasing paved-road length by about 20
percent to 31,242 kilometers in 2016 compared with 2011, the
National Statistical Coordination Board  said  last year.  The expansion is pivotal to spur commerce since about 50
percent of Philippine freight is transported by road, a Japanese
 assessment  for a development loan shows.  Only 27.3 percent of the network comprises asphalt or
concrete links in good condition, according to the Department of
Public Works and Highways. Almost 20 percent is earth or gravel.  In Magsaysay, Ravalo, the farmer and a father of three
children, takes a break from harvesting Chinese cabbage, okra
and eggplant. Over a meal of bananas with shrimp paste and
coconut, he ponders how even a new gravel link can change lives.  “We’ve been waiting for decades for the government to hear
our pleas and give us a road,” he said. “Now, we’re able to
save money. Slowly, our lives are getting better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  