-- Zuma Ready to Redeploy Army to Central African Republic
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-04-25T05:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/s-africa-s-zuma-to-send-army-to-central-african-republic.html
South  Africa  is ready to send
troops back to Central African Republic a month after suffering
its worst military casualties since the end of apartheid in
clashes with rebels, President Jacob Zuma said.  The government is waiting for a formal request from
regional leaders and the rebel Seleka alliance that controls the
Central African Republic to send soldiers as part of a
multinational peacekeeping force, Zuma said in an interview in
Cape Town yesterday. They have made a verbal appeal, he said.  “That will be considered by us when it is formally put,”
Zuma, 71, said from his offices adjacent to Parliament. “If
that request comes, if we did not go, it would not be in keeping
with our policy.”  South Africa withdrew troops stationed in the country after
Seleka fighters killed 13 soldiers in clashes during a nine-hour
battle on March 24 as they seized the capital, Bangui, and
ousted President Francois Bozize. Zuma faced a barrage of
criticism from opposition political parties, labor unions and
security analysts in the wake of the crisis as questions were
raised about the reason for the army’s mission in the conflict-
ridden nation.  Zuma’s pledge contradicts comments from Deputy President
Kgalema Motlanthe, who told lawmakers yesterday that South
Africa won’t send any troops to country.  Opposition Criticism  “With a very straight face, clear conscience, I deny that
the government is planning to send troops to the Central African
Republic,” Motlanthe said.  South Africa sent 200 soldiers to the nation this year to
protect as many as 85 military trainers when the rebels began
advancing toward Bangui. About 700 rebel fighters were killed in
the battle with the South African troops, according to the
government.  The main opposition Democratic Alliance has demanded a
parliamentary inquiry into the casualties.  “We were not told the whole truth about the reasons for
the deployment,” David Maynier, the DA’s defense spokesman,
told lawmakers on April 23. “Our soldiers were left dangling,
with both hands tied behind their backs, in a deadly
firefight.”  South Africa will coordinate with other nations that have
troops in Central African Republic, including  France , to avoid a
repeat of the losses, Zuma said.  Foreign Influence  “Going back there I think all of us have learnt including
all the forces I’m talking about, would know how to handle the
situation,” Zuma said. “If you go into a conflict area, I
don’t think you can guarantee anything.”  South Africa is seeking to expand its role in promoting
peace on the continent and reduce the reliance on foreign
powers. Earlier this month, the government agreed to add troops
to a United Nations intervention force in the eastern region of
Democratic Republic of Congo, where rebels have clashed with
government forces.  South Africa has the biggest economy on the continent and
companies including  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the food and general
goods retailer controlled by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  MTN Group
Ltd. (MTN)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
producer, operate businesses in Africa.  Even so, France’s military intervention in the West African
nation of Mali this year was necessary as regional powers were
unable to prevent Islamist militants advancing toward the
capital, Bamako, Zuma said.  Zimbabwe Elections  “France helped stop the rebels from really overrunning the
country,” Zuma said. “The president of France actually called
a number of us to inform us and say: ‘Look I’m taking this
action because of x,y,z,’ which is not like a thing that has
been happening in the past. That was appreciated as well.”  Islamist insurgents and ethnic Touareg separatists seized
control of much of northern  Mali  after a coup in March last year
left a power vacuum in Bamako. France, which has almost 4,000
troops in Mali, is planning to wind down its mission after
airstrikes helped to oust the rebels from key towns.  With elections looming in neighboring Zimbabwe, Zuma said
the Southern African Development Community will aim to prevent a
repeat of violence that’s marred voting in the past.  “We are very clear we are going to do everything to ensure
we avoid” a repeat of the violence, Zuma said. Zimbabweans
“must have learnt from that experience that this time around
everyone would want to play the game within the rules that we
produce a democratic and accepted election in  Zimbabwe .”  The parties of President Robert Mugabe and Prime Minister
Morgan Tsvangirai share power in a coalition government brokered
by the 15-nation SADC after a disputed ballot in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Cape Town at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  