-- Senator Likes U.S. Energy Nominee He’s Blocking From Senate Vote
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/senator-s-meeting-with-obama-energy-nominee-fails-to-clear-hold.html
Senator Lindsey Graham  said his
hold on Ernest Moniz’s nomination for energy secretary remains
in place after a meeting didn’t clear up the lawmaker’s concern
over budget cuts to a plutonium processing plant in his state.  “We’re talking with the White House, and we’re trying to
get resolution quickly,” Graham, a South Carolina Republican,
told reporters yesterday in Washington. “He’s a great
candidate. He’d be a good secretary of energy.”  Kevin Bishop, a spokesman for Graham, said in an e-mail
that the lawmaker met with Moniz yesterday. President  Barack Obama  nominated the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
physics professor to replace Steven Chu, who is returning to
 Stanford University  in California. Bishop declined to comment on
whether Moniz tried to satisfy Graham’s concerns.  The plant at the center of the dispute is intended to
convert weapons-grade plutonium into fuel for civilian nuclear-
power reactors. The project is being led by a consortium that
includes Paris-based  Areva SA. (AREVA)   Graham said his concerns are about the funding of the
program. “It’s not about him,” Graham said.  Obama’s budget proposal, sent to Congress earlier this
month, would cut spending on the project by 27 percent, or
almost $120 million, in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The
administration said it would examine less costly ways to ensure
the plutonium can never be used in nuclear weapons.  The Government Accountability Office last month estimated
that the plant’s construction costs have risen to at least $7.7
billion from $4.9 billion when building began in 2007.  While Graham continues to block the nomination, Moniz has
won broad bipartisan initial support in the Senate. The Energy
and Natural Resources Committee last week approved the
nomination by a 21-1 vote, with South Carolina Republican  Tim Scott  the only one voting no.  “I hope so” Graham said, when asked about prospects of
getting resolved before next week’s recess.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  