-- Senators Ask for IG Probe of TSA’s Decision on Knives
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-04-24T18:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/senators-ask-for-ig-probe-of-tsa-s-decision-on-knives.html
The U.S. Transportation Security
Administration, after backing off a move to end the ban on
passengers carrying pocket knives onto airplanes, may face an
inspector general’s investigation into its decision-making.  The probe was requested by Senator Charles Schumer, a New
York Democrat, and Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an Alaska Republican,
in a letter to Department of Homeland Security Acting Inspector
General  Charles Edwards  today.  “We write to request that your office closely scrutinize
TSA’s process on this critical matter going forward and complete
a comprehensive special review before the change is
implemented,” Schumer and Murkowski wrote.  The proposed policy change, announced in March and
scheduled to take effect tomorrow, was designed to align U.S.
rules with those in Europe and better reflect intelligence on
active terrorist threats, the agency said. The change would ease
restrictions on knives less than 2.36 inches (6 centimeters)
long, hockey sticks and golf clubs.  Instead, the agency backed down after protests from flight
attendants, executives of  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , air marshals and the union representing
airport screeners.  TSA Administrator  John Pistole  said in an e-mail to
employees April 22 that he would delay the implementation
indefinitely to consult with the industry and do more training.
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said yesterday that
the policy was being delayed, not reassessed, according to the
senators.  “Skeptics might argue that the delay is nothing more than
optics,” Schumer and Murkowski wrote. “In light of last week’s
terrorist attack in Boston, this simply is an inopportune time
to implement new rules that many stakeholders and a large
percentage of the traveling public believe will create new
dangers in the skies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  