-- Senate Will Pass Online Tax Bill This Week, Reid Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-24T17:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/senate-will-pass-online-tax-bill-this-week-reid-says.html
The U.S. Senate will pass a bill
this week that would let states collect taxes on out-of-state
sales, including sales over the Internet and through catalogs,
said Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, blamed a “handful” of senators
for delaying a final vote on the measure, which attracted 74
supporters on a procedural vote April 22 and 75 on another
procedural vote today. Some of the most ardent opponents,
including Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Max Baucus of
Montana, are senior Democrats.  Under Senate rules, opponents can delay a final vote on the
measure until April 27, after lawmakers are scheduled to return
to their home states for a one-week break.  Reid, who often says he will keep the Senate in session if
certain work isn’t completed, said he means it this time.  “This may be the time the wolf’s really coming,” he said,
referring to suggestions that he has “cried wolf” about
weekend work in the past.  Lawmakers are trying to negotiate an agreement that would
allow votes on several amendments, said Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a
Republican from New Hampshire and opponent of the bill.  “I don’t think that we should rush to limit debate on this
bill,” said Ayotte, whose state is one of five without a sales
tax.  Amazon, Wal-Mart  The online sales tax measure is supported by retailers such
as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Opponents include
direct marketers, anti-tax groups and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)   Supporters say brick-and-mortar retailers have a
competitive disadvantage with Internet-based sellers and others,
costing state governments an estimated $23 billion a year in
forgone revenue.  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the largest U.S. consumer electronics
retailer, is encouraged that the bill appears headed for
passage, Chief Executive Officer Hubert Joly said.  “We prefer that the playing field is level,” Joly told
reporters today in  New York . “We are very competitive. We will
win the game even if the playing field is not level.”  Best Buy’s sales in Arizona, which has begun collecting
online sales taxes, are showing “a very nice uptick” in stores
and online, Joly said without providing details. Best Buy is
based in Richfield, Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  