-- Serbia Has No Immediate Plan to Sell Telecommunications Co.
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-24T12:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/serbia-has-no-immediate-plan-to-sell-telecommunications-co-.html
Serbia has no immediate plans to
sell state-run Telekom Srbija AD amid reports of interested
buyers as the government has not decided yet on its asset-
selling policy.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s nine-month old Cabinet has not
“yet talked about” the sale of Telekom Srbija and there is no
plan to sell the company “at the moment,” Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic  told reporters in Belgrade today. “There is some
interest in Telekom Srbija, from two or three sides, but we must
first sit down and see what we plan to do with public companies
and if and where we plan to divest.”  Moscow-based  AFK Sistema (AFKS)  JSFC is interested in taking part
in a future sale of Telekom Srbija, as well as Abu Dhabi-based
Emirates Telecommunications Corp., or Etisalat, and an unnamed
big U.S. company, Belgrade newspaper Blic reported today, citing
an unidentified government official. Dinkic did not on comment
the report.  The government consolidated its ownership of Telekom Srbija
in early 2012, buying back a 20 percent stake from  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA. (HTO)  An attempt to sell a
majority stake in the state phone company in 2011 failed, when
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  offered as much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.43
billion), less than the minimum price of 1.4 billion euros set
by the government.  The previous Cabinet of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic set
the market value of Telekom Srbija at 2.27 billion euros,
promised to give away 22 percent of the equity to company
workers and Serbian nationals and list the company on the
Belgrade Stock Exchange.  Dacic’s Cabinet has said it would not sell the phone
company for less than 2.5 billion euros for the entire stake and
has stopped its debut on the bourse.  Telekom Srbija’s 2012 net income fell by almost half to
11.25 billion dinars ($131.75 million) from 22.27 billion dinars
in 2011, as assets contracted and long-term liabilities and
spending expanded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  