-- Shiseido Forecasts First Loss in Eight Years on Bare Escentuals
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-04-24T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/shiseido-forecasts-first-loss-in-eight-years-on-bare-escentuals.html
Shiseido Co. (4911) ,  Japan ’s biggest
cosmetics maker, forecast its first annual loss in eight years
as it struggles to boost sales of Bare Escentuals, the U.S. unit
acquired for $1.7 billion.  It will book an impairment loss of 28.6 billion yen ($287
million) on goodwill associated with Bare Escentuals, which was
bought in March 2010, the Tokyo-based company said yesterday in
a  statement . Net loss will probably be 14.7 billion yen in the
year ended March, compared with a previous forecast for net
income of 10.5 billion yen in the period, it said.  Shiseido reported a  net income  of 14.5 billion yen for the
year ended March 2012, less than half its profit in the fiscal
year it bought the  San Francisco , California-based makeup and
skincare producer. Since announcing the offer for Bare
Escentuals on January 2010, its stock has lost 19 percent,
compared with a 21 percent climb for the broader Topix index.  Bare Escentuals’ “sales have remained lower than
expected,” Shiseido said in its statement. “Bare Escentuals
has taken longer than initially envisioned to grow its retail
business. The gap between its sales budget and sales performance
has been widening during recent months.”  Some Bare Escentuals stores will be closed this year while
the business expands marketing to rely more on “consumer-
facing” promotions, television advertisements and the QVC home
shopping network.  “It’s a little bit hard to imagine the recovery
strategy,” said Hisae Kawamoto, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “They’re posting an impairment
loss only three years after the acquisition, which gives a
negative impression. The company says they will close
unprofitable stores, but it doesn’t explain how the business is
going to improve.”  Further Losses  Shiseido jumped 5.6 percent to 1,580 yen as of the close of
trading in  Tokyo  yesterday, the highest since March 2011, before
the announcement was made. The shares have  gained  30 percent
this year, compared with a 33 percent advance in the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  “There could potentially be further losses unless they
sell the unit,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,  executive director  at
Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “They couldn’t operate
Bare Escentuals as they had hoped to.”  Analysts expected net income of 10.2 billion yen for the
year ended March, according to the average of 12  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  