-- Slovenian Banks Need $1.2 Billion by July 31, May Require More
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-24T22:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/slovenian-banks-need-1-2-billion-by-july-31-may-require-more.html
Slovenian banks including Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  will
need a capital injection of at least 900 million euros ($1.2
billion) by the end of July as the government works to fix the
banking industry without seeking outside aid.  The government of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, in power
for five weeks, included a list of priorities in a draft
document posted yesterday on the website of the parliament in
Ljubljana. It said the plan will be sent to European officials
by May 9.  “We don’t have the final cost of the bank
recapitalization, but we estimate banks need to be recapitalized
by July 31 with 900 million euros,” the government said in the
draft. Lenders may need more, depending on how the Slovenian
economy develops and how much money will be transfered to a bad
bank currently being set up, it said.  The Adriatic nation, the first post-communist country to
adopt the euro in 2007, is struggling to avoid asking for
outside assistance after its bond yields advanced to record
levels earlier this month on concern over its faltering banking
industry. The three top banks, NLB, Nova Kreditna and  Abanka
Vipa (ABKN)  d.d. need 2 billion euros of fresh capital,  Fitch Ratings 
said April 5.  In addition to any capital injection, the government plans
to exchange bad loans for as much as 4 billion euros of state-
guaranteed bonds.  The government also said it would sell some state assets
that it didn’t identify and create a state-asset holding company
to improve management, the documents show.  Slovenia, rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, is
carrying out a roadshow in the U.S. to check investor interest
for another debt sale as it seeks to aid banks and finance the
budget. The country last tapped into the U.S. market in October,
when it sold $2.25 billion of notes on increased investor
interest.  Bratusek said she would continue cutting the  budget
deficit , according to the document. Slovenia’s budget gap
narrowed to 4 percent of GDP in 2012 from 6.4 percent a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  