-- Slovenia Companies Avoid Banks in Test of Investor Debt Appetite
-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/slovenia-companies-avoid-banks-in-test-of-investor-debt-appetite.html
Slovenian companies  are testing the
debt appetite of investors by selling commercial paper as local
banks choke on non-performing loans and threaten to pull the
country into the euro area’s sixth bailout.  Retailer  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. ,  Petrol Group d.d. 
tapped the market in the past month, while appliance maker
 Gorenje Group d.d. ,  Slovenia ’s biggest exporter, will sell as
much as 30 million euros ($39 million) of eight-month notes
today at a price to yield 4.45 percent. That compares with a
4.625 percent yield on five-year Eurobonds sold this week by
Indesit Company SpA, an Italian home appliance producer.  Companies looking for new funding sources during a crisis
at the three largest banks, all state-owned institutions that
jointly control about 80 percent of the market. Bad loans have
risen to about a fifth of economic output, draining the trough
of money corporate Slovenia has fed from for years.  “Commercial paper is handy in times of crisis,” Simon Mastnak, the executive director of Alta Group d.d., an
investment and asset manager in Ljubljana, said by phone. “In
the past, Slovenian companies relied heavily on bank loans and
disregarded  capital markets . Since banks are in trouble, these
short-term instruments are much more attractive.”  Mercator sold 20 million euros of six-month paper March 19
at a yield of 4.87 percent. Nine days later, Petrol sold 60
million euros, the largest such issuance ever in Slovenia, of a
similar maturity note at 3.8 percent. Energy trader Gen-I sold
30 million euros of one-year commercial notes in February at 4.3
percent. Gorenje’s rate of 4.45 percent compares with an average
loan rate of 4.21 percent for February, central bank data show.  Falling Star  A former standout among post-Communist Europe nations,
Slovenia was the first of the European Union’s eastern members
to adopt the euro. With steady economic growth and low state
debt at about 54 percent of gross domestic product, it was the
antithesis of the countries it is now being lumped together with
such as Cyprus, Spain,  Portugal , Ireland and  Greece .  As the government battles to avoid an international
bailout, a lack of privatization, especially in the financial
industry, is coming back to haunt the ex-Yugoslav republic of 2
million that borders  Italy ,  Austria  and the Adriatic Sea coast.  The yield on Slovenia’s 2022 dollar-denominated bond fell
to a two-week low of 5.65 percent yesterday. The cost to insure
the Alpine country’s debt for five years using credit-default
swaps declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 301,
the lest since March 26, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 302 for debt from  Hungary  and 380 from Portugal.  State Financing  Slovenian governments over the past two decades used the
banks to finance state projects and companies, with less focus
on risk and return. As property and construction bubbles burst,
bad debt has skyrocketed amid the nation’s  second recession  in
four years.  Gorenje (GRVG) , Slovenia’s most recognizable company abroad with
its range of refrigerators, washers, dryers and ovens, hopes to
diversify financing with its debut commercial paper issue,
spokeswoman Elizabeta Bilus said.  “We are broadening the circle of our financiers and are
partially withdrawing from high exposure toward the unstable
banking sector,” she said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg
questions, noting that some banks abroad are also having
troubles.  Domestic Sale  Gorenje is selling the paper locally, with the main targets
being institutional investors such as insurers, pension funds
and others “who have regular cash inflow and look for
interesting investment opportunities,” Mastnak, whose
investment house is managing the Gorenje issue, said.  Slovenian companies sold 124.2 million euros of commercial
paper in 2012, according to the Ljubljana bourse. If Gorenje’s
sale is successful, some 140 million euros of the notes will
have been purchased so far this year.  The diversification of financing sources is positive and
breaking the circle of debt between state-owned banks and
companies is long overdue, according to Igor Masten, an
economics professor at the Economics University in Ljubljana.  “Our banks have too much of a concentrated exposure to
these companies,” Masten said by phone. “Until banks get fresh
capital, they won’t be able to service these companies.”  Bad loans at Slovenia’s three largest banks, Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d. d. and
 Abanka Vipa d.d ., are estimated to represent 30 percent of their
total loans, according to an April 9 report by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. The three lenders need
2 billion euros of fresh capital,  Fitch Ratings  said April 5.  Recapitalization Plan  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s five-week-old
administration has pledged to press ahead with a bank-
recapitalization plan valued at as much as 4 billion euros and
to step up austerity measures including tax increases.  The government also needs to support small- and medium-
sized companies in its restructuring of the economy, said Gunter Deuber, the head of central and eastern Europe research at
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna.  “The situation will definitely remain challenging,
corporate leverage is extremely high in Slovenia,” he said by
e-mail. “Balance sheet restructuring will remain a big issue in
Slovenia going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  