-- Southern Falls on Kemper Project Costs Overruns: Atlanta Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-24T15:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/southern-falls-on-kemper-project-costs-overruns-atlanta-mover.html
Southern Co. (SO) , the second-largest
U.S. power company, fell the most in five months after
escalating costs at a coal-gasification plant in  Mississippi 
caused it to reduce quarterly earnings by $333 million.  Southern, based in Atlanta,  declined  1.3 percent to $48.03
at 11:44 a.m. in  New York . Earlier it dropped 3 percent to
$47.19, the largest intraday decrease since Nov. 7.  Costs for the Kemper power plant, now under construction,
increased 19 percent to $3.42 billion from a January estimate of
$2.88 billion, the company said in a  filing  yesterday. Southern
can’t recover the difference from ratepayers under a settlement
it reached with Mississippi regulators earlier this year.  While the added cost doesn’t meaningfully affect Southern’s
earnings outlook or balance sheet, it “raises legitimate
questions around Southern management’s ability to effectively
manage the development of new generation technologies,” Neil Kalton, a senior analyst with Wells Fargo Securities, said in a
note to clients today. Kemper is one of two multibillion-dollar
power plants Southern is building, alongside the Vogtle nuclear
reactors in  Georgia .  The plant, which uses technology to gasify coal to burn the
fuel with fewer emissions, is “in the final stages of
construction” and remains on track to begin commercial service
May 2014, as planned, Southern Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Fanning said in a phone interview today. Costs
were driven higher by the need for more and better quality
piping as well as added labor to keep the project on schedule.  First-quarter net income fell to $81 million, or 9 cents a
share, from $368 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, Southern
said in a statement today. Excluding one-time items, per-share
profit was one cent less than the 50-cent average of 15
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  is the largest U.S. power company by
market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  