-- S. Korea Economy Grows at the Fastest Pace in Two Years: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-04-25T09:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/south-korean-economic-growth-quickens-to-fastest-pace-in-2-years.html
South Korea ’s economy grew the most
in two years in the first quarter as the government front-loaded
spending and exporters weathered the slide in the yen that aids
rivals in  Japan .  Gross domestic product  gained 0.9 percent from the previous
three months after a 0.3 percent increase in the fourth quarter,
the Bank of Korea said today. That exceeded the median 0.7
percent estimate of 15 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  President Park Geun Hye unveiled a $15 billion extra budget
and property stimulus package this month as  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy grapples with the yen’s decline, record
household debt and a stagnant housing market. Today’s report may
encourage Bank of  Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo to continue to
resist political pressure for an interest-rate cut after
borrowing costs were left unchanged on April 11.  “A solid GDP figure will definitely reduce any bets on a
further rate cut,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst
at Hanwha Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “Given
government stimulus and improving global economic conditions, we
may see even faster growth in the second half.”  The economy grew 1.5 percent from a year earlier as the
government gave a fiscal boost by allocating 72 percent of this
year’s budget spending to the first half.  The yen is down about 20 percent against the dollar for the
past six months, while the won depreciated by only about 2
percent. The Korean currency rose 0.3 percent to 1,114.48 per
dollar as of 10:41 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Kospi stock index rose 0.6 percent.  Company Profits  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s first-quarter operating  profit 
beat analyst estimates as the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones boosted sales of cheaper Galaxy handsets in  emerging
markets . The company’s full earnings report is tomorrow.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest carmaker, today
posted first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates on
record sales in  China . Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee said
that while the strong won and weak yen are still a concern, the
company can still achieve its annual sales target.  POSCO, Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, reported
a worse-than-estimated 29 percent decline in first quarter
profit as prices fell on waning demand from carmakers and
shipbuilders.  Today’s report showed  government spending  expanded 1.3
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
when it declined 0.6 percent. Company investment on plant and
equipment rebounded. Exports of goods and services rose 3.2
percent, while private consumption dropped 0.3 percent.  ‘Strong Start’  “It’s a surprisingly strong start for the year,” Yoon Yeo
Sam, an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul , said.
“Unlike last year when the growth momentum fizzled in the
second half, the economy will gain much more pace as long as the
U.S. and China stay on track.”  Elsewhere in Asia, the Philippines central bank will
probably keep the benchmark overnight borrowing rate unchanged
while cutting the special deposit account rate today, economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted.  Hong Kong ’s exports may
have risen in March from a year earlier, a separate Bloomberg
survey showed.  The U.K. is due to report gross domestic product data for
the first quarter.  Spain ’s  unemployment  rate probably rose in
the three months through March, according to a Bloomberg survey.
U.S. initial jobless claims probably fell to 350,000 last week
from 352,000 in the previous period.  Weakness in the yen has only just begun and will continue
for a “long time,” hitting South Korean makers of electronics,
automobile and steel, the  Bank of Korea ’s Kim said yesterday.  ‘Weak Yen’  “South Korea will seek how to counter the weak yen,
including financial support for the most vulnerable exporters,”
Kim said in a lecture in Chuncheon, northeast of Seoul. “The
weak yen will continue for a long time, so we’re cautiously and
closely looking at the change.”  In an interview in Seoul this week, a former BOK policy
maker said that the central bank should resist any further
pressure for a rate cut.  “The current level is still accommodative enough,” said
Choi Do Soung, who served as a monetary policy committee member
in 2008-2012. Lowering the benchmark could add risks in an
economy that “relies too much on debt,” he said, citing
household borrowing.  In the April 11 policy decision, the central bank expanded
a program of cheap loans for small businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  