-- Standard Life’s Sales Beat Estimates on Regulatory Changes
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-04-24T07:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/standard-life-s-sales-beat-estimates-on-regulatory-changes.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, said first-quarter sales rose 24 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, as regulatory changes helped
attract U.K. savers. The shares rose.  Long-term savings sales increased to 6.27 billion pounds
($9.6 billion) from 5.04 billion pounds a year earlier, the
Edinburgh-based firm said today in a statement. That beat the
5.36 billion-pound average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
the company.  The sales result “was better than we and the market had
expected in respect of funds under management, new business and
net flows,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst
at Shore Capital Group Ltd. with a hold rating on the stock,
wrote in a note to clients today. “The group has clearly
benefited from better marketing positioning, especially in the
U.K. and  Canada , and recent product launches.”  Standard Life is seeking U.K. pension assets as the
government forces companies to offer pension plans, aiming to
increase savings rates and reduce reliance on the state for
retirement. The company has also been making acquisitions and
investing in technology ahead of the  Retail Distribution Review ,
a ban on financial advisers taking commissions from fund
companies that came into effect this year.  “U.K. sales benefited from the implementation of auto-
enrollment for a number of existing clients, and while the
industry continues to see disruption as a result of the
introduction of RDR, we are seeing encouraging signs,” Chief
Financial Officer Jackie Hunt said on a call with reporters.  Long-term savings net flows increased 26 percent to 1.4
billion pounds, Standard Life said. The firm’s assets under
administration increased 6.9 percent to 233.1 billion pounds.
About 12.2 billion pounds of the increase came from market
movements and 2.8 billion pounds was from net inflows.  The stock rose 3.9 percent to 366.4 pence a share, the
biggest gain in the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as of 8:11 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 