-- Steel Partners CEO Sues Ex-Spear Leeds Chief Over Support
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/steel-partners-ceo-sues-ex-spear-leeds-chief-over-support.html
Andrew Cader, former head of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Spear, Leeds & Kellogg LP, was sued
by Steel Partners LLC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Warren Lichtenstein over claims he helped wrongly inflate child
support payments for the mother of Lichtenstein’s 5-year-old
daughter.  Cader, 54, part owner of the Tampa Bay Rays Major League
Baseball team, is in a relationship with the hedge fund chief’s
ex-girlfriend, British socialite Annabelle Bond, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court. Bond is
the fourth British woman to climb  Mount Everest  and daughter of
former  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman Sir  John Bond , according to
the filing.  Lichtenstein, 47, alleged Bond improperly took their
daughter to  Hong Kong , where she obtained a court judgment
directing him to pay Bond HK$321,667 ($41,428) in monthly child
support, school, tutoring, medical, travel and other expenses,
which Lichtenstein said is the largest such order ever issued by
the court.  Lichtenstein claimed that, since 2011, Cader has given Bond
$3.5 million in cash and paid $26,000 a month in rent for her
home in Hong Kong’s Strawberry Hill development. He alleged that
Bond, who isn’t named in the lawsuit, misrepresented the money
as loans rather than gifts.  It was Bond’s and Cader’s “common objective to cause the
Hong Kong court to order Mr. Lichtenstein to make payments that
are greater than they would have been,” his lawyers said in
court papers. Bond has been “spending millions of dollars of
their money to support her lavish lifestyle.”  $200,000  The suit includes claims of conspiracy to commit fraud and
a claim of aiding and abetting. Lichtenstein, who is seeking at
least $200,000 and attorney’s fees, said he and Bond ended their
relationship “amicably” in 2007.  Calls to Cader’s home in Manhattan weren’t answered.
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment. Bond didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail to her
website yesterday seeking comment on the filing.  The case is Lichtenstein v. Cader, 13-cv-02690, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  