-- Stockton, Creditors Say Debt Talks Will Be Restarted
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-25T17:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/stockton-creditors-say-debt-talks-will-be-restarted.html
Stockton,  California , the biggest
U.S. city to file for bankruptcy, intends to restart talks with
creditors while it develops a plan to adjust debt and exit court
protection by year’s end.  Lawyers for the city and creditors told a federal judge
yesterday that they want to try to negotiate an end to the
Chapter 9 case after a months-long fight over whether Stockton
should be thrown out of bankruptcy.  “We need to start talking,” Marc A. Levinson, an attorney
for the city, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher M. Klein
yesterday in  Sacramento .  Creditors including Assured Guaranty Corp. and  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN)  on April 1 lost a battle to force the city out of
bankruptcy. Klein ruled that the city was eligible to remain in
bankruptcy, where it’s protected from creditor lawsuits. Klein
found that creditors didn’t negotiate in good faith last year
when the city was seeking to avoid the Chapter 9 filing.  “We are trying to go back to negotiations to see if we can
work out a deal,” attorney Jeffrey E. Bjork, who represents
Assured, said in court.  The city’s goal is to file a plan to adjust its debt
sometime in the third quarter and, assuming Klein approves it,
exit bankruptcy by year’s end.  Calpers Request  Both lawyers were responding partly to a request by the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, to
start a formal process of exchanging documents and interviewing
witnesses. Calpers has requested the right to interview creditor
witnesses under oath as it prepares to participate in the city’s
bankruptcy.  Klein declined to immediately grant that request.  Earlier this week, the city and creditor Ambac Assurance
Corp. won court approval to settle a dispute related to
$13.3 million Stockton borrowed to fund an affordable-housing
project. Under the settlement, the city will reduce the amount
of the debt that must be paid out of its general fund, which
pays for police, fire and other basic services.  The general fund will now guarantee 80.5 percent of the
debt, down from the full amount, according to court documents.
The rest of the money must come from an increase in  tax revenue 
from the housing projects funded by the debt. So far, that tax
revenue hasn’t been enough to meet the debt payments, Levinson
said during an April 23 court hearing.  Principal Reduction  The city of 296,000, an agricultural center about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of  San Francisco , is among three
municipalities that have said they will try to force creditors,
including bondholders, to take less than the principal they are
owed. The others are San Bernardino, California, and Jefferson
County,  Alabama .  No city or county since at least the 1930s has used the
power of a  U.S. bankruptcy court  to force a reduction in its
debt principal.  Stockton rode a surge in new-home construction in the 2000s
before the housing crash set off a wave of foreclosures that
sapped tax-revenue gains. It joined cities across the country
using the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to get out from under billions of
dollars in obligations they couldn’t afford following the
longest recession since the 1930s.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-bk-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  