-- Swaps Committee Creates Standardized Interest-Rate Contract
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-04-24T03:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/swaps-committee-creates-standardized-interest-rate-contract.html
Users of over-the-counter
derivatives may now use an interest-rate swap contract with
preset terms as the industry lobby group seeks to standardize
the $379 trillion market.  The contract, which the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association  developed with the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, has pre-agreed terms including on coupons
and payment dates, according to a press release distributed
today at ISDA’s annual general meeting in  Singapore . It will
initially be available in six currencies and at nine maturity
points from one to 30 years.  For users who want standardized terms, “this gets everyone 
on the same page, all trading the same thing,” said  Stephen O’Connor , ISDA’s chairman. That’s “better for liquidity, better 
for compression.”  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers are adapting to
changes mandated by the Dodd Frank Act passed by Congress in
2010, including a requirement to process most swaps with a
clearinghouse to cut counterparty risk. There were $639 trillion
in over-the-counter derivatives  contracts  outstanding as of June
30, while the notional value of  interest-rate swaps  totaled $379
trillion, according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  In the weeks after the demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., owner of the world’s
largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, had to manage the risk
of the defunct bank’s 66,390 rate swaps in five currencies that
had tenors as long as 30 years, according to Dan Maguire, head
of U.S. operations for its SwapClear service.  The standardized terms of the new contracts allow for
thousands of trades to be collapsed down to a much smaller
number, according to Steve Kennedy, a spokesman for ISDA, which
is the main industry and lobbying group for the privately-
negotiated swaps market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  