-- U.K. Royal Mint Gold Coin Sales More Than Tripled in April
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-04-24T15:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-k-royal-mint-says-gold-coin-sales-more-than-tripled-in-april.html
Britain’s Royal Mint, established
in the 13th century, sold more than three times more gold coins
this month than a year earlier as prices declined.  Sales are more than 150 percent higher than last month,
according to Shane Bissett, director of bullion and
commemorative coin at the Royal Mint. Gold is down 11 percent
this month, heading for the biggest drop since September 2011.  “Since the dip in the price of gold we have seen increased
demand for our gold bullion coins from the major coin markets,
and this presently shows no sign of abating,” Bissett said by
e-mail in response to questions from Bloomberg. “The Royal Mint
continues to supply to its customers and is increasing
production to accommodate the higher demand.”  Gold plunged into a  bear market  on April 12 as investors
switched into stocks and the  U.S. dollar . Metal for immediate
delivery rose 0.8 percent to $1,424.59 an ounce by 4:13 p.m. in
London, down 15 percent for this year.  The  U.S. Mint  said yesterday it suspended sales of its
smallest American Eagle gold coin after demand more than doubled
from a year earlier. A surge in gold demand is  Turkey  is causing
delays in coin deliveries by the Istanbul-based mint, Chief
Executive Officer Sadettin Parmaksiz told Haberturk April 19.  Standard Chartered Plc said yesterday its gold shipments to
 India  last week exceeded the previous record by 20 percent and
were double the total of the week before.  “The concern is really how long it can last,” said  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. “A lot of people
surge in on the low prices and then they are likely to back away
a bit as prices rally and they’ve restocked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  