-- U.K. Defense Agency Sale Said to Clear Treasury
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-04-25T07:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-k-defense-procurement-agency-said-to-clear-treasury-for-sale.html
The U.K. Treasury has approved the
Ministry of Defence’s plan to explore allowing a company to
manage military-equipment procurement, said a person familiar
with the matter.  Defence Secretary Philip Hammond will today announce the
final stage of plans to turn the Defence Equipment and Support
agency into a government-owned and contractor-operated body,
known as a “go-co,” the person said on condition of anonymity.
The agency has an annual budget of 14 billion pounds ($21.4
billion) for buying and servicing military equipment.  Hammond sees private-sector management of military
equipment procurement as a way of avoiding cost overruns that
have led to the waste of billions of pounds in taxpayer funds. A
Jan. 10 report by the National Audit Office said there are
“critical shortfalls” in air transport and refueling
capabilities because of delays in delivering new aircraft, the
latest criticism of procurement-cost overruns.  After the approval, granted by Chief Secretary to the
Treasury  Danny Alexander , the Ministry of Defence will spend the
next 12 months identifying potential private-sector partners for
any such newly created entity, the person said, declining to be
named because Parliament has yet to be told.  The Cabinet Office, which oversees government bodies, the
Treasury and the ministry will also explore the degree of change
achievable if DE&S remains state-run.  Possible Bidders  Potential bidders include U.S. contractors  Jacobs
Engineering Group Inc. (JEC) , Bechtel Group Inc.,  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , CH2M
Hill Inc. and  KBR Inc. (KBR)  British company  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  may also
be among the interested parties.  The drive to part-privatize comes at a time when Hammond is
negotiating his department’s budget for 2015-16. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said equipment spending will
rise by 1 percent a year more than the inflation rate, leaving
open the possibility of further reductions to troop numbers.
Osborne announces the departmental spending plans in June.  DE&S is based in Bristol in the west of  England  and employs
16,500 people. If Hammond’s plans receive the final sign-off 12
months from now, the U.K. will be the first country to attempt
such a move. He will publish a consultation paper before
Parliament breaks for the summer vacation in July, the person
said.  In July 2012, the “go-co” option was criticized in a
report by the Royal United Services Institute research group,
which said it would be a costly mistake. The ownership model
suffers from “an inherent weakness,” said a panel of experts
convened by London-based RUSI.  “We cannot easily see how the DE&S as a go-co would even
work in practice, let alone why it would be a less expensive and
better alternative to what is in place today,” the group said.
The proposal “appears to rest on an argument that, because the
government is not very good at negotiating and managing
contracts with the private sector, it is going to negotiate an
even bigger contract with a private-sector entity to undertake
the entire task on its behalf.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  