-- U.S. Making Cybertheft Focus of Talks With China, Donilon Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-24T16:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-making-cybertheft-focus-of-talks-with-china-donilon-says.html
The U.S. has taken a hard line and
insisted cybersecurity be central to any economic dialogue with
 China , given the scale of attacks waged against U.S. companies,
White House National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said.  “The only way to deal with this was to bring it to the
center of the relationship and to present the proposition that
any economic discussion with the United States -- given the
threat to the United States, the degree of theft that is going
on -- was going to involve cyber,” Donilon said today at
 Columbia University  in New York.  Ties between the U.S. and China have been strained by a
report from a U.S. security company, Mandiant Corp., saying
China’s army may be behind cyberattacks on companies worldwide.
Chinese officials have rejected the findings.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, met this week with Fang Fenghui, chairman of the
People’s Liberation Army General Staff, who compared the effects
of an Internet attack to those of a nuclear bomb. Still, no
specifics measures on a code of conduct for cybersecurity were
discussed.  Donilon said the U.S. asked the Chinese to recognize the
scope of the problem, to begin an investigation of computer
crimes and to engage in a discussion on a set of rules.  “We are moving on all of them, they have agreed to open up
a dialogue,” he said. “This is not general cybercrime or
hacking, this is a direct theft of  United States  private and
government assets for use for advantage. That is the discussion
we are having with the Chinese.”  In a speech last month, Donilon said that the widespread
theft of intellectual property and  trade secrets  through
“cyberintrusions emanating from China at a very large scale”
has become a point of contention with the Chinese government.  Donilon has said the U.S. would do everything necessary to
shield the nation’s computer networks from attacks on vital
infrastructure, such as power grids and transportation links.  Mandiant, based in Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a February
report that the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group that
has hit at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  