-- Yum Swaps Drop as Profit Beats Estimates; JPMorgan Issues Debt
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-24T21:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-before-report-on-durable-goods.html
The cost to protect the debt of
 Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  dropped as sales at Taco Bell, home of Doritos
Locos Tacos, helped the dining-chain owner top analysts’ first-
quarter profit estimates.  Five-year credit-default swaps on debt tied to Yum, which
also operates the  Pizza Hut  and KFC brands, fell 6 basis points
to a mid-price of 69.9 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That means investors are paying the
equivalent of $69,900 annually to protect $10 million of debt
from losses for five years.  Yum posted adjusted  profit  of 70 cents a share, while
analysts estimated 60 cents, based on the average of 25
projections compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at Taco Bell’s U.S.
stores open at least 12 months rose 6 percent in the quarter,
offsetting 1 percent declines at both Pizza Hut and KFC, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said yesterday in a
statement.  Yum does not presently plan to add debt so that it can
maintain its investment-grade ratings, according to a transcript
of its earnings call. The shares jumped 7 percent to $68.65 in
 New York , their biggest increase since Oct. 10.  Durable Goods  A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk fell as durable-goods
orders fell in March by the most in seven months while shipments
rose.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 80 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years  fell 
5.7 percent last month after a revised 4.3 percent gain in
February that was smaller than previously estimated, the
Commerce Department reported today in  Washington . The median
forecast of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3
percent decline.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
a measure that’s used in calculating gross domestic product,
 climbed  0.3 percent after advancing 1.2 percent in February.
Total shipments of durable goods rose 0.4 percent in March,
building on a 0.7 percent rise the month before.  Risk Premium  “It wasn’t a very good report on the surface, but when you
look at the shipment side of it, things were actually OK,”
 Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The bigger
question following the report is how much of the headline
weakness is accounted for by international concerns as opposed
to domestic worries.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 4 basis points to 390 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, sold
$2 billion of 10-year subordinated debt. The bank issued the
3.375 percent notes due May 2023 to yield 175 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. They may
be rated A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, said a person familiar
with the offering, who asked not to be identified because the
terms weren’t set at the time.  Default Rate  The U.S. high-yield trailing 12-month default rate fell to
1.6 percent in March, down from 1.9 percent at the end of last
year, according a Fitch Ratings report. The credit grader
predicts that the rate will increase to about 2 percent in the
second quarter.  A bankruptcy by Energy Future Holdings Corp.,  Texas ’s
biggest electricity producer that has struggled amid low natural
 gas prices , would push the default rate to an estimated 3.5
percent, Fitch said in the report.  “While Energy Future’s troubles are well documented, the
rate would nonetheless hit a three-year high,” the ratings
company said in the report.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 3.1 basis points to 527.7 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  