-- U.S. Weighs Legislation to Cut Clean Energy Capital Costs
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-04-24T18:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-weighs-legislation-to-cut-clean-energy-capital-costs.html
The U.S. government may propose
legislation that would help investors lower the cost of capital
for renewable-energy projects, the acting energy secretary said.  “We’ve got to lower the cost of capital for energy
investments, particularly for those that don’t have commodity
costs,” Daniel Poneman, deputy secretary at the  Department of
Energy , said today at the Bloomberg New Energy Finance
conference in New York today. He took over as head of the
department earlier this week when Steven Chu resigned.  Global investment in renewable investment slumped 11
percent to $269 billion last year, the first decline since 2009,
according to New Energy Finance. The UN estimates that annual
investments of $700 billion to $1.8 trillion in sustainable-
energy development are needed to avert environmental
catastrophes related to  climate change .  “The innovation, the creativity in crafting financial
instruments to lower the cost of capital for renewables will be
absolutely essential,” said Poneman, the deputy U.S. energy
secretary who’s overseeing the agency until a successor is
confirmed. “Some will require legislation.”  Power plants that turn wind and sunlight into electricity
require significant upfront funding, and the technologies’ lack
of established history and other perceived risks may deter some
investors, he said. Legislation may provide incentives that make
renewables more attractive to investors.  Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the top Republican on the
energy committee, and Senator  Chris Coons , a Delaware Democrat,
were among four lawmakers who introduced legislation today that
would let renewable projects take advantage of a tax-advantaged
corporate structure known as master-limited partnerships.  Natural Gas  As renewable energy becomes more widely used, arranging
financing will get easier, Poneman said.  “As people become familiar with it, a larger pool of
capital itself will help lower the cost of capital,” Poneman
said in an interview today. And until then, booming supplies of
 natural gas  will help reduce  carbon emissions .  “For the next extended period we are going to be
benefiting from large supplies of gas that will help reduce the
cost of energy and, at least compared to other forms of fossil,
cut greenhouse-gas emissions in half.”  Gas is “a long-term bridge to an even lower carbon
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  