-- Victim Care Stressed in U.S. Sexual-Assault Exam Guidelines
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-04-24T18:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-issues-new-guidelines-on-exams-in-sexual-assault-cases.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  issued
new guidelines covering exams for sexual-assault victims, making
patient care the primary focus rather than evidence-gathering.  The protocol, an update of guidance released in 2004, is
designed to set a nationwide standard of care. The guidelines
will be voluntary for hospitals and mandatory for medical
facilities working with federal prisons and the military.  The protocol “helps ensure that victims will be cared for
with compassion and respect when they turn to hospitals for
help,” said  Bea Hanson , the acting director of the Justice
Department’s Office on Violence Against Women. “This not only
improves outcomes for victims, it strengthens criminal cases.”  The guidelines for the first time urge examiners to provide
emergency contraception to victims. Health-care providers with
moral or religious objections can instead offer the victim
information about how to receive contraceptive services.  The standards outline the ways evidence should be collected
and the type of equipment that should be used during an exam.
They’re also aimed at collecting more information from victims
such as those with limited English proficiency or with
disabilities.  The protocol describes how victims can have a forensic
medical exam without pressing a criminal complaint.  One in five women and one in 71 men have been raped in
their lifetimes and almost 1.3 million women are raped in the
U.S. every year,  according to  the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  The protocol “helps us coordinate and improve our response
when these courageous individuals do seek help from first
responders including nurses, doctors, advocates,  law
enforcement , and prosecutors,” Attorney General Eric Holder
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net 
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  