-- U.S. Moves to Boost Myanmar Trade Ties After EU Lifts Sanctions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-24T17:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-moves-to-boost-myanmar-trade-ties-after-eu-lifts-sanctions.html
The U.S. is moving to boost trade
ties with Myanmar days after the European Union lifted sanctions
as companies seek access to the former military regime
sandwiched between China and India.  Acting U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis headed
to Myanmar yesterday to begin talks on a framework agreement
covering trade and investment, he said in a telephone interview
from  Hanoi , where he met with Vietnamese government officials.
Three days ago, the EU cited Myanmar’s “remarkable process of
reform” in eliminating all punitive restrictions except for an
arms embargo.  The talks in Myanmar reflect “the great interest that
we’re hearing from stakeholders back in the  United States  about
that market,” Marantis said yesterday.  Myanmar President  Thein Sein ’s shift toward democracy since
taking power two years ago has bolstered trade ties with Western
nations, attracting companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , General
Electric Co. and Norway’s Telenor ASA. Human rights groups have
warned that lifting sanctions may lead to abuses as anti-Muslim
violence spreads in the country.  Marantis’s visit “will give a strong signal that the U.S.
is serious about lifting restrictions,” said Jean-Pierre Verbiest, former  Thailand  country manager for the  Asian
Development Bank  who works with West Indochina, which advises
businesses in Myanmar. “Japan is very much present already, the
EU is moving fast, China has been there for a long time. The
U.S. is at a competitive disadvantage.”  Myanmar Junta  President  Barack Obama  last year authorized U.S. companies
to invest in Myanmar for the first time since 1997, while
continuing to block ventures with businesses connected to
Myanmar’s former junta. Since then the U.S. has also authorized
imports of most goods from Myanmar and allowed U.S. citizens to
open accounts at four banks in the country.  The U.S. has Trade and Investment Framework Agreements with
dozens of countries to outline “principles for dialogue” on
trade and investment issues, according to the USTR  website . The
agency this month also proposed giving Myanmar and neighboring
Laos preferential access to the U.S. market under a program to
boost trade with poorer countries.  Human Rights Watch accused Myanmar’s government of ethnic
cleansing in displacing more than 125,000 Rohingya Muslims. The
New York-based group later criticized the EU’s move to lift
sanctions on Myanmar.  Gains Imperiled  “The EU’s scrapping of targeted sanctions on Burma is
premature and recklessly imperils human rights gains made so
far,” Lotte Leicht, EU director at  Human Rights Watch , said in
an April 22 statement. “EU member states are ditching measures
that have motivated the current progress and gambling on the
good will of Burma’s government and military to keep their word
to keep reforms on track.”  Violence between Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya last
year in a western border area killed about 180 people and
displaced more than 100,000. Last month, anti-Muslim violence in
central Myanmar killed more than 40 people, displaced 20,000
others and left about 1,400 buildings destroyed, including
mosques.  The U.S. engagement with Myanmar is in line with Obama’s
goal of increasing trade throughout  Asia . Before stopping in
Myanmar, Marantis visited Vietnam and Indonesia, where he
discussed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a proposed trade accord
that would include Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia,
Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the U.S.  Last week the TPP countries paved the way for Japan to join
the talks. Other countries that have expressed interest in the
agreement include Thailand and the  Philippines , Marantis said.  “There are a number of other countries that I think are
interested, but it may be more of a long-term horizon,”
Marantis said. “They may be more interested in joining once
we’ve concluded this first tranche of TPP negotiations.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  