-- U.S. Senate Confirms Burwell as White House Budget Chief
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-04-24T16:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/u-s-senate-confirms-burwell-as-white-house-budget-chief.html
The  U.S. Senate  confirmed Sylvia Mathews Burwell as director of the White House budget office,
adding a key player to this summer’s looming battle over raising
the debt limit.  The chamber easily approved her nomination today, voting
96-0 to install the one-time Clinton administration aide as just
the second woman to run the Office of Management and Budget.  It’s a job that will give her a pivotal role in
negotiations with congressional Republicans over raising the
borrowing cap as well as overseeing the government’s $3.7
trillion budget and managing the automatic spending cuts known
as sequestration.  “Our country does face serious fiscal and economic
challenges that we have got to work together to address,”
Budget Committee Chairman  Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat,
said on the Senate floor before the vote. “She’s the right
person to come into this leadership role at this important
time.”  Burwell replaces Jeffrey Zients, who has been acting
director of OMB since January 2012.  She will be returning to familiar territory, having served
as deputy OMB director near the end of the Clinton
administration -- a time, like today, when government was under
divided control and the budget was a major issue. A former
Rhodes Scholar, she also was President  Bill Clinton ’s deputy
chief of staff as well as chief of staff to his  Treasury
secretary ,  Robert Rubin .  Saying No  Burwell has worked in philanthropy since leaving
 Washington , running the global development program at the Bill
and Melinda Gates Foundation before heading up the Wal-Mart
Foundation. That experience in deciding how to dole out limited
funds to anti-malarial programs and other public health
initiatives taught her to say “no” to those long on good
intentions and short on funding, she told lawmakers -- a skill
that will be useful in budget negotiations.  “You can imagine the many great things that I see every
day that people want to fund,” Burwell told the Senate Budget
Committee at her confirmation hearing earlier this month. “Most
of my days are filled with ‘no’ --there are many more ‘nos’ than
‘yeses,’ actually, when one works in philanthropy. And so that
is an experience that I have on a daily basis.”  She will begin work at OMB just as fiscal issues are
reappearing on lawmakers’ agendas after a brief lull. Forced
furloughs of air traffic controllers causing airline delays
around the country are refocusing Congress’s attention on the
automatic budget cuts that took effect last month.  Debt Limit  In addition, the latest  debt-ceiling increase  expires May
19, and House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , says
that raising the debt limit again will have to be accompanied by
equivalent spending cuts. Lawmakers can probably stave off
having to lift the ceiling until August, when Congress is
scheduled to recess for about a month, because the Treasury
Department can use accounting maneuvers to avoid breaching the
cap.  Another round of sequestration begins in less than six
months. That will cut an additional $109 billion out of the
 federal budget , half from defense. The government’s annual
budget process, meanwhile, is off to a slow start after the
administration delayed releasing its 2014 plan for two months.  Burwell, the daughter of West Virginia optometrist, is the
first woman to head the agency since  Alice Rivlin  was Clinton’s
budget director in the mid-1990s.  She is one of several women President  Barack Obama  named to
cabinet-level positions this year after some women’s groups
criticized the administration for selecting men to lead the
State, Treasury and Defense departments. Obama has also named
 Gina McCarthy  to head the Environmental Protection Agency and
Sally Jewell to run the Interior Department; Jewell was
confirmed on April 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  