-- UBS Wealth Management Focusing on Israel Amid Gas Outlook
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-04-25T08:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/ubs-wealth-management-focusing-on-israel-amid-gas-outlook.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s Israeli wealth management
unit is betting on natural gas production and the country’s
admission into  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s  Europe  index to lure investment and
stoke asset growth.  “ Israel ’s gas findings are not yet priced in and will
bring prosperity and growth to the economy,” Kobi Feller, chief
investment officer at UBS Wealth Management Israel Ltd., said in
an April 23 interview at Bloomberg’s bureau in Tel Aviv.  The nation’s Tamar field, estimated to hold 10 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas, started production at the end of
March. Israel’s central bank boosted its forecast for 2013
economic growth to 3.8 percent in December, from an earlier
estimate of 3 percent, to take account of the gas boon. Tel
Aviv’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  has fallen 2.6 percent since output
started March 30.  UBS, which opened the Israeli wealth-management subsidiary
in February last year, sees the country as a “strategic growth
market” for the industry along with Brazil and  Russia , Feller
said. The unit’s Hebrew-speaking team has gained 10 members to
40 employees in the past year, according to Feller, while UBS
has cut 10,000 jobs from its investment banking business
worldwide. UBS is the first foreign bank licensed to manage
shekel assets as well as offshore investments, he said.  Speculation that Israeli equities will soon be included in
MSCI Inc.’s Europe index “will bring more investors and fresh
money to the local market,” Feller said.  MSCI Shift  MSCI, a New York-based provider of indexes and portfolio
analytics, upgraded Israel to developed market status from
emerging market in May 2010. The shift to the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) ,
which reduced Israel’s weighting from 2.5 percent to 0.85
percent, led to a decline in foreign-investor holdings of
Israeli stocks, the central bank said in a March 12 report.  Trading in Tel Aviv fell to a six-year low in the second
half of last year, the country’s securities regulator said April
23. Volumes may rebound should Israel be included in the MSCI
Europe as investors who follow the gauge would buy the nation’s
equities, Ester Levanon, chief executive officer of the Tel Aviv
Stock Exchange, said in May.  “Our main challenge for the coming year is to raise
awareness that we’re also managing shekel investments,” UBS
Wealth Management’s Feller said. “The home bias in Israel is
huge compared to other countries.”  Gross domestic product  in Israel expanded 3.1 percent last
year, according to the government statistician, while growth in
the 34 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
countries averaged 1.4 percent in 2012. The TA-25 gauge rallied
9.2 percent, trailing the MSCI World measure’s 13 percent jump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  