-- UN Carbon Emission Credits Drop to Record 1 Cent as EU Ban Nears
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-04-24T12:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/un-carbon-emission-credits-drop-to-record-1-cent-as-eu-ban-nears.html
Prices for United Nations carbon
offsets fell to the lowest ever as a ban on the use of some
credits approached and as factories and power stations
surrendered permits and credits to cover emissions in 2012.  Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs, for next-day
delivery fell 86 percent to 1 euro cent ($0.01) a metric ton on
 London ’s ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contracts have plunged
from  19 cents  at the start of the year amid a surplus of permits
in Europe, where the region’s recession has cut demand.  Offsets representing reductions of hydrofluorocarbon-23 and
nitrous oxide, known as grey CERs, will become ineligible for
compliance in the EU emissions trading system after April 30.
The credits, which make up 54 percent of the 1.3 billion of
offsets issued since the market started in 2005, will only be
eligible for use by developed country governments meeting
emissions targets under the  Kyoto Protocol .  “This is certainly not an apocalypse,” Daniel Rossetto,
the managing director of Climate Mundial in London, said in an
e-mail. “We are only a few days from the moment from which grey
CERs become valueless once the EU ETS ban comes into effect.”  The record low comes a week after the European Parliament
rejected a proposal to delay the supply of some carbon permits
in an effort to boost prices. The EU market may be oversupplied
by about 1.9 billion permits in the five years through 2012,
known as Phase 2, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  “CERs being sold at spot will almost certainly be
industrial gas credits ineligible for EU ETS compliance in Phase
3,” said Richard Chatterton, a London-based analyst at New
Energy Finance. “It isn’t surprising a trade has occurred at 1
cent as CER sellers holding grey credits are fast running out of
options.”  The UN today issued the final tranche of grey CERs before
the ban comes into effect. The Clean Development Mechanism
Executive Board, which regulates offset projects, delivered
640,322 CERs to a nitrous oxide project in  Brazil . A further 2.4
million grey CERs are scheduled to be issued for May 3 through
May 20, though these won’t be eligible in the EU ETS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  