-- UN Says Clean Energy Funding Too Low to Halt Climate Harm
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-24T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/un-says-clean-energy-funding-too-low-to-halt-climate-harm.html
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
said the funds flowing to renewable power and efficiency aren’t
sufficient to avert environmental calamities and that investors
must move more quickly to back new energy technologies.  “Climate change is a threat to economies large and small
and to the stability of the global financial system,” Ban said
today in a speech at a Bloomberg New Energy Finance conference
in New York. “The climate clock is ticking. The longer we delay
the greater the cost. We only have one planet Earth. We have no
plan B.”  Global investment in renewable investment fell 11 percent
to $269 billion last year, the first decline since 2009,
according to New Energy Finance. Annual investments of $700
billion to $1.8 trillion in sustainable-energy development are
needed to help thwart damages expected from climate change as
the global population climbs to 8 billion people by 2030, the UN
estimates.  The comments underscore Ban’s support for efforts to
protect the environment. The UN has led an effort to bring more
than 190 nations together to develop carbon-reduction policies,
and Ban said he received a personal commitment from U.S.
President  Barack Obama  two weeks ago to work toward a binding
climate agreement in 2015.  “He’s assured me that the U.S. will lead by example,” Ban
said.  Setting Example  In addition, people and corporations must reduce waste and
consume energy more efficiently. He told bankers and fund
managers gathered at the conference they must “lead by
example” and that he’s doing the same.  “I have been dutifully, faithfully turning off lights in
my hotel,” Ban said. “Sometimes it’s very difficult these
days, all different hotels have a very different system of
lighting. Normally I stay in a suite so there are many, many
lights.”  Daniel Poneman, the deputy U.S. energy secretary and acting
head of the department until a successor is confirmed, said that
more than half of all energy consumed in the U.S. is wasted, and
eliminating some of this would boost the economy.  “This is not just about saving the environment,” Poneman
said in a speech before Ban. “These costs go right to the
bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  