-- Kurd’s Oil Skirting Baghdad Offers Deficit Buster
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-04-24T14:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/turkey-said-to-sign-oil-deal-with-kurds-defying-baghdad.html
Turkey ’s agreement to import lower-
cost oil and gas from  Iraq ’s Kurdish region could help Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  cut the nation’s current-account
deficit by more than a third.  Erdogan and Iraqi Kurdish Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani
signed an accord last month to pipe oil and gas from the region
to Turkey, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The
deal may help lower Turkey’s borrowing costs through easing the
deficit by as much as $17 billion by 2018, according to Ozgur Altug, chief economist at BGC Partners Istanbul unit.  Turkey’s imports of oil and gas, which amounted to $60
billion in 2012, were the main cause of its $47.5 billion
current-account  deficit  last year, the world’s third-largest.
The deal would give it access to lower-cost energy in exchange
for infrastructure investment and grant Iraqi Kurds direct
access to Western energy markets. Iraq’s government hasn’t
approved the agreement and says any accord without its consent
is illegal.  “That deal is likely to trigger additional rating upgrades
and therefore cause more fund inflows to Turkey as it will
narrow bond spreads,” Altug said in e-mailed comments on April
22. Turkey’s current-account deficit will improve by more than
one percentage point as a proportion of GDP after 2015 because
of the agreement, falling below 5 percent from 2016, he said.
That compares with 6 percent last year.  Ratings Outlook  Turkey’s two-year note yields have fallen 400 basis points
over the past year, the most among 19 major emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg. The  yield  was 5.45 percent today, the
lowest since at least 2005. That’s still the fourth-highest
among that group of countries.  Fitch Ratings  raised Turkey to investment grade in
November, the country’s first such ranking in 18 years. The
deficit is Turkey’s “key weakness” and a balance of payments
crisis could trigger ratings action against it, Fitch senior
director  Paul Rawkins  said at a conference in London on March 7.  Iraq’s Kurdish region plans to sell oil and gas directly
through an extension to an existing pipeline, which carries oil
from fields in Kirkuk to the Turkish Mediterranean port of
Ceyhan. That arrangement also bypassed the Iraqi authorities,
who have warned the Kurds not to sign separate energy accords.
Turkey may also take over the Kurdish government’s stake in
concessions operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  on the enclave’s
border with the rest of Iraq, according to one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the plans are private.  Gas Exploration  A potential gas deal with Iraqi Kurds may be more
significant than any oil agreement as Iraqi gas is estimated to
be about 40 percent less expensive than gas from Turkey’s main
supplier  Russia , according to Turker Hamzaoglu, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.  “The most exciting part of this partnership concerns the
concessions for oil and gas exploration for Turks, but there are
no details on that yet,” Hamzaoglu said in an e-mailed report
dated yesterday. The infrastructure for the oil and gas
transportation to Turkey could be built by 2015-2016 “provided
politics do not get in the way,” he said.  The Kurdistan Regional Government in northern Iraq signed
its own production agreements with companies including  Genel
Enerji AS (GENL) , an Ankara-based company started by former  BP Plc (BP/) 
Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , and  DNO International ASA (DNO) 
of  Norway . Genel has been sending oil to Turkey on trucks,
Hayward said Jan. 18.  Oil Imports  Turkey imported 3.8 million metric tons of crude oil from
central Iraq in 2012, up from 3.1 million tons the previous
year, according to  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , the
country’s sole refiner, which is owned by  Koc Holding AS. (KCHOL)  Altug
predicts oil imports from Iraq will reach 11.8 million tons in
2018 as Tupras  forecasts  Turkey’s demand for petroleum products
will climb to 35.7 million tons in 2020 from 32 million last
year.  Last week Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci cut the
country’s three main interest rates by 50 basis points each,
reducing the one-week repo rate to 5 percent, the first
reduction since December. The bank’s monetary tightening last
year, meant to tame a widening current-account deficit,
depressed domestic demand and reduced the nation’s growth rate
to 2.2 percent, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009.  Five-year credit-default swaps to protect against a Turkish
debt default fell one basis point to 122 today. That compares
with 139 basis points for Russia and 167 for  South Africa , both
of which have higher credit ratings than Turkey, and was down
seven basis points from 127 on Turkish swaps at the end of last
year.  Maliki Government  Turkey’s effort to find cheaper oil is complicated by
tensions with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s government,
which denied landing permission to Turkish Energy Minister Taner Yildiz plane in northern Iraq on Dec. 4. Ties with Maliki were
strained after Turkey backed his opponent, the Al-Iraqiya bloc
led by former Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi , in 2010 elections.  Turkey has also sheltered Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi,
convicted by Iraq of operating death squads. Erdogan defended
Hashimi last September, rejecting calls that he be extradited
and saying Turkey would host him “as long as he wants to
stay.”  “Northern Iraq has become, economically, a natural
extension of Turkey,” Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in
a speech in Washington, according to an April 21 report by the
state-run Anatolia news agency. “But while Arbil is coming
closer to Ankara, we should make sure that it’s not getting away
from  Baghdad  and we should be careful about that sensitive
balance.”  Iraqi Sovereignty  Iraq’s deputy prime minister, Hussain al-Shahristani, said
April 16 that his government has told Turkey that it doesn’t
allow oil agreements without central government approval, and
that Turkey must respect Iraqi sovereignty.  The agreement is “illegal and is a violation of the wealth
of the Iraqi people,” Furat al-Sharaa, a member of the Iraqi
parliament’s oil and gas committee and a lawmaker in Maliki’s
coalition, said by phone from Baghdad April 18. Turkey is
“taking advantage of the unstable political situation in Iraq
to broker agreements with the Kurdistan Regional Government and
this is discourteous.”  Yildiz, contacted through his press office, declined to
comment on the deal, as did an Iraqi Kurdish official. The Oil
Ministry in Baghdad didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  PKK Talks  Turkey has had a current-account surplus when excluding
its energy imports, Babacan said in Ankara April 12. The
government is predicting a $60.7 billion current-account gap
this year and energy imports of $59.6 billion, according to its
medium-term economic  program .  Turkey’s deal with Iraqi Kurds comes as the government in
Ankara is trying to reach a peace deal with the outlawed
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, which started an armed
struggle for a separate land in southeastern Turkey in 1984 that
has left more than 40,000 people dead.  The  peace process  is a “visible and credit-positive
step,” Moody’s analyst  Sarah Carlson  said in a report April 11.
“The prospect of peace promises to boost investor confidence
and improve southeastern Turkey’s attractiveness as a
destination for foreign direct investment.”  The lira fell less than 0.1 percent to 1.8051 per dollar at
5:05 p.m. in Istanbul today, extending declines this year to 1.2
percent. The lira was the worst-performing major currency in
2011, when the deficit was the second largest in the world,
behind the U.S.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point to 199,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index showed.
That compared with an average of 283 basis points for  emerging
markets .  Turkey’s total savings may start at $1 billion this year
“and will go up to $17 billion in 2018 as the energy deals come
on stream,” Altug said. “Savings could rise beyond that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 