-- Valeo Sales Edge Higher as China Demand Offsets Europe Weakness
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-24T16:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/valeo-sales-edge-higher-as-china-demand-offsets-europe-weakness.html
Valeo SA (FR) , France’s second-biggest
maker of car parts, said first-quarter sales edged higher as
growth in  China  and North America offset a downturn in Europe.  Sales rose to 3.04 billion euros ($3.95 billion) from 3.03
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. This beat the 3 billion-euro average
of four analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The French manufacturer stuck to its full-year forecast for
a 4 percent decline in automotive production in Europe, 1
percent growth in global auto output and steady raw material
prices. The company also reaffirmed its 2013 targets to grow
sales faster than production in its main markets and for an
operating margin to be “in line” with last year’s level.  Valeo, whose products span windshield wipers, headlights
and ignition systems, is tightening its focus on safety, comfort
and environmental technologies to increase margins. Chief
Executive Officer Jacques Aschenbroich pledged last year to
double revenue from fuel-saving parts to 1 billion euros by
2013. Valeo set a target in March 2011 of increasing annual
revenue to 14 billion euros by 2015.  “Valeo’s performance in the first quarter once again
proved the strength of our strategy, which is based on
innovations and the expansion of our business in Asia and
emerging countries,” Aschenbroich said in the statement. Growth
in China and  North America  offset “particularly strong economic
headwinds in Europe,” where production declined 9 percent in
the first three months of 2013.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault
SA (RNO)  all reported lower first-quarter revenue today, burdened by
the slumping European car market, which is in the midst of a
six-year decline.  European car registrations fell 10 percent in March, the
18th consecutive monthly decline, as German sales plunged 17
percent, the Brussels-based  European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association , or ACEA, said on April 17. First-quarter deliveries
in the region dropped 9.7 percent to a record-low 3.1 million
cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  