-- Vale Gains as Cuts End Two Years of Profit Disappointment
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-04-25T20:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/vale-quarterly-profit-falls-18-on-lower-iron-ore-prices.html
Vale SA (VALE)  rose the most among major
iron-ore producers after profit beat analysts’ estimates for the
first time in two years on cost reductions and higher copper
sales that offset lower prices for the steel ingredient.  Shares in the world’s third-largest mining company  rose  for
a fifth straight day, gaining 1.8 percent to 32.69 reais at 4:37
p.m. in Sao Paulo, heading towards its highest close since April
12. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the largest miners,
both rose 1.7 percent and 1.4 respectively in  London .  First-quarter net income of $3.11 billion, or 60 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $2.7 billion, or 52 cents, in the
previous three-month period, according to a statement after the
close of trading yesterday.  Vale  was expected to post per-share
profit excluding items of 55.8 cents, the average of 13
analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. Vale, the  worst-
performing  major mining stock this year, is seeking to bolster
investor confidence by putting lower-return projects on hold,
selling assets and cutting costs.  “Vale reported a much stronger-than-expected 1Q13, driven
by lower costs and expenses and a stronger performance from the
base metals business,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
Marcelo Aguiar and Diogo Miura wrote in a note to clients today.
“These drivers should provide a strong catalyst to consensus
earnings upgrades and reduce the bearish sentiment towards
Vale.”  Iron Prices  The company’s profit, boosted by the partial booking of a
gold deal with  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW)  in February, is the first
quarter-on-quarter increase since the first three months of
2011. Net income fell from $3.79 billion, or 74 cents, in the
year-ago period.  Net sales  fell  5.3 percent to $10.9 billion in the period
after Vale sold its iron ore at an average $111.69 per metric
ton, 5.4 percent less than a year earlier. That was below the
$121 per ton average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Vale shipped 65.1 million metric tons of iron ore and pellets, a
processed form of the mineral, during the quarter, little
changed from the previous year.  Costs and expenses shrank by $900 million in the quarter
compared to a year ago and by $2.5 billion versus the fourth
quarter of 2012, Chief Financial Officer Luciano Siani said in a
video posted on the company’s  website  yesterday.  Costs, Expenses  “For the first time in more than 40 quarters, costs and
expenses was the main driver of improvement,” Chief Executive
Officer Murilo Ferreira told analysts today during a conference
call to discuss the results. “This is not a one-off event.”  Vale lost 23 percent in the 12 months through yesterday,
compared with an 11 percent decrease in  Brazil ’s benchmark
Ibovespa Index. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto lost 9.6 percent and
12 percent, respectively, during the same period.  Net income surpassed analysts’ expectations by 20 percent,
the first positive surprise in eight quarters, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company booked $244 million in pretax
profits following a $1.9 billion gold deal with Silver Wheaton
in February, it said.  The first-quarter result “creates a potentially positive
momentum on earnings estimates,” Bank of America Corp. analysts
led by Felipe Hirai said in a note to clients. “Even without
higher iron ore prices, Vale’s earnings might be revised
upwards, while its competitors’ could be declining.”  Better Prices  Iron-ore  prices  have recovered 56 percent from a three-year
low in September on accelerating demand from China, the biggest
metals consumer. While prices may weaken in the second half of
this year, iron ore traded at an average of $148.1 a ton in the
first quarter, 4.4 percent more than last year, according to
data from the Steel  Index (IBOV)  Ltd.  Producers is  Australia , the largest iron-ore exporter, are
likely to boost supply by as much as 40 million metric tons
during the second half of the year, putting some downward
pressure on prices, Vale’s head of ferrous and strategy Jose Carlos Martins said today.  “We don’t believe that the price of iron ore can suffer
too much,” he said during the same analysts call. “I don’t
believe that the price can go below $110 per ton on a
sustainable basis.”  Nickel Partnership  Vale sold 34 percent of its iron ore in the first quarter
at spot prices on delivery at the port, compared to 2 percent
last year, the company said in a  presentation  today. Clients in
 China  are increasingly buying at future prices to avoid the
steelmaking ingredient’s fluctuations, Martins said.  Vale, the world’s biggest nickel producer after Moscow-
based OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, shipped 63,000 metric tons of the
metal in the quarter at an average selling price 13 percent
lower than in 2012. While copper shipments rose 24 percent to
72,000 metric tons, average realized prices also decreased 13
percent, the company said.  Vale also said in yesterday’s statement that it’s
considering a “strategic partnership” at its Thompson nickel
operation in  Canada  to finance the expansion of existing mines.
The company’s VNC nickel project in New Caledonia continues to
accelerate production and is expected to reach 45,000 metric
tons of output next year, it said.  Vale, which expects to pay at least $4 billion in dividends
this year, is not considering boosting its 2013 shareholders’
compensation at this point, CEO Ferreira said today. Renato Gomes, the head of investors relations at shareholder Bradespar
SA, said April 19 that there was a “reasonable possibility”
that Vale would be able to pay more than the $4 billion after
enjoying better-than-expected iron-ore prices. Bradespar holds a
5.9 stake percent in Vale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  