-- Venezuela Cuts Capriles Speech As He Says Vote Was Stolen
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-04-25T19:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/venezuela-threatens-opposition-s-capriles-with-prision.html
Venezuela  cut off the transmission
of a speech by opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski
yesterday using a system of national broadcasts known as
“cadena” after he said the government “stole” this month’s
election.  Capriles said he would give the national electoral council
until today to announce news of an expanded vote audit before
his speech, broadcast on the Globovision television network, was
interrupted to play a recorded government message.  “The cadena shows the fear they have about Venezuelans
defending their rights,” Capriles said. “If they are so sure,
let them audit the vote.”  Venezuela’s National Assembly yesterday set up a commission
to determine whether Capriles is responsible for violence that
erupted after the opposition contested the April 14 election.
Prisons Minister Iris Varela said on April 23 that she has a
cell prepared for the 40-year-old governor of Miranda state.  “I have a clear conscience, and all of their threats show
weakness,” Capriles said. “They stole the election, and that’s
the reality.”  Capriles said he would announce “legal and international
actions” today if the national electoral council does not start
the vote audit.  Vote Audit  Capriles said that the opposition would not accept a
“badly” done audit and that he wanted access to voter
registration books. The national electoral council said on April
20 that an expanded vote audit would not change “irreversible”
election results.  Violence erupted in the country last week after President
Nicolas Maduro, who was sworn in April 19 following the
electoral council’s decision to declare him the winner with 50.8
percent of the vote, refused Capriles’s request for a full
ballot recount and accused him of inciting a coup. The electoral
council agreed to extend an audit of the 15 million votes cast
in the wake of street protests that left nine dead and 78
injured, according to the state prosecutor.  “The deaths ordered by the fascist murderer Capriles
cannot go unpunished,” National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said yesterday in a message on his  Twitter account .
“The investigations are going forward.”  National Assembly  The National Assembly commission will determine whether
Capriles, who received 49 percent of the vote, is responsible
for the violence after he called on his supporters to “unleash
your anger” about the electoral results. Capriles said his call
was for people to vent their anger through peaceful
demonstration involving synchronized banging of pots and pans at
home, a traditional form of protest in Latin America known as a
“cacerolazo.”  “If they want to bring me to trial, what’s their reason?”
Capriles said yesterday. “For asking that the vote boxes be
opened? For asking people to bang pots and pans? If that’s the
cost, then do it fast. Don’t keep threatening.”  The government has an arrest order out on Capriles,
opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez said April 17 on his Twitter
account without saying where he obtained the information.  State Prosecutor Luisa Ortega Diaz said yesterday that the
government is investigating attacks on more than a dozen health
centers across the country.  ‘Fascist Thinking’  “Why did they go to specific places around the country?”
Ortega said in comments broadcast on state television. “There
had to be an instruction, a direction, a direct or subliminal
message.”  The Venezuelan Program of Education-Action in Human Rights,
or Provea, a Caracas-based non-governmental organization,  said
April 18  that its investigations found no evidence that health
centers had been attacked.  “Capriles is the intellectual author of these crimes and
will not go unpunished,” Varela said on state television. “The
only good news for you is that the prison waiting for you,
Capriles Radonski, is not like the ones we inherited from the
previous governments. We’ll see if we can get that fascist
thinking out of you there.”  The government is unlikely to follow through with its
threats to imprison Capriles since it would convert its opponent
into a martyr whom the election showed has the support of half
the country, said James Lockhart, head of Latin America at risk
consultancy Maplecroft.  Bonds Fall  “These threats are designed to bolster support from their
domestic supporters and push Capriles into backing down,”
Lockhart said yesterday in a phone interview from  London . “The
government will be treading very carefully because given the
controversy of the electoral results and the continuing
opposition of the U.S., throwing Capriles in jail would provoke
a much wider range of international criticism.”  Venezuela’s benchmark dollar bond due in 2027 fell 1.08
cents to 96.39 cents on the dollar at 2:30 p.m. in Caracas. The
yield rose 14 basis points to 9.72 percent. Venezuelan bonds
fell the most in 15 years on April 16 after post-election
violence and a Maduro comment that he was willing to
“radicalize the revolution.”  The increasingly aggressive stance by the government
against the opposition and protracted decision-making over the
audit has escalated tensions in Venezuela once again, Eurasia
Group analysts Risa Grais-Targow and  Daniel Kerner  said in a
note to clients today.  While the audit is unlikely to remove Maduro from power, it
has created difficult conditions for him as he faces economic
challenges including accelerating inflation, slowing growth and
shortages of products on supermarket shelves, they said.  “Maduro will emerge from this crisis weakened and with
dubious legitimacy,” Grais-Targow and Kerner said in the
report. “As demonstrated by his aggression towards the
opposition, Maduro will likely be forced to radicalize in order
to show strength and rally his own base of support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  