-- Vestas Debuts Turbines for Wind Farms With Moderate Breezes
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-04-24T09:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/vestas-debuts-turbines-for-wind-farms-with-moderate-breezes.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the
turbine maker with the most installed machines, plans to sell
two new devices to tap medium and low winds.  The V100 and V110 2-megawatt turbines will allow customers
to exploit a wider range of sites, Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas
said today in an e-mailed statement. They’re designed to replace
the V90 and V100 1.8-megawatt units, Chief Technology Officer
Anders Vedel said today in a telephone interview.  “This step upwards gives a significant increase in
electricity production, and doesn’t require much additional
training for technicians,” Vedel said. “We can give a stronger
business case for any particular wind farm.”  Vestas is 16 months into a two-year turnaround program to
reduce fixed costs by 400 million euros ($520 million) and cut
the workforce by 30 percent to return to profitability. Its
shares have outperformed most peers this year, gaining 47
percent compared with the 23 percent increase in the 10-member
BI Global Wind Energy  index  in the period.  The new V110 turbine will be made with a “structural
shell” blade rather than one with a central spar. A blade whose
shell bears the load is easier to manufacture, and can be
outsourced when required, to cut down shipping costs and open up
new markets, Vedel said.  “The longer the blade, the greater the challenge to
produce it with a spar,” Vedel said. “The number of tools that
goes into the process for a structural shell is reduced
considerably.”  Serial production of the two turbines will begin in the
second quarter of next year, Vestas said. A prototype of the
V110 is due to be installed in  Denmark  in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  