-- Virgin Media Profit Gains on High-Speed Internet Subscribers
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-24T07:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/virgin-media-first-quarter-profit-gains-on-new-internet-users.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K. pay-TV
provider being bought by  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , said
first-quarter operating profit rose 7.9 percent as it added more
high-speed Internet customers.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization and other one-time charges was 406 million pounds
($619 million) while revenue gained 3.6 percent to 1.04 billion
pounds, the Hook, England-based company said in a statement. The
takeover by  Liberty Global  is expected to be final in the second
quarter and today’s earnings will probably be the last at  Virgin
Media . The European Union approved the deal last week and it’s
now being weighed by U.S. regulators.  Liberty Global, controlled by billionaire Malone, is paying
$16 billion for Virgin Media to expand in  Europe ’s biggest
cable-TV market. The company competes against  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the U.K.’s biggest pay-television
company, as well as streaming services such as Netflix Inc.  “We have had a good start to the year with accelerated
revenue growth, improved churn and strong free cash flow
growth,” Chief Executive Officer Neil Berkett said in the
statement. “This positive momentum in the business positions us
well for our planned merger with Liberty Global.”  The shares rose as much as 1.6 percent to 3,246 pence.
Virgin Media was up 0.4 percent at 8:46 a.m. in London trading.  Bundled Packages  Virgin Media’s “superfast broadband” service customers
rose by 337,900 to 2.5 million homes, representing 58 percent of
its customers.  Operating profit at Virgin Media was lifted by a 5.2
percent increase in average revenue per user during the first
quarter, which now stands at 49.38 pounds. Virgin Media added
35,100 new mobile phone contracts during the period, bringing
that client base to 1.7 million. Customer turnover fell to 1.1
percent in the period.  Sixty-five percent of Virgin Media customers are considered
so-called triple-play users, which means they subscribe to cable
TV, Internet and fixed-line telephony. “Quad play,” which adds
mobile-phone service, accounts for 16 percent of its clients.  The company isn’t planning to create original content like
TV peers BSkyB or ITV Plc, and is in discussions to add
streaming services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to its TV offering,
Berkett said in a phone interview today.  Berkett, who has served as Virgin Media’s chief since 2008,
will step down once Liberty Global takes over at the end of the
second quarter, he said. He referred questions on his successor
to Liberty Global, which is searching for someone to lead Virgin
Media.  Berkett stands to receive $19.6 million from cash and stock
in severance pay, according to a Liberty Global filing in March.
Other options and rewards from Berkett’s long-term incentive
plan amount to $67.2 million.  Under Berkett, Virgin Media’s share price has tripled. He
took the company to its first annual profit in 2011 by
concentrating on fast Web and basic TV customers while
stabilizing debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  