-- Vodafone Shifts Resources to High-Growth Markets in Africa
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-04-24T09:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/vodafone-shifts-resources-to-high-growth-markets-in-africa.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the second-
largest mobile service provider, is boosting investments in its
African businesses as higher growth rates promise relief from
stagnant earnings in Europe.  Vodafone’s biggest African partner and South  Africa ’s
largest wireless carrier,  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , today said full-
year earnings per share rose at least 25 percent as the company
expands into new countries on the continent.  Vodafone is relying increasingly on Africa as profit from
its 65 percent stake in Vodacom surpassed that from the Newbury,
U.K.-based company’s British unit in 2010 and outpaced the
Spanish division the following year.  “Without a doubt we have put more money into the southern
African markets where we have been seeing revenue growth rates
of around 20 percent per annum,” Vodafone Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford said in an interview from his London office
yesterday. “In those areas where there is an opportunity to
take market share and to really substantially grow the business,
we will absolutely shift resources to those markets.”  Africa will be the mobile-phone industry’s fastest-growing
region by subscribers over the next five years as companies
build advanced networks and customers switch to broadband,
according to consultant AT Kearney Inc.  While  Europe  has more mobile-phone accounts than people,
there’s ample room for handset ownership in Africa to grow from
what was about 73 percent of the population last year to 85
percent in 2015, reaching 900 million users, Kearney predicts.  Vodacom Expansion  Vodacom is accelerating spending in sub-Saharan African
countries such as  Mozambique ,  Tanzania  and Lesotho, Romeo Kumalo, chief operation officer for its international business,
said in an interview on April 18 at the company’s headquarters
in Johannesburg.  “Vodafone has been clear with us that where there’s an
opportunity, they’ll give us the capital expenditure,” Kumalo
said. For example, demand from mining companies in northern
Mozambique and a lack of capacity in Tanzania has spurred
Vodacom to build up local networks and invest in fiber, he said.  Capital spending  in Africa and the Middle East increased to
723 million pounds in the fiscal year ended March 2012, up from
572 million pounds the previous year. Meanwhile Europe,
Vodafone’s biggest market, saw capital expenditure shrink to 3.6
billion pounds from 3.7 billion pounds. The company will report
results for the fiscal year ended March 2013 next month.  Low Bills  Vodacom also represented the second-largest pool of
subscribers for Vodafone at the end of last fiscal year with
57.3 million customers. India leads with 150.5 million users.
Vodafone Germany had 36.5 million while Vodafone’s home country
trails with 19.2 million.  Still, emerging countries with the biggest growth rates,
subscriber numbers and voice minutes are also often some of the
poorest and average customer bills are lower than those in
Europe. Clients in the Netherlands, U.K. and Spain pay the most
per month, averaging between 25.89 pounds and 19.07 pounds,
according to data for fiscal 2012.  Vodacom users average 47 million minutes of talk time per
year and pay 7.77 pounds a month. Indian subscribers talk the
most at 530.7 million minutes -- making up more than half of
Vodafone’s total voice usage -- and pay the least at 2.26
pounds.  In addition to Vodacom’s customers in  South Africa , the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, Mozambique, Tanzania and Lesotho,
Vodafone serves users in Ghana, Kenya and Egypt. It has a 70
percent stake in Vodafone Ghana, a 40 percent holding in
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM)  in Kenya, and co-owns an Egyptian operator with
fixed-line monopoly  Telecom Egypt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  