-- Vornado Said to Sell Stake in Boston Site to Millennium
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/vornado-said-to-sell-stake-in-boston-site-to-millennium.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  sold its stake
in a site in  Boston ’s Downtown Crossing district, ending an
investment that had been plagued by years of stalled
development.  The buyer was  Millennium Partners , two people with
knowledge of the deal said. The New York-based developer now
owns 100 percent of the property, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the agreement was private.  Millennium is planning to redevelop the former Filene’s
department store in Downtown Crossing into offices and retail
and build a new, mixed-use tower with about 500 residential
units next to it. The company took over the project from Vornado
in 2012 after it had stalled for four years, and intends to
start construction this year.  Vornado said it received net proceeds of about $45 million
from the sale of its 50 percent stake. The deal resulted in a
net loss of $2 million, which was recorded as an impairment in
the first quarter, according to a statement yesterday from the
New York-based real estate investment trust.  The company will probably sell more real estate than it
buys following a surge in values, Chairman  Steven Roth  wrote in
his annual letter to investors, filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission on April 12. Vornado, owner of more than
100 million square feet (9.3 million square meters) of U.S.
properties, has sold $2.75 billion of assets since April 2012’s
chairman’s letter, Michael Fascitelli, then chief executive
officer, said on Feb. 27.  Wendi Kopsick, a Vornado spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the deal. A call to Richard Baumert, a partner at Millennium,
wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  