-- Party-Bus Company in NYC, Washington Shut on Safety Flaws
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-04-24T15:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/washington-party-buses-shut-down-as-u-s-steps-up-sweep.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
shut down a Washington-based bus company specializing in tours
and parties, intensifying federal investigations of safety
breaches by bus companies.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration said in a
statement today that  Washington DC Party Shuttle , which also
operated in  New York City , hired a driver who tested positive
for drugs or alcohol. The company’s buses were found to have
numerous mechanical violations.  “We are making good on our pledge to get unsafe bus
companies off the road,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
said in a statement. “We are committed to protecting the
traveling public.”  The bus regulator has closed eight companies since a
Mexico-based operator, Scapadas Magicas LLC, crashed a bus in
California Feb. 3, killing eight people. Today’s action was the
first shutdown since a team of 54 investigators targeting high-
risk carriers began work this month, the agency said.  The company shuttered today does business as Onboard DC
Tours and operated primarily as a tour-bus service in the
Washington metro area. It used two buses to run a similar
business in  New York  City from the location of an out-of-service
company, the agency said.  Specialty Tours  The  Onboard DC Tours website  indicates it specialized in
tours of landmarks such as the U.S. Capitol, the White House,
and memorials on the National Mall. It also offered outings to
 Mount Vernon  and Alexandria in  Virginia . After beginning in New
York, the company has been operating in Washington and  Las
Vegas , according to the website.  The FMCSA is using new authority from a transportation law
Congress approved last year, according to agency spokesman Duane DeBruyne. It has twice suspended or revoked operating authority
for companies that obstruct safety investigations.  The agency’s bus investigators on April 1 started fanning
out in teams of two, paired with a federal or state vehicle
inspector, to look at companies and equipment, according to a
summary released by the  American Bus Association  April 8.
They’re targeting 250 companies with poor safety records,
especially those with driving violations, as well as companies
with no known place of business or maintenance facilities, the
Washington-based trade group said.  ’Egregious Violations’  The agency’s investigation “revealed egregious violations
demonstrating  Washington  DC Party Shuttle’s blatant disregard
for motor-coach passenger safety,” according to the U.S.
shutdown order.  The company “repeatedly used a driver known to have tested
positive for controlled substances” to carry passengers, and it
lied to investigators about whether it had stopped using the
driver, the order said.  Investigators found the company sent an bus taken out of
service back on the road before repairs were made, the order
said. After inspections, FMCSA investigators ordered three-
fourths of the company’s buses off the road, it said.  “Every passenger stepping onto a commercial bus or van is
entitled to a safe driver and safe vehicle,” Anne Ferro, head
of the FMCSA, said in the statement. “Our safety regulations do
not discern among passenger carriers’ business models -- our
sole focus is on safety.”  Washington DC Party Shuttle Chief Executive Officer  Thomas
Schmidt  didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and an e-mail
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  