-- WellPoint’s Swedish Wins Praise in Public Debut as CEO
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-04-24T20:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/wellpoint-beats-earnings-estimates-on-low-medical-costs.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  Chief Executive
Officer Joseph R. Swedish won high marks from investors and
analysts in his first public appearance since taking over for
the ousted Angela Braly.  Swedish, 61, speaking today during the Indianapolis-based
health insurer’s first-quarter earnings call, announced profits
that beat analysts’ estimates and proclaimed himself
“optimistic” about the company’s future. The market responded
by pushing shares up the most since the day after Braly left
last August amid investor complaints.  “The old management team liked to overpromise and under-
deliver, and that’s a disaster for the stock market,” said Mark Giambrone, a portfolio manager at WellPoint’s biggest
shareholder, Dallas-based Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss.
“It’s clear to me that his focus is different.”  WellPoint, the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, reported
first-quarter earnings of $2.94 a share, 56 cents higher than
the average of 19 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company also raised its forecast for full-year profit by 20
cents, to at least $7.80 a share, citing medical costs that grew
more slowly than WellPoint anticipated.  Swedish, a former hospital executive, took over March 25
and can’t claim much credit for the quarterly earnings report,
said Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. analyst in New
York. Still, on the call, he displayed “a thoughtful process to
address the company’s performance issues,” Wright said in a
phone interview. “The business seems to be back on solid
footing.”  Earlier Criticisms  Braly resigned Aug. 28 as investors and analysts criticized
missed profit estimates, enrollment declines and disappointing
stock performance relative to peers. The company traded today at
an 18 percent  discount  to an S&P 500 index of the top six health
insurers, compared with a 25 percent discount on April 5.  WellPoint closed up 5.8 percent to $73.33 in New York, the
largest gain for the company’s shares since the day after
Braly’s resignation.  Swedish told analysts on the  call  that he was reviewing
WellPoint’s assets and strategies. So far, “the overarching
strategic framework seems reasonable,” he said.  The company faces major changes next year under President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, which will open new online
insurance markets for small businesses and people who buy their
own insurance. WellPoint is the biggest U.S. carrier in both
markets. It’s still digesting last year’s $4.9 billion
acquisition of Amerigroup Corp.  Swedish said he recognizes WellPoint investors want more
consistent performance.  “I’m going to drive WellPoint forward with an emphasis on
performance, transparency and accountability,” he said. “We
need to be nimble and proactive.”  Conservative Approach  Giambrone, the portfolio manager, said Swedish impressed
him by lifting the full-year  forecast  by only 20 cents, taking a
“conservative” approach even after the first-quarter numbers.  “What I like about him is his consistent message about
execution, operating efficiency and expense control,” Giambrone
said. “Those are the things WellPoint had been missing,
frankly. I think the assets are there. Really, the question is
about execution.”  Barrow Hanley  owned  18.1 million WellPoint shares as of
Dec. 31, 6 percent of the total outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  