-- What Tax-Exempt Hospitals Owe Their Communities
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-24T22:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/what-tax-exempt-hospitals-owe-their-communities.html
Consider the tax-exempt hospital.  Traditionally, these hospitals have offered free or
subsidized medical treatment for poor patients. Over the past
half-century, however, as the federal government has taken to
paying for health care -- via Medicare, Medicaid and, now, the
Affordable Care Act -- policy makers have tried to steer the
nation’s 2,900 tax-exempt hospitals away from charity medical
treatment for individuals and toward the kinds of preventive
public-health services that are believed to lower health-care
costs generally: community blood-pressure and mammography
screening, clinics for  weight loss  and smoking cessation, and so
on.  To push this shift, the  Internal Revenue Service  has
required tax-exempt hospitals to report annually on the
community benefits they provide. Now, under the Affordable Care
Act, they also have to  formally assess , every three years, the
health needs of their communities and adopt strategies to meet
those needs. The idea is to hold the hospitals accountable for
the estimated  $13 billion  in federal, state and local tax breaks
they receive.  It’s too soon to tell whether the latest reporting
requirement will accomplish the shift policy makers are looking
for. What is known is that hospitals have a long way to go to
live up to their mandate.  According to  a study  published last week in the New England
Journal of Medicine, only 5 percent of the money that tax-exempt
hospitals spent on behalf of their communities in fiscal year
2009 went to public-health programs. The lion’s share went to
free and subsidized patient care.  For the new self-assessments to move hospitals toward a
greater commitment to public health, community groups, news
reporters and local policy makers must be able to access them
easily. The New England Journal study found that hospitals in
states with strong requirements for community-benefit reporting
spent significantly more than those in states without such
rules. To this end, hospitals should be required to file their
community-needs assessments, as well as their spending reports
to the IRS, electronically, so they can be instantly available
to all online.  Hanging over the heads of hospitals administrators is the
threat that authorities might one day take away their tax-exempt
status. Policy makers at all levels have been alarmed to see
seven-figure salaries for executives at nonprofit hospitals.
Last month, the city of Pittsburgh  filed suit  to strip the
renowned University of Pittsburgh Medical Center of its
exemption from city payroll taxes, worth $16 million a year.
Pittsburgh charges that the hospital has spent too much on
 executive compensation  (Jeffrey Romoff, the president and chief
executive officer, earned  almost $6 million  in 2010) and too
little on activities for the community.  If hospitals are to continue to be excused from paying
taxes, they should serve their communities in return -- in ways
that provide maximum benefit to those communities.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 