-- Won Halts Two-Day Slide Before South Korean GDP Data; Bonds Fall
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-24T07:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/won-halts-two-day-slide-before-south-korean-gdp-data-bonds-fall.html
The won gained, snapping a two-day
decline, before data forecast to show  South Korea ’s economy
expanded at the fastest pace in a year.  Government bonds  fell.  Gross domestic product increased 0.7 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, according to the median
forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg before a report due
tomorrow. Asian shares rose the most in almost two weeks amid
growth in U.S. home sales, better-than-forecast earnings and
speculation the  European Central Bank  will cut interest rates.  The won climbed 0.3 percent at 1,117.70 per dollar in Seoul,
after falling 0.4 percent in the past two days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped 28 basis points to 7.93 percent. The yen
dropped for a second day to 99.54 against the greenback.  “Rallies in the stock markets together with speculation
the ECB may cut  interest rates  are boosting hopes for more
liquidity available to  emerging markets ,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Investors
will still eye the yen, as there are concerns authorities may
take steps if the yen breaches 100 per dollar.”  Export Competitiveness  South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.9 percent and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index of equities gained 1.4 percent. A drop in the
yen increases the chance that South Korea will seek a weaker
currency to help exporters such as Samsung Electronics Co. and
Hyundai Motor Co. to compete with Japanese rivals overseas. The
won has declined 4.8 percent versus the dollar in 2013 and
strengthened 10 percent against the yen.  South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said  Japan  needs
to carefully manage economic policies when he met the delegation
of the Japan-Korea Economic Association yesterday, according to
a ministry statement. The weak yen has only started to affect
the South Korean economy, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
said today, adding that policy makers are closely looking at the
Japanese currency’s movement.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March
2018 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.68
percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  