-- WTI Crude Climbs to One-Week High After U.S. Supply Drop
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-04-24T12:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/wti-crude-climbs-to-one-week-high-after-u-s-supply-drop.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
advanced to the highest in more than a week amid speculation
that the  European Central Bank  will cut its key  interest rate  to
a record low next week.  Futures increased as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  to the
highest intraday price since April 15. Banks including UBS AG
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  expect a rate reduction for
May. U.S. crude stockpiles fell 845,000 barrels last week, the
 American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday. Analysts in a
Bloomberg survey before the API report had forecast government
data today to show supplies climbed 2 million barrels to the
most in 22 years, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Markets seem to think an ECB rate cut will solve Europe’s
problems,”  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets Plc in
 London , said by e-mail. “Expectations of lower inventories
could also be underpinning prices.”  WTI for June delivery rose as much as 78 cents to $89.96 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $89.53 at 1:05 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 22 percent below the 100-day average. The
contract slid 1 cent to $89.18 yesterday. Prices are down 2.5
percent this year.  Brent for June settlement gained as much as 91 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $101.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $11.32 to WTI compared with $11.13 yesterday.  Cushing Inventories  U.S. gasoline stockpiles decreased 2.7 million barrels last
week to 219.9 million, the lowest level this year, the report
from the industry-funded API showed. Distillate inventories,
including heating oil and diesel, gained by 666,000 barrels.
Crude supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
Nymex futures, increased by 38,000 barrels to 51.1 million, the
highest level since Feb. 1.  “ Oil prices  are rising because everything is up,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by
phone today. “External factors will rule the day until the U.S.
inventory report, which could cause some volatility.”  The Energy Information Administration report today may show
gasoline stockpiles declined  600,000 barrels  while distillates
rose by 500,000 barrels last week, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the EIA, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  UBS now sees the ECB cutting its key rate to 0.5 percent
from 0.75 percent next month. Rabobank International and ABN
Amro Bank NV also see a reduction in May, as does RBS.  OPEC Exit  Iraq may exit the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries if the group won’t let the nation’s output rise, State
Minister Ali al-Dabbagh said in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday.  OPEC must make room for 5 million barrels a day of Iraqi
oil exports in the future, al-Dabbagh said at the Middle East
Petroleum and Gas Conference, without giving a time frame. The
country is the second-biggest producer in the group, pumping 3.2
million barrels a day in March, according to a Bloomberg survey
of producers and analysts. OPEC is scheduled to meet May 31 in
Vienna to discuss its collective output ceiling of 30 million
barrels a day.  “We want to stay in OPEC, but if OPEC is not helping us
then we are looking at our interests,” al-Dabbagh said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its three-month outlook for
Brent to $100 a barrel from $110 and lowered its 2013 forecast
to $105 from $110. Oil demand in  China , the world’s second-
largest crude consumer, “slowed down significantly” from
January to March, the bank said in a report yesterday.  China’s apparent oil consumption, or the amount of crude
processed plus net imports of refined products, dropped to 9.77
million barrels a day last month, the slowest rate since
October, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  