-- Yankees Defeat Rays 4-3; Rockies Lose to Braves in Coldest Game
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-24T05:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/yankees-defeat-rays-4-3-rockies-lose-to-braves-in-coldest-game.html
Ichiro Suzuki  hit a two-run single
in the ninth inning as the New York Yankees beat the host Tampa
Bay Rays 4-3, while the New York Mets fell 7-2 at home to the
Los Angeles Dodgers.  In other Major League Baseball games last night, the Red
Sox’s 13-0 loss against the Oakland Athletics was called after
the seventh inning because of rain and blustery winds, and the
Colorado Rockies lost the first game of a doubleheader against
the Atlanta Braves in the coldest temperature recorded at a game
since MLB began tracking it in 1991.  The temperature at the start of the game in Denver’s Coors
Field was 23 degrees (minus-5 Celsius). Atlanta won both games
of the doubleheader, with brothers B.J. and Justin Upton hitting
back-to-back home runs in the nightcap for the Braves.       In
St. Petersburg, Florida, Desmond Jennings scored for the Rays on
 Ben Zobrist ’s sacrifice fly in the first inning and  Vernon Wells 
hit a run-scoring single in the fourth to tie it for the
Yankees.  Jose Molina restored Tampa Bay’s lead with a run-scoring
single in the seventh and Suzuki scored on  Brett Gardner ’s
groundout in the eighth. Suzuki then drove home  Robinson Cano 
and Travis Hafner in the ninth to give the Yankees (11-8) a 4-2
lead before Evan Longoria completed the scoring with a home run
for the Rays (9-11).  “I haven’t been able to do much, but hopefully things like
this will help me get past it,” said Suzuki, who is hitting
.220 this season.  David Robertson  (1-0) struck out two in the eighth for the
win and  Mariano Rivera  got his sixth save despite allowing
Longoria’s home run.  Price Loss  David Price  (0-2) surrendered three runs on eight hits and
struck out five in eight innings.  “We’re still 0-5 when I pitch, I don’t feel good,” Price
told reporters. “I want to be in that game. It’s like it’s my
game to lose.”  At Citi Field in New York, Mark Ellis hit two home runs and
a grounder that sent Mets starting pitcher Jonathon Niese
limping into the clubhouse.  Ellis, who hit his 100th career home run in the fifth
inning, hit Niese in the lower right leg in the third inning.
The Mets (9-9) said he was day-to-day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  