-- Yen Weakens Versus Peers on Foreign-Investment Bets; Kiwi Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-24T21:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/yen-dollar-weaken-against-higher-yielding-peers-kiwi-advances.html
The yen dropped against the
majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts on bets the Japanese
currency will weaken further amid signs the nation’s investors
are seeking foreign assets.  Japan ’s currency erased losses against the dollar after
U.S. durable-goods orders fell more than forecast. Meiji Yasuda
Life Insurance Co. joined Nippon Life Insurance Co. in saying it
may boost overseas investment as it seeks higher returns. The
yen has lost 6.5 percent since April 3, the day before the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  announced new stimulus. New Zealand’s currency
strengthened against all of its 16 most-traded peers.  “The historic policy easing we’ve seen from the Bank of
Japan triggered an expected flight out of the yen and into
higher-yielding assets,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The next shoe to
drop will be if real-money accounts start searching for higher
yields and join the flight out of the yen.”  The yen declined 0.2 percent to 129.50 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York  after gaining 0.5 percent during the previous two
days. The Japanese currency traded little changed at 99.51 per
dollar after weakening 0.3 percent earlier to 99.76 and gaining
as much as 0.3 percent. It touched a four-year low of 99.95 on
April 11.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3015 after dropping 0.3
percent earlier to $1.2955, the lowest level since April 5.  Kiwi Gains  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed as the
nation’s central bank said it’s concerned about rising home
prices after keeping borrowing costs unchanged today. The kiwi
appreciated 0.9 percent to 84.76 U.S. cents and strengthened 1
percent to 84.34 yen.  “Growth in the New Zealand economy has picked up,”
Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said in a statement in
Wellington after leaving the official cash rate at a record-low
2.5 percent. “The bank does not want to see financial or price
stability compromised by housing demand getting too far ahead of
supply.”  The Swedish krona gained versus most major peers as
Riksbank First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick said the
central bank is watching the currency and predicts its recent
gains are coming to an end. The krona climbed as much as 0.7
percent, the most since April 2, to 8.5775 per euro, before
trading at 8.6145, up 0.3 percent. The krona has soared 27
percent against the shared currency since the end of 2008. It
appreciated 0.5 percent today against the dollar to 6.6188.  Rand Advances  South Africa ’s rand strengthened 0.8 percent to 9.1341 per
dollar and added 0.6 percent to 11.8887 per euro as metal prices
gained on speculation central banks will take more steps to spur
economic growth. Spot gold rose 1.3 percent to $1,432 an ounce.  The Swiss franc slid for a seventh day versus  Europe ’s
shared currency after Italy’s president selected a new prime
minister, boosting optimism the nation’s political deadlock will
be resolved. The franc fell 0.3 percent to 1.2326 per euro and
touched 1.2342, the weakest level since March 14. It declined
0.2 percent to 94.70 centimes per dollar.  The euro fell against higher-yielding peers after UBS AG,
Rabobank International and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said
they’re forecasting the  European Central Bank  will cut its key
rate by a quarter-percentage point next month.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said policy makers, who
meet on May 2, are ready to provide more stimulus if data keep
suggesting the euro-area economy is struggling to emerge from
recession. He spoke to lawmakers in Brussels at a hearing.  ‘Weaker Euro’  “If the ECB and officials continue to talk about measures
that can be taken to offer additional support, that could result
in a weaker euro,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency strategist
at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Expectations for a rate cut from the ECB are
building.”  The yen reversed losses earlier against the dollar after
Commerce Department data showed bookings for U.S. goods meant to
last at least three years  slid  5.7 percent in March, the most in
seven months. Orders excluding transportation equipment, which
are volatile, unexpectedly fell for a second month.  “We got this dismal durable-goods number, which is putting
a little bit of pressure on risk,”  Fabian Eliasson , vice
president of corporate foreign-exchange sales at  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The yen weakened against the dollar after Meiji Yasuda Life
said in an outline of its investment plan for fiscal 2013 that
it will increase foreign-debt investments. Nippon Life and
Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. have also said they may buy more
foreign debt if yields in Japan stay low.  Yen Forecasts  The Japanese currency may slide to 110 per dollar in the
next six months after it breaches the 100 level for the first
time in four years, Macquarie Bank Ltd.’s David Forrester said.
Forrester, senior vice-president for Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Macquarie in  Singapore , spoke in an
interview on Bloomberg TV’s “First Up” with  John Dawson .  The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
said the yen will trade at 100 by year-end, with a high estimate
of 115. There’s a 23 percent probability the currency will
weaken to 110 per dollar by late October, according to options
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen has been the biggest loser this year against nine
developed-nation peers monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, tumbling 11 percent. The dollar has risen 3.5
percent, and the euro has gained 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  