-- ZTE Signs Smartphone Patent-Licensing Deal With Microsoft
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-24T02:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-24/zte-signs-smartphone-patent-licensing-deal-with-microsoft.html
ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest
maker of mobile-phone equipment, signed a patent-licensing
agreement with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for technology used in
smartphones and tablet computers.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed, Microsoft said in a  blog
posting  announcing the deal. The agreement gives Shenzhen,
China-based ZTE access to Microsoft technology for use in its
phones, tablets, computers and other devices that run on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android and Chrome OS operating systems.  With ZTE and other licensees, Microsoft gets royalties from
80 percent of the Android smartphones sold in the U.S. and more
than half of those sold worldwide,  Horacio Gutierrez , deputy
general counsel at Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, said in
the blog posting. Google’s Motorola Mobility and ZTE’s crosstown
competitor Huawei Technologies Inc. are the two largest
holdouts.  “There’s no one that can build a great product these days
without using the ideas of other companies,” David Kaefer,
general manager of Microsoft’s intellectual property licensing,
said in an interview. “ZTE and Huawei look at each other as
competitors. Having ZTE licensed only convinces others there is
good value there.”  Microsoft has been embroiled in  patent litigation  with
Motorola Mobility for more than two years. It won a ruling that
limited U.S. imports of Motorola Mobility phones that have a
feature for syncing schedules between phones and personal
computers, and is awaiting a final decision in a case that
targets the Xbox video-gaming system.  Smartphone Market  ZTE and Huawei have their own fight going on, with patent-
infringement suits against each other in Europe.  ZTE had 4.4 percent of the global smartphone market in the
fourth quarter of 2012, making it the fourth-biggest
manufacturer of smartphones, just behind Huawei. The field is
dominated by Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , based in Suwon, South Korea, which together
made half the smartphones sold in the world during the last
three months of the year, according to Bloomberg Industries data
from researcher IDC.  Last week, Microsoft announced it had reached a similar
licensing agreement with  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, and its
Foxconn unit. Microsoft also has  agreements  with LG Electronics
Inc. and Samsung.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  