-- 
CFTC's Chilton Says Global Swaps Markets Face Risk of `Race to the Bottom'

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-03-28T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/-race-to-the-bottom-at-risk-in-global-swaps-rules-u-s-commissioner-says.html
U.S. and European financial
regulators would risk a “race to the bottom” if they proposed
different rules governing the $583 trillion global swaps market,
said  Bart Chilton , commissioner at the U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission .  “We shouldn’t open the door for regulatory arbitrage or
trading migration to the least or most poorly regulated trading
environments,” Chilton said in a speech prepared for delivery
today in  London  at a Goldman Sachs Global Commodity Conference.  Regulators are drafting rules for the  derivatives market 
after largely unregulated transactions helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission 
are leading U.S. efforts required under the Dodd Frank Act,
signed into law by President  Barack Obama  last July. The law
seeks to reduce risk and boost transparency by having most swaps
guaranteed by clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other
platforms.  The EU’s focus only on derivatives traded away from
exchanges may lead to gaps in regulation in the region compared
with the U.S.,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the CFTC, said in
Brussels on March 22. U.S. lawmakers have tasked regulators with
determining whether other nations should be recognized as having
rules that are “comprehensive and comparable” with those in
the U.S., Gensler said.  Differences in trading regulations may lead banks and other
market participants to shift where they conduct business,
according to a Feb. 18 report from a technical committee of the
 International Organization of Securities Commissions .  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to a stock, bond, currency or event, such as a company default.
The global swaps market was $583 trillion as of last June,
according to the Basel-based  Bank for International Settlements .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  