-- 
Abhisit Pledges to Help Families Cope With Food Costs Before Election Test

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-03-28T08:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/abhisit-says-inflation-to-be-top-priority-as-thailand-s-elections-approach.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  promised policies to help families cope with rising
fuel and food costs that threaten to undermine his party’s gains
ahead of this year’s national elections.  Abhisit’s Democrat party leads in every region of the
country except for the northeast, he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Bangkok today, without citing a specific
poll. Abhisit has said he’ll dissolve Parliament in early May to
trigger an election about six months before his term ends.  The Democrat party aims “to help put money in people’s
pockets so that they can cope with rising prices,” Abhisit
said. “Families are struggling despite the economic recovery to
keep up with prices, and it’s better to have a government with a
fresh mandate to really tackle them.”  Abhisit, 46, took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after
a court disbanded the ruling party linked to fugitive ex-Premier
 Thaksin Shinawatra , triggering protests from his supporters that
have claimed about 100 lives. The Democrats have narrowed the
gap on their main rivals in by-elections since the 2007
nationwide vote while overseeing  Thailand ’s fastest economic
growth in 15 years.  The prime minister is “dreaming” if he thinks the
Democrats will win the most seats, said Pichai Naripthaphan, a
former deputy finance minister and a member of the pro-Thaksin
Puea Thai party. Internal polls show his party winning as many
as 300 of 500 parliamentary seats up for grabs, Pichai said.  ‘People’s Will’  “Things are going in our favor,” he said by phone.
“Nobody can go against the people’s will.”  The Puea Thai party has not yet declared a candidate for
prime minister and so far there are few polls on the election.
Abhisit’s performance rating dropped in February, according to a
 survey  by Suan Dusit Rajabhat University in Bangkok, which asks
respondents to rate subjects on a scale of between one and 10.  Abhisit fell to 5.07 from 5.83 the previous month and his
government dropped to 4.87 from 5.53, according to the
nationwide poll of 5,584 people taken Feb. 22-26 that did not
provide a margin of error.  Government Popularity  Consumer confidence  fell for the first time in three months
in February after oil and food prices surged. Thailand’s central
bank raised its benchmark interest rate on March 9 for the
second time in three months and signaled further increases,
joining Asian central banks battling to counter the highest oil
costs since 2008.  “I don’t think you can take anything for granted with
elections in Thailand,” said Supavud Saicheua, managing
director of Phatra Securities Pcl, Thailand’s second-biggest
brokerage by market value. “Higher  oil prices  and higher
product prices, rising interest rates and several accusations of
corruption have affected the popularity of this government.”  The government has sought to cushion the impact with
subsidies for fuel and electricity and price controls on
consumer products including cooking oil, detergent and
fertilizer. Abhisit pledged in February to raise the minimum
wage by 25 percent over two years and boost civil service pay if
elected, adding to increases set to take effect this year.  ‘Tax Reduction’  “In packaging the rise in minimum wage with increasing
skills of our workers and also reducing business costs through
other policies such as tax reduction, Thailand will remain very
competitive,” Abhisit said.  Since Abhisit took power in December 2008 amidst the global
financial crisis, Thailand’s SET index has gained 137 percent,
the third best performer in  Asia  after  Sri Lanka  and  Indonesia .
Thailand’s economy, the second biggest in  Southeast Asia ,
contracted 2.3 percent in 2009 before rebounding to grow 7.8
percent last year, the fastest pace since 1995.  Thailand, a manufacturing base for automakers including
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Toyota Motor Corp., saw foreign direct
investment in 2010 fall 29 percent to $3.5 billion. Indonesia
saw a 28 percent increase to $6.2 billion and Malaysia inflows
more than doubled to $3.3 billion, according to  statistics  from
the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Rural Voters  Abhisit has offered cash to the elderly, crop price
guarantees and help in dealing with loan sharks to win over
rural voters and lead his party to win the most seats in an
election since 1992. Low cost health care and loans started by
Thaksin won him support in poorer northern areas that helped his
allies win the past four nationwide votes.  In 2007, Abhisit’s party won 6 of 176 seats in the north
and northeast, home to about 40 percent of the country’s 67
million people. Per capita income in those areas is about a
third of that in Bangkok, where he won 75 percent of seats.  Abhisit has called on the military, which ousted Thaksin in
a 2006 coup, to disperse his supporters who have cordoned off
city blocks in Bangkok over the last two years. Protests in the
capital’s business district last year led to violence that
killed 95 people.  Since the 2007 election, the Democrat party has increased
its lawmakers in Parliament to 172 from 165 through by-
elections, while pro-Thaksin Puea Thai has seen its tally fall
to 187 from 233 because of defections and disqualifications.
Thaksin has lived abroad since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse
of power in 2008.  “If you look at the recent polls, we are actually ahead in
the north,” Abhisit said. “The only region where we are behind
is the northeast, where obviously it will take a bit of time
before we can really make progress and gains in the area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Bangkok at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  