-- 
Abu Dhabi Shares Fall Most in a Week on Concern Gains Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-28T14:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/abu-dhabi-shares-fall-most-in-a-week-on-concern-gains-overdone.html
Persian Gulf shares declined,
sending  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark index down the most in more than a
week, on speculation recent gains are overdone and as oil
tumbled for a third day.  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, the United Arab Emirates’ third-
biggest lender by assets, fell for the first time in almost a
week.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  slumped 4.5 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  dropped 0.5 percent, the most since March 17, to
2,633.57 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The gauge gained
2.9 percent in the past three weeks, trimming the loss for the
quarter to 3.2 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which has
soared 10 percent this month, rose less than 0.1 percent.  “This is a long due correction and it’s time to book
profits,” said Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al
Fajer Securities. “The correction cycle could persist for the
next few days.”  The 64 companies listed on Abu Dhabi’s benchmark index are
trading at about 18 times reported earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with about 14 times for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Stocks in the Gulf rallied this
month as concern eased that regional unrest would spread to
 Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s largest economy. The kingdom’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  has surged 9.5 percent and the  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  gained 5.6 percent.  Protests across the Middle East and North Africa that
ousted leaders in  Egypt  and Tunisia have spread to  Syria  and
sparked a war in  Libya . Libyan rebel forces advanced westward
with support from NATO air strikes targeting Sirte, the hometown
of Muammar Qaddafi.  Oil Declines  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh said he would offer
no more concessions to opponents and the nation faced growing
chaos, as a senior military official and former ally of the
embattled president called for him to step down.  Oil for May delivery fell as much as 1.7 percent to $103.6
a barrel. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Abu Dhabi Commercial decreased 2.1 percent, the most since
March 23, to 2.39 dirhams. Aldar, Abu Dhabi’s biggest developer,
slumped the most since March 2 to 1.49 dirhams. The stock had
surged 9.6 percent over the past two weeks.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index
slipped 0.2 percent. Oman’s benchmark stock index declined 0.3
percent, while Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.3 percent. Bahrain’s BB All
Share Index added 0.1 percent.  In North Africa, Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  increased 0.8 percent
on its fourth day of trading after an almost two-month
suspension. The gauge rallied 5.3 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  