-- 
Abu Dhabi Plans to Pursue Nuclear Power, Undeterred by Japan

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-28T12:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/abu-dhabi-plans-to-pursue-nuclear-power-undeterred-by-japan-1-.html
Abu Dhabi  will build a nuclear
power plant even after an earthquake and tsunami in  Japan 
damaged generators there and released radioactive material, the
head of the Persian Gulf emirate’s utility said today.  “It’s a technology we should bring to the region,”
Abdullah Saif al-Nuaimi, director general of Abu Dhabi Water and
Electricity Authority said at MEED’s Arabian Power and Water
conference today. Newer technology than that used in Japan’s
damaged plants would make Abu Dhabi’s reactors safer, he said.  A civilian nuclear power plant in Abu Dhabi would be the
first in an Arab Gulf state. The capital of the  United Arab
Emirates  plans to have a reactor operating in 2017, al-Nuaimi
said. Power demand in Abu Dhabi is rising about 10 percent a
year, and nuclear energy is needed to help the emirate make up
for a lack of natural gas to burn in new generators, he said.  “With a shortage of gas here, we need to find other ways
to produce power,” al-Nuaimi said. Expanding renewable energy
sources won’t be able to keep pace with the increase in demand,
meaning technologies like nuclear power are needed, he said.  Abu Dhabi government-owned Emirates Nuclear Energy Corp. is
running the sheikhdom’s reactor program. Adwea, as the authority
is known, generates and distributes power.  The sheikhdom aims to generate about 7 percent of its power
from renewable energy by 2020. That would require 1,500
megawatts from projects such as wind and solar plants, Bruce
Smith, a business adviser with Adwea, said yesterday.  Abu Dhabi plans to build another conventional power plant
before the construction of the nuclear generators is completed,
al-Nuaimi said. Adwea is still deciding on the size and location
of the plant, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  