-- 
Acer Falls in Taipei After Saying First-Quarter PC Sales to Miss Forecast

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-03-28T02:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/acer-falls-in-taipei-after-saying-first-quarter-pc-sales-to-miss-forecast.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s second-
largest maker of personal computers, fell the most in two weeks
in Taipei trading after the company lowered its forecast for
first-quarter sales.  Acer slumped 6.9 percent to NT$67.8 as of 9:45 a.m. local
time, the biggest intraday decline since March 15. The benchmark
Taiex Index dropped 0.5 percent.  First-quarter revenue from personal computers may fall
about 10 percent from the previous three months because of
“relatively weaker” demand in Western Europe and the U.S.,
Acer said on March 25. The company said second-quarter sales are
expected to be little changed from the current quarter, an
outlook that Daiwa Capital Markets analyst Calvin Huang
attributed to possible supply disruptions caused by the
earthquake in  Japan .  “We believe the disruption to supplies is the major reason
behind its conservative view” for the second quarter, Huang
wrote in a March 25 report. The Hong Kong-based analyst cut his
recommendation for Acer to “sell” from “hold.”  Henry Wang, a spokesman at Taipei-based Acer, didn’t
immediately return three calls to his office and mobile
telephones, and an e-mail, seeking comment. In February, Wang
said first-quarter shipments and sales would rise 3 percent from
the previous three months.  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  fell 5.7 percent, and  Compal
Electronics Inc. (2324)  dropped 5.2 percent, as Huang said they are
among electronic companies that may cut their forecasts because
of possible component shortages.  “Acer could be just the first shock in the Taiwan notebook
sector,” said Huang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  