-- 
African Development Bank Says it Will Provide $1.2 Billion to Tunisia

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-03-28T15:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/african-development-bank-says-it-will-provide-1-2-billion-to-tunisia.html
The African Development Bank will
provide more than $1 billion to  Tunisia  this year to help the
country recover from political unrest in January that led to the
resignation of former President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  The funds will be used to provide budget support and
finance programs that benefit people “disenfranchised or not
connected to the economic growth and relative prosperity the
country has enjoyed over the past decade,” Jacob Kolster, the
bank’s director for Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt , said in a phone
interview today from Tunis, the capital.  Donald Kaberuka, the president of the AfDB, said earlier
AfDB funding for Tunisia would amount to $1.2 billion.  “We are willing to support Tunisia through this process of
transition through an engagement that could total $1 billion
this year,” Kolster said. “We’re working at full-steam on a
budget-support operation that could be submitted to our board
for consideration by the end of June.”  Ben Ali stepped down as leader of the North African country
on Jan. 14 after weeks of protests over unemployment, high food
prices and political repression. His downfall, along with former
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation a month later,
were caused by “excessive dependence on hydrocarbons,” uneven
economic growth that left many graduates unemployed and
“dynastic” governments, Kaberuka said.  Inclusive Growth  “It’s quite important that ministers put at the center of
their agenda the issue of inclusive growth,” Kaberuka said at
the opening session of a United Nations Economic Commission for
Africa-organized meeting of African finance ministers in  Addis
Ababa , the Ethiopian capital.  The AfDB is also “in discussions” about advances to Egypt
and other North African countries, Kaberuka said, without
providing further details.  In Tunisia, the bank wants to send a “signal that we are
supporting Tunisia with the hope and expectation that the
current trajectory will continue,” Kolster said. “Economic and
social governance is a domain that is very important to the new
Tunisia and to the  African Development Bank  and it’s something
we are working on with the interim government to improve on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 