-- 
Thailand May Raise Interest Rates to Combat Inflation, Central Banker Says

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-03-29T09:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/thailand-will-adjust-rates-to-contain-inflation-prasarn-says.html
Thailand ’s central bank may raise
interest rates further as oil above $100 a barrel and surging
food prices add to inflation pressures stoked by the fastest
economic growth in 15 years.  “The risk on growth is probably less of a concern, so the
risk balance is tilted toward inflation,” Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in
Bangkok yesterday. “You can expect further adjustments” in
interest rates, he said.  Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said yesterday an oil
fund used to cap diesel prices may run out of cash around July,
underscoring the urgency for alternative policy measures to tame
inflation. The central bank raised rates five times from July to
March as accelerating inflation forced nations including India,
 South Korea  and the  Philippines  to tighten monetary policy.  “The government has made an effort in the last six months
to contain price pressures with fuel subsidies and price
controls, but they can’t do it forever,” said  Usara Wilaipich ,
a Bangkok-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “The
inflation problem is always on the horizon. That’s why they
raised interest rates and expect to continue the rate
normalization process.”  Thai Swaps Gain  Thailand’s one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed
cost needed to receive a floating payment, added 0.06 percentage
point to 2.765 percent as of 3:33 p.m. in Bangkok, the highest
level since Feb. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The baht traded at 30.33 per dollar from 30.31 yesterday.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who said yesterday his
policy priority is to help people cope with rising living costs,
has added price controls in recent months and pledged higher
wages to cushion the impact of inflation as he prepares to
dissolve parliament in May and hold a general election. Korn
said the government doesn’t intend to let the oil fund go into
debt and hopes to phase in any increases in diesel prices as it
curbs state subsidies.  Prasarn said the removal of state subsidies may add 1
percentage point to inflation and 0.5 percentage point to  core
inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel.  While the boost to inflation would be “containable” and
price gains aren’t “alarming,” Thailand needs to address the
inflation risk, he said in the interview. The low interest rates
in place in the past two years to help the country overcome the
global financial crisis are no longer necessary, Prasarn said.  ‘Fluid’ Capital Flows  The  Thai baht  has climbed about 7 percent against the
dollar over the past year, rising along with most Asian
currencies as investors poured money into a region that’s
leading the global rebound from the 2009 recession.  There may be more exchange-rate volatility amid “fluid”
capital flows, Prasarn told investors in Bangkok yesterday.
“Capital control measures are options in our toolkit but they
have to be appropriately designed,” he said.  The Bank of Thailand increased the one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.50 percent, this
month.  India ,  Vietnam , South Korea, and the Philippines also
lifted borrowing costs, while  China  and  Malaysia  ordered lenders
to set aside more cash as reserves.  “Moving forward to a neutral interest rate will allow us
to preempt the risk” of inflation, Prasarn said. A neutral rate
would be “in or close to positive territory,” while Thailand’s
current real interest rate remains negative, he said.  Borrowing Costs to Rise  Thailand’s benchmark interest rate may increase by 75 basis
points to 3.25 percent by the end of the year, Naris Chaiyasoot,
head of the finance ministry’s Fiscal Policy Office, said today.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Thailand’s export growth quickened to the fastest pace in
eight months in February, while inflation slowed to 2.87 percent.
Industrial production fell 3.43 percent last month, a report
showed yesterday. The economy is expected to grow as much as 4.5
percent this year, according to the state planning agency.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  will have
“limited impact” on the Thai economy as Japan accounts for
only 10 percent of the Southeast Asian nation’s total exports,
Prasarn said. Still, there is “a risk of a protracted nuclear
crisis” that may hurt global economic growth, he said.  While food exporters including  Thai Union Frozen Products
Pcl (TUF)  and Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl have said they may get more
orders as Japan boosts purchases of chicken and shrimp to
increase inventories, Thai Airways International Pcl, the
nation’s largest carrier, said yesterday it has seen total daily
revenue fall 5 percent in the past two weeks because of a
decline in demand from Japan.  Thailand’s government also subsidizes electricity costs and
controls prices for some consumer products. The prime minister
is seeking to lead his Democrat party to its first election win
since 1992 and counter criticism that he lacks a popular mandate.
Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after a court
disbanded the ruling party linked to former Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra  for election fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at   hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tyson at   ptyson3@bloomberg.net  