-- 
Thailand May Increase the Price of Diesel as Oil Fund Shrinks, Korn Says

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-03-28T07:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/thailand-may-raise-diesel-prices-korn-says-as-abhisit-targets-inflation.html
Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said the nation may need to curb diesel subsidies
as funding runs out, a challenge to the government’s efforts to
quell inflation and build support ahead of elections this year.  “We can continue as long as there is money in the oil fund,
and that would last in cash terms until around July,” Korn said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Bangkok today.
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today his policy priority
is to help people cope with rising prices.  Abhisit has added price controls and pledged higher wages
to cushion the impact of inflation as he prepares to dissolve
parliament in May and hold a general election. While costlier
diesel may push up the cost of living, Korn said the government
doesn’t intend to let the oil fund go into debt and hopes to
phase in any increases in diesel prices.  “Given surging  oil prices , the subsidies can’t last for
long,” said Pornthep Jubandhu, a senior economist at Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl in Bangkok. “But the government can’t allow
producers to raise prices suddenly to cope with actual costs as
it will spark a public outcry, and that’s not good ahead of
elections.”  The government says it’s spent 13.7 billion baht ($453
million) on diesel subsidies since December last year to cap
prices at 30 baht per liter. The oil fund has 35 billion baht,
Korn said March 22.  “In the past the oil fund has been in debt by as much as
90 billion baht to help subsidize diesel,” the finance minister
said today. “We don’t think that’s necessarily a good idea for
the economy as a whole, and we’re not looking to do that.”  Top Priority  Abhisit said his top priority if he returns to power after
elections later this year will be to help people cope with
rising oil and food costs.  “I believe we have the plans to address their problems,
and the number one complaint now clearly is that they want their
incomes to keep up with prices,” Abhisit said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Bangkok today.  Thailand ’s currency has risen more than 7 percent against
the dollar over the past year and Korn said the chances are the
baht “will still continue to do well.” It was little changed
at 30.28 per dollar at 2:29 p.m. in Bangkok.  Thailand’s budget deficit is expected to fall to 3 percent
of gross domestic product next fiscal year, from 5 percent this
year, Korn told investors in Bangkok today.  ‘Gradual’ Tightening  The central bank on March 9 boosted the one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.5
percent and lifted its inflation forecast for 2011 to a range of
3 percent to 5 percent. Abhisit’s goal of increasing the  minimum
wage  by 25 percent over two years and boosting civil service pay
next month may add to price pressures.  Any tightening of monetary policy should be “gradual,”
the prime minister said.  The increase in the price of crude oil is already a
“drag” on the economy, while the earthquake in Japan may have
a “negative impact on our GDP by around 0.1-0.2 percent short
term,” Korn said in the interview.  Officials in Southeast Asia are evaluating the consequences
for trade and investment of Japan’s worst earthquake on record.
Thailand’s overseas shipments may be hit in the short term by
the March 11 temblor, which also poses a risk to foreign direct
investment because  Japan  is the largest investor in the
Southeast Asian nation, the Bank of Thailand said March 14.  Inflationary Pressure  The government also subsidizes electricity costs and
controls prices for some consumer products. Diesel subsidies
must stop “sooner or later,” which “will add to inflationary
pressure and that will be a problem,” Korn said last week.  The prime minister is seeking to lead his Democrat party to
its first election win since 1992 and counter criticism that he
lacks a popular mandate. Abhisit took power in a 2008
parliamentary vote after a court disbanded the ruling party
linked to former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  for election
fraud.  A tussle for power in the country of 67 million people
since the last election has claimed more than 100 lives,
threatening investments.  Still, “you have to take a long term view” on the
political situation, said Peter Fleet, president of Ford Asean.
“Thailand is a huge opportunity for us, along with  Southeast
Asia .”  The minimum-wage increase and a pledge to provide more
university scholarships may help the premier win over poorer
northern areas that backed Thaksin and his allies in the past
four nationwide votes.  Aside from Thailand,  India ,  South Korea  and the  Philippines 
have also raised borrowing costs this month, while Malaysia and
 China  ordered lenders to set aside more cash as reserves as they
strive to restrain consumer-price growth.  Thailand’s export growth quickened to the fastest pace in
eight months in February, while inflation slowed to 2.87 percent.
Industrial production fell 3.43 percent last month, a report
showed today. The economy is expected to grow as much as 4.5
percent this year, according to the state planning agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  