-- 
Airport Full-Body Scans Pose Little Radiation Risk for Fliers, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-30T18:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/airport-full-body-scans-pose-little-radiation-risk-for-fliers-study-finds.html
(Corrects radiation measurements in ninth and 10th
paragraphs in story published March 28.)  Airport body scanners pose little
radiation risk to travelers, emitting less than 1 percent of the
dose a person would get from cosmic rays while flying at high
altitudes, according to a report.  Researchers from the  University of California  said fliers
would have to undergo 50 airport body scans to equal the amount
of radiation received from a single dental X-ray, 4,000 scans to
match the  radiation exposure  from a mammogram or 200,000 scans
to equal that from an abdominal CT scan. Their report is
published today online in the  Archives of Internal Medicine .  Full-body scanners, which generate detailed and personally
revealing images of those screened, have become a controversial
feature at U.S. airports because of health and privacy concerns.
Passengers should no longer be concerned about the radiation
risk from these scanners, author  Rebecca Smith-Bindman  said.  “I’m convinced that the radiation dose is so low that I go
through and I bring my children through,” said Smith-Bindman, a
professor of radiology and biomedical imaging at the University
of  California ,  San Francisco , in a March 25 telephone interview.
“There are lots and lots of things to worry about. The
radiation from these scanners is not on the list any longer.”  The  Transportation Security Administration  has deployed 486
scanners at 78 airports, according to the paper. By the end of
this year, about 1,000 scanners will be deployed, depending on
budget approval. Body scanners in U.S. airports are made by New
York-based  L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  and Hawthorne,
California-based  OSI Systems Inc. (OSIS) ’s Rapiscan.  Safety Systems  The TSA said on its  Web site  that the machines have safety
systems in place, similar to a circuit breaker in homes, to
prevent the production of radiation levels higher than the
established limits. Manufacturers must perform radiation tests
on each scanner before it leaves the factory and once it’s
installed in the airport. After installation, periodic radiation
tests, at least every 12 months, are done either by the
manufacturers or maintenance contractors. TSA employees can also
request a radiation test, according to the Web site.  “There really should be no concern,”  Ella Kazerooni ,
director of Cardiothoracic Radiology at the University of
Michigan Health System in  Ann Arbor , said in an interview. “I
would hope a piece like this would eliminate people’s
concerns.”  Kazerooni, who was not an author of today’s paper, said the
government needs to do additional testing to make sure the
devices are being used right and calibrated correctly so that
the lowest levels of radiation are being used.  Radiation Estimates  Smith-Bindman estimated the potential radiation of airport
scanners at 0.1 microsievert. The population is exposed to about
6.2 millisieverts of radiation each year, half from natural
sources like the sun and the rest from other encounters such as
medical imaging, Smith-Bindman said.  A six-hour flight, for example, would expose a passenger to
14.3 microsieverts of radiation, the study found. Flying exposes
passengers to more radiation than the scanners because they get
closer to the sun.  The researchers also estimated the cancer risk to be
nominal. To calculate that risk, the researchers assumed that
100 million people will take 750 million flights a year and
undergo a full-body scan each trip.  For all flyers, or 100 million passengers, six cancers over
their lifetime could result from airport scanners, the
researchers wrote. However, 40 million cancers overall will
develop over their lifetime separate from exposure to body
scanners, they said. For frequent fliers, who fly 60 hours a
week, four additional cancers could occur because of the
scanners.  Reassuring  Richard Morin , chairman of the American College of
Radiology’s Safety Committee and a professor at Mayo Clinic in
Jacksonville,  Florida , said radiation isn’t well understood.  “The levels we’re talking about are lower than actual
background radiation,” said Morin, who wasn’t involved in
today’s report. “I would certainly not worry about the
radiation. I would be reassured that it’s good to check for
bombs. I’d like to make sure that there isn’t a terrorist on
board.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  