-- 
AmEx Pushing World Expansion Takes on EBay's PayPal With Prepaid E-Wallet

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-03-28T21:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/amex-pushing-expansion-challenges-visa-paypal-with-e-wallets.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the world’s
biggest credit-card issuer by purchases, introduced a payment
system for smartphones and computers that competes with  Visa
Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and PayPal Inc.  Serve, as it’s called, is a prepaid electronic wallet that
can be funded by linking with a checking account, debit card or
credit card, said Dan Schulman, group president of enterprise
growth at New York-based AmEx. Starting today, Serve customers
may send money to each other through smartphones, shop online
and receive plastic cards for use at bricks-and-mortar retailers
that accept American Express.  AmEx lacks a branch network and doesn’t issue debit cards
linked to checking accounts, the world’s fastest-growing payment
method. That has put AmEx at a competitive disadvantage with
lenders including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the two biggest U.S. banks measured by assets.  “This is really the first time that American Express is
going to be able to address those consumers that typically would
utilize either a debit card or checking account,” Schulman, 53,
said in a phone interview last week. “There’s a large cultural
shift happening at American Express in terms of us really moving
to becoming more of a software- and platform-based company.”  Global consumer spending and cash transactions on  Visa  and
 MasterCard  debit cards climbed 20 percent to $3.95 trillion last
year, according to data from the companies. In the U.S.,
spending on debit cards rose 15 percent in 2010, compared with
6.3 percent for credit cards, according to the Nilson Report, an
industry newsletter.  Person-to-Person  AmEx, the world’s third-biggest payments network, is
looking to take market share from PayPal, a unit of  San Jose ,
California-based  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and larger rivals Visa and
MasterCard, based in Purchase, New York. Visa, based in  San
Francisco , said in a statement on March 16 that it will let U.S.
consumers send funds worldwide from one eligible Visa card
account to another.  Visa’s offering doesn’t require consumers to open a new
account, which is “a key value proposition,” Elvira Swanson, a
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today. Joanne Trout
of MasterCard said person-to-person payments already are part of
its network and used by banks that issue its cards.  PayPal is “perfectly positioned” to provide customers
with an e-wallet, said spokesman Anuj Nayar. “Commerce is going
to change more in the next two years than it has in the last 10,
and PayPal looks forward to leading the way.”  Revolution Money  Last year, AmEx spent $305 million to buy Internet-based
payment processor Revolution Money from the investment firm run
by  Steve Case , the co-founder of America Online Inc. Revolution
Money became the technological foundation for Serve, said
Schulman, who joined AmEx in August from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Consumers can open accounts at  www.serve.com  and download
an application to their  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads, or
smartphones using the Android operating system, Schulman said.
Users of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry will have access
later this year, he said. There’s no initial cost for opening an
account, a minimum balance isn’t required and deposited funds
don’t expire.  Fees for funding accounts with credit cards are waived for
the first six months. After that, AmEx will charge 2.9 percent
of the transaction total plus 30 cents, which is competitive
with PayPal’s  pricing , said  Joanna Lambert , an AmEx spokeswoman.
There’s no charge for using debit cards or checking accounts to
fund a Serve account.  ‘Good Business’  Customers can shop online without being required to enter
payment credentials, such as a credit-card number and mailing
address, each time. They also will be able to send money person-
to-person in the U.S. by entering a personal-identification
number and recipient’s e-mail address. That feature will be
available worldwide later this year, Schulman said.  “These remittances back and forth both domestically and
internationally can be quite a good business for us,” he said.  AmEx also is partnering with companies to offer coupons
that can be clicked on a website, loaded into a Serve account
and applied when a consumer shops online or in a store, he said.  ‘Underwhelming’  “I found it a little underwhelming,” said Beth Robertson,
director of payments research for Javelin Strategy & Research,
based in Pleasanton,  California . “What is going to drive people
to actually use this versus similar things already in the
market?”  The product is a way for AmEx to position itself as mobile
payments expand, said Mike Taiano, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill
& Partners in  New York . “It’s hard to know how well it will be
received by consumers.”  Account holders will receive plastic cards linked to their
e-wallets, with the Serve logo on the front and a blue box on
the back to signal to merchants and consumers that it may be
used at any of the millions of locations accepting AmEx,
Schulman said. Customers using the card will get one free
withdrawal a month from an automated teller machine and be
charged $2 for each subsequent withdrawal.  The Serve card is labeled as a “prepaid” product, which
means it’s exempt from caps on debit-card transaction fees
mandated by the Dodd-Frank law that overhauled the financial
industry last year, Schulman said.  12-Cent Cap  The  Federal Reserve  in December proposed capping
interchange fees charged to merchants at 12 cents a transaction,
replacing a formula that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase
price. Such a cap may reduce annual revenue by $12 billion for
U.S. lenders including  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, New York-based JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , based in
San Francisco.  Merchants who currently accept AmEx credit cards pay fees
totaling about 2.5 percent of the purchase price. Those
retailers “generally” will pay a lower rate for accepting
Serve payments, said Lambert, who didn’t elaborate.  American Express climbed 13 cents to $45.72 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 6.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 