-- 
Arab Fund Lends Sudan $360 Million for New Airport, Two Dams

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-28T14:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/arab-fund-lends-sudan-360-million-for-new-airport-two-dams.html
The Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development signed two loan agreements with  Sudan  worth
100 million Kuwaiti dinars ($360 million) to help fund an
airport in Khartoum and two dams in eastern Sudan.  “With this loan, we have secured $321 million for the new
airport,” Abdel Kareem Abdalla, the head of the implementation
unit of the airport, said today in an interview.  The loan agreements bring the total amount lent by the
Kuwait-based fund to Sudan to 526 million dinars ($1.89
billion), according to a statement handed to reporters today in
Khartoum, the capital. The country’s external debt reached $38
billion in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The loans have an annual interest rate of 2.5 percent, and
will mature in 25 years, according to the statement. Half of the
funds are earmarked for the airport, while 50 million dinars
loan will be used to finance two dams and two hydroelectric
power stations, according to the statement.  Sudan has been classified by the U.S. as a sponsor of
terrorism and been subject to economic sanctions since 1997. The
country relies on investments and loans from Persian Gulf
countries, China and  India .  The new airport, which Khartoum hopes will become a
regional hub, will cost about $2 billion, Abdalla said. It will
be able to handle 6.5 million passengers and 300,000 metric tons
of goods a year, he said.  Project Phases  After securing the $1.2 billion in total needed for the
first phase of the project, probably by August or September,
Sudan will invite bids from interested companies, who are likely
to be from the lending nations. At least four countries will be
represented on the project, Abdalla said.  The first phase is due for completion by the end of 2014,
and air traffic will be transferred from the current 65-year-old
airport to the new one early the following year, he said.  Several other regional funds have pledged to give loans to
the project, including the Saudi Fund for Development, the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Export-Import
Bank of  China  and the Export Credit Bank of  Turkey , according to
Abdalla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 