-- 
Argentina Wins Dismissal of Banco Nacion Bondholders ‘Alter Ego’ Lawsuit

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-28T23:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/argentina-wins-dismissal-of-banco-nacion-bondholders-alter-ego-lawsuit.html
Argentina  won dismissal of a U.S.
lawsuit by bondholders who claimed Banco de La Nacion Argentina
was liable for judgments stemming from the nation’s defaulted
debt because the bank was Argentina’s “alter ego.”  A group of plaintiffs suing Argentina to collect on
defaulted debt asked a federal judge in New York in May to
declare the bank an alter ego of the republic and that it was
“jointly and severally liable to satisfy existing judgments in
favor of plaintiffs and against the republic.”  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa today denied that request
and dismissed the suit, saying he doesn’t have jurisdiction over
the group’s claims.  “As an instrumentality of a foreign state, BNA is
presumptively immune from the jurisdiction of the United States
courts,” he wrote.  “It should be noted that what is requested here is to have
BNA declared jointly and severally liable with the republic for
all the remaining defaulted bond obligations of the republic.
The court rejects that BNA is an alter ego of the republic,
leading to this result,” Griesa said.  Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in debt in late 2001. In
2005, then-President  Nestor Kirchner  offered holders of
defaulted debt 30 cents on the dollar. Holders of about $20
billion in bonds rejected that deal. Argentina has since refused
to reopen negotiations, preventing the country from being able
to directly tap international credit markets. The country has
also been sued by individual bondholders in cases that are also
pending before Griesa.  Bank Was Defendant  On May 24, Griesa granted the plaintiffs’ request to issue
a restraining order freezing about $2.4 billion in Argentine
assets held by the bank. The plaintiffs also filed their own
alter ego suit in federal court in New York before Griesa four
days later on May 28, seeking an order that would allow them the
authority to collect the judgments, the judge said in today’s
decision.  “BNA is presumptively immune from the jurisdiction of
United States courts unless an exception specified in the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act,” Griesa said in his ruling
today. “Plaintiffs put forth insufficient evidence of day-to-
day or excessive control to establish that BNA is an alter ego
of the republic.”  Related Case  In a related Argentine case before Griesa involving  claims
against Central Bank of Argentina, in April 2010, Griesa granted
an investor request to seize $105 million in Argentine assets
held at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , ruling that EM
Ltd. and NML Capital may “attach” funds deposited in the
Central Bank of Argentina in the New York Fed in a different
lawsuit.  That decision has been appealed by Argentina to the 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York.  Mark Sullivan, a lawyer for the bank, which was named as a
defendant in the complaint, didn’t immediately return a voice
mail message seeking comment.  Christopher Moore, a lawyer for the Republic of Argentina,
didn’t immediately return a voice mail message left at his
office seeking comment.  Alexander Reus, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a voice mail message left at his office
seeking comment.  A spokesperson for the bank didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment.  The case is Seijas v. Argentina, 10-cv-04300, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  