-- 
Marijuana Use Hurts Thinking Skills of MS Patients Seeking Aid for Pain

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-03-28T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/marijuana-use-hurts-thinking-skills-of-ms-patients-seeking-aid-for-pain.html
Smoking marijuana to relieve
symptoms of  multiple sclerosis , such as pain or muscle spasms,
may harm thinking skills of patients with the neurological
disorder, a Canadian study found.  MS patients who smoked  marijuana  scored “significantly”
lower than patients with the disorder who didn’t use the drug in
tests of attention, thinking speed and gauging space between
objects, according to research published today in the journal
Neurology. The study compared 25 cannabis users with 25 non-
users.  Multiple sclerosis, a debilitating neurological disorder,
affects about 400,000 people in the U.S. and 2.5 million
worldwide, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .
About 40 percent to 60 percent of people with MS experience
problems with decision making, thinking and reasoning, the
researchers wrote. Smoking marijuana may be worsening those
effects, study author  Anthony Feinstein  said.  “There’s a real chance that the cannabis is going to
worsen cognitive deficits that are already present,” said
Feinstein, a professor of psychiatry at the  University of
Toronto  and at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center, in a telephone
interview. “It’s kind of adding to the burden of the disease.
You have to be very cautious when using this drug. You shouldn’t
be using it at all.”  The study found that patients who used marijuana were twice
as likely as non-users to be cognitively impaired, meaning they
scored low on two or more test areas including information
processing speed and problem solving. Marijuana users also
scored about one-third lower on a test that measured the speed
at which they processed information.  MS Marijuana Uses  MS patients use marijuana sometimes to alleviate pain and
bladder dysfunction. It’s unclear how it affects reasoning and
thinking, he said. Feinstein is planning a study using MRI, or
magnetic resonance imaging, to track how marijuana affects the
brain in MS patients who smoke it.  In the study, patients using cannabis were tested 12 hours
or more after they last took the drug. Those in the marijuana
group used the drug for an average of 26 years. Most of them
used it daily for medical and recreational reasons, the paper
said.  Data show that 36 percent to 43 percent of MS patients have
smoked marijuana at some time, and about 14 to 18 percent are
current cannabis users, the researchers said.  Multiple sclerosis  symptoms can range from benign to
disabling, according to the U.S. National Institutes of Health.
In those with the disease, communication between the brain and
other parts of the body is disrupted. MS is thought to be an
autoimmune disease where the body attacks its own tissue, the
agency said. There is no cure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  