-- 
Arizona Election Public Financing Questioned by High Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-28T16:08:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/arizona-election-public-financing-questioned-by-high-court-1-.html
The U.S. Supreme Court signaled it
is poised to strike down, likely by a narrow majority, an
Arizona law that ties public financing for election candidates
to the amount of money raised by or spent on behalf of their
opponents.  Hearing arguments today in  Washington , the justices
questioned a 12-year-old system that supporters say represents
one of the most effective ways to encourage candidates to take
part in public financing systems.  Today’s session suggested the court will split along lines
similar to those that produced last year’s 5-4 ruling freeing
corporations to spend money on political ads. Four members of
that majority -- excepting only Justice  Clarence Thomas , who
generally doesn’t ask questions during arguments -- aimed
skeptical questions at two lawyers who were defending the
Arizona law.  The purpose and effect of the law is to “produce less
speech in political campaigns,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  said.  Chief Justice John Roberts and the court’s four other
Republican appointees -- Kennedy, Thomas,  Antonin Scalia  and
Samuel Alito -- have chipped away at campaign finance
restrictions in the last few years.  The Arizona challengers to the law, including Republican
Representative John McComish, say the system violates the First
Amendment rights of candidates who don’t seek public funds. They
point to a 2008 Supreme Court decision voiding a federal law
that freed opponents of self-financed candidates from the usual
campaign contribution limits.  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
upheld the Arizona system in May, overturning a trial judge’s
decision. The panel said the effect on free-speech rights was
minimal.  Arizona officials, including Secretary of State Ken
Bennett, are defending the measure as a way to reduce the
corrupting influence of campaign contributors. President  Barack Obama ’s administration is also urging the high court to uphold
the system.  The cases are McComish v. Bennett, 10-239 and Free
Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, 10-238.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 