-- 
Harper Says Opposition Threatens Canada Recovery in Setting Campaign Theme

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-03-28T04:00:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/harper-opens-canada-campaign-saying-opposition-risks-recovery.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper began
the campaign for  Canada ’s fourth election in seven years urging
voters to preserve the “closest thing” to a global haven,
while Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  said the Conservatives
have abused democracy and will waste billions of dollars.  Harper told supporters in  Quebec City , Toronto and
 Vancouver  that the Liberals,  New Democrats  and Bloc Quebecois
will move with “lightning speed” to form a coalition after the
May 2 vote if the Conservatives don’t win a majority government.
Harper has governed since 2006 with a  minority of seats  and
relied on opposition support to pass laws.  Opposition parties joined together March 25 to topple
Harper’s government by passing a non-confidence motion. They
rejected Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s  budget  last week and
said Harper’s government was in “contempt” of Parliament by
withholding the cost of some of its legislation, including plans
to buy new fighter jets and build prisons. Harper said the
election was unnecessary.  “Why aren’t we working at our desks to deepen our economic
recovery?” Harper, 51, said at a rally yesterday in the Toronto
suburb of Brampton. “They don’t think they need to win this
election. Just hold us to another minority and they will move
with lightning speed to recreate and impose their reckless
coalition on Canadians.”  Ignatieff released  a statement  March 26 saying he wouldn’t
form a coalition government after the vote. He told reporters
yesterday that he put his commitment “in writing” to prove his
intentions.  Jets, Jails and Taxes  “The reason Mr. Harper keeps waving this coalition thing
around is so he doesn’t have to defend his choices,” Ignatieff,
63, said in Montreal. He called those choices “jets, jails and
corporate tax breaks.”  Harper said the Liberals shouldn’t be trusted not to form a
coalition since they made the same promise in the 2008 campaign
and then sought to form an alliance following that vote.  “A sea of trouble is lapping at our shores,” Harper said
in Brampton. “Canada is the closest thing the world has to an
island of security and stability.” He cited turmoil in the
Middle East, the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , the European
debt crisis and problems in the  U.S. economy .  Harper oversees the fastest growing economy with the lowest
deficits among Group of Seven nations. The currency has been the
strongest in the G-7 over the past two years.  Government bonds 
have returned 5.1 percent over the past year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data, compared with a 2.8 percent
average for the G-7. Canada’s benchmark S&P/TSX Composite Index
has risen 17 percent over the past 12 months, compared with a 12
percent gain for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Re-introduce Budget  Flaherty told reporters on the weekend he would re-
introduce the budget that was rejected last week if the
Conservatives win the election.  Polls show the Conservatives will likely win the most seats.
The Conservatives have the support of 39 percent of voters,
compared with 25 percent for the Liberals, 19 percent for the
NDP and 10 percent for the  Bloc Quebecois , according to an  Angus
Reid poll  for the Toronto Star and La Presse newspapers. The
online poll of 2,365 people was taken March 23-24 and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Harper, who has been prime minister since 2006, won 38
percent of the vote in 2008 elections, which gave the
Conservatives 143 seats in the 308-member House of Commons.  Placed for Majority  “The Conservatives are well placed towards a majority,”
in this election, said Andrea Perella, director of the Laurier
Institute for the Study of Public Opinion and Policy in Waterloo,
Ontario. The school aggregates polls to predict election results
and last week  estimated  the Conservatives could win a majority
government of 157 seats versus 151 for three opposition parties.  Both Harper and Ignatieff visited Ontario and  Quebec  over
the weekend, the provinces with the most seats in the House of
Commons. To win a majority, the Conservatives may need to
maintain the seats it holds in the French-speaking province of
Quebec, and gain ground in Toronto, the country’s largest city.  Harper’s first campaign stop was a rally Saturday in the
Quebec City constituency held by Intergovernmental Affairs
Minister Josee Verner. Seven of the Conservatives’ 11 Quebec
seats are around the provincial capital, Quebec City.  Harper traveled to Brampton yesterday for a rally in a
constituency held by the Liberals. “We want to win
everywhere,” Harper said. “Winning more seats in the Greater
Toronto Area is part of that.”  Ignatieff spent much of yesterday in  Montreal  before flying
to Toronto last night. In a speech, he said that the Liberals
are the only party that can supplant Harper as prime minister,
aiming his remarks at supporters of the Bloc Quebecois. The Bloc
only fields candidates in Quebec and won the most seats in the
province in the last election.  “It’s not the time to send a message to Mr. Harper,”
Ignatieff said. “It’s time to replace him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Montreal at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 