-- 
Harper to Pledge He'll Let Canadians Split Income for Taxes, Official Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-28T14:42:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/harper-to-pledge-he-ll-let-canadians-split-income-for-taxes-official-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper will announce today plans for a tax break for families
with children under 18 if he wins the country’s election on May
2, according to a Conservative Party official.  The measure, which would let individuals within a household
split their income for tax purposes, wouldn’t be implemented
until the country’s budget returns to balance, the person said
on condition of not being identified because the announcement
hasn’t been made.  The tax cut pledge will be Harper’s first since his
government was defeated by opposition parties last week. Harper
told supporters yesterday in Toronto and  Vancouver  that he is
seeking a majority mandate from voters.  Opposition parties joined together March 25 to topple
Harper’s government by passing a no-confidence motion. They
rejected Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s budget last week and
said Harper’s government was in “contempt” of Parliament by
withholding the cost of some of its legislation, including plans
to buy new fighter jets and build prisons. Harper said the
election was unnecessary.  Flaherty presented a fiscal plan last week that forecast
the government may eliminate the deficit as early as 2014 if it
manages to generate savings from a review of program spending
that begins this year. The review will aim to save at least C$4
billion annually, according to the March 22  budget document.   Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  told reporters the promise
can’t be counted on because it wouldn’t occur for five years,
adding that the Conservatives are planning to continue tax
relief for companies next year. “It’s like he’s saying to
middle-class families, Take a number,” Ignatieff said in
Toronto. “That the policies that you get if you put banks,
insurance companies and  oil companies  first and leave Canadian
families at the back of the line.” He did not say whether the
Liberals would adopt a similar policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 