-- 
Marriott Tumbles After Projecting Revenue Per Room at Low End of Forecast

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-03-28T20:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/marriott-tumbles-after-projecting-revenue-per-room-at-low-end-of-forecast.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest U.S. hotel chain, slumped the most in almost 10 months
after saying growth in room revenue will be at the low end of
its forecast because of weak North American demand.  Marriott fell $2.36, or 6.3 percent, to $35.30 at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The decline was
the biggest in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the largest
for the company since June 4.  Revenue per available room, a measure of rates and
occupancy known as revpar, will rise about 7 percent in the
first quarter, Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott said in a
statement today. The company, owner of the JW Marriott and Ritz-
Carlton brands, in February forecast a 7 percent to 9 percent
increase worldwide.  Global revpar is being driven down by results in  North
America , where growth “has been modestly lower than expected,”
Chief Financial Officer Carl Berquist said at a conference
hosted by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Las Vegas . Large group hotels
in New York, Atlanta, Washington and Orlando,  Florida , were
among the weakest performers.  New York Supply  “In New York City a lot of supply came on,” Berquist
said. “We were expecting that supply but it came on at rates
that were lower than expected. We have been the leader in
pricing and had moved our rates up. As this supply came on at
lower rates, it slowed this process down.”  Marriott estimated North American revpar growth of 5
percent to 6 percent for the first quarter, compared with its
February forecast for a 6 percent to 8 percent advance.  “Upper upscale, like the Marriott, Hyatt or Sheraton
brands, has hit a soft patch, as has New York City,” said said  Patrick Scholes , a New York-based analyst with FBR Capital
Markets. “New York was one of the strongest markets that
recovered the quickest and got some pricing power back the
quickest. But now Seattle,  San Francisco  or Southern California
present much more attractive travel deals.”  International Demand  Demand in international markets has been “robust” and
international systemwide revpar probably will climb 11 percent
before adjustments for currency-exchange rates, Marriott said.
The company reiterated its forecast for first-quarter earnings
of 24 cents to 28 cents a share.  Marriott will report its quarterly results on April 20.  Other hotel companies declined after Marriott’s forecast.
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the St. Regis
and W brands, fell 5.7 percent to $55.37.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) 
dropped 6.3 percent to $41.35.  “Now that the deals are gone in the upper-upscale segment,
people still want to travel but may go to a Holiday Inn
instead,” Scholes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  