-- 
Harry & David Files for Bankruptcy Protection After Reaching Debt Accord

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-28T15:38:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/harry-david-gourmet-food-retailer-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Harry & David Holdings Inc., the
Oregon-based gift-box retailer that began selling fruit by mail
in the 1930s, filed for  bankruptcy protection  after reaching an
agreement with lenders to trim debt that includes almost $200
million in bonds.  The company, owned by investment funds controlled by
Wasserstein & Co., listed assets and debt of as much as
$500 million each in a Chapter 11 petition filed today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . Companies use Chapter
11 of the  bankruptcy code  to reorganize, cut debt and continue
operating.  Harry & David, based in Medford,  Oregon , failed to make
interest payments due March 1 on about $58.2 million in senior
floating-rate notes and more than $140 million in senior fixed-
rate notes, according to  Standard & Poor’s . Under its
reorganization plan, senior notes and some general unsecured
claims will be converted to new equity.  The agreement “provides the best opportunity for Harry &
David to restructure its balance sheet on an expedited basis,
strengthen its operations and create long-term value,” Kay Hong, chief restructuring officer and interim chief executive
officer, said today in a statement.  Harry and  David Rosenberg  took over the family pear
orchards after their hotelier father’s death in 1914. During the
Depression, they began pitching their Comice pears to business
leaders as gifts, according to the company’s  website . The
company introduced its Fruit-of-the-Month Club in 1938.  Internet Competition  Harry & David  provides gourmet food products and gifts
marketed under the  Wolferman’s  and  Cushman’s  brands as well as
its own. The company in September reported a net loss of $39.2
million for the fiscal year that ended in June as sales fell 13
percent to $426.8 million.  The company said it ran into trouble because of lower-cost
competition on the Internet and lower sales during the holiday
season -- source of 60 percent of its annual revenue.  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in court
papers were Wells Fargo Bank, trustee for holders of almost $200
million in notes, and the Harry & David Pension Plan, valued at
$27.4 million. The company said it will terminate the plan.  Harry & David said it will ask a judge for permission to
borrow as much as $155 million to continue operating while it
reorganizes. The company lost access to its revolving credit,
Moody’s Investors Service said in January.  Catalog Orders  The company said that catalog orders and sales at 70 stores
nationwide will remain normal and it will continue to honor
Fruit-of-the-Month and gift cards.  Rothschild Inc. is Harry & David’s investment banker,
according to the company’s statement.  Jones Day  is its legal
adviser, and Alvarez & Marsal LLC is the financial adviser.  The company’s $140.2 million of 9 percent notes due March
2013 last traded on March 25 at 27.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bond has declined
from 72 cents in January.  The case is In re Harry & David Holdings, Inc., 11-10884,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Smith in Paris
at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 