-- 
Harry Potter Dances Up Corporate Ladder in ‘Business’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-03-28T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/harry-potter-dances-up-corporate-ladder-in-business-review.html
Last seen on Broadway in the buff
and committing unspeakable crimes against horses,  Daniel Radcliffe  follows the ponderous “Equus” with a chipper song-
and-dance performance in  “How to Succeed in Business Without
Really Trying.”   The actor known as  Harry Potter  plays that cunning
corporate ladder-climber J. Pierrepont Finch in Rob Ashford’s
high-octane, hard-working revival. Radcliffe doesn’t catch fire
until late in the second act of Frank Loesser and Abe Burrows’s
delectable satire of Big Business, ‘50s-style. But there’s more
than enough to divert the eye and ear along the way.  Start with Derek McLane’s brilliantly simple sets, panels
of honeycomb cells in the International style (think Met Life
building) caressingly lit by Howell Binkley to frame the busy
bees of World Wide Widget. That’s where Finch, a window washer
with a plan, will make his mark.  Guided by the book that gives the show its title (narrated
in the recorded voice of  CNN ’s Anderson Cooper), Finch converts
a chance hallway encounter with company president J.B. Biggley
(TV star John Larroquette) into a mailroom job. Ponty, as he’s
nicknamed, has an uncanny ability to turn serendipity into
something like manifest destiny.  Man-Eating Mistress  On his stunningly fast rise, he outwits Biggley’s dim
nephew, Bud Frump (the excellent Christopher J. Hanke); captures
the heart of secretary Rosemary Pilkington (Rose Hemingway,
looking like Marlo Thomas in “That Girl”) and even catches the
eye of Biggley’s brainless man-eating mistress Hedy La Rue
(swivel-hipped Tammy Blanchard). Each rite of passage inspires
another quintessential Loesser song and accompanying dance
number.  From the mock-scary “Coffee Break” to the mock-
inspirational “Brotherhood of Man,” this is one of Broadway’s
brightest scores. Doug Besterman’s lush, swinging orchestrations
bring them to life in a way rarely heard in these days of
underpowered, electronically enhanced pit bands.  Ashford’s dances are sexier here than in last season’s
“Promises, Promises” revival. Maybe it’s because the material
is so much richer, or because Catherine Zuber’s costumes -- leg-
revealing Easter-egg pastels for the girls, skinny everything
for the guys -- throw off so much heat from the stage. Whatever
the case, the limbs flinging and flying about the stage of the
Hirschfeld Theatre are heart-quickening. It’s some of the
hottest dancing in town.  Hemingway is competent, if somewhat shrill as Rosemary and
Blanchard is pretty charmless as sexpot Hedy. Larroquette is
appealingly dapper and at ease as the big cheese, though it’s
mighty fortunate that Biggley doesn’t have to sing much.  As for the appealing Radcliffe, he’s eager to please but
lacks a certain urgency that makes Finch dangerous and
irresistible at the same time. He’s no singer (“I Believe in
You,” the show’s best-known song, barely makes an impression)
and not much of a dancer. Still, he does both more than
respectably in the rousing “Brotherhood of Man” finale, which
sends us home in a forgiving mood.  At the Al Hirschfeld Theatre, 302 W. 45th St. Information:
+1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com  Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 