-- 
Asia Currencies Snap Two-Day Advance on Japan Radiation Risk, Fed Comments

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-28T09:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/asia-currencies-snap-two-day-advance-on-japan-radiation-risk-fed-comments.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
the Philippine peso, on speculation a lingering nuclear crisis
in  Japan  will sap demand for regional assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies, retreated from a 13-year
high and Asian stocks fell after  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said
efforts to repair cooling systems at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant were delayed by the need to drain
radioactive water from the facility. The possibility the  Federal
Reserve  may not complete its planned purchases of $600 billion
of Treasuries helped shore up support for the dollar.  “Japan’s problem and the stock declines make people more
risk averse, weighing on the regional currencies,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The Philippine peso dropped 0.3 percent to 43.445 per
dollar as of 4:25 p.m. in  Manila , according to prices from
inter-dealer broker Tullett Prebon Plc. The Malaysian ringgit
fell 0.1 percent to 3.0263 per dollar in Kuala Lumpur. The Asia
Dollar Index slid 0.1 percent, trimming this quarter’s advance
to 0.3 percent.  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard, Philadelphia Fed
President Charles Plosser and Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have urged a review of the U.S. monetary authority’s bond
purchases, scheduled to end in June, due to the improving U.S.
economy and concern that inflation may accelerate. The policy of
so-called quantitative easing boosts the supply of dollars.  Indonesian Inflation  “The market is evaluating the Fed’s comments on
quantitative easing,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency
strategist at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“There’s a slight position adjustment.”  Indonesia’s rupiah retreated from near its strongest level
in almost four years on speculation accelerating inflation will
cool foreign demand for the nation’s assets. Consumer prices
rose 7 percent in March from a year earlier following a 6.8
percent gain in February, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the April 1 report.  “Inflation concerns remain at the fore,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a Singapore-based economist at Barclays Capital.
“Whether the central bank will raise  interest rates  again will
be data-dependent.”  Rate Rises  Taiwan’s dollar traded near a two-week high, supported by
expectations the central bank will raise interest rates for the
fourth time in a year.  The Central Bank of the Republic of  China  ( Taiwan ) will
raise its discount rate on 10-day loans by 12.5 basis points to
1.75 percent on March 31, according to all but one of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One forecast an increase of
twice that size. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Taiwan’s yield premium over the U.S. may attract more
foreign investors, driving gains in the currency,” said Eric Hsing, a debt trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei.  Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$29.499 against the
greenback, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency touched
NT$29.440 on March 25, the strongest level since March 10.  Elsewhere, China’s yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.5645 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore’s dollar dropped 0.1 percent to S$1.2618, Thailand’s
baht, South Korea’s won and  Indonesia ’s rupiah were all little
changed at 30.28, 1,114.40 and 8713, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  