-- 
UPS Joins FedEx in Adding Asia Flights as Economic Recovery Stokes Demand

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-28T20:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/asia-air-freight-competition-surges-as-ups-fedex-add-flights.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
adding four flights a week from Hong Kong to Europe and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  will start a new nonstop route to  South Korea  as growth in
Asian shipping demand outpaces expansion in the U.S.  Asia is “a growth market and they need to keep adding
capacity and speed,” said David Campbell, an analyst with
Thompson Davis & Co., in Richmond, Virginia. “If they have more
direct service, they’re going to get more traffic because it’s
easier for the customers there to use them.”  UPS will fly  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-400 jumbo jets allowing it to
deliver from Hong Kong to European cities including Paris and
Milan in one day, a full day faster than previously, the
Atlanta-based company said. FedEx’s route between its hometown
hub of  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and  Seoul  will use a  Boeing 777 .  The services underscore Asia’s importance to UPS and FedEx
even as Japan, the world’s third-biggest economy, struggles with
the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake, tsunami and radiation
leaks. UPS is the world’s largest package-shipping company, and
FedEx operates the biggest cargo airline.  About 27 percent of UPS’s revenue came from international
markets last year, and volume on international packages jumped
almost 14 percent, or about 7 times as much as domestic
deliveries. U.S. exports to South Korea rose 35 percent to $38.8
billion in 2010, FedEx said, citing U.S. Census Bureau figures.  Air Cargo Shares  UPS rose $1.48, or 2.1 percent, to $73.52 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the most since Feb. 1.
FedEx added $2.74, or 3 percent, to $93.02. Campbell recommends
buying shares of both companies. UPS and FedEx each have 21 buy
ratings from analysts and 8 holds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  UPS climbed 27 percent last year, while FedEx gained 11
percent amid consistent quarterly profit gains. Both companies’
overseas sales climbed more than 20 percent in their past five
fiscal years.  “The international share of the companies’ revenues will
continue to increase,” Campbell said in a telephone interview.  FedEx’s new route, which will operate four flights a week
using Boeing’s 777 freighter, lets it ship packages from the
U.S.,  Canada  and some Latin American countries to Seoul in two
to three business days, the company said in a statement.  UPS added the  Hong Kong  flights at the behest of
technology, health-care, auto parts and high-end retail
customers, Dan Brutto, president of UPS International, said in a
telephone interview.  Hong Kong’s Growth  “Their word to us was it would be nice if there was a one-
day service going out of Hong Kong,” Brutto said. “It’s all
premium products, from many different industries and different-
sized customers. The first flight is 100 percent full.”  UPS’s 747 jets depart Hong Kong and land at its European
air hub in Cologne,  Germany , just before midnight, then must be
unloaded in two hours in order to get overnight packages sorted
and put onto new flights to other European cities, Brutto said.  The planes make stops in Warsaw, Dubai and Mumbai to pick
up additional packages on the way back to Hong Kong, he said.  “The Europe volume back to  Asia  is growing very nicely,
much of it driven by German exports, the  auto industry , high-end
machinery, tool and die manufacturers,” Brutto said. “When the
flights get to Hong Kong, they will be close to 100 percent
full.”  Shanghai  Airport  UPS has been studying the additional Hong Kong flights for
about six months, he said. Hong Kong last year surpassed FedEx’s
hometown hub of Memphis as the world’s busiest airport for
cargo, according to data released by the airports.  “Another city that is interesting is Shanghai, and we’ll
continue to look at that,” Brutto said. Shanghai’s Pudong
airport is the world’s third-busiest for cargo.  UPS’s operations in Japan are “getting better every day”
and the company is able to reach more postal codes in the worst-
hit areas in the northeast, Brutto said. Only three prefectures
are still closed, from eight initially, and pickups and
deliveries in the rest of the country are “almost back to
normal” while major cities including  Tokyo  had minimal
disruptions, he said.  “For our business, it’s not going to have a major
impact,” Brutto said.  UPS flew 55 pallets of relief supplies to  Japan  today for
the American Red Cross, he said.  UPS has 527 aircraft and opened a $180 million hub in  China 
in 2010, according to a regulatory filing. FedEx has 697 planes,
according to its website.  UPS’s revenue rose 9 percent last year to $49.5 billion and
its profit jumped by more than 50 percent to $3.49 billion as
demand rose with the strengthening global economy. FedEx’s
revenue for the year ending in May is projected to increase 12
percent to $39.1 billion with a 24 percent gain in net income,
to $1.47 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  