-- 
Latin America Should End Stimulus Programs, IMF Director Eyzaguirre Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/latin-america-should-end-stimulus-programs-imf-director-eyzaguirre-says.html
Latin American policy makers should
withdraw fiscal and monetary stimulus to prevent their economies
from overheating before limiting foreign inflows with capital
controls, the  International Monetary Fund ´s regional director
said.  Governments should end programs used to bolster economic
growth during the 2009 financial crisis and central bankers need
to raise  interest rates  that are low compared with historical
averages, the IMF’s Nicolas Eyzaguirre said at the Inter-
American Development Bank’s  annual meeting  in Calgary.  “If you remain in a stimulus mood and add that with what’s
coming in from abroad, through high commodity prices and very
easy financing conditions, you won’t have enough strength to
stop the overheating,” he told reporters yesterday. “You
cannot mitigate -- through macro regulation, capital controls or
monetary policy -- the strength of these push factors.”  Nations including  Brazil  and Colombia are trying to curb
gains in their currencies, which hurt the competitiveness of
their exports, and fight inflation after near-zero borrowing
costs in advanced economies such as the U.S. and  Japan  spurred
demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets. Brazil
has raised taxes on foreign purchases of bonds and stocks.  Some capital controls can be useful when foreign currency
inflows become excessive and create distortions in the economy,
Eyzaguirre said.  “Capital controls could be perfectly considered as a
tool,” Eyzaguirre said. “When tailwinds are very strong you
should consider it in your policy toolkit.”  Don’t Work  Still, Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said there
is no evidence that capital controls have any impact in
preventing currency appreciation.  “This creates very strong distortions in the economy,”
Cordero said in an interview yesterday. “We don’t believe in
capital controls. Interest rates and tighter fiscal policy is
the way to do it.”  IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn told the
region’s finance ministers over the weekend that the IMF isn’t
against the use of some capital controls to curb currency
appreciation, marking a divergence from 20 years of macro-
economic philosophy, said Juan Carlos Echeverry,  Colombia ’s
finance minister.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told the 2,000
delegates at the conference that the global recovery could be
undermined if policy makers react to the growing power of
emerging markets and rising commodity prices with restrictions
on currencies and capital flows.  Super-cycle  Emerging markets now account for three-quarters of the
world’s economic growth, up from about one-third a decade ago,
and commodities are “in the midst of a super-cycle,” Carney,
46, said.  “Many emerging markets are trying to forestall capital
inflows and delay necessary monetary tightening,” Carney said.
“This in turn is feeding domestic demand, which drives
commodity prices up further and leads to more generalized
overheating.”  Colombia will prevent a surge in foreign currency inflows
from appreciating the peso by taming  government spending  and
leaving some oil money outside of the country, as Chile does
with its copper profits, Echeverry said.  “Containing the current inflationary pressures is
essential to allow for sustainable growth,” Chilean  central
bank  President Jose De Gregorio said. “Delaying monetary policy
adjustment may result in more severe adjustments in the
future.”  Brazil’s inflation should converge to target within the
next few months as rising agriculture and food prices slow and
policy measures reduce credit growth, said Luiz Pereira da Silva, deputy governor of Brazil’s central bank.  Brazilian Prices  “We have excessive capital flows contributing to a rapid
pace of domestic credit growth that creates inflationary
pressures,” he said in a speech in Calgary. “We identified the
need to mitigate risk in some parts of the domestic credit
markets.”  Most Latin American governments have not fully withdrawn
stimulus to levels before the financial crisis, while their
economies have recovered and are running with little idle
capacity, Eyzaguirre said.  Economic growth in the region will slow to 4.5 percent this
year from 6.1 percent in 2010 as inflation and rising interest
rates curb expansion, the  Institute of International Finance 
said in Calgary. Inflation in the region averaged 8.2 percent
last year, from 6.2 percent the previous year, the banking group
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Rio De Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  