-- 
Mauritius Central Bank Increases Key Interest Rate to 5.25% on Inflation

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-03-28T15:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/mauritius-central-bank-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-5-25-.html
Mauritius’s central bank increased
its benchmark interest rate by half of a percentage point to
curb inflation that has climbed faster than expected as economic
growth accelerates.  The repo rate rose to 5.25 percent, the Port Louis-based
Bank of Mauritius said in a statement on its website today after
a meeting of the monetary policy committee. The increase pares a
1 percentage-point reduction in September that took the rate to
the lowest level since December 2006.  Since that rate cut, inflation has accelerated. The annual
measure jumped for a fifth consecutive month to a more than two-
year high of 6.8 percent in February, according to the Indian
Ocean island nation’s statistics agency. Bank of Mauritius
Governor Rundheersing Bheenick forecast in December that
inflation will be at 7 percent in June.  “In the light of this and the expected narrowing of the
output gap, the MPC considered it important to start the process
of normalizing the key policy rate,” the central bank said.
Annual inflation could reach 7.8 percent by June if no monetary
policy changes are made, it said.  The economy will expand more than previously forecast, with
growth at 4.6 percent this year after 4.4 percent expansion in
2010, the bank said. The government had estimated growth of 4.2
percent in 2010 and 2011.  “I’m surprised as 70 percent of the country’s inflation is
imported,” Kriti Taukoordass, an economist and partner at Port
Louis-based advisory company Mazars, said by phone today. “This
is not the right policy response. The decision will hardly drive
down inflation. The increase will favor only savers.”  Mauritius earns most of its foreign currency from tourism,
and exports of sugar, clothing and textiles. It imports all its
fuel requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  