-- 
Japan Tax Increase Unavoidable After Quake-Given Debt Load, Lawmakers Say

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i o m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-28T08:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/tax-increase-is-unavoidable-as-quake-rebuilding-swells-debt-lawmakers-say.html
A tax increase to finance
earthquake reconstruction may be unavoidable considering the
nation’s huge debt, two Japanese ruling party officials say, and
two-thirds of the public agree the measure may be necessary.  “We can’t avoid raising taxes as the great earthquake may
worsen an already dangerous fiscal situation,” Ikkou Nakatsuka,
deputy chairman of the tax committee of the ruling  Democratic
Party  of  Japan , said in an interview last week. Separately, Vice
Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said today the government may
scrap its plan to lower the corporate tax rate, a move the head
of the nation’s largest business lobby said he would support.  A levy increase may help to push back the possibility of a
future fiscal crisis with public debt already about twice the
size of the $5 trillion economy. Some 67.5 percent of the public
support higher taxes to fund reconstruction after Japan’s
strongest quake on record, according to an opinion poll released
yesterday by  Kyodo News .  “Tax hikes would certainly be on the table considering
Japan’s massive debt burden,” said Masamichi Adachi, senior
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The government estimates that rebuilding the northeastern
area after the March 11 quake could cost as much as 25 trillion
yen ($306 billion). The magnitude-9.0 temblor and an ensuing
tsunami have left more than 27,000 people dead or missing.  Sales Tax Increase  Nakatsuka has suggested a two-percentage point increase in
the sales  tax rate , currently at 5 percent, to secure about 5
trillion yen a year.  “We may have the public’s understanding if it’s spent for
quake reconstruction,” he said.  It would be the first increase in the sales levy since 1997,
when it was raised to 5 percent from 3 percent. The economy fell
into a recession after the increase and the Liberal Democratic
Party, which was in control at the time, lost an election as a
result. Mentioning a possible increase in the tax was one reason
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s DPJ lost control of the upper house
in a national ballot last year.  ‘Speedy Reconstruction’  Shinichiro Furumoto, a DPJ member and director-general of
the party’s fiscal committee, said a  sales tax  would be the
desirable option for raising reconstruction funds.  “Only the consumption tax imposes the burden equally among
citizens, from young to old and from men to women,” he said in
an interview last week.  To secure more funds, the government may forego a planned 5
percentage point reduction in the corporate tax rate, Igarashi
told reporters today. The levy cut, which was supposed to begin
in the year starting April 1, would have decreased  tax revenue 
by between 1.4 trillion yen to 2.1 trillion yen, according to
calculations by the Ministry of Finance.  The company tax rate in Tokyo is 40.69 percent, compared
with 28 percent in the U.K. and 25 percent in  China , according
to the ministry’s data.  “If this will lead to a speedy reconstruction, personally
it’s fine with me if the tax reduction is scrapped,”  Hiromasa Yonekura , chairman of the business lobby Keidanren, told a news
conference today.  The government will need to review its entire budgetary
spending and revenue plans in examining how to fund
reconstruction of the areas devastated by this month’s
earthquake,  Katsuya Okada , the No. 2 official of the DPJ said
today.  Damage Demand  Some other lawmakers in both the ruling and opposition
parties are against tax increases, saying such steps would
damage private demand that’s already depressed in the aftermath
of this month’s disaster.  “There’s no way that taxes can be increased when there’s
deflation,” Kozo Yamamoto, a member of parliament with the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , said in an interview last
week.  He instead called for a 20 trillion yen rebuilding program
financed by  Bank of Japan  debt purchases. A group of ruling-
party lawmakers submitted a similar proposal to Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  this month, DPJ member Yoichi Kaneko said in a
blog post.  The disaster may cause Japan’s gross domestic product to
shrink by as much 12 percent on an annualized basis in the
second quarter, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. predicted.  The LDP’s leader,  Sadakazu Tanigaki , appears to disagree
with Yamamoto’s views, as he said this month that he proposed to
Kan a temporary tax to help fund the relief effort.  Noda has said the government has to gauge the impact of the
disaster before considering how to fund rebuilding.  Moody’s Investors Service said after the quake that Japan
may “at some point” reach a fiscal “tipping point” if
investors lose confidence in the soundness of public finances
and demand a risk premium on  government bonds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  