-- 
Fatal Radiation Detected Outside Damaged Japanese Reactor

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-28T15:50:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/hazardous-radiation-levels-stall-efforts-to-cool-reactors-prevent-leaks.html
Radiation levels that can prove
fatal were detected outside reactor buildings at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant for the first time, complicating
efforts to contain the worst disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  Water in an underground trench outside the No. 2 reactor
had levels exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a spokesman for plant
operator  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. told reporters in the capital
yesterday. Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would trigger
nausea and four hours might lead to death within two months,
according to the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency .  Preventing the most-contaminated water from leaking into
the ground or air is key to containing the spread of radiation
beyond the plant. A partial meltdown of fuel rods in the No. 2
reactor probably caused a jump in the readings, Japan’s chief
government spokesman said.  “There’s not much good news right now,” said Gennady
Pshakin, a former IAEA official based in Obninsk, the site of
 Russia ’s first nuclear power plant. “There’re questions arising
on how much fuel will leak out, what isotopes will be carried
and how quickly they will settle. It’s becoming less
predictable.”  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, disabling its cooling systems
and forcing Tokyo Electric to dump thousands of tons of sea
water on the complex as a stopgap measure. Damage to reactor
buildings, including a possible breach in the No. 2 unit’s
containment vessel, has made it harder for workers to get close
enough to fix the equipment without risking their health.  Power Outages  The  number of dead and missing  from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 28,343 as of 9 p.m. yesterday. About 200,000
households in northeast Japan remain without power and more than
350,000 have no gas, the government said. There are 242,882
refugees living in 2,045 shelters, the  National Police Agency 
said. Thousands of temporary pre-fabricated homes are being
built in Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima prefectures.  Residents evacuated from a 20-kilometer (12-mile) radius of
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant shouldn’t return home, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said. Some people had gone back to
pick up belongings, he said.  Elevated radiation levels have been detected in crops grown
near the stricken plant as well as the water supply in Tokyo,
220 kilometers to the south, and other regions. This has
triggered bulk-buying of bottled water at supermarkets that have
been forced to restrict purchases.  Some Success  Ever-higher  radiation emissions  at Dai-Ichi and evidence
water has leaked out of the No. 2 reactor’s containment vessel
are undermining success at restoring lighting to control rooms
and injecting fresh water into the reactor pressure vessels to
keep temperatures from rising.  “The high radiation levels seem to have come from fuel
rods that partially melted down and came into contact with water
used to cool the reactor,” Edano said at a briefing in Tokyo,
citing a draft report from the nuclear safety commission. “It’s
very regrettable, but we’re trying to contain the whole
situation while preventing the health impact from spreading.”  Shares of Tepco, as the utility is known, slumped 18
percent to 696 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday, the
lowest close since February 1977.  Soil near the Fukushima plant tested positive for plutonium
contamination, Tepco said. The radioactive metal was part of the
 fuel mix  in reactor No. 3 and its presence outside the plant
would suggest those fuel rods were also exposed. The amount
found shouldn’t be enough to affect human health, Tepco Vice
President Sakae Muto said at a press conference shown on a
webcast yesterday.  Tepco said it needs to drain water lying in four reactor
turbine buildings to determine where it came from and assess
damage to the fuel rods. Water in the No. 2 turbine building is
as high as 1 meter (3.2 feet) deep, a company official told
reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/28/ :50 GMT 