-- 
Banamex Fund Dumps Bonds as Carstens Seen Slow on Inflation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-03-28T22:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/banamex-fund-dumps-bonds-as-carsten-seen-slow-on-inflation-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s benchmark peso bonds are
on a record-long losing streak as concern mounts that the
central bank is waiting too long to raise interest rates.  Yields on the government’s 10 percent bonds due 2024 rose
to an 11-month high of 7.99 percent in March as prices fell in
each month since November, the biggest stretch of declines since
the notes were sold in 2005. The bonds lost 5.4 percent this
year, compared with a decline of 1.1 percent on similar-maturity
Brazilian debt and a 0.1 percent gain on U.S. Treasuries.  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
boosted borrowing costs in the past year as consumer prices rise
at the third-slowest pace in the region after Chile and  Peru .
Some investors speculate that central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will struggle to keep inflation near the bank’s 3
percent target as the U.S. recovery helps Mexico to its fastest
economic expansion since 2000.  “It’s hard to believe that people think that Mexico is so
dynamic that it will be able to reach 3 percent inflation when
the world is facing a wave of inflation,” Javier Orvananos, the
manager of the country’s biggest pension fund at Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit, said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. Further increases in U.S. yields will keep driving up
those in Mexico “toward the end of the year,” he said.  Pension funds, the biggest buyers of Mexican government
peso debt, cut holdings to 59 percent of total assets in
February, the lowest level since the industry regulator began
collecting the data three years ago.  Growth Surge  Banamex’s  funds  are selling peso debt with maturities
between three and four years and shifting money into stocks,
said Orvananos, who manages 230 billion pesos ($19.2 billion).
The funds posted an average annual return of 7.8 percent in the
past 36 months, the third-best performer after ING Groep NV’s
funds and Afore XXI, according to the regulator, known as
Consar.  Mexican inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12 months
through mid-March from 3.6 percent in February. The rate is half
the 6.1 percent pace in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy,
where growth surged to a 25-year high of 7.5 percent in 2010 and
fueled a jump in consumer demand. In Mexico, the economy
expanded 5.5 percent last year as the U.S. rebound helped drive
exports to a record $298 billion.  Mexico’s inflation-adjusted, or real, benchmark rate is 1.4
percent, higher than the rates of -1.5 percent in  Russia  and -
5.02 percent in Bulgaria, countries that share Mexico’s foreign
debt rating of BBB from  Standard & Poor’s , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil, which is rated BBB-, or one level
below Mexico, has a real interest rate of 5.65 percent.  ‘Obvious’ Trade  Traders expect annual inflation in Mexico to quicken to
3.97 percent over the next five years, according to the yield
difference, or breakeven rate, between fixed-rate bonds and debt
linked to consumer price increases.  The central bank said Feb. 9 that it expects inflation to
end the year within its broader target range of 2 percent to 4
percent as the economy will expand as much as 4.8 percent.  The selloff in bonds is overdone, making yields attractive,
because Carstens, 52, will succeed in keeping inflation in
check, said  Guillermo Osses , the head of fixed-income asset
management for emerging markets at HSBC Asset Management. He
said he’s been adding to his holdings in recent weeks.  “This is one of the most obvious trades out there,”
Osses, who helps manage $8 billion, said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “Investors are going to regret selling
the long end of the curve.”  Commodities Rally  The traders who are driving up yields will be proven wrong
because there’s still slack in the economy that will hold
inflation down, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said in an
interview yesterday at the Inter-American Development Bank’s
annual meeting in Calgary.  “The central bank has a lot of credibility and this
behavior in the long end of the curve is going to be corrected
because of the output gap we have,” Cordero said. “Mexico
still hasn’t reached the point of operating at high capacity.”  Surging oil, wheat and corn prices are fueling faster
inflation in developing nations from  India  to  China  as the
global economic recovery strengthens. The UBS Bloomberg Constant
Maturity Commodity Index has climbed 7.1 percent this year,
extending gains over the past two years to 68 percent.  July Meeting  Mexico’s central bank has left its benchmark lending rate
at a record low 4.5 percent since July 2009 to support the
economy’s recovery from its worst recession since 1991.
Carstens’ peers in Brazil,  Chile ,  Colombia  and Peru have all
raised borrowing costs at least once in the past year to contain
inflation. Argentina and  Venezuela  don’t set interest rate
targets.  Investors are betting that  Banco de Mexico , or Banxico,
will start raising the benchmark overnight lending rate as soon
as July, trading in 28-day interbank rate futures contracts
known as TIIE futures shows. Carstens will increase the
overnight rate about 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point,
to 5.25 percent by year-end, according to the contracts.  The central bank’s press office didn’t return a telephone
call seeking comment.  Yields on the TIIE futures contract maturing in July rose 1
basis point today to 5.01 percent. In the past five years, the
gap between the 28-day TIIE and the overnight rate has averaged
36 basis points.  ‘Hawkish’ Signal  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 11.97470 per dollar,
extending its gain to 3.1 percent this year.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 130 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point to 108, according to CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  One unidentified central bank board member argued during
the most recent policy meeting, held March 4, that the bank
should warn people about the possibility that  interest rates  may
change, according to minutes released on March 18.  The minutes were more “hawkish” than previous central
bank statements, indicating that policy makers may boost rates
in the next few months, said  Siobhan Morden , chief Latin
American strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . She recommends investors sell notes with
maturities of between one and two years.  Investor ‘Standoff’  Yields on securities due in December 2012 have climbed 63
basis points in the past five months to 5.5 percent. Yields on
the bonds due in 2024 have surged 148 basis points over that
time to 7.83 percent, compared with increases of 61 basis points
on Brazilian debt and 74 on Treasuries.  Kieran Curtis, who helps manage about $2 billion in
emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors, said international
investors are more bullish on Mexican bonds than locals.  “It seems like a bit of a standoff between foreigners who
think it’s very cheap and locals who don’t think their bond
markets are that interesting,” Curtis said in a telephone
interview from  London . “This certainly is not a market I would
want to be underweight on at the moment.”  Pension funds had 797 billion pesos, or 59 percent of total
assets, invested in local government debt in February, down from
800 billion pesos, or 67 percent, a year ago, according to
Consar. Pension funds hold about 21 percent of  government bonds ,
according to the central bank. Bond holdings sank as a percent
of total assets because the funds’ money under management jumped
16 percent to 1.383 trillion pesos in the past year.  Bonds to Stocks  The funds  boosted  investments in international equities to
a record 9.5 percent and holdings of corporate domestic debt to
18 percent, according to Consar.  “This has been a good year for inflation, but it’s hard to
think it will slow to 3 percent,” Banamex’s Orvananos said.
“The breakeven for inflation continues to be stuck near 4
percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  