-- 
BofA Board Sued by Holders Over Mortgage Recording Paperwork

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-28T23:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bank-of-america-board-sued-by-holders-over-mortgage-defects.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s board and
some officers were sued by shareholders claiming they were hurt
by false and misleading statements that hid defects in mortgage
recording and foreclosure paperwork.  Bank of America “did not properly record many of its
mortgages when originated or acquired, which severely
complicated the foreclosure process when it became necessary,”
according to the complaint filed today in New York state  Supreme
Court  in  Manhattan . The bank also concealed that it didn’t have
adequate personnel to process the large numbers of foreclosed
loans in its portfolio, the shareholders said.  The bank’s stock traded at inflated prices, reaching a high
of $19.48 on April 15, 2010, and fell almost 42 percent after
the problems were disclosed, according to the complaint.  The directors and officers also hid the bank’s involvement
in “dollar rolling,” omitting billions of dollars in debt from
its balance sheet, according to the complaint. Bank of America
later admitted it wrongly classified the transactions as sales
when they were secured borrowing, according to the complaint.  In October, after news of improprieties at Bank of America
and other large banks, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
lender temporarily halted foreclosures and admitted to possible
irregularities.  The investors accused the board and senior management of a
breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, a waste of corporate
assets, gross mismanagement and unjust enrichment.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, had no
immediate comment.  The case is Thomas O’Hare v.  Brian T. Moynihan ,
103729/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Karen Freifeld at in New York
or  kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  