-- 
EU Bank Bonus Payouts Said to Be Scrutinized by Regulator

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-28T14:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bank-bonuses-said-to-get-scrutiny-from-european-regulator-after-complaints.html
The European Union’s top financial
regulator will review this year’s bonus awards following
criticism of large payouts for bank executives, two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  The  European Banking Authority  will check whether capital
rules curbing bonuses were properly implemented by national
supervisors, including the U.K.  Financial Services Authority ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
review isn’t public. The EBA could force authorities to explain
why bonus rules weren’t implemented or propose rules that would
apply in all 27 EU-member states, one of the people said.  “The key question is whether the mandarins at the EBA feel
they have the competence to set out hard limits,” Bob Penn,
financial regulation partner at  Allen & Overy LLP , said in a
telephone interview in  London  today.  The Committee of European Banking Supervisors approved rules
to curb incentives for excessive risk-taking last year, imposing
limits on cash payouts. Labor leaders criticized  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  earlier this month after
the bank said it was giving him a 6.5 million-pound ($10.4
million) bonus, pushing his total compensation to 10.1 million
pounds and making him the U.K.’s top-paid bank CEO.  EU rules allow bankers to receive about 25 percent of
bonuses in immediate cash payouts and require the rest to be
deferred or held in shares for a minimum of three years. EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said earlier this
month that calls for moderation on bonuses hadn’t been heeded
and that the EU would consider further steps if necessary.  Hester  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the U.K.’s biggest
government-controlled bank, gave CEO  Stephen Hester  and eight
top executives shares valued at about 28 million pounds.  Britain’s four biggest banks said total bonuses for U.K.-
based employees will be lower than last year and pledged to
increase business lending in a bid to end what Hester called
“banker bashing.”  Joseph Eyre , an FSA spokesman in London, declined to
comment. Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for the EBA, didn’t
immediately respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  The FSA split financial institutions into four groups based
on their size to implement the EU guidelines, applying the
toughest bonus rules to firms with “significant proprietary
trading and investment banking activities,” the regulator said
in a  statement  in December.  ING Bonuses Scrapped  ING Groep NV (INGA)  scrapped proposed executive bonuses this month
after the bailed-out lender’s pay policy sparked criticism.  “The variable remuneration for the management board for
2010 threatens to inflict renewed damage to the recovering trust
of our customers and society,” Jan Hommen, 68, the bank’s CEO,
said in a letter to Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant. “We have
underestimated the signal this sends to society.”  ING had  said  Hommen would get a 1.25 million-euro bonus,
split equally between cash and shares, after the biggest Dutch
financial-services company reported its first profit in three
years. That triggered criticism from lawmakers and Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said he was “disappointed” because
the Amsterdam-based bank still hadn’t repaid 5 billion euros of
state aid.  General Electric Co. (GE)  awarded Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Immelt a $4 million bonus earlier this month, the first
he accepted since the financial crisis, after consistent
quarterly profit growth and two dividend increases in 2010.  “I certainly think that U.S. regulators need to look at
outlandish bonuses that have been given over the years and
consider whether or not there are appropriate ways to clamp down
on them,”  Bart Chilton , a members of the Commodities and
Futures Trading Commission, said in London today.  Immelt, who received a bonus of $5.8 million in 2007,
declined the payment for the next two years as GE grappled with
the credit crunch and a worldwide recession and its shares
trailed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  