-- 
Libor Probe, Hong Kong Trusts, Brussels Summit: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-03-28T12:18:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/barclay-s-libor-probe-hong-kong-trusts-eu-summit-electrabel-compliance.html
Barclays Plc is being investigated
by regulators seeking to determine if it broke information-
sharing rules when setting the  London  interbank offered rate, a
person briefed on the probe said.  U.S. and U.K. regulators are examining whether
communications between Barclays’s traders and its treasury broke
regulations that stop information being shared across the bank,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
details of the investigation are private. The Financial Times
reported the inquiry on its website March 24.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-biggest bank, is among banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG that have received subpoenas
from U.S. regulators investigating whether some firms
manipulated the Libor rate, two separate people familiar with
the probe said. The U.S. Department of Justice, Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
working together with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority on
the probe.  Spokesmen for London-based Barclays, the British Banking
Association and the Financial Services Authority declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News. A Citigroup spokesman
declined to comment.  Compliance Policy  Hong Kong  Exchanges Considers Allowing Business Trust Listings  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s largest-
listed exchange operator, may amend its rules to allow business
trusts to be listed, Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said.  Hong Kong Exchanges is discussing the issue with regulators
including the  Securities and Futures Commission , he said.  PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s biggest phone carrier, last week
said it is in talks with regulators on the company’s plan to
spin off telecommunications assets in a business trust.
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  this year said it chose  Singapore  for the
initial public offering of a business trust backed by some of
the company’s container-terminal assets because Hong Kong
doesn’t permit such listings.  Special Section: Brussels Summit  Euro Zone  Support, Budget Cuts, Nuclear Power Debate: Brussels  “The message is that the European Union is committed to
support the euro zone and the euro zone’s countries by any
means. This is a very strong commitment,” said Greek Prime
Minister George Papandreou, commenting on European Union
leaders’ approval of a permanent debt-crisis mechanism for euro-
area countries starting in 2013.  He made the remarks to reporters March 25 in Brussels after
the EU summit there last week.  “We need time, but we are committed to put  Greece  on a new
path, on a modern path,” Papandreou said.  The summit also affirmed March 11 decisions to ease the
terms of emergency aid that Greece received in return for budget
cuts and to bolster the role of the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility.  European leaders at the Brussels summit, which ended March
25, cut the startup capital for the future euro emergency-aid
mechanism.  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  on March 24 downgraded
 Portugal ’s sovereign-credit ratings. Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said the European Financial Stability
Facility has sufficient capacity to handle a Portuguese bailout.
Juncker told reporters in Brussels March 25 that the European
Union isn’t “there to push Portugal to ask for aid.”  Separately, nuclear safety and rules for the planned stress
tests on atomic plants caused a “real storm” at the Brussels
summit,  Poland ’s Prime Minister Donald Tusk said. Tusk made the
remarks at a news conference after the meeting.  EU leaders discussed issues relating to nuclear power
production in the region and details of the voluntary checks
that are due to be carried out later this year to reassess
safety standards after radiation leaks in  Japan , where an
earthquake and tsunami crippled reactors.  “There are countries that have nuclear power and want to
have more of it, countries that have it and want to phase it
out, countries that want to ban it and also countries that don’t
have nuclear plants but want to build them,” Tusk said.  It’s up to national governments in the EU to decide whether
to use nuclear power, which is produced in 14 member countries.
Safety is a shared responsibility between national and EU
authorities.  Compliance Action  Electrabel Fined 100,000 Euros a Day for Non-Disclosure  Electrabel SA, the Belgian unit of  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and operator
of seven atomic reactors in the country, was fined 100,000 euros
a day starting Jan. 3 because it failed to provide detailed
information about the profitability of its nuclear plants to
energy regulator CREG.  Laurent Jacquet, a spokesman for CREG, spoke in a telephone
interview.  India  Seeks Consensus Before Allowing Wal-Mart, Carrefour  India will raise the foreign investment limit in retail
business to allow  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  to
expand in the nation after reaching a consensus with political
parties and industry stakeholders.  In July, the nation’s trade ministry invited  views  on the
matter from local retailers, foreign companies and industry
groups and has since said it is reviewing the feedback. A
decision to ease restrictions will grant foreign retailers
access to a market where retail sales are forecast to grow 53
percent to 25 trillion rupees ($560 billion) by 2014, according
to a 2010  report  by Business Monitor International.  India’s laws, aimed at protecting owners of smaller shops,
limit overseas investment in single-brand outlets to 51 percent
while allowing foreign retailers to only open wholesale stores.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, has opened  five wholesale outlets  in the nation in
partnership with Bharti Enterprises.  European Bank Bonuses Said to Be Scrutinized by Regulator  The European Union’s top financial regulator will review
this year’s bonus awards following criticism of large payouts
for bank executives, two people with knowledge of the situation
said.  The  European Banking Authority  will check whether capital
rules curbing bonuses were properly implemented by national
supervisors, including the U.K.  Financial Services Authority ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
review isn’t public. The EBA could force authorities to explain
why bonus rules weren’t implemented or propose rules that would
apply in all 27 EU-member states, one of the people said.  “The key question is whether the mandarins at the EBA feel
they have the competence to set out hard limits,” Bob Penn,
financial regulation partner at  Allen & Overy LLP , said in a
telephone interview in London.  The Committee of European Banking Supervisors approved laws
to curb incentives for excessive risk-taking last year, imposing
limits on cash payouts. Labor leaders criticized  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond earlier this month after
the bank said it was giving him a 6.5 million-pound ($10.4
million) bonus, pushing his total compensation to 10.1 million
pounds and making him the U.K.’s top-paid bank CEO.  EU rules allow bankers to receive about 25 percent of
bonuses in immediate cash payouts and require the rest to be
deferred or held in shares for a minimum of three years. EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said earlier this
month that calls for moderation on bonuses had not been heeded
and that the EU would consider further steps if “need be.”  Courts  Stanford Investors Sue SEC for Losses in Alleged Swindle  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was sued by
eight of R. Allen Stanford’s investors, who claim regulators’
“negligence and misconduct” caused their losses.  U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s operations in
February 2009 on suspicion of fraud. Investors who purchased
certificates of deposit at the financier’s Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. lost more than $7 billion,
according to a lawsuit filed by the SEC.  The SEC’s inspector general, in a report issued last year,
faulted the agency’s Fort Worth,  Texas , office and some of its
employees for failing to act against Stanford before it did. The
investors, in a lawsuit filed March 24 in federal court in
 Dallas , claim regulators should have investigated Stanford
earlier and detected what the agency ultimately concluded was a
“massive”  Ponzi scheme .  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  Stanford, 61, who is in jail awaiting trial on parallel
criminal charges, denies any wrongdoing.  The case is Robert Dartez LLC v. the U.S., 3:11-cv-0602,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Gupta Resigns From Gates Foundation Amid Insider-Trading Probe  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
accused of leaking insider information to Galleon Group LLC
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , resigned as an adviser to the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation .  “Rajat Gupta has stepped down from his role on our Global
Development advisory panel until these matters are resolved,”
the foundation said in an e-mailed statement.  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
testified March 23 that Gupta had confidential information
including details of the $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs
in October 2008 by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
Prosecutors say Gupta leaked some of that information to
Rajaratnam, 53, who’s on trial in the largest crackdown on
hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.  Gupta, 62, who was managing director of McKinsey & Co. for
nine years, resigned earlier this month from Cincinnati-based
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s board after the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint against him. He also
plans to step down as head of the Indian School of Business, the
board of the Hyderabad-based school said on March 21. The
Financial Times reported Gupta’s resignation from the Gates
Foundation yesterday.  Interviews/Speeches  Fed’s Fisher Says He Backs Ending Central Bank’s Jobs Mandate  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard W. Fisher
said he supports the idea of dropping the central bank’s
congressional mandate for achieving full employment. Such a
mandate on jobs “puts us on a slippery, political slope,” the
regional bank chief said. “Personally, I would prefer a single
mandate.”  He made the remarks during a panel discussion March 25 at a
summit in Brussels.  The Fed has operated since the 1970s under a dual mandate
to promote  price stability  and full employment, and stripping
the jobs portion would leave the central bank focused solely on
inflation.  For more, click here. For more on the summit, see Special
Section, above.  Warren Says Consumer Bureau Foes Should Look at ‘Behemoths’  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser assigned
to set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said
lawmakers looking to limit the agency’s authority should focus
instead on the Wall Street “behemoths” aiming to undermine its
mission.  “If we’re going to go out there and spill ink on
accountability, we should also ask about how to hold powerful
financial institutions accountable,” Warren said March 24 in an
interview with Bloomberg News. “The idea that we should be
worried that some agency that will speak up for consumers might
get a little too loud is looking in the wrong direction.”  Warren was responding to complaints by Republican lawmakers
that the agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act in a Democrat-run
Congress, lacks accountability. Republicans have proposed
subjecting the bureau’s budget to congressional approval and
replacing its yet-to-be-filled director’s post with a five-
member commission.  Obama’s appointment of Warren, 61, to help shape the bureau
has been faulted by Republicans who say her role as adviser to
the Treasury secretary and assistant to the president injects
politics into what is supposed to be an impartial regulator.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 