-- 
BASF Said to Be in Talks With Orascom on Sale of Fertilizer Businesses

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l ,   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-28T13:56:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/basf-is-said-to-be-in-talks-with-orascom-on-sale-of-fertilizer-businesses.html
BASF SE (BAS)  is in talks to sell its
nitrogen-fertilizer unit to companies including Orascom
Construction Industries, said two people with knowledge of the
situation.  Discussions with Orascom are at a preliminary stage, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private. The assets include a nitrogen site in Antwerp,  Belgium ,
and a share of a venture in  France , which together generate
about 500 million euros ($702 million) in sales.  A disposal would mark the first time BASF, the world’s
biggest chemicals company, has outright offered a part of one of
its six fully integrated chemical complexes to an outside
investor. The deal may prove more attractive to a strategic
investor who can gain more value over a long period, said Mutlu Gundogan, an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland .  “There are synergies that a strategic buyer can extract,”
said Gundogan, who recommends investors buy BASF shares. “The
market needs to consolidate.”  BASF spokeswoman Jennifer Moore-Braun and Orascom’s Omar
Darwazah declined to comment on the sale. Competing suitors may
include  Yara International ASA (YAR)  and EuroChem. Yara, the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, may be interested in
the operations at the right price, spokesman Asle Skredderberget
said March 10. Vladimir Torin, spokesman for EuroChem in Moscow,
declined to comment.  The German company said March 1 that it planned to sell the
bulk of its fertilizer operations. The move highlights BASF’s
steps to shift focus away from cyclical products. BASF will
retain the fertilizer assets in Ludwigshafen, where the company
has its headquarters.  Higher Prices  A deal with BASF would follow Orascom’s purchase of similar
fertilizer units from Royal DSM NV for 310 million euros a year
ago. Higher fertilizer prices, stemming from a recovery in
agricultural markets, helped boost the Egyptian company’s profit
by 76 percent in the most recent quarter.  Orascom Chief Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris  on March 8
predicted prices will remain “healthy” in 2011 due to improved
prices for corn and wheat.  “They are building up a fertilizer division,” said
Gundogan. “They made the first step with DSM, which gives them
a foothold. Orascom is close to cheap feedstock. But the
consumers are in  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  