-- 
Berkshire Wrote Down U.S. Bancorp, Swiss Re After SEC Query

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-28T13:43:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/berkshire-wrote-down-u-s-bancorp-swiss-re-after-sec-query.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  wrote down the value of holdings in U.S. Bancorp, Sanofi-
Aventis SA and Swiss Reinsurance Co. after a query from the
Securities and Exchange Commission over valuations.  The adjustments to the equity stakes were made to
Berkshire’s fourth-quarter results in its annual Form 10-K
report, according to a Feb. 4 letter from Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire to the regulator. The letter was filed today on the
SEC’s website.  “As a result of our discussions, we recognize that the
staff” of the SEC believes that impairments on the investments
may be required according to generally accepted accounting
principles, Berkshire Chief Financial Officer Marc Hamburg
wrote.  Berkshire, which held  $61.5 billion  of equities as of Dec.
31, was asked by the SEC in January for more information about
stockholdings that traded below the prices paid by the company.
The firm recorded equity impairments of $938 million in the
fourth quarter. Berkshire told the SEC that it wasn’t writing
down its holdings of  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
because it expects the stocks recover.  Wells Fargo Outlook  “Wells Fargo reported record earnings for the year ended
December 31, 2010, and its financial condition is strong,”
Hamburg said. “The financial condition and business prospects
of Wells Fargo are expected to remain strong.” The San
Francisco-based bank’s stock advanced 3.1 percent this year
through last week. Kraft, based in Northfield,  Illinois , is
little changed.  Berkshire considers the holdings of Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp, Zurich-based Swiss Re and Paris-based Sanofi-Aventis
long-term investments, with each showing favorable financial
conditions and business prospects, according to Hamburg’s
letter. This “suggests that it is likely that the market prices
of each of these securities will recover to a level equal to or
greater than our cost basis,” he wrote.  Unrealized losses of more than 12 months on equity
investments narrowed to $531 million on Dec. 31 from
$2.7 billion a year earlier, Berkshire said in its annual
report. The Wells Fargo stake accounted for $384 million of that
unrealized loss, Berkshire said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  