-- 
Berlusconi Appears at Trial as Prosecutors Seek Conviction

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-28T10:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/berlusconi-appears-at-trial-as-prosecutors-seek-conviction.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  appeared in court for the first time in eight years
as prosecutors step up efforts to convict him of corruption
after he lost his immunity.  Berlusconi, 74, appeared at the Milan hearing today of a
trial in which he’s accused of  tax fraud  in purchasing film
rights for Mediatrade SpA, a unit of his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  company.
He denies the allegations and called the trial “ridiculous”
and a bid to drive him from office in an interview earlier today
on Canale 5, one of his television stations.  “It was a normal hearing,” Berlusconi’s lawyer, Niccolo Ghedini, told reporters at the courthouse. The premier “was at
ease, didn’t say anything and will return” to the next hearing,
scheduled for April 4, he said.  The case is one of four trials that are going ahead against
the premier after  Italy ’s Constitutional Court on Jan. 13 partly
overturned a law granting him virtual immunity from prosecution
while in office. The first hearing in a trial in which he’s
indicted for paying for sex with a minor and abusing his power
to cover his tracks is set for April 6.  “I never dealt with TV rights,” he said on Canale 5 today
in reference to the Mediatrade case. “After I entered politics
in January 1994, I distanced myself from the company that I
founded.”  About a hundred police ringed the Milan courthouse and a
crowd of Berlusconi supporters was on hand, cheering “Silvio,
Silvio” as he left.  No Saint  “No one is a saint, but these judicial prosecutions
against the premier are just trying to get rid of Berlusconi,”
said Dino Tonelli, 72, a former television cameraman who was at
the courthouse showing his support for Berlusconi.  Berlusconi has said he will attend all hearings held on
Mondays. An emergency Cabinet meeting on the Libya crisis on
March 21 prevented him from attending a hearing of a trial where
stands accused of paying $600,000 to U.K. lawyer David Mills to
lie under oath.  Ghedini said at the time that he couldn’t make that
appointment due to his political commitments. His last
appearance in court was in May 2003, when he rebutted charges
that he bribed judges to block the sale of state-owned SME
Meridionale SpA, a food company, to rival businessman Carlo De Benedetti. He was acquitted in that case in 2008.  Legal Costs  Berlusconi has spent “more than 600 billion Italian
lira,” or roughly $430 million, in defending himself and his
companies against legal action since entering politics in 1994,
he told business leaders in Milan on Feb. 28. He called himself
“the biggest legal defendant in the history of the universe.”  Berlusconi, who has been acquitted in eight corruption
trials since entering politics in 1994, has repeatedly charged
that Italy’s judges are out to destroy him politically.  His popularity dropped to a new low even as his ruling
coalition still led the opposition, an opinion poll showed on
March 16. The premier had the confidence of 33 percent of
Italians, a 2 percentage-point drop from February and the lowest
since his re-election in 2008, Rome-based IPR Marketing said in
the poll. The premier’s coalition had the support of 42.2
percent of respondents, compared with 41.2 percent for a group
of opposition parties, according to the survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 