-- 
BG to Start Oil Exports From Brazil as Nation Becomes Key Source of Crude

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-03-28T17:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bg-to-start-oil-exports-from-brazil-as-nation-becomes-key-source-of-crude.html
BG Group Plc, the UK’s third-
largest natural-gas producer, is preparing to export oil from
Brazil as the Latin American country becomes the company’s key
source of crude in the coming decade.  BG created a marketing division in Brazil and leased a
tanker to ship oil from the offshore Lula field, the Americas’
second-largest oil discovery in more than 30 years, said Nelson
Silva, the head of BG’s Brazil operations. Output at Lula will
rise once BG’s partner at the field, Brazil’s state-run  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , installs a pipeline and other infrastructure in
May or June, he said in an interview on March 25.  Brazil is set to become BG’s largest source of oil within
10 years amid rising output at Lula, where the company holds a
25 percent stake, and at least four other offshore fields, Silva
said. BG abandoned two less promising exploration areas in
Brazil in the past two years to focus on deepwater finds that
will account for 30 percent of its output by 2020, he said.  “We have had a lot of success and it confirms our
expectations that this is a great play,” Silva said at BG’s new
Brazil headquarters in downtown  Rio de Janeiro . “It’s going to
open to customers all over the world, including in Brazil,” he
said, declining to specify a timeline to begin exports.  BG, based in Reading,  England  will spend at least $30
billion in Brazil through 2020. The company and partners plan to
deploy 12 floating production, storage and offloading vessels,
or FPSOs, to raise total output capacity at the Brazilian fields
to 2.3 million barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2017.  Gas Pipeline  The first commercial production well at Lula, formerly
known as Tupi, will surpass 20,000 barrels a day, up from test
output of about 15,000 now, after Petrobras connects a natural-
gas pipeline and an injection well. Output at Lula is currently
constrained because Brazilian law limits the amount of gas that
Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras can “flare,” or burn off.  “That’s exactly what reduces your production, because
you’re limited by the flaring,” Silva said. “We will release
all the potential of the well because we want to see it flowing
at maximum production.”  Petrobras and its partners BG and  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  plan
to add two additional production wells to Lula this year, he
said. BG may start exporting production from Lula as early as
this year, using the refurbished Suezmax tanker, Silva said. BG
is seeking buyers for a first shipment in the first half of this
year.  Funds  BG will use  cash flow  from production to fund the $30
billion it plans to invest in Brazil by 2020, he said. That plan
contrasts with share and stake sales among other companies that
are exploring Brazil’s deepwater reserves in the past year.  Petrobras raised $70 in September in the world’s largest
share offering to buy oil reserves from the government and help
finance its business plan. Repsol YPF SA sold 40 percent of its
 Brazil  assets to Sinopec Group last year to raise $7.1 billion.  Galp, another partner at Lula with a 10 percent stake, is
planning to raise $2.8 billion by selling shares in its Brazil
unit in the second half of 2011.  Returned Fields  BG has returned two exploration areas to Brazil’s oil
regulator since 2009 to focus investments on major discoveries
that include the Lula, Cernambi, Guara and Carioca fields, Silva
said. This year BG boosted its Brazil production target 38
percent to 550,000 barrels a day in 2020.  “These are such great developments, and you are already
committed to $30 billion, you tend to focus your efforts and
funds and money on what looks like your priorities,” Silva
said.  Oil companies  in Brazil often return blocks to the
regulator when exploration is unsuccessful. Petrobras, Galp and
QGEP Participacoes, the  oil company  controlled by Queiroz Galvao
SA, returned two Santos blocks near BM-S-47 in March after
drilling a dry well.  BG plans to compete for exploration blocks on land and
offshore in northern Brazil when the government auctions the
areas later this year and aims to get majority stakes to control
day-to-day operations, Silva said. Petrobras runs operations at
all five of BG’s blocks in Brazil.  “BG would like to become an operator in Brazil, no doubt,
if we can be successful in the next bidding round,” Silva said.  More Spending  Any additional fields will push BG’s Brazil spending target
above $30 billion, he said. Brazil’s next bidding round includes
areas outside the so-called pre-salt region that holds Lula.  Last year Brazil passed legislation that makes Petrobras
the sole operator of any new exploration areas in the pre-salt,
which runs 800 kilometers (500 miles) along Brazil’s coast from
Espirito Santo to Santa Catarina states. It has  oil deposits 
beneath a layer of salt resting as much as 3,000 meters beneath
the ocean surface and another 3,000 to 6,000 meters below the
seabed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  