-- 
Bloomberg Television Goes ’Eye To Eye’ With Business Visionaries

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-28T22:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bloomberg-television-goes-eye-to-eye-with-business-visionaries.html

Press Release  New Series Features Interviews on the  London  Eye  NEW YORK -- This Monday, March 28th at 8:00 pm/GMT, Bloomberg
Television anchor  Francine Lacqua  ( @flacqua ) meets billionaire
Sir  Philip Green  135 meters up in the sky on “Eye To Eye,” a new
series on Bloomberg Television program shot on location in
London inside the world’s most iconic Ferris wheel, the London
Eye.  Hosted by  Francine Lacqua , each episode of “Eye To Eye”
features a new conversation with a self-made billionaire,
entrepreneur or lifestyle icon, riding with Lacqua around the
highest observation wheel in the world.  In the premiere
episode, Lacqua speaks with Sir Philip Green, founder of the
famous retailer Topshop and known for his work with iconic
supermodel  Kate Moss .  “’Eye To Eye’ captures the kind of conversations you don’t have
in a restaurant or boardroom,” said Lacqua. “By bringing guests
like Christian Louboutin, Sir Philip Green and Bianca Jagger to
an unexpected venue like the London Eye, the show offers a whole
new perspective on what makes these talented individuals such a
powerful force in their fields.”  The half-hour program “Eye To Eye” airs Monday evenings at
8:00pm GMT on Bloomberg Television, with additional repeats on
Wednesday and Friday evenings and weekends.  The first six
episodes will air Monday, March 28 through Monday, May 2, 2011.
This season, “Eye To Eye” will feature conversations with luxury
shoe designer Christian Louboutin (April 4);  Michael O’Leary ,
one of Ireland’s wealthiest business leaders and CEO of the low-
cost airline Ryanair (April 11); Sir Martin Sorrell, CEO of WPP
Group, one of the world’s leading communications and advertising
companies (April 18th); Bianca Jagger, social and human rights
advocate (April 25); and Margherita Missoni, fashion icon and
brand ambassador for her family’s famous Italian luxury brand,
Missoni (May 2).  Air dates and times in the U.S. may differ. To
check air dates and time for “Eye to Eye” in the U.S., please
visit www.bloomberg.com/tv  Bloomberg Television can be seen in the U.K. on Sky Channel 502,
Freesat Channel 208 and Virgin Media Channel 609. For more
information, visit  http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/ .  About Bloomberg Television
Bloomberg Television is the only truly global business news
channel, reaching more than 250 million homes around the world
from the network’s studios in  New York , London and  Hong Kong .
The network provides breaking news coverage and analysis of the
people, companies and ideas that move the markets.  For more
information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/  and follow us on Twitter
( @BloombergTV ) and  Facebook .  About Bloomberg
Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytics, data, news, and
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
