-- 
BNP Paribas Said to Be in Talks to Buy Germany’s IKB From Lone Star Funds

-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-03-28T14:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bnp-paribas-said-in-talks-to-buy-germany-s-ikb-from-lone-star.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA is in talks to buy
 IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB)  from  Lone Star Funds  in a deal
that may help  France ’s largest bank add corporate clients in
Germany, according to three people familiar with the matter.  An agreement may be reached as early as the second quarter,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. SEB Bank AB is also a potential bidder in the sale,
which is being managed by Perella Weinberg Partners LP, one of
the people said.  A purchase by BNP Paribas may help the Paris-based lender
win more medium-sized corporate clients under the stewardship of
Achim Klueber, said the people. BNP Paribas hired the banker in
December from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc for the new post
of head of corporate & transaction banking  Europe .  Lone Star 
took control of IKB, Germany’s first casualty of the U.S.
subprime mortgage crisis, in August 2008 and used 9.6 billion
euros ($13.5 billion) of government guarantees to help revive
the Dusseldorf-based bank.  “BNP has said multiple times that it wants to expand its
German corporate coverage and IKB is one of the few assets
available that fits the profile,” said Christoph Bossmann, an
analyst at WestLB in Dusseldorf who has an “add” rating on
BNP. “Refinancing is still an issue at IKB, but those concerns
would subside under the umbrella of BNP.”  BNP Paribas spokesman Dirk-Michael Mitter declined to
comment, as did Kimmo Best, a spokesman for SEB in  Frankfurt ,
and IKB spokesman Patrick von der Ehe. Lone Star couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Corporate Clients  It remains open whether BNP and Lone Star will reach an
agreement on the terms, and a buyer could eventually purchase
parts of the lender, leaving assets such as the leasing
business, the people said.  Lone Star, a Dallas-based buyout firm, paid about 137
million euros for IKB and said in October that it was seeking a
strategic partner for the lender.  The private-equity firm boosted the lender’s Tier 1 capital
ratio to more than 10 percent since the bailout by shedding
toxic assets, IKB said in February. The German bank also reduced
total assets to 34.2 billion euros at the end of 2010. It had to
cut assets, sell its Luxembourg unit and reduce real-estate
financing to fulfil European Union conditions for state aid.  IKB reported a profit for the third quarter, which ended
Dec. 31, and narrowed the loss for the first nine months to
132.2 million euros from 614.6 million euros a year earlier.  Joachim von Schorlemer, the head of BNP Paribas’s German
business, said in October that the French bank is targeting
“large midcap” corporate clients with annual revenue of at
least 1 billion euros and export-driven businesses that may
benefit from its international network.  BNP Paribas plans to increase its staff in corporate and
investment banking in  Germany  to between 400 and 450 people by
mid-2011, from about 340, he said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  