-- 
BNP Paribas’ BICI Bourse Starts in Dakar on Ivory Coast Closure

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-03-28T14:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bnp-paribas-bici-bourse-starts-in-dakar-on-ivory-coast-closure.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA’s brokerage in West
Africa, BICI Bourse, reopened in Dakar, Senegal after closing
its head office in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, as disputed elections
in the nation sparked violence.  “All our operations are now done temporarily until further
notice” from the site of Dakar,  BICI Bourse , Paribas’ only
full-service brokerage in West Africa, said in an e-mailed
statement dated March 25. BICICI, The brokerage closed its
offices in Ivory Coast’s commercial capital of Abidjan on Feb.
14 amid security concerns.  BICI Bourse is the second-biggest brokerage operating on
the West African regional stock exchange, known as the Bourse
Regional des Valeurs Mobilieres, with 250 billion CFA francs
($533.9 million) under management and about 11,000 clients,
according to its website.  BRVM, as the exchange is known, was forced to relocate to
Bamako, the capital of neighboring  Mali , after its former
offices in Abidjan were seized on Feb. 9 by security forces
loyal to Laurent Gbagbo, the nation’s incumbent leader who says
he won a Nov. 28 presidential election. The index has climbed
1.3 percent since trading resumed on March 1.  International bodies including the  African Union  say his
rival,  Alassane Ouattara , won the vote and is the legal
president of the country. The dispute sparked violence that has
left almost 462 people dead and pushed the country to the brink
of civil war, according to the  United Nations .  Gbagbo’s administration said late February it nationalized
the French bank, although it is not clear whether the seizure is
effective.  BICI Bourse is the first brokerage from  Ivory Coast  to
resume its operations after most of the international banks shut
down in the West African country.  BNP Paribas and Citigroup Inc. closed their local branches
in Ivory Coast on Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 