-- 
BNY Mellon Hires Former Lehman Brothers Analyst Malvey as Chief Strategist

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-03-28T18:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bny-mellon-hires-former-lehman-analyst-malvey-as-global-markets-strategist.html
  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
which oversees $1.2 trillion in assets, hired former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. analyst Jack Malvey as chief global
markets strategist.  Malvey, 59, was chief global fixed-income strategist before
Lehman filed for bankruptcy and sold its investment banking
business to Barclays Plc for $1.75 billion in September 2008. He
was head of total-return strategy at  Barclays Capital  after the
acquisition and left the firm in January 2009.  Malvey will report to Curtis Arledge, chief executive
officer of BNY Mellon Asset Management. He will also be director
of the firm’s Center for Global Investment and Market
Intelligence in New York, which will analyze information from
BNY Mellon’s investment groups to be distributed to clients,
said Arledge, who joined BNY Mellon from BlackRock Inc. in
November.  “Jack’s been an industry leader at gathering information
and pulling together many great minds, which is exactly what
he’ll be doing here,” Arledge said in a telephone interview
from  New York . “It’s an increasingly uncertain world, and we
wanted to bring Jack to our platform to help our clients, and to
help ourselves, figure it out.”  Institutional Investor magazine ranked Malvey and his team
at Lehman as third best in fixed-income research for general
strategy in 2008. It was the first time since 1997 that Malvey
didn’t take the top spot. He was also ranked as the best in the
high-grade corporate sector ranking from 1993 through 1997.
Malvey was a consultant after leaving Barclays.  Hall of Fame  “It’s really a dream opportunity to join a world-class
asset-management institution in such a prominent and exciting
role,” Malvey said in a telephone interview. He started at BNY
Mellon on March 21.  Malvey was inducted into the Fixed Income Analysts Society
Hall of Fame in 2003, according to the group’s  website . He
joined Lehman after being a director of corporate-bond research
at Kidder Peabody. Prior to joining Kidder, Malvey was an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  