-- 
Giambi May Be Called to Testify Today at Bonds Perjury Trial

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/bonds-s-ex-mistress-tells-jury-he-had-physical-changes-from-steroids-use.html
Former New York Yankees baseball
player Jason Giambi may be called to testify today at  Barry Bonds ’s perjury trial in federal court in San Francisco,
prosecutors said.  Giambi and Jeremy Giambi are on today’s witness list, said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella. Jason Giambi, 40, a first
baseman for the  Colorado Rockies , may testify that he received
steroids from Bonds’s former trainer, along with instructions
and a schedule of how to administer them, prosecutors said in
court filings. Giambi played for the Yankees from 2002 to 2008
and also played for the  Oakland Athletics , where he was the
 American League ’s most valuable player.  Bonds’s ex-mistress, Kimberly Bell, testified yesterday
that the slugger told her in 1999 or 2000 that he took steroids
and she said Bonds had physical changes in him such as testicle
shrinkage.  Bell said she asked Bonds about a lump on his elbow from an
injury. They were at her apartment in  Mountain View , California.  “He said it was because of steroids,” Bell said. “It
looked like that because steroids caused the muscle and tendons
to grow faster than the joint could handle.”  “He said he didn’t do it all the time, but he said it
helped him recover,” she said. “It helped him recover
quicker.”  Bonds, 46, who holds  Major League Baseball ’s home run
record, is accused of lying to a federal grand jury in 2003 when
he said he never knowingly took steroids given to him by his
trainer. He has pleaded not guilty.  Book Planned  Bell planned to write a book and appeared on Fox
Television’s “Geraldo” show within two years of her breakup
with the former  San Francisco  Giants outfielder amid publicity
about steroids in baseball and Bonds’s grand jury testimony,
Bell testified under cross examination by the slugger’s
attorney. She denied lawyer Cris Arguedas’s assertion that she
planned to include a lot of “humiliating” information in the
book so she could make money and “get rich.”  “Maybe the sexual dysfunction would have been one sentence
out of a couple of hundred pages,” Bell said. “I wasn’t trying
to write a book about steroids.”  She said she wanted to write a book about their
relationship and what went wrong and why she didn’t leave him.  Bell, a consumer sales manager at  Taser International Inc. (TASR) ,
was working at  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  when she first met Bonds at
age 24, she testified.  Nine-Year Relationship  The two had a nine-year relationship starting in 1994,
during which time Bonds divorced one woman and married another,
Bell said. During their relationship, she traveled with him to
spring training and moved into a house she bought with about
$80,000 he gave her for a down payment. Bonds broke up with her
in 2003, telling her by phone to “disappear,” she said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow asked Bell whether
Bonds “seemed different in terms of the testicle and penis
area” over the course of their relationship.  “The shape, size of his testicles, smaller, unusual,
different shape, and he had some trouble keeping an erection and
tried some things to resolve that,” Bell said.  Larry Bowers, a scientist at the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency,
testified last week for the government that sexual changes, hair
loss, acne, bloating, anger and aggressiveness are linked to
steroid use.  ‘Aggressive, Irritable’  Bell, dressed in a light gray pantsuit and white top, also
testified that Bonds became “increasingly aggressive,
irritable, very impatient.”  “He would get really angry really easy,” she said. Asked
by Nedrow for details, she said Bonds told her “he would cut my
head off and leave me in a ditch.”  “He said he would cut out my breast implants because he
paid for them,” she said, her voice cracking. Yesterday was the
first time she had seen Bonds since they parted ways, she said.  Arguedas asked Bell how many times she had cried during the
more than 20 radio interviews and numerous television and
newspaper interviews she gave after she went public with her
relationship with Bonds, including posing for Playboy in 2007.  On “how many of those radio shows did you cry? None? Any
tears?” Arguedas said.  “There were some times when I got emotional,” Bell said.  Arguedas said Bell had help from at least 14 publicists,
agents and attorneys. The defense attorney asked about a series
of letters sent to Bonds from Bell’s attorney seeking payment
for the  Arizona  house. Bell said Bonds had promised to pay for
the house.  No Money  “They requested that he take care of his responsibilities
with regard to the home,” she said.  Bonds didn’t give her any money for the house, which she
later sold in a deal that netted her $111,000, Bell said. There
was no money left over after paying off debts related to her
home and legal bills, she said. She never wrote the book or
earned any money from her plans to write it and is no longer
pursuing the book, Bell testified.  Arguedas showed Bell mortgage application documents Bell
had signed that said the home in Arizona was to be a second
home.  “Do you agree that it’s a false statement,” said
Arguedas.  Bell said it was “incorrect” and attributed the entry to
the mortgage broker who prepared the document.  Arguedas also said Bell lied when she said some money for
her house down payment came from her parents’ savings account.
Bell acknowledged that she gave them money that Bonds had given
her, and her parents “gifted” the cash back to her.  “That’s what Barry told me to do,” said Bell.  “Did you just lie?” asked Arguedas.  “I’m not a liar, Ms. Arguedas,” Bell replied.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  