-- 
Brazil Boosts Tax on Overseas Credit-Card Purchases

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-28T22:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/brazil-boosts-tax-on-overseas-credit-card-purchases-correct-.html
Brazil ’s government almost tripled
a tax consumers must pay on credit-card purchases abroad to 6.38
percent.  The increase in the so-called IOF tax on financial
transactions from  2.38 percent  is effective today and will
affect transactions liquidated after 30 days, according to a
decree published in the  Official Gazette . The increase also
affects Internet commerce, according to Sandro de Vargas Serpa,
undersecretary for taxation at Brazil’s tax agency.  “The government is concerned with Brazilians’ debt burden
and with tax collection,” said Elson Teles, chief economist at
Maxima Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro. “The tax increase
would allow a better management of the current account gap and
also help offset lower tax collection after higher income
exemptions.”  Gross spending by Brazilians abroad, including online
retail purchases, jumped 38.5 percent in the first two months of
the year to $3.1 billion, the central bank said last week. The
increase helped widen the country’s current account gap to a
record $4.53 billion for the period, the bank said.  Stronger Currency  Brazil’s current account deficit, which is being fueled by
a 39 percent appreciation of the real since the start of 2009,
may widen to a record $60 billion in 2011, from $47.5 billion in
2010, the central bank said last week.  President  Dilma Rousseff  also published a measure today
increasing the income-tax exemption by 4.5 percent annually
through 2014.  The tax agency, in a statement, said Sandro de Vargas
Serpa, sub-secretary of taxation, did not confirm the government
is considering raising taxes on foreign borrowing by Brazilian
companies. Earlier, in a press conference in Brasilia, Serpa
said the government “does not comment on measures under study”
when asked whether such a move was under consideration.  The measures are designed to curb the real, which has
surged 39 percent since the start of 2009.  Redecard SA, Brazil’s second-biggest card-payment
processor, declined 0.2 percent to 23.76 reais in Sao Paulo
trading today. Shares had fallen as much as 1.1 percent, the
biggest intra-day decline in a week. Cielo SA, the country’s
biggest card-payment processor by market value, declined 2.4
percent to 13.66 reais.  Positive Trend  Investors are pricing in the impact of higher taxes on
credit-card purchases today, while focusing on a positive trend
in the medium term, Daniel Malheiros, an analyst at Spinelli
Corretora SA brokerage, said in a telephone interview.  “The impact is limited,” said Malheiros. “Credit-card
processors in Brazil will continue growing more than 10 percent
annually over the next four years.”  Credit cards are being used by 43 percent of Brazil’s
population, up from 31 percent in 2007, the central bank said
today in a report posted on its website. Brazilians holding a
bank checking account rose to 51 percent of the population last
year, from 39 percent in 2007, the report showed.  Economists covering the Brazilian economy raised their
inflation forecasts while reducing their estimate for interest-
rate increases after the central bank signaled it may adopt
measures to curb credit growth other than raising borrowing
costs.  Economists lifted their 2011 CPI forecast to 6 percent,
from 5.88 percent a week earlier, according to a March 25
central bank survey of about 100 economists published today.
Economists cut their forecast for the benchmark overnight
interest rate to 12.25 percent at year-end from 12.5 percent.  Policy makers in Latin America’s biggest economy may adopt
new measures to curb consumer credit growth in a bid to cool
heated domestic demand, central bank President Alexandre Tombini
told lawmakers March 22. Inflation forecasts may “worsen” in
the short term as analysts absorb the residual impact from a
rally in commodity prices, Tombini said March 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net 
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  