-- 
British American Tobacco Cut From U.S. Racketeering Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-28T21:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/british-american-tobacco-dropped-from-u-s-government-s-racketeering-case.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,
 Europe ’s largest cigarette maker, was dropped from the U.S.
government’s racketeering lawsuit after a judge in  Washington 
ruled the U.S. no longer has the authority to hold the U.K.
company liable for hiding the health hazards of smoking.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler today said a 2010 ruling
by the U.S. Supreme Court in a securities case restricts the
U.S. from seeking liability from “what is essentially foreign
activity.”  “There is no evidence that Congress intended to
criminalize foreign racketeering activities under RICO,”
Kessler wrote.  In 2006, Kessler found that the British American Tobacco
(Investments) Ltd. unit of British American Tobacco and other
cigarette companies violated anti-racketeering laws by
conspiring to hide the dangers of cigarettes. Kessler ordered
the companies to stop marketing cigarettes as “light” and
“low-tar” and to make statements about the health effects of
smoking in newspapers and magazines and on cigarette packages.  The  Justice Department , in court papers, argued British
American Tobacco’s liability can be premised on its conduct in
the U.S., including the company’s involvement with an
experimental farm in North Carolina.  “The problem with the Government’s argument is that
BATCo’s domestic conduct was not the basis for its RICO
liability in this case,” Kessler said.  Contribute Payments  Kessler said in her ruling today that British American
Tobacco must still contribute payments to cover the government’s
legal costs.  Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment.  An e-mail message and telephone message left with British
American Tobacco’s London press office after normal business
hours weren’t immediately returned.  Earlier this month, British American Tobacco, along with
 Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris USA unit,  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI) ’s R.J. Reynolds Tobacco and  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ’s Lorillard
Tobacco, asked Kessler to dismiss the 1999 racketeering case,
saying court oversight of the industry is no longer needed.  The companies said a 2009 law, the Family Smoking
Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, empowered the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration to watch over the industry and establish
restrictions on the sale, promotion and distribution of tobacco
products.  Kessler hasn’t ruled on that motion.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  