-- 
Britney Spears Vies With Lady Gaga on Lusty Party CD: Review

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-03-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/britney-spears-challenges-lady-gaga-with-steamy-disco-party-cd-mark-beech.html
When you are up against Lady Gaga,
Rihanna and  Katy Perry , there’s no room for subtlety.  Britney Spears never sways from the role of constantly
available disco bunny on her album “Femme Fatale,” out today.  The 12 very straightforward mating-call tracks are in-heat
demands for love, burnished by her producers into the sleekest
collection we are likely to hear in 2011 -- or at least until
Lady Gaga releases “Born This Way” on May 23.  Spears, who turns 30 this year, has sold more than 100
million albums. Listen to a track like “Inside Out” and it’s
clear she’ll sell a few more. Pulsating synths clatter away and
the dubstep beats are easy to dance or work out to.  Britney’s fulltime job for a while was as a one-woman
tabloid news factory, fuelled by rehab, car crashes, hasty
marriages, custody fights, stripping and head-shaving.  She hasn’t been writing songs or producing her own music --
she’s left that to the likes of Dr. Luke, Max Martin and
will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas, whose song “Big Fat Bass” is
one of the best things here.  Brand Britney is too valuable to be messed up and this
autotuned album carries on where “Circus” left off, though
there isn’t anything quite as good as its 2008 single
“Womanizer” or her previous hits “Toxic” and “Gimme More.”  The lyrics include the lines “So if I said I want your
body now, would you hold it against me?” and “Got me kinda
hot... steaming like a pot full of vegetables.”  Vegetables? Well, at least it makes a change from Lady
Gaga’s meat dress.  Rating: **.  Spears is on Jive Records. Her new CD is priced from $12.98
in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K. There is also a deluxe
edition adding extra tracks. Download fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.britneyspears.com/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or Mark_Beech on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 