-- 
Broken Heart Burns Like Hot Coffee, Brain Study of Former Lovers Shows

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-03-28T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/broken-heart-burns-like-hot-coffee-study-of-ex-lovers-shows.html
Heartache over lost love is similar
to the physical pain of spilling hot coffee on your lap,
scientists studying brain scans say.  The sting of seeing photos of an ex-lover stimulated the
same parts of the brain as intense heat applied to the arms of
40 people in a study published in the  Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences .  The research builds on a 2010 study published in the
journal  Psychological Science  that showed people who took the
painkiller acetaminophen, sold by Johnson & Johnson as Tylenol,
felt less rejected when excluded from a ball-passing game. While
rejection and physical pain aren’t identical, they are more
similar than anyone had realized, said  Edward Smith , a
psychology professor at  Columbia University  in  New York  and an
author of today’s study.  “There may be something special about rejection,” Smith
said in a telephone interview. “No other negative emotion, not
anger and not fear, elicits reactions in the pain matrix of the
brain.”  The brain scans showed involvement of the secondary
 somatosensory cortex , which processes types of sensations
including light touch, pain, pressure and temperature. Also
activated in both rejection and physical pain was the dorsal
posterior insula, which senses temperature.  Photos and Heat  Participants were shown photographs of a former partner who
dumped them and of a friend who was the same sex as their former
partner. Then heat was applied to elicit a burning feeling on
their left arms and, in a separate application, a warm
stimulation. Patients rated how they felt after each trial on a
distress scale, and underwent fMRI brain scans. The warmth and
the friend served as controls.  “Spilling a hot cup of coffee on yourself and thinking
about how rejected you feel when you look at the picture of a
person that you recently experienced an unwanted breakup with
may seem to elicit very different types of pain,” said Ethan
Kross, a social psychologist at the  University of Michigan  and
the article’s lead author, in a statement. “But this research
shows that they may be even more similar than initially
thought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 