-- 
Brown Drive to Close California Deficit Deal Nears End as Tax Talks Stall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/brown-drive-to-close-california-deficit-deal-nears-end-as-tax-talks-stall.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
push to close the most-populous U.S. state’s budget deficit by
putting a $9.3 billion tax referendum before voters in June is
approaching an end as last-minute talks with lawmakers falter.  Brown, 72, has been trying to win Republican support for
his  plan  to let voters decide on extending sales, income and
vehicle-tax increases set to end in June. Keeping them for five
more years is crucial to close a $15 billion budget gap without
deeper cuts to services including education and public safety,
the governor said.  The talks stalled late last week after Republicans gave
Brown and fellow Democrats who control the Legislature 53
demands, such as curbing teacher tenure and boosting funding for
county fairs, in exchange for supporting the referendum. That
prompted Democrats to say they were ready to abandon talks and
pursue alternatives such as gathering signatures for a November
vote or finding a way to call a June ballot without Republicans.  “This takes us clearly to a point where we will quickly
have to decide whether or not to pursue solutions that do not
require Republican votes,” Speaker of the Assembly John Perez,
a Democrat from  Los Angeles , told reporters after seeing the
list on March 25.  The Republican list called for a ballot measure that would
dismantle the current public employee pension system that
guarantees benefit levels regardless of investment returns,
replacing it with a hybrid including elements of a traditional
plan and a 401(k) account where beneficiaries bear more risk.  Spending Cap  They also want voters to approve a cap on state spending
based on a formula tied to inflation and population changes.
They also said any extension of taxes and fees should expire
after 18 months.  The Republicans also want to reduce regulations they said
hinder business growth. They want to limit legal damages sought
in environmental lawsuits and exempt urban redevelopment
projects from most environmental review.  “The Democrats’ response to the Senate Republicans’ budget
solutions proves that they were never serious about a true
bipartisan budget, but instead are only interested in
Republicans giving in to their demands for more taxes,” Bob Dutton, the Senate Republican leader, said in a statement.  Tax Extensions  Brown wants voters to pass extensions of a 0.25 percentage-
point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent; an
increase in auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point, to
1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and a reduction of the
state’s annual child tax credit to $99 from $309.  The governor needs the election to occur in June so he can
know the outcome before the start of the fiscal year July 1.  Brown signed budget bills last week that reduced spending
by $8.2 billion and shrank the deficit by another $3 billion
through loans and transfers. He’s promised more cuts if the tax
extensions are rejected and has publically chastised Republicans
for opposing his plan to let voters choose taxes or more cuts.  “I will feel a lot better about making $10 billion to $12
billion more of spending cuts if the people have said that’s
what they want,” Brown said last week.  Failure to strike a deal and pass the plan would hand Brown
his first legislative defeat since he took office in January. He
served two previous terms, from 1975 to 1983, and was elected in
November on pledges to use his experience to strike deals and
repair the financial strains that left  California  with resurgent
deficits totaling more than $100 billion in the past three
years.  ‘Right to Vote’  “You can’t expect to ram through a complete agenda as a
minority party when all the governor is doing is asking to give
the people the right to vote,” said Gil Duran, a Brown
spokesman. “Any reasonable person knows you can’t get 53 things
for the price of one.”  California’s general-obligation debt shares with Illinois
the lowest credit rating of any state from Moody’s Investors
Service, with a fifth-highest A1 grade.  Standard & Poor’s  gives
California an A-, its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality
securities and the worst for any state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  