-- 
Buying Brand-Name Drugs Over Generics Raises Medicaid Costs

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-03-28T14:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/buying-brand-name-drugs-over-generics-costly-for-u-s-medicaid.html
Medicaid, the joint U.S.-state
health program for the poor, spent $329 million extra in 2009
purchasing 20 brand-name drugs instead of available generic
copies, according to an  American Enterprise Institute  report.  The study included contraceptives, respiratory medicines
and antibiotics. Risperdal,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s antipsychotic, prescribed in generic form
exclusively would have saved $60 million in 2009, the report
released today found.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , based
in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan
Inc. make generic versions of the drug.  “There’s $300 million-plus in money that’s being left on
the table in the Medicaid program at a time when we can’t
afford” it, Alex Brill, the study’s author, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re not talking about taking away services, we’re
talking about providing them in a more efficient way.”  State rules requiring generics may be a way to reduce
Medicaid’s drug costs, said the report from the Washington-based
public policy group that favors limited government.  Pharmacies may substitute drug copies for brand-name
treatments for Medicaid patients without a doctor’s directive in
49 states, and 16 require pharmacists to use a generic unless
the doctor specifies, according to a 2010 analysis by Washington
consulting firm  Avalere Health .  The 2010 health-care overhaul is expected to add  16 million 
people to Medicaid by 2019, the Congressional Budget Office
estimates. That will put more pressure on the program to save
money, said Brill, a research fellow at the institute.  Overall Cost  Drug  costs  comprised 5.3 percent, or $20 billion, of
Medicaid’s $374 billion cost in 2009, according to the  Centers
for U.S. Medicare and Medicaid Services . The federal government
paid 67 percent of the drug expenses. Substituting the 20
medicines highlighted in the report with generics would have
reduced that spending by 1.6 percent.  Generics use is a well-established cost-saving practice,
and it’s up to states to push for wider adoption, according to
Mary Kahn, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services. “Use of generics is really a state call,”
she said in an e-mail.  The top-20 list of drugs Medicaid overspent on in 2009
includes five anticonvulsants, which are under  Food and Drug
Administration  scrutiny because of patient and provider concerns
that generic versions don’t work as well to treat epilepsy as
their brand-name counterparts. The “estimated waste” cited by
the report on the five treatments totals $169 million, more than
half of the program’s additional costs cited by the study.  Doctors’ Group Opposition  The  American Academy  of Neurology says in a  statement  on
its website it opposes the generic substitution of
anticonvulsant drugs to treat epilepsy without an attending
physician’s approval.  “For anticonvulsant drugs, small variations in
concentrations between name-brands and their generic equivalents
can cause toxic effects and/or seizures when taken by patients
with epilepsy,” according to the statement.  Brill said he couldn’t comment on whether generics should
be substituted for anticonvulsants. “We have to leave it to the
FDA to determine what’s interchangeable,” he said.  The FDA awarded the  University of Maryland  School of
Pharmacy a $1.1 million, two-year contract last year to study
whether brand and generic anti-epileptic drugs may be switched
safely and effectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  