-- 
Canada's Currency Strengthens Versus Major Counterparts on Crude, Outlook

-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-28T21:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/canadian-currency-strengthens-versus-major-peers-on-oil-near-two-week-high.html
Canada ’s dollar rose versus 15 of
its 16 most-traded peers as oil, the nation’s biggest export,
traded within $4 a barrel of a 30-month high amid concern supply
may be disrupted and speculation the economy is improving.  The currency had the biggest five-day gain in almost a
month against the U.S. dollar last week as allied planes
attacked forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya ,  Africa ’s
third-biggest oil producer.  Consumer spending  in the U.S.,
Canada’s largest trade partner, rose more than forecast.
Campaigning began in the nation’s fourth election in seven years
after Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government fell.  “Despite the collapse of the government over the weekend,
investors would rather look at the Canadian dollar as a
commodity story,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director in
the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon,
the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion
in assets under administration.  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent to 97.79
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.05 cents on
March 25. It reached the strongest level since March 14, 97.32
cents, on March 24. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0226.  The loonie was headed for a 0.6 percent loss for the month
and a 2.1 percent gain for the quarter.  Crude oil for May delivery advanced as much as 0.3 percent
to $105.76 a barrel in  New York  before trading at $103.90. It
touched $106.69 a barrel on March 24, the highest level since
March 7, when it reached $106.95, the most since September 2008.
Crude has gained 7 percent this month.  Risk Appetite  “There’s a generally elevated level of risk appetite,”
said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network.  The greenback gained against the yen amid speculation the
U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum. Consumer purchases
increased 0.7 percent in February, the most since October, after
advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  The loonie strengthened against the euro, appreciating 0.3
percent to C$1.3777. The shared currency earlier fell versus
most counterparts after German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
coalition was defeated in a regional election. European Union
leaders last week pared the paid-in capital for the euro
region’s emergency-aid fund as of 2013 to 16 billion euros
($22.4 billion), less than the 40 billion euros foreseen in a
March 21 accord.  Trichet on Inflation  The euro trimmed losses after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said inflation rates that stick
above 2 percent would be a concern. Trichet said this month the
ECB may raise the benchmark interest rate from 1 percent at its
next meeting on April 7 to keep a lid on inflation.  The currencies of Norway and  Mexico , which also export
commodities, gained versus most counterparts.  “There’s a bid tone to the commodity currencies, and the
Canadian dollar is benefiting from it,” said Firas Askari, head
currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “The market
feels like it wants to trade higher.”  The Swiss franc ended the day as the top performer.  Canada’s currency is little changed for this year in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 3.4 percent, while
the greenback lost 2.3 percent.  Election Campaign  Harper said his Conservatives are the only party that can
form a stable government to ensure the economic recovery. He
spoke to reporters in Ottawa on March 26 after asking Governor
General David Johnston to dissolve Parliament. Opposition
parties passed a non-confidence motion a day earlier, after
rejecting a budget and saying the government was in contempt of
Parliament by withholding the cost of some legislation.  Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  told reporters the
Conservatives have abused democracy and will waste billions of
dollars.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
two-year note up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.75 percent. It touched 1.79 percent, the highest level since
March 10. The price of the 1.75 percent security maturing in
March 2013 decreased 4 cents to C$100. The benchmark 10-year
yield rose two basis points to 3.27 percent.  Bank of Canada Deputy Governor Jean Boivin said Canada’s
economy faces challenges related to household debt levels,
competitiveness and productivity. Exporters have been losing
sales in the U.S., their main market, to rivals from countries
such as China and Mexico amid “poor productivity” and an
increase in the value of the Canadian dollar, Boivin said today
in a  speech  to the CFA Society of Montreal.  “We should not assume that the forces causing the erosion
of competitiveness through the previous decade will simply fade
away because of a global recovery,” Boivin said. “This
situation highlights the need to diversify our export markets
and increase our ability to compete.”  Canada’s currency has gained 26 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past two years.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Alexandra Harris in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  