-- 
Canada’s Harper Pledges He'll Let Families Split Their Income for Taxes

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-03-28T19:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/canada-s-harper-pledges-he-ll-let-families-split-their-income-for-taxes.html
Prime Minister Stephen Harper
promised today to let Canadian families split up to C$50,000
($51,250) of their income for income tax purposes, once the
country has eliminated its  budget deficit .  The measure would cost the government about C$2.5 billion
in revenue a year and would help almost 1.8 million families,
Harper said, speaking today in Saanich, British Columbia.  The tax-cut pledge was Harper’s first since his government
was defeated by opposition parties last week. At a press
conference to announce the measure, Harper reiterated he is
seeking a majority mandate from voters in order to implement the
measure.  “Since coming to office in 2006, our government has placed
lower taxes on families among its highest priorities,” Harper
said in the backyard of a suburban house near Victoria, British
Columbia.  Opposition parties joined together March 25 to topple
Harper’s government by passing a no-confidence motion. They
rejected Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s budget last week and
said Harper’s government was in “contempt” of Parliament by
withholding the cost of some of its legislation, including plans
to buy new fighter jets and build prisons. Harper said the
election was unnecessary.  Spending Review  Flaherty presented a fiscal plan last week that forecast
the government may eliminate the deficit as early as 2014 if it
manages to generate savings from a review of program spending
that begins this year. The review will aim to save at least C$4
billion annually, according to the March 22  budget document.   Liberal leader  Michael Ignatieff  told reporters the promise
can’t be counted on because it wouldn’t occur for five years,
adding that the Conservatives are planning to continue tax
relief for companies next year. “It’s like he’s saying to
middle-class families: ‘Take a number,’” Ignatieff said in
Toronto. “That’s the policies that you get if you put banks,
insurance companies and  oil companies  first and leave Canadian
families at the back of the line.” He did not say whether the
Liberals would adopt a similar policy.  Harper mentioned initiatives his party has taken for
families, including a monthly C$100 benefit for all children
under the age of six, and a C$2,000 tax credit for each child
younger than 18 years of age.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 