-- 
Cassino's Refusal to Disclose Swap Losses With JPMorgan Results in Lawsuit

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-03-28T22:24:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/cassino-s-refusal-to-disclose-swap-losses-with-jpmorgan-results-in-lawsuit.html
Cassino, the central Italian city
that cost taxpayers 2 million euros ($2.8 million) because of an
interest-rate swap with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , was taken to court
earlier this month over its unwillingness to disclose how it
lost the money.  The lawsuit, brought by Bloomberg News, asks an
administrative court to enforce a ruling by a  regional ombudsman 
that Italian law requires the city to release documents on a
swap agreement between Cassino and a unit of Bear Stearns Cos.,
which JPMorgan bought in 2008. The New York-based bank and
Cassino agreed in 2009 to terminate the contract, without
disclosing financial terms.  The city of 33,000 people, the site of some of the worst 
fighting in World War II, withheld the documents because of the
potential damages it would incur if it breached a confidentiality
clause with JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
the city said in a letter to Bloomberg last month. The news
service has a “direct, concrete” interest and should be granted
access to the swap file, the regional ombudsman of Lazio said in
its final ruling on the case in December, citing a 1990 Italian
freedom of information law.  “There’s a need for greater transparency and this would
create an important precedent for accountability,” said Gustavo Piga, author of “Derivatives and Public Debt Management,” and
a professor at Tor Vergata University in  Rome . “Knowing the
scale of the loss and how it was incurred is helpful to
understand how the finances are being managed.”  JPMorgan is named as an interested party in the lawsuit
because of the potential impact on the firm. A spokeswoman for
the lender in Milan declined to comment on the suit. Cassino
city officials didn’t respond to e-mails and telephone calls.  ‘Unavoidable Obligation’  Debt isn’t “only a contract with a bank but an unavoidable
obligation for future generations,” Bloomberg said in its
claim, filed at the administrative court in Latina, near Rome,
on March 11.  JPMorgan is separately on trial in Italy in the first
European criminal case involving swaps. The bank, together with
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Depfa Bank Plc and UBS AG, faces charges in
Milan for fraud for tricking the municipal government into
buying the contracts. Meanwhile, JPMorgan is among banks that
are suing Italian municipalities in  London  to enforce the swaps.
The cases are pending.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, lost a case over
interest-rate swaps last week, the first ruling by the country’s
highest court on derivative sales. The court said the Frankfurt-
based lender didn’t adequately disclose risks and ordered it to
pay 541,074 euros in damages to its customer, Ille Papier
Service GmbH.  ‘Extremely Risky’ Bet  Faced with shrinking income and growing expenses, Italian
cities bought swaps that would typically offer lower interest
expenses in the near-term, while exposing the buyers to the risk
of increased interest costs in later years. Italian cities faced
losses of at least 1.2 billion euros from the transactions as of
June, data compiled by the central bank show.  Cassino entered a seven-year swap with Bear Stearns in 2003
to adjust payments on about 22 million euros of debt. The swap
switched the city’s 4.7 percent fixed interest rate payment for
a variable rate, according to a June 2009 report by  Italy ’s
financial police.  The city paid a floating rate based on the  U.S.-dollar 
London interbank offered rate, an “extremely risky” bet given
that Libor was at a record low, the police said in testimony to
the Italian Senate in 2009.  Three-month U.S. dollar Libor was at a 1 percent in June
2003 and by January 2006 had surpassed 4.7 percent, according to
data compiled by the British Bankers’ Association. The measure
climbed as high as 5.7 percent in September 2007 as credit
markets began to seize up, before declining to a record low of
0.25 percent by December 2009 after policy makers cut rates.  Jefferson County  Municipalities from Cassino to Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
as well as institutions such as  Harvard University  have lost
money on swaps aimed at cutting costs that instead raised them.  Harvard completed agreements in December 2004 that locked
in  interest rates  on $2.3 billion of bonds. The benchmark
overnight interest rate set by the U.S. Federal Reserve was then
2.25 percent. The swaps lost value as interest rates fell in
2008 to near zero, and the university paid almost $1 billion to
terminate the agreements in 2009.  The U.S.  Justice Department  is investigating sewer
financing by Jefferson County in a nationwide probe of an
alleged conspiracy by Wall Street banks to rig bids and fix
prices on derivatives sold to municipalities, according to court
papers. In Italy, some local governments stopped making payments
and others seek to recover fees they say were hidden.  Battle site  The police said Cassino was one of its most significant
cases of “irregularities” involving derivative purchases,
without elaborating. The city and its mountaintop abbey were
almost entirely destroyed during the battle of Monte Cassino in
1944 amid the Allied drive to the Italian capital.  The local government was put under special administration
by the prefect, the state’s representative in the city, in July
after the assembly failed to approve the town’s budget and the
elected mayor stepped down. Off-balance-sheet debt and lower
income were placing pressure on the town’s finances, the mayor
said in a statement in December 2009.  Bloomberg News sued the  European Central Bank  in December
to make it release documents showing how  Greece  used derivatives
to hide its fiscal deficit and helped trigger the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. The case is pending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  