-- 
Peru Sol Plunges Most in 21 Months as Chavez Ally Climbs in Election Poll

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T20:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/chavez-ally-gains-in-deadlocked-peru-presidential-poll-before-april-vote.html
Peru ’s sol fell the most in 21
months and bonds and stocks declined after opposition
presidential candidate Ollanta Humala surged into first place in
polls less than two weeks before the April 10 elections.  The sol posted the biggest drop since June 2009, weakening
0.9 percent to 2.8125 per  U.S. dollar  at today’s close, from
2.7885 on March 25.  Humala, an ally of  Venezuela ’s  Hugo Chavez  who narrowly
lost the 2006 election, had 21 percent support in a poll
published yesterday by Lima-based researcher Ipsos Apoyo, up
from 17 percent a week earlier. Humala’s rise caused the sol to
slump 1.7 percent in the past two weeks, the worst performance
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Markets are going to be extremely volatile over the next
two weeks,” said  Benito Berber , an emerging-market currency
strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in  New York . “A lot of
people in the market expect Humala will lose in the end but
local investors are a bit more worried.”  Humala, who lost a 2006 runoff to President  Alan Garcia  by
5 percentage points, seeks to increase state control over the
economy, including Peru’s ports and natural gas reserves. His
rise in polls has led investors to sell the Andean nation’s
bonds.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark sol-denominated bond due in
2020 rose 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to a two-
year high of 6.67 percent on concern Humala’s proposals may harm
growth prospects and foreign investment in the $153 billion
economy, according to Citigroup Inc.’s local unit. The bond’s
price fell 0.36 centimo to 108.13 centimos per sol.  Stem Decline  The Lima Stock Exchange’s main index fell 5.2 percent, the
biggest drop since June 2009. The slump is the biggest of the 90
primary indices tracked by Bloomberg.  Peru’s central bank sought to stem today’s decline in the
currency by issuing sol-indexed certificates of deposit for the
first time since October 2009. The central bank sold 300 million
soles ($107 million) of adjustable three-month certificates
yielding 0.25 percent, after offering to sell as much as 800
million soles, it said on its website.  Humala’s plan to impose a mining windfall tax will stunt
investment in Peru’s mining industry and jeopardize future
revenue for the government, according to Carlos Galvez, Chief
Financial Officer of Cia. De Minas Buenaventura, the country’s
largest precious metals producer.  The central bank expects Peru to receive $30.1 billion of
investment in mining, energy and infrastructure projects between
2011 and 2012.  “A Humala presidency will most likely mean gradual fiscal
deterioration,” Berber said.  Runoff Vote  According to the Ipsos Apoyo poll, former President
 Alejandro Toledo , who had been the frontrunner in polls since
the start of the year, fell to 20 percent support from 23
percent a week ago. Support for Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori was
unchanged at 19 percent.  A runoff vote between the two leading candidates will be
held June 5 if no candidate wins more than 50 percent in the
first round of balloting.  Humala may face Fujimori in the runoff unless Toledo makes
a comeback before the first vote, Barclays Plc. said in an e-
mailed note to investors today.  “Such a scenario could cause anxiety in the markets,”
given Humala and Fujimori’s relatively high rejection rates,
Barclays analysts Alejandro Arreaza, Alejandro Grisanti and
 Roberto Melzi  wrote.  Poll  Ipsos Apoyo’s poll showed support for Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, a former Finance Minister and ex-chairman of First
Boston International, rose 1 percentage point from a week ago to
15 percent. Former Lima Mayor Luis Castaneda was unchanged at 14
percent, the researcher said.  The pollster contacted 1,986 people in 24 of Peru’s 25
regions from March 19 to 25. The poll had a margin of error of
2.2 percentage points.  Humala would lose a runoff vote with Fujimori, Toledo and
Castaneda, and would tie with Kuczynski, the poll shows.  “The second round is a different ballgame,” Alfredo Torres, general manager of Ipsos Apoyo, said in an interview
with America Television yesterday. “New strategies and
alliances emerge so the numbers could change a lot.”  According to a poll published yesterday by researcher CPI,
Humala had 21 percent support and Toledo and Fujimori each had
19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  