-- 
China Swaps Rise on Speculation Inflation Quickened in March

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-28T02:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/china-swaps-rise-on-speculation-inflation-quickened-in-march.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate
swaps rose, snapping a three-day loss, as speculation inflation
accelerated in March heightened the risk of further monetary
tightening.  Consumer prices may have climbed 5 percent this month,
compared with 4.9 percent in February, analysts led by Peng Wensheng at China International Capital Corp. wrote in a
research report dated yesterday. The People’s Bank of China has
lifted borrowing costs three times since the middle of October
and ordered local banks to set aside more cash as reserves on
six occasions.  “The authorities may raise  interest rates  at least two
times in the first half,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “It will also
try to mop up excess liquidity through open-market operations.”  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, gained one basis point to
3.27 percent as of 9:59 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A total of 132 billion yuan ($20.1 billion) of central bank
bills and repurchase agreements will mature this week and
another 810 billion yuan may be redeemed in the following four
weeks, said Tang Guohui, a bond analyst at Industrial Securities
Co. in Shanghai.  “The space for swap gains is limited because a big amount
of bills will mature this month and next,” said Credit
Agricole’s Cheung. “The swap rates, especially the short-end,
will be in range trading for some time.”  The seven-day repo rate, which measures interbank funding
availability, dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 2.26 percent, according to a weighted average rate compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The yield on the 2.33 percent bond due June 2013 was little
changed at 3.22 percent, according to the Interbank Funding
Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 