-- 
China to Enter America’s Cup Sailing Regatta for Second Time in 159 Years

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-03-28T16:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/china-to-have-entry-in-america-s-cup-regatta-for-second-time-in-159-years.html
China  will compete for the
America’s Cup for the second time in the 159-year-old history of
yachting’s oldest international race.  China Team is the eighth challenger for the  34th America’s
Cup , scheduled to be raced in wing-sailed catamarans off  San
Francisco  in 2013, the event authority said in a statement.  Wang Chao Yong, the team’s chairman, said the boat will be
built in China and sailed predominantly by Chinese nationals.  “We have been working with some of the best worldwide
designers for hull and wings for a few months already in
partnership with top Chinese universities,” Wang said in the
statement.  China entered the event for the  first time  in March 2005,
with a syndicate representing the Qingdao International Yacht
Club, host of the sailing events for the 2008 Olympics.  The team will attempt to earn the right to compete for the
“Auld Mug” by defeating the other challengers in the Louis
Vuitton Cup. Yves Carcelle, chairman and chief executive of  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the largest luxury-goods
company, said in the release that he welcomes a team from a
nation with a 600-year sailing tradition.  The Oracle Racing team headed by  Larry Ellison , chief
executive of Redwood City, California-based software maker
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , won the right to host the Cup by beating the
Alinghi syndicate run by Swiss billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli
last year.  Captain Coutts  Oracle’s 90-foot (27-meter) trimaran with a 223-foot
carbon-fiber wing sail beat Alinghi’s catamaran in two straight
races. Oracle’s captain, Russell Coutts, earned his fourth Cup.  Coutts will captain Ellison’s team again. Teams will race
72-foot catamarans, powered by 130-foot (40-meter) wing sails
and capable of speeds exceeding 30 knots.  The Cup is named for the schooner America, which defeated
fleet of British yachts off the Isle of Wight in 1851 to capture
the 100 Guinea Cup, deeding it as a perpetual trophy to promote
“friendly competition between foreign countries.”  The  New York Yacht Club  defended the Cup off  New York  from
1870 until 1920, before moving the regatta to Newport,  Rhode
Island , in 1930, where it remained until 1983. That year,
Australia II beat Dennis Conner’s Liberty in seven races to end
the club’s 132-year hold on the trophy. Conner recaptured it off
Fremantle, Australia, in 1987 with Stars and Stripes.  The Cup has since been held in  San Diego , Auckland and
Valencia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  