-- 
Clinton Meets Allies as NATO Jets Enable Libyan Rebel Gains

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-03-28T22:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/clinton-to-london-for-international-talks-on-libya-conflict.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
left today for  London , where she will meet tomorrow with allies
on future actions on  Libya .  The international conference, hosted by British Prime
Minister  David Cameron , is occurring two days after the  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  agreed to take command of the full
Libyan military mission, including all aspects of civilian
protection as well as the no-fly zone.  Foreign ministers from countries involved in the Libyan
actions will discuss humanitarian aid, possible reconstruction
plans and steps to help the Libyan opposition, according to a
U.S. official and a European diplomat.  A leader of the Libyan opposition, Mahmoud Jibril, will
attend the meeting, according to the European diplomat. The
officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not
authorized to publicly discuss the meetings in advance.  Qaddafi’s regime has “completely lost its legitimacy” and
Libyans should start organizing a transition process in
anticipation of a new government coming to power, Cameron and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  wrote in a joint letter
released today in advance of the conference.  Qaddafi “must go immediately,” the two leaders said. “We
call all of his followers to leave him before it is too late. We
call on all Libyans who believe Qaddafi is leading Libya into a
disaster to take the initiative now to organize a transition
process.”  Rebels Heading West  Libyan rebel forces, rebounding with the help of allied air
strikes, have advanced westward toward Sirte, the hometown of
 Muammar Qaddafi .  NATO will “soon” be in charge of allied operations in the
Libyan conflict, Canadian Air Force General Charles Bouchard
said.  “The exact time of the transition is still being
coordinated,” Bouchard, in command of the allied effort, told
reporters at North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters in
Brussels today. “The exact date is soon.”  Speaking via video link from his command center at the NATO
base in Naples,  Italy , Bouchard added: “Transition from
coalition to NATO forces has been and will be a seamless
handover, with no gap in the effort to do what it takes to
protect the people of Libya.”  At the Pentagon, U.S. Vice Admiral Bill Gortney told
reporters that two aircraft designed for close support of ground
troops, the AC-130U aerial gunship and the A-10 “Warthog,”
were added to the mix.  The allied attack wasn’t coordinated
with the rebels on the ground, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  