-- 
Coalition Isn’t Coordinating Strikes With Rebels, U.S. Says

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-03-28T23:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/coalition-isn-t-coordinating-strikes-with-rebels-u-s-says-1-.html
Rebel gains in  Libya  remain
“tenuous” as allied air forces pound Muammar Qaddafi’s ground
forces, U.S. Vice Admiral Bill Gortney said.  The air armada now includes U.S.  Air Force  aircraft
designed for close support of ground forces, including the
AC-130U “Spooky” aerial gunship and the A-10 Thunderbolt II
“Warthog” jet.  The  AC-130 U, made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
is designed to orbit over an area at night and strike enemies
with 40mm and 105mm cannons and a 25mm Gatling gun; the  A-10  is
designed to attack tanks and other ground forces with a 30mm
Gatling gun, bombs and missiles, according to the  Air Force .  “Both those platforms expend precision munitions,” said
Gortney, director of the Pentagon’s Joint Staff.  Allied air strikes have helped push back forces loyal to
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and allowed rebels to advance
without direct coordination with the coalition, Gortney said.  Opposition fighters now control Ajdabiya, Gortney said.
“The opposition is not well organized, and it is not a very
robust organization,” he said. “So any gain that they make is
tenuous.”  Qaddafi’s forces are reinforcing their positions at Sirte
and Zintan in anticipation of rebel attacks, Gortney said.  Coalition aircraft struck targets near Misrata, Sirte, Ras
Lanuf, Tripoli and Sabha, Gortney said.  Qatar, U.A.E. Jets  Six  Tomahawk cruise missiles  were fired against a
headquarters facility of the 32nd Brigade, Gortney said, which
is estimated by the Pentagon to have as many as 10,000 soldiers
and has been commanded by Qaddafi’s son Khamis. Other targets
included ammunition dumps, bunkers and surface-to-air missile
sites, he said.  The coalition has expanded with pilots from Qatar, who flew
several missions and are scheduled to fly several more, Gortney
said. A dozen aircraft from the  United Arab Emirates  will arrive
soon to help enforce the United Nations-mandated no-fly zone
over the northern part of Libya, he said.  The majority of the 178 sorties flown over the past 24
hours were strike-related, Gortney said. The North Atlantic
Treaty Organization will assume command of the entire mission
over the next few days, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 