-- 
Cold Weather Grips U.S., Long-Term Forecasters Split on Duration of Chill

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-28T13:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/colder-than-normal-weather-grips-u-s-as-forecasters-are-split-on-duration.html
Colder than normal temperatures
will grip much of the U.S. including New York through the rest
of the week, while forecasters are split over how long the chill
will linger.  The U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  said yesterday that the
northern part of the country has a high probability of being
colder than normal through April 10 and the southeastern states
having a higher chance of cold until April 6.  “The cold-prevailing pattern is expected to continue this
week, but then give significant ground next week,”  Matt Rogers ,
president of  Commodity Weather Group  LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
said today in a daily note to clients.  Rogers and  MDA EarthSat Weather  differ from the U.S.
forecast by calling for more moderate temperatures across the
country from April 4 to April 6. Rogers is forecasting near
normal temperatures across most of the U.S. with a chance for
warming in the U.S. Southwest.  MDA’s forecast calls for much greater warming in the
southwest and a chance a pocket of cooler air will develop in
western New York and Pennsylvania and northeastern Ohio from
April 4 to April 6. MDA has higher confidence in its 6- to 10-
day forecast than in its 11- to 15-day.  Below Normal  The average temperature in  New York ’s Central Park was 37
degrees Fahrenheit (2.7 Celsius) yesterday, or 9 degrees below
normal, according to the National Weather Service in Upton, New
York. Temperatures are expected to remain about 8 to 10 degrees
below normal in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland and
 Chicago  through the middle of this week, according to the
weather service.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures.  Natural gas futures fell 2.2 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$4.381 per million British thermal units at 9:43 a.m. on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Rogers’s forecast calls for a chance the warming to spread
east into  Ohio  and Virginia April 7 to April 11. MDA also
shifted the area with a greater chance for warming east.  Texas  Warmth  In the MDA forecast, Texas is shown to a greater chance for
much above normal temperatures with warmth potentially engulfing
most of the U.S. South, the Ohio Valle and into Pennsylvania and
Delaware.  There is a chance of cooler than normal temperatures to
descend from  Canada  into  North Dakota , South Dakota, Montana and
Minnesota from April 7 to April 11, according to Rogers. MDA
extends that potential for cooling to include most of the
Pacific Northwest and California and Nevada.  The climate center calls for an area from North Dakota and
South Dakota to western New York and  Pennsylvania  to have much
below normal temperatures from today until the day after
tomorrow, according to its website.  The average temperature in Fargo, North Dakota, yesterday
was 17 degrees Fahrenheit, or 16 below the normal of 33 for this
time of year, according to the weather service. The average
temperature there is expected to be 10 degrees less than normal
through the end of the month, the weather service says.  The weather service is calling for New York to receive rain
starting the day after tomorrow into the end of the week, while
that same storm system may bring a mix of rain and snow to
Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  