-- 
Comeback King Beaujolais Says Adieu to Bad, Fad Nouveau: Wine

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/comeback-king-beaujolais-says-adieu-to-bad-fad-nouveau-wine-john-mariani.html
Remember those 1970s Beaujolais
Nouveau parties held in November at the release of the wine’s
harvest?  Fortunately, that fad quickly faded and really died in the
following decades.  Ever since, Beaujolais’s reputation has been so damaged by
those unfinished, unaged wines, that even wine lovers give
relatively little thought to well-made, well-aged non-Nouveau
Beaujolais.  Because of poor sales, after the 2001 vintage, more than
1.1 million cases of Beaujolais (mostly Nouveau) were destroyed
or distilled into alcohol. Since then, there have been almost
yearly scandals about Beaujolais being adulterated with other
wines or sugar.  All of which is really too bad, because in a good year, a
carefully aged Beaujolais can be sheer delight. Made from the
deep purple gamay noir grape,  Beaujolais  is produced on hundreds
of small-to-medium-sized properties over 50,000 acres in
southern Burgundy.  Most of it is sold through distributors called negociants.
The best Beaujolais come from 10 village crus, whose wines are a
couple of degrees higher in alcohol (13 percent and a little
higher) than basic Beaujolais or Beaujolais Superieur.  These are Brouilly, Chenas, Chiroubles, Cote de Brouilly,
Fleurie, Julienas, Moulin-a-Vent, Morgon, Saint-Amour, and
Regnie -- none of which is made as Nouveau Beaujolais. All
represent very good value, usually costing between $10 and $15 a
bottle.  King Georges  The largest negociant, sometimes called the “King of
Beaujolais” for his marketing efforts in the 1970s and 1980s,
is  Georges DuBoeuf , 77, who still ships 2.5 million cases
annually. He himself has not escaped scandal, as when he was
charged in 2005 and found guilty of mixing low-grade wines into
the weak 2004 harvest.  Since then some U.S. wine stores have been tentative about
buying Beaujolais, and one retailer I spoke with said he was
offered a special deal on DuBoeuf wines but turned it down for a
general lack of interest in Beaujolais on the part of his
customers.  Nevertheless, a recent tasting of the well-regarded 2009
DuBoeuf crus showed me that Beaujolais can still be among the
most charming wines at the dinner table.  ‘Gamine’ Gamy  The six I sampled were purchased from  New York ’s  Sherry-
Lehmann  and were labeled “specially selected by Georges
DuBoeuf” for the wine store. All had been blind tasted when in
barrel by the Concours des Vins du Maconnais et du Beaujolais
and awarded the Medaille d’Or.  “The ‘09 vintage was so good that even the sale of
Nouveau was a great success,” said Chris Adams, chief executive
officer of Sherry-Lehmann Inc. in a phone interview. “Now, with
some age, the ‘09s are so food friendly and offered at such a
good price that we’re seeing interest in Beaujolais growing
again.”  There were definite distinctions among the crus I tasted
that showcased why these village wines generally rise above the
rest. The Saint-Amour ($13.49) and the Chenas ($12.49) were very
feminine compared to the heft of a Chiroubles ($12.49) and
Julienas ($12.95).  Attending a tasting dinner, I scribbled “gamine” on the
Saint-Amour label, the very well-fruited cherry-like soul of
Gamay at its best, a wine that could be served with anything
from pork to roast chicken, which was stuffed under the skin
with herb butter.  The Chenas -- supposedly Louis XIII’s favorite wine -- was
more complex than one might think about Beaujolais, with plenty
of the village’s ripe fruit atop spicy, green flavors.  Crowd Pleaser  Another night my dinner was seared and roasted veal chops,
cooked pink, and with this the Morgon ($11.95) stood out for its
bold Beaujolais spirit and its ability to age well, still with
soft tannins and creamy fruit flavors.  A Chiroubles was the driest of my sampling, showing the
minerality of its 400-meter (1,312 feet) hillside altitude and
granite soil and the richness of even some mightier Burgundian
pinot noirs.  I wasn’t very fond of the Julienas, whose unimpressive,
flat bouquet was followed by a one-dimensional metallic flavor I
don’t think would be a match for many foods above the hamburger
level.  Brouilly ($12.95) is almost always a crowd pleaser, with
good body, plenty of flower scents in the nose, and an earthy
vibrancy of fruit that knits it all into good balance.  I think it’s an ideal wine to go with grilled salmon --much
better than most white wines would -- as well as a terrine of
foie gras on toasted country bread.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 