-- 
Commodities Retreat for Second Day on Japanese Radiation, Merkel's Setback

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-28T11:56:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/commodities-retreat-for-second-day-on-japanese-radiation-merkel-s-setback.html
Commodities dropped as hazardous
radiation delayed efforts to end Japan’s nuclear crisis and the
coalition of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  was defeated in a
state election, hurting the outlook for  Europe ’s largest
economy.  Raw materials , measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 futures, fell for a second day, losing as much as
0.7 percent to 713.83, before standing at 714.27 at 12:55 p.m.
London time. The index advanced 2.4 percent last week and is
heading for a third quarterly gain. Crude oil in New York
dropped as much as 0.9 percent and copper declined 1.2 percent.  “The situation in Japan doesn’t seem to be improving and
this is hurting sentiment across the financial markets,” Pan
Jinghua, an analyst at Citic Futures Co., said from  Shanghai .  The SPGSCI gauge pared gains this year after the magnitude-
9 temblor hit  Japan , the third-largest user of crude oil, on
March 11. The spread of radioactive contamination adds to the
drag on economic growth, already hurt by quake-related damage of
as much as 25 trillion yen ($306 billion.)  In  Germany , Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union didn’t win
enough votes in yesterday’s election for a majority, marking the
end of the party’s 58-year state rule and triggering losses in
the euro. The common currency weakened against the dollar for a
second day after EU leaders pared the startup capital for an
emergency-aid fund, following a cut in Portugal’s credit rating
by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings last week.  Dollar, Crude  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback’s value
against six major currencies, rose as much as 0.3 percent today
after gaining 0.7 percent last week, boosted by euro weakness.
Commodities normally move counter to the U.S. currency. In the
past year the SPGSCI index jumped 36 percent as the gauge for
the dollar dropped 6.2 percent.  Crude for May delivery declined as much as 0.9 percent to
$104.50 a barrel in  New York  and last traded at $104.61.  “Oil markets are awaiting clearer signals of how damaging
the recent oil price increases might be to the economy, both in
the U.S. and globally,” said Deutsche Bank AG analysts Adam Sieminski and Xiao Fu in a report today. “Despite expected
healthy U.S. consumption growth in February, our economists are
less sanguine concerning Conference Board consumer confidence.”  Copper, Japan  Copper for delivery in three months dropped 1.2 percent to
$9,567.26 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. The
benchmark contract headed for its first quarterly loss in three.
Exchange-monitored stockpiles have risen 17 percent since end-
2010.  Gains in inventories are “a sign that  China  may not be
restocking to the extent many had previously expected,”  Peter
Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley in
 Melbourne , said in a report. China is the largest user.  Japan’s radioactive contamination in food is likely to
increase as the Asian nation entered a third straight week of
battling the biggest nuclear-energy crisis since Chernobyl.  “The number of radiation-affected foods will likely
increase as each prefecture is testing its produce,” Taku
Ohhara, an official at the Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Some 99 products, including milk and vegetables, were found
to be contaminated in  Tokyo  and five prefectures to its north
and east as of late March 26, according to the health ministry’s
statement on its website. Japan may purchase 5.2 million tons of
wheat this season, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  “Following the food contaminations in Japan, people expect
the country may want to secure more grains” from overseas, Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone
from  Singapore . Corn for May delivery gained as much as 0.8
percent to $6.9475 a bushel in  Chicago  before trading at $6.94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  