-- 
Companies Spurned as Roberts Court Withholds ‘Thumb’ From Justice Scales

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/companies-spurned-as-roberts-court-withholds-thumb-from-scale.html
Businesses are on a rare cold
streak at the U.S. Supreme Court.  In the past three months the justices have backed
shareholders, employees and accident victims in suits against
companies. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has lost five of the six
 cases  in which it has filed a brief during the current nine-
month term, after winning 13 of 16 a year earlier.  The recent rulings underscore the hazards of pinning the
court with a label, “pro-business” or otherwise. They also
point to the influence wielded at the court by President Barack Obama’s administration, which was on the winning side in each of
the Chamber of Commerce’s six cases, compiling a 5-0 record in
head-to-head clashes with the trade group.  “The idea that the court is aligned with business has
always been overstated,” said Tom Goldstein, an appellate
lawyer at Goldstein, Howe & Russell PC and the creator of the
Scotusblog website. “It’s much more nuanced.”  The business losses this year have been both frequent and
one-sided. The court voted 8-0 to let accident victims sue
automakers for not installing safer seatbelts; 9-0 to buttress
shareholder suits against drugmakers for concealing evidence of
dangerous side effects; and 8-0 to bar companies from
challenging the release of government documents on corporate
privacy grounds.  The Chamber of Commerce says it has won at least half its
cases in each of the last 13 court terms, including 69 percent
in the five completed terms since  John Roberts  became chief
justice.  ‘Lopsided Margins’  The justices were unanimous in two workplace retaliation
cases as well. They allowed suits by a man who was fired after
his fiancée complained about alleged sex discrimination at their
company and by a military reservist who said a biased supervisor
persuaded a company official to fire him.  A third retaliation ruling was 6-2, protecting people who
complain orally rather than in writing about alleged wage
violations. As in many of the early cases, Justice Elena Kagan
didn’t take part because she played a role in the litigation
while serving as Obama’s solicitor general.  “The business decisions so far this term are consistent
with what we have been saying for a long time: The business
cases are generally won and lost by lopsided margins,” said
Robin Conrad, executive vice president of the Chamber of
Commerce’s litigation unit. “They are generally not easy cases.
But they are not ideological. Nor are they decided with a thumb
on the scale.”  Pro-Business Reputation  The court has developed a pro-business reputation in some
quarters. A  study  last year by the Constitutional Accountability
Center, which advocates for environmental safeguards and civil
rights, concluded that the court rules for business today more
frequently than it did a quarter century ago. An earlier study
by the center attributed the pro-corporate tilt to the court’s
five current Republican appointees.  The center’s president, Doug Kendall, applauded the recent
rulings while cautioning against reading too much into them.  “It’s too soon to say either that something has changed or
that something remains the same,” Kendall said. “The chamber
has suffered a short-term losing streak, but that’s happened
before, even in the Roberts court.”  A ‘Real Test’  Kendall said the “real test” for the court will come in
the final three months of its term, when it rules in cases
involving class actions and arbitration. The court tomorrow will
hear perhaps the biggest case of its term, a bid by  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to stop a class-action gender-bias suit on behalf of
potentially a million female employees.  The following day, the court will use cases involving Mylan
Inc. and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to consider whether
patients can sue generic-drug manufacturers for failing to
disclose the risk of side effects. Patient advocates are aiming
to extend a 2009 Supreme Court ruling that permitted failure-to-
warn suits against brand-name drugmakers.  The case pits the industry against patients as well as
acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal, the Obama administration’s
top Supreme Court lawyer; 42 state attorneys general and the
 District of Columbia ; and the  American Medical Association .  “It’s pretty much the generic-drug companies against the
world,” said Louis Bograd, a lawyer who will argue before the
justices on behalf of two women aiming to press lawsuits.  Influential Position  Katyal’s position was influential in several of the cases
already decided by the court, including the ruling that let
accident victims sue automakers. The court often defers to the
executive branch’s views on the interpretation of statutes and
regulations.  In some of the yet-to-be-decided cases, Katyal is arguing
alongside the Chamber of Commerce. Both are opposing a bid by
states to sue power companies including American Electric Power
Co. in an effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Katyal is
also backing the trade group in its challenge to an Arizona law
that penalizes employers for hiring illegal aliens.  By the end of the term, the record for both business
advocates and the federal government may be much more mixed.  The term so far shows “that the people who claimed some
sort of pro-corporate or pro-business bias are wrong,” said Roy Englert, an appellate lawyer at Robbins Russell Englert Orseck
Untereiner & Sauber LLP. At the same time, “don’t leap to the
equally silly opposite conclusion that the court is showing an
anti-business bias in its recent decisions. It’s just deciding
one case at a time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 