-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Accelerated as the Job Market Improved

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-28T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-accelerated-as-the-job-market-improved.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably accelerated in February as the labor market improved,
helping to bolster the expansion, economists said before a
report today.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent gain in
January, according to the median estimate of 63 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other figures may show the number of
contracts signed to buy houses stalled last month.  The U.S. added jobs for the sixth consecutive month in
February and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest level
since April 2009, generating the income gains needed to cushion
Americans from higher food and fuel prices. Spending is
contributing more to the recovery, which Federal Reserve policy
makers say is on a “firmer footing.”  “Consumer spending is growing at a moderate pace,
certainly with help from the labor market,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at MFR Inc. in  New York . “We
ought to see decent gains in wages in coming months, which is
necessary, given that rising food and energy prices are a
headwind. The consumer is an important part of this expansion.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from little
change to a gain of 0.8 percent.  The report may also show that incomes grew for a fifth
month, rising 0.4 percent last month after increasing 1 percent
in January, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Fed on Prices  The Fed’s preferred price index, which is tied to spending
patterns and excludes food and fuel, increased 0.9 percent from
February 2010, according to the survey. Policy makers aim for
long-run overall inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing,” Fed
officials said in a statement after their March 15 meeting.
While “the recent increases in the prices of energy and other
commodities are currently putting upward pressure on
inflation,” these effects are expected to be “transitory,”
they said.  At 10 a.m., the National Association of Realtors may report
its index of pending home resales was unchanged in February
following declines the prior two months, economists in the
Bloomberg survey predicted. The data indicate the industry that
triggered the recession continues to struggle.  “Until  home prices  come down enough to clear the market,
housing is pretty much going to languish,” Shapiro said.  Jobs, Incomes  Meanwhile, job prospects are improving, and bigger
paychecks stemming from a tax compromise reached by President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans in December will help
to support demand this year.  Americans continue to shop. Retail sales climbed in
February by the most in four months, boosted by a jump in auto
purchases. J.C. Penney Co. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  were among retailers
that topped analysts’ same-store sales estimates, company data
showed.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 0.8 percent this year through March 25, while the broader
 S&P 500  advanced 4.5 percent.  Orlando, Florida-based  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , which owns
the Red Lobster and Olive Garden chains, said sales and profit
rose in its third quarter ended Feb. 27.  “The economy is in a much better place,” Clarence Otis,
Darden’s chief executive officer, said on a March 25 conference
call. “That bodes well for an increase in visits to full-
service dining.” Still, higher gasoline costs “definitely
serve as a tax on consumers,” he said.  More Growth  The economy ended 2010 on a stronger note than previously
anticipated. Gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, revised up from a 2.8 percent
estimate issued last month, Commerce Department figures showed
on March 25. Consumer purchases rose at a 4 percent pace, the
most since the same three months in 2006.  Bigger gains in spending made be hard to achieve given
rising bills for groceries and gasoline. Regular fuel was at
$3.56 a gallon on March 24, the most since October 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
Food costs rose 0.6 percent last month, the most since 2008,
consumer-price index data showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  