-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Spending Climbs More Than Forecast as Incomes Gain

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-03-28T21:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/consumer-spending-in-u-s-expands-more-than-forecast-as-incomes-increase.html
Americans increased spending more
than forecast in February as incomes climbed, easing concern
that rising food and fuel costs might derail the consumer demand
that makes up 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  Purchases increased 0.7 percent, the most since October,
after advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington. Another report showed the
number of contracts to buy previously owned homes advanced for
the first time in three months.  More than half the gain in spending last month reflected
higher prices, one reason it will be difficult for households to
contribute as much to economic growth this quarter as last. At
the same time, the U.S. added jobs for the sixth consecutive
month in February and the  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest
level since April 2009, helping cushion the blow from a pickup
in inflation.  “The increase in food and energy prices is a headwind for
consumers, but not enough to turn into a concern” that spending
might decline, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in New York, who correctly forecast the
gain in sales. “The picture for consumers is that they’re
spending at a moderate pace. We are on a decent pace of
expansion.”  An index of pending home sales increased 2.1 percent in
February after a 2.8 percent drop the prior month, figures from
the National Association of Realtors showed today. The data
indicates the U.S. housing market is having trouble recovering
as foreclosures mount.  ‘Another Sad Year’  “The foreclosure overhang is oppressing the industry,”
said  Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper
Pike ,  Ohio , who projected sales would climb 1.8 percent. “All
this is keeping a lid on the market even though affordability is
terrific. This will be another sad year.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell, erasing earlier gains
in the final 20 minutes of trading, as concern grew that  Japan 
is failing to contain hazardous materials at its damaged nuclear
plant. The gauge dropped 0.3 percent to 1,310.19 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York  after climbing as much as 0.5 percent.  The median estimate of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.5 percent advance in consumer spending after
a previously reported 0.2 percent gain the prior month.
Projections ranged from little change to gains of 0.8 percent.  The report also showed incomes increased 0.3 percent, less
than projected, and the  Federal Reserve ’s preferred measure of
inflation accelerated.  Incomes Rise  Economists forecast incomes would rise 0.4 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The Commerce Department
revised January’s reading to 1.2 percent from a previously
reported 1 percent.  Wages and salaries increased 0.3 percent in February for a
third month.  The price gauge tied to spending patterns increased 1.6
percent from February 2010, compared with a 1.2 percent gain in
the 12 months ended in January, today’s report showed.  The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.2 percent for a second month, and was up 0.9
percent from a year earlier, the most since October.  Adjusted for inflation, which are the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product,  consumer spending  rose 0.3
percent after little change in January. Increasing demand for
durable goods, such as autos, led the gain.  Inflation Adjusted  Disposable incomes, or the money left over after taxes,
dropped 0.1 percent after adjusting for inflation, the first
decrease since September and a reminder of the challenge
represented by rising food and energy costs. Real disposable
income climbed 0.5 percent in the prior month.  The savings rate decreased to 5.8 percent from 6.1 percent
in January.  “The economic recovery is on a firmer footing,” Fed
officials said in a statement after their March 15 meeting.
While “the recent increases in the prices of energy and other
commodities are currently putting upward pressure on
inflation,” these effects are expected to be “transitory,”
they said.  Job prospects are improving, and bigger paychecks stemming
from a tax compromise reached by President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans in December will help to support
demand this year.  Orlando, Florida-based  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , which owns
the Red Lobster and Olive Garden chains, said sales and profit
rose in its third quarter ended Feb. 27.  Restaurant Receipts  “The economy is in a much better place,” Clarence Otis,
Darden’s chief executive officer, said on a March 25 conference
call. “That bodes well for an increase in visits to full-
service dining.” Still, higher gasoline costs “definitely
serve as a tax on consumers,” he said.  The economy ended 2010 on a stronger note than previously
anticipated. Gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, revised up from a 2.8 percent
estimate issued last month, Commerce Department figures showed
on March 25. Consumer purchases rose at a 4 percent pace, the
most since the same three months in 2006.  Bigger gains in spending may be hard to achieve given
rising bills for groceries and gasoline. Regular fuel was at
$3.58 a gallon on March 27, the most since October 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.
Food costs rose 0.6 percent last month, the most since 2008,
consumer-price index data showed earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  