-- 
Construction Bank Declines as Profit Misses Estimates on Rising Provisions

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-28T09:39:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/construction-bank-declines-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, fell the most in
more than a month in Hong Kong after posting profit that missed
some analysts’ estimates because of rising provisions.  The shares dropped 2.3 percent to close at HK$7.15, after
Beijing-based Construction Bank said yesterday net income rose
26 percent last year to 134.8 billion yuan ($20.6 billion). That
was less than the 139 billion yuan average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Construction Bank, established in 1954 to fund roads,
bridges, dams and other public works, recorded 4 billion yuan of
provisions on equity investments and off balance-sheet assets.
The lender also said non-performing loans for infrastructure
projects increased, fueling concern that a two-year lending boom
that started late 2008 will hurt asset quality.  “The market is concerned about asset quality,” said James Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at CIMB-GK Securities who cut his
rating on Construction Bank to “neutral” from “outperform”
after the earnings report.  Construction Bank has a higher ratio of infrastructure
related loans than most of its biggest rivals, the companies’
financial statements show. China’s central bank has raised
 interest rates  three times since October and property sales
taxes have been introduced in fast-growing markets as the
government sought to prevent a real estate bubble.  Finance Vehicles  The lender, part-owned by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , set aside
29.3 billion yuan in provisions against bad debts last year, up
from 25.5 billion yuan in 2009. That boosted provisions to 2.52
percent of total loans, above the new 2.5 percent minimum
imposed by the government.  Construction Bank said infrastructure-related bad loans
rose “slightly” from 2009, without giving more details.  The company had about 540 billion yuan of loans outstanding
to the financing arms of local governments as of Dec. 31,
President Zhang Jianguo said at a briefing in Hong Kong today.
Some 65 percent of those credits are financed by cash flows, he
said, adding that Construction Bank has stopped lending to
county-level governments to control risks.  China ’s government has clamped down on lending to local-
government financing vehicles in the past year to avoid a repeat
of the 1990s era of state-directed lending that led to an
estimated $650 billion cleanup of the banking system.  Moody’s Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service said today rising inflationary
risks will lead to faster interest rate increases and cause a
rebound in bad loans, which have been falling for a decade. The
ratings company maintained its “stable” outlook for the
industry over the next 12 to 18 months.  “While we expect rising bank non-performing loans -- which
typically follow in the wake of very strong loan growth --robust
earnings, significant loan loss reserves, and additional capital
raised from the capital markets will help the banks to tackle
asset quality challenges,” Beijing-based Moody’s analyst Yvonne
Zhang wrote in a report today.  China’s five largest banks raised a combined $56 billion
selling shares and convertible bonds in the past year.  Rivals  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and China Minsheng Banking Corp.
last week reported stronger-than-expected profit growth as
demand for consumer and corporate loans climbed in an economy
that overtook  Japan  last year as the world’s second largest.  Pricing Power  Bank of China , the nation’s third-largest by market value,
on March 24 reported a 29 percent increase in 2010 profit to
104.4 billion yuan, 5.5 percent above the consensus estimate.
Minsheng Bank said on March 25 net income rose 45 percent to
17.6 billion yuan, also beating expectations.  Construction Bank’s “prudent and proactive” provision
charge will help it to deliver stable credit cost, according to
Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd.  The lender’s fourth-quarter net income rose 18 percent to
24.35 billion yuan, based on subtracting nine-month profit from
full-year earnings.  “Strong demand for loans and rising pricing power are
still the dominant factors driving banks’ profit growth,” said
 Wu Xiaoling , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Great Wall Securities
Co. “A rebound in bad loans is a valid and long-term concern,
but that’s not likely to depress earnings anytime soon.”  The value of loans outstanding at the state-controlled
lender stood at 5.53 trillion yuan at the end of December, an
increase of 18 percent from the start of the year, according to
yesterday’s statement. That’s slower than 2009’s expansion of 27
percent. The bank  said  it expects yuan-denominated credit to
grow 13 percent this year and Zhang told reporters that new
loans will be about 700 billion yuan to 750 billion yuan.  Property Lending  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers minus
interest paid to depositors, gained 19 percent to 251.5 billion
yuan last year as the net interest margin widened to 2.49
percent from 2.41 percent. Income from fee-based services jumped
38 percent to 66.1 billion yuan.  The bank said yesterday its loans to the real-estate
industry climbed 12 percent last year, slower than the 19
percent growth in overall corporate loans, and accounted for 7.1
percent of total lending at the end of 2010.  China in January increased the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases, told local governments to set price
targets on new properties and introduced taxes for homes in
Shanghai and Chongqing.  The country’s real estate market has defied the
restrictions, with the average price of homes rising 26 percent
in the first two months of this year, according to China’s
statistics bureau.  Construction Bank’s capital adequacy ratio rose to 12.68
percent as of Dec. 31 from 11.64 percent three months earlier
after it completed a $9.2 billion rights offer in December.  --Luo Jun, with assistance from  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing and
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong . Editor: James Gunsalus, Philip Lagerkranser  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  