-- 
Conventional Cars in Cities Should Be Halved by 2030, EU Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-03-28T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/conventional-cars-in-cities-should-be-halved-by-2030-eu-says.html
The European Union should halve the
use of conventional cars in cities by 2030 to reduce pollution
and lessen dependence on oil from a politically unstable Middle
East, according to an EU policy paper.  The shift away from the 150-year-old combustion engine in
urban transport should be completed by 2050, when all vehicles
used in EU cities ought to be powered by low-emission
technologies, the  European Commission  said. This would lower
discharges blamed for climate change and smog, ease noise and
cut an EU oil-import bill that totaled around 210 billion euros
($295 billion) last year, according to the commission.  Carmakers from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  Renault SA (RNO)  are
speeding up development of electric vehicles and hybrid systems
that can run on either gasoline or electricity as the EU cracks
down on road emissions, including discharges of  greenhouse gases 
like carbon dioxide that contribute to global warming. The 27-
nation bloc will start capping CO2 from cars next year.  “The gradual phasing out of ‘conventionally fueled’
vehicles from the urban environment is a major contribution to
significant reduction of oil dependence, greenhouse-gas
emissions and local air and noise pollution,” the commission,
the EU’s executive arm, said in the paper meant to foster policy
debate. It mentions the need to develop fueling and charging
infrastructure for new vehicles, to promote public transport --
including through road pricing -- and to facilitate walking and
cycling.  EU Roadmap  The document, which is a part of the EU roadmap to shift to
a low-carbon economy, also floats the idea of moving 30 percent
of road freight traveling more than 300 kilometers to rail or
waterborne transport by 2030. The commission also said the EU
should triple the length of the existing high-speed rail network
by that year.  The region, which aims to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions
by between 80 percent and 95 percent by 2050 compared with 1990
levels, should likewise expand the share of low-carbon fuels in
aviation to 40 percent and cut CO2 emissions from maritime
bunker fuels by 40 percent over the next four decades, the
commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 