-- 
Copper Declines Most in a Week as Japanese Carmakers May Suspend Activity

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-28T19:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/copper-aluminum-zinc-retreat-as-radiation-risk-boosts-recovery-concern.html
Copper fell the most in more than
two weeks on concern that Japanese carmakers may suspend
production at plants in  China , curbing metals demand.  Suppliers of auto parts such as Renesas Electronics Corp.
are hampered by this month’s earthquake, Nomura International
Hong Kong Ltd. said. Copper also dropped as Morgan Stanley said
swelling inventories of metal may reflect a lack of buying by
China, the world’s biggest consumer.  “Copper is under pressure because people are concerned
that automobile demand is on the low side, given what’s going on
in Japan,” said Phil Streible, a senior strategist at Lind-
Waldock, a broker in  Chicago .  Copper futures for May delivery fell 6.9 cents, or 1.6
percent, to close at $4.35 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York , the biggest loss for a most-active contract since
March 9.  With most assembly plants in  Japan  shut down for the past
two weeks, lost auto production would amount to about 400,000 to
425,000 vehicles, Macquarie Bank Ltd. said today in a report. A
car can contain as much as 28 kilograms (62 pounds) of the
metal, according to the Copper Development Association.  Inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange rose for
the third straight day to the highest since July 6. Stockpiles
are up 26 percent from the 2010 low on Dec. 10.  China may not be restocking “to the extent many had
previously expected,” Morgan Stanley said in a report. Imports
of refined copper into the country fell to a two-year low in
February, customs figures showed last week.  On the LME, copper for three-month delivery dropped $150,
or 1.5 percent, to $9,535 a metric ton ($4.33 a pound).  Aluminum, tin, zinc, lead and nickel also fell in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  