-- 
Cricket Diplomacy at World Cup May Smooth Tension Between India, Pakistan

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-03-28T06:57:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/cricket-diplomacy-at-world-cup-may-smooth-tension-between-india-pakistan.html
The prime ministers of India and
 Pakistan  will meet at a  World Cup  cricket match this week, the
third time the sport will be used by leaders of the two nuclear
rivals as a forum for smoothing ties.  Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  accepted an
invitation from his Indian counterpart,  Manmohan Singh , to
attend the March 30 semi-final match between the South Asian
rivals, Pakistan’s foreign ministry said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The latest round of cricket diplomacy will
follow formal talks today and tomorrow between the governments’
home secretaries.  “Our acceptance indicates that both the countries are
seriously coming closer with a realization that dialogue is the
only way forward,” Information Minister Firdous Ashiq Awan said
in Karachi, the official Pakistani news agency APP  reported .  India  broke off talks over border disputes after Pakistani
militants killed 166 people in a 2008 attack in Mumbai, and
leaders of the two countries have met several times in an effort
to restore them. Improved ties are central to U.S.-led efforts
to fight Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in  Afghanistan , where
India and Pakistan compete for influence.  Leaders of the two countries have tried to use cricket
before to grease the diplomatic process. Pakistan’s former
military leader, President Pervez Musharraf, met Singh at a
match in 2005 in Delhi. In 1987, Pakistan’s ruling general,
Muhammad Zia ul-Haq, held talks with Indian Prime Minister Rajiv
Gandhi at a match in Jaipur.  No Breakthrough  While the meetings reduced tensions, they didn’t produce a
breakthrough on Kashmir or other conflicts. The two countries
have fought three wars since their independence from Britain in
1947, and have never resolved their disputed claim to the
territory of Kashmir, which remains divided along a 1947 cease-
fire line.  The meeting is “an attempt to create a feel-good
atmosphere between the two countries at a time when the
atmosphere of suspicion and hostility towards Pakistan in India
is very strong because of Pakistan’s perceived lack of interest
in the investigation and prosecution” of Pakistanis involved in
the 2008 attack, Bahukutumbi Raman, a regional politics analyst
at the Institute for Topical Studies in Chennai and a retired
Indian counter-intelligence chief wrote in an e-mail.  India and Pakistan will meet at Mohali, in the Indian state
of Punjab. India is  ranked  No. 2 in the world for one-day
matches, according to the International Cricket Council
rankings. Pakistan is No. 6. The winner will face either  Sri
Lanka  or  New Zealand , who are contesting the other semi-final.  The November 2008 attack on India’s financial capital by 10
Pakistani terrorists shattered a dialogue that over five years
had increased cross-border trade and strengthened transport and
cultural links.  Soccer Diplomacy  India, a predominantly Hindu country, blames the Pakistan-
based Lashkar-e-Taiba, an Islamic militant group, for carrying
out the Mumbai siege. Lashkar was originally formed to fight
Indian rule in the part of Kashmir it governs. Pakistan has
begun a closed trial of some of the group’s members.  Seven hours of talks in July between the countries’ foreign
ministers ended in acrimony. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, said then that India had not been
“psychologically prepared” to discuss broad issues bedeviling
relations, while India’s S.M. Krishna called further
negotiations “futile” unless the government in Islamabad
embarked on an “all-out effort” to shut militant groups
plotting against India.  Sport has played a diplomatic role in the past. Iranian and
U.S. soccer players exchanged flowers before a 1998 World Cup
match, symbolizing a political thaw under  Iran ’s President
Mohammad Khatami. Co-hosting the 2002 soccer World Cup helped
ease historic tensions between  Japan  and  South Korea .  In 1969, though, Honduras and El Salvador went to war days
after a soccer World Cup qualifier in which Salvadoran
authorities burned the Honduran flag during pre-match ceremonies
and ran a used dishcloth up the flagpole instead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  