-- 
Daniel Radcliffe, Liza Minnelli, John Stamos: Scene Last Night

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-28T14:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/daniel-radcliffe-liza-minnelli-john-stamos-scene-last-night.html
For the actor who plays the window
washer turned executive in “How to Succeed in Business Without
Really Trying,” a corporate career holds little appeal.  “I’d be terrible at it,”  Daniel Radcliffe  said last night
after his opening performance.  The actor better known as  Harry Potter  stood in the Palm
Court of the Plaza Hotel, dressed in a Brooks Brothers three-
button tuxedo and holding a bottle of Fiji water.  “I have literally no business acumen,” he added. “I
think I’d be quite bored.”  JPMorgan Chase will have to stick to recruiting Yale hockey
players.  Among those attending the opening-night festivities --
curtain at 5, then the Plaza for dinner, dessert and lots of
champagne -- were Rocco Landesman, the chairman of the National
Endowment for the Arts; playwright  Neil Simon ; musician Adam
Duritz of Counting Crows; and actors Liza Minnelli, John Stamos
and Bernadette Peters.  On the red carpet before the show  was Marcia Reiter,
daughter of Jack Weinstock, one of the writers of the musical.
She had on the gold dress and coat her mother wore to the
original production’s opening night in 1961.  Reiter’s older sister, Ethel Kaiden, made the family’s
ambitions clear. “We won the Tony and we will win it again,”
Kaiden said, explaining that a second was needed so that each
daughter could have her own (currently the sisters switch off
every six months).  ‘Start Young’  Also making a turn on the red carpet was Edward Mead, the
son of Shepherd Mead, who wrote the satiric business manual on
which the musical is based. Mead said that growing up he had
been more tuned into another book of his father’s, “How to
Succeed With Women Without Really Trying.”  “The advice was: Start young. Throw your arm around
women’s knees and work your way up,” said Mead, who is a vice
president of computer technology at a small company.  As for how to succeed in mounting a production on Broadway:
Candy Spelling, the widow of television executive Aaron Spelling, and one of the show’s producers, said the key is to
“give 500 percent. I’m a perfectionist. I have a lot of energy.
I didn’t go to bed until 5 a.m. last night.” She’s been working
on the show’s merchandising.  “It should be stuff that people want to buy,” Spelling
said. Products on sale at the theater include a notebook and a
paper cube with pictures of the cast.  Another idea: selling the turquoise bow-tie Radcliffe wears
in the show; several guests had tried to match the tie, and
ribbon imitations of the original (custom made by Brooks
Brothers) popped out of the flower arrangements at the party.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 