-- 
Germany's DAX Index Falls; Daimler, Volkswagen Shares Drop as Nordex Gains

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-03-28T16:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/dax-benchmark-advances-as-deutsche-bank-continental-nordex-shares-climb.html
German stocks dropped, after the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  rallied the most in 10 months last week, as
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition was defeated in its
southwestern heartland.  Daimler AG (DAI)  lost 1.5 percent.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  and  SolarWorld AG (SWV) 
advanced as the anti-nuclear Greens’ vote surged to a record in
state elections.  Continental AG (CON)  climbed 4 percent after
 Schaeffler Group  sold 1.8 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of the
tiremaker’s shares.  The DAX fell 0.1 percent to 6,938.63 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The gauge rallied 4.2 percent last week as
investors speculated that Japan will contain its nuclear crisis
and as allied forces took control of Libya’s airspace.  “From the investors’ side the question is, ‘is the glass
half full or half empty?’” said Matthias Jasper, head of
equities at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “Many people are
watching from the sideline but one should still be invested in
equities. In terms of energy policies, it’s very obvious right
now that something is going to change and it will be in favor of
alternative energies.”  Japanese workers have been unable to return to the No. 2
and No. 3 reactors at Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant because of
radiation more than two weeks after a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami knocked out power to the nuclear plant. The radiation
has delayed efforts to drain contaminated water and connect
electricity to the reactors’ cooling systems.  Libyan Operations  In  Libya , the North Atlantic Treaty Organization yesterday
agreed to take command of all military operations to protect
civilians from forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Within
hours of that decision, allied warplanes attacked the capital,
Tripoli, and Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace, the Associated Press
reported. The strikes on Sirte were the first of the military
campaign, which began on March 19.  U.S. Commerce Department data today showed consumer
spending rose 0.7 percent last month, the most since October. A
separate report from the National Association of Realtors showed
a 2.1 percent gain in the number of Americans signing contracts
to buy previously owned homes.  Daimler, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
declined 1.5 percent to 48.27 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s
largest carmaker, slipped 0.8 percent to 112.15 euros. European
carmakers were among the worst performers in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today.  Nordex, SolarWorld  Wind-turbine maker Nordex soared 12 percent to 9.37 euros,
while SolarWorld gained 8.4 percent to 11.20 euros.  Q-Cells SE (QCE) 
increased 8.3 percent to 3.40 euros. The Greens are poised to
enter the regional governments in Baden-Wuerttemberg and
Rhineland-Palatinate after yesterday’s state elections conducted
in the shadow of the nuclear disaster in Japan.  Continental added 4 percent to 63.40 euros, a fourth
straight advance, after Schaeffler, the world’s second-biggest
maker of roller bearings, agreed with German banks to sell the
tiremaker’s shares to reduce its own debt. The sale was priced
at 60 euros apiece. M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus Metzler sold as
many as 30 million shares in Europe’s second-largest tiremaker
held on Schaeffler’s behalf, increasing Continental’s free float
to 39.7 percent from 24.9 percent.  BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research raised its
recommendation on the shares to “buy.”  Porsche SE jumped 6.7 percent to 60 euros, erasing earlier
declines. The carmaker announced today it will start a 5
billion-euro share sale on March 30 to reduce debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  