-- 
Deficit Deal May Fail if U.S. Social Security Cuts Included, Durbin Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-28T22:21:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/deficit-deal-would-fail-if-u-s-social-security-cuts-included-durbin-says.html
Senator  Richard Durbin , the second-
ranking Democrat and a participant in bipartisan talks on a
proposal to reduce the  U.S. debt , said including cuts in Social
Security would threaten any agreement’s chances of approval.  Many Democrats are wary of addressing the entitlement
program for the elderly in a long-range budget plan because they
view Republicans as too willing to move toward privatizing
Social Security, the Illinois senator said today on  MSNBC ’s
“Morning Joe.”  “Including Social Security makes it increasingly difficult
to bring the votes together, the 60 votes we need in the
Senate” for approving any deal, Durbin said. Among Senate
Democrats, “there’s a feeling there for a long time the
Republicans have wanted to push toward privatizing Social
Security and doing things which we don’t agree with,” he said.  Durbin said he still believes Social Security should be
part of a deal, saying, “I haven’t given up” on a broad pact
that includes changes to the program, as well as tax increases
and other proposals to curb the debt.  The debate over Social Security is taking place as
Republicans and Democrats in Congress are deadlocked over
spending cuts for this year, with a U.S. government shutdown
looming if they don’t agree by April 8. Lawmakers also must
begin work soon on a 2012 budget and vote as early as May on
raising the $14.3 trillion national debt ceiling.  Rally on Social Security  Other Democratic leaders are insisting on leaving Social
Security out of the negotiations.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, today
helped lead a rally with other Democratic senators that called
on Republicans to “Back Off Social Security.” Reid and Senator
 Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-ranking
Democrat, have said they oppose including Social Security cuts
in any deficit-reduction plan.  It’s an “outright lie” to say that Social Security is
“headed toward bankruptcy,” Reid said, calling the entitlement
program “the most successful social program in the history of
the world.”  “Let’s worry about Social Security when it’s a problem,”
Reid said. “Today it’s not a problem.”  On the Republican side, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  has said he won’t consider changes to
entitlement programs unless President  Barack Obama  shows support
for such cuts. McConnell also has said he opposes raising taxes
as part of a deficit-cutting plan.  Debt Commission  Leaders of a bipartisan debt-reduction commission last year
proposed a Social Security fix that would combine benefit cuts
and tax increases for future retirees. The overall proposal
failed to gain enough support from the panel’s 18 members to win
approval.  Two weeks ago 64 senators called on Obama to lead an effort
to include spending cuts and tax increases in the negotiations
on this year’s budget.  “With a strong signal of support from you, we believe that
we can achieve consensus on these important fiscal issues,”
said the letter from 32 Senate Republicans and 32 Senate
Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  