-- 
Democrats, White House Said to Back $20 Billion of Additional Budget Cuts

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-28T21:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/democrats-white-house-support-20-billion-more-in-budget-cuts.html
Democrats and the White House are
prepared to offer congressional Republicans an additional $20
billion in cuts to help reach a deal on a 2011 budget, according
to three people familiar with the negotiations.  The offer, on top of $10 billion in spending reductions
already approved by Congress, would make up about half of the
$61 billion Republicans want to cut by Sept. 30, when the
spending year ends.  The $20 billion offer is aimed at moving budget
negotiations forward to avert a government shutdown on April 8,
when temporary spending authority expires.  The White House is working with Senate and House Democrats
to determine what areas of the budget would be cut. The offer
represents a deeper reduction than the Obama administration
wanted, said one of the two people who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Obama has appointed Vice President  Joe Biden , budget
director  Jacob Lew  and chief of staff  William Daley  to prod
talks toward an agreement, though there’s been criticism that
Obama himself hasn’t personally gotten involved in the talks.  “We need to” reach an agreement by April 8, Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking Democrat, said
on Bloomberg Television today. “The president needs to be at
the table.”  Durbin said “we have two weeks to get serious,” and urged
negotiators to find savings from areas other than education,
research and investments.  Short-Term Measures  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said March 25 that the two sides were far apart on a spending
plan for this year. The stalemate has resulted in a series of
short-term spending measures including the one expiring April 8.  The Republican-led House last month approved cutting
 government spending  by $61 billion through Sept. 30, which would
kill more than 100 programs and reduce hundreds more. So far,
the Democratic-led Senate has gone along with about $10 billion
in cuts.  Two of the people familiar with the offer for another $20
billion in cuts said formal negotiations stalled after a March
22 meeting among White House officials and aides to House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.  Appropriations Aide  A House Appropriations Committee aide at that meeting
insisted on using as a starting point the House plan with $61
billion in cuts, one of the people familiar with the talks said.
White House and Senate Democratic aides had been operating under
the notion that  House Republicans  could accept about $32 billion
in reductions, and the meeting broke off, the person said.  Democrats haven’t shown Republicans the $20 billion offer
and aren’t sure when the next meeting will occur, the person
said.  Durbin said today on  MSNBC ’s “Morning Joe” that including
cuts in Social Security could threaten any chances of approval
for a longer-term plan to curb the federal debt. Durbin, one of
a bipartisan group of six senators trying to craft a long-range
budget-cutting plan, said trimming the program for the elderly
would make it harder to gain enough Democratic votes to get a
proposal through the Senate.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New
York , the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, have said they
oppose including Social Security cuts in any deficit-reduction
plan.  ‘Haven’t Given Up’  Durbin said he still believes Social Security should be
part of a deal, saying, “I haven’t given up” on including
either Social Security changes or tax increases, which are
opposed by some Republicans.  Reid participated in a rally today with other Democratic
senators and outside groups aimed at opposing efforts to alter
the Social Security system. It’s an “outright lie” to say that
Social Security is “headed toward bankruptcy,” Reid said.  “Let’s worry about Social Security when it’s a problem,”
he said. “Today it’s not a problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  