-- 
Dong Sells 50% of Offshore Wind Project; CEO Says May Sell Other Stakes

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-28T16:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/dong-energy-sells-50-stake-of-offshore-wind-project-for-1-13-billion.html
Dong Energy A/S, the world’s
largest owner of offshore wind parks, may dispose of stakes in
additional projects after selling half of its Anholt farm, Chief
Executive Officer Anders Eldrup said.  Dong raised about 6 billion kroner ($1.13 billion) selling
50 percent of Anholt to the pension funds PensionDanmark and
PKA, the Skaerbaek, Denmark-based company said today in a
statement. Dong may sell stakes in other wind farms that it
fully owns, Eldrup said today in a telephone interview.  “We have a number of parks running, and some are with
partners, and some are on our own,” Eldrup said. “We would
prefer to have partners and have a 50 percent stake in them.”  Dong next year will start building Anholt, which will be
 Denmark ’s largest park, using 111  Siemens AG (SIE)  wind turbines with
a combined capacity of 400 megawatts. Dong lowered its net
investment forecast for 2011 to 2013 by about 20 percent on
March 11 as the company said it will change its strategy to fund
new acquisitions by selling assets.  The utility almost doubled its net debt from 2007 to 2009
as it increased investments in wind parks that it operates in
the U.K., Denmark,  Norway  and  France . Last year, the company
reduced debt by 18 percent to 22.1 billion kroner.  Offshore wind farms that Dong fully owns include Burbo Bank
and Gunfleet Sands in the U.K., and Horns Rev 2 in Denmark.  The proceeds from today’s sale hasn’t yet been earmarked to
specific projects though investments are possible in both
offshore wind and oil and gas, Eldrup said.  Institutional Investors  PensionDanmark and PKA will buy 30 percent and 20 percent,
respectively, and take ownership of their stakes beginning in
April 2014, according to today’s statement. The funds will pay
the state-controlled company in four installments starting at
the end of this year.  PensionDanmark also bought a 30 percent stake of Dong’s
Nysted farm last year, while two Dutch funds in December bought
almost a quarter of the company’s Walney project in the U.K.  Eldrup said there will be a growing trend of institutional
investors buying into renewable energy.  “I think and I hope so because what is in front of us in
the  energy industry  in  Europe  is a tremendous amount of
investments in order to change from traditional production to
the new green profile,” he said.  “It’s important that we find a way to introduce to the
institutional investors how to go into this sector, because we
need their collaboration,” Eldrup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net 
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 