-- 
U.S. Contractor DynCorp Cited By Pentagon For Deficiences at Afghan Bases

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-28T04:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/dyncorp-cited-by-u-s-for-afghan-base-deficiencies.html
DynCorp International Inc., the
largest U.S. contractor in  Afghanistan , was warned by Pentagon
officials in January that it is failing to adequately inspect
and repair in a timely manner potential electrical hazards at
U.S. bases, according to a document.  DynCorp also filed reports indicating that it fully
completed repair work on potential life, health or safety
electrical problems “even though parts are on order and the
work is not complete,” Lieutenant Colonel David Schoolcraft, a
military contracting officer, wrote to DynCorp on Jan. 7 in a
formal “Letter of Concern.”  The Pentagon’s contract oversight agencies have increased
their scrutiny of issues related to electrical wiring at U.S.
bases in  Iraq  and Afghanistan after 18 troops were electrocuted
in Iraq either in accidents or in connection with faulty
construction or grounding of equipment.  There is no indication that military personnel have been
electrocuted in Afghanistan. DynCorp management, in a Jan. 31
response, outlined the company’s plans to address the issues.
The warning to DynCorp may be highlighted today during a hearing
of the congressionally mandated  Commission on Wartime
Contracting .  Falls Church , Virginia-based DynCorp is working under a
July 2009  contract  worth as much as $5.7 billion if all options
are executed. It took over from incumbent  KBR Inc. (KBR)  the job in
southern Afghanistan of facilities management, inspection,
maintenance and installation for electrical power, water,
sewage, laundry, food services and motor pool supervision.  Troop Surge  The bulk of the transition from KBR to DynCorp management
occurred from January through July 2010, as the Pentagon surged
30,000 additional troops into the Taliban-contested south. Two
of the largest bases are Kandahar Air Field and Camp Leatherneck
in Helmand province.  Schoolcraft said the Defense Department’s contracting
agency is concerned “with DynCorp’s ability to maintain the
right type and number of resources in place to accurately
inspect, mitigate, document and fully address electrical
issues.”  “Due to the sensitivity of life, health and safety issues
associated with the use of electricity,” Schoolcraft wrote, the
agency has been reviewing all electrical-related activities at
the bases, including issues highlighted in 9,739 “flashes,” or
emergency alerts, by Army inspectors at Kandahar and Leatherneck
alone.  Overall there have been 10,679 safety alerts for six U.S.
bases since the surge, and “we are continuing to receive
between 40 and 60 new flashes per day at Kandahar,” he wrote.  Safety ‘Flashes’  A review of these “flashes” and records filed by DynCorp
“identified several electrical-related concerns that require
immediate attention and a corrective-action plan,” according to
Schoolcraft.  “Given the nature and magnitude of the electrical
concerns, it is imperative to ensure that the identified
concerns are not pervasive across the entire” contract,
Schoolcraft wrote. He did not elaborate on the specific
concerns.  DynCorp program manager Joseph Schmitt, in his Jan. 31
response, said the company would discontinue listing a job as
complete when parts are still pending. He labeled the practice
as “inappropriate.”  The company was attempting temporary repairs to “mitigate
the danger” but not necessarily to make them compliant with
 National Electrical Code standards , Schmitt wrote.  Inadequate Staffing  DynCorp at this time does not have adequate staffing to
“keep up with the corrective actions required,” Schmitt wrote.
“We have been and are continuing to address these concerns.”  Ashley Burke, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that “we have addressed each of those challenges with
aggressive action.”  DynCorp is hiring 120 additional electricians and more
support personnel to better respond to field reports. It is also
hiring at least two additional companies to assist with
technical inspections, she said.  “DynCorp is committed to taking every action possible to
ensure the safety of all military and civilian personnel who use
the facilities we support,” Burke said.  DynCorp was acquired last year by New York-based Cerberus
Capital Management LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  