-- 
E.ON’s Power Price Boost May Sour on Merkel’s Nuclear Halt Cost

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-03-29T15:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/e-on-s-power-price-boost-may-sour-on-merkel-s-nuclear-halt-cost.html
E.ON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s two
biggest operators of atomic plants, will pay the price for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s about-face on nuclear power when they
become liable for all their  carbon emissions  in 2013.  Until then, they will be compensated with higher power
prices as the government’s decision to phase out the oldest
reactors cuts overcapacity, according to Theo Kitz, an analyst
at Merck Finck & Co in Munich.  German power prices jumped to the highest in almost two
years yesterday after Merkel signaled a shift away from atomic
energy following an electoral defeat at the hands of the Greens.
E.ON and RWE may have to make do with lower nuclear output,
which emits almost no carbon dioxide, as they brace for stricter
European Union pollution rules in 2013.  “Only if the increase in power prices for 2012 and 2013 is
sustainable will the halts have a positive effect for the
utilities,” said Kitz.  RWE produced 164.9 million metric tons of CO2 in 2010, the
Essen, Germany-based company said in February. RWE would pay
3.17 billion euros ($4.47 billion) in 2013, when it has to buy
all its carbon permits, for that volume at yesterday’s price of
19.25 euros on  London ’s ICE Futures  Europe , according to
Bloomberg calculations. E.ON, which produced 89.9 million tons
of CO2 last year, would pay 1.73 billion euros.  Utilities, which currently only pay for a fraction of the
CO2 they produce, can hedge against future CO2 costs by buying
permits now and generating more power from renewable sources.  Too Early  Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen, a spokesman for E.ON, said it’s
too early to say what effect a reduction in German nuclear
capacity will have on CO2 prices. A call to RWE’s press
department outside regular office hours went unanswered.  Germany, which relies on nuclear plants for 23 percent of
its power, is reassessing the role of nuclear reactors after
explosions at a Japanese station stoked safety concerns and
helped lose Merkel’s Christian Democrats a state election.  German power for delivery next year has risen 6.8 percent
since Merkel ordered the country’s seven oldest nuclear stations
closed for a three-month safety review. The contract reached
59.80 euros a megawatt-hour yesterday. E.ON has fallen 3.3
percent since then, cutting the company’s market value to 42.3
billion euros. RWE has fallen 2.6 percent. Utilities sell power
several years in advance to limit earnings volatility.  Oldest Reactors  Germany’s seven oldest reactors account for 35 percent of
the country’s 20.7 gigawatts of nuclear power capacity. Two of
the seven plants were offline when Merkel ordered the review.
RWE owns two of the facilities, while E.ON operates two and
holds a stake in a third, which is run by Vattenfall AB.  E.ON fell 0.6 percent to 21.16 euros in Frankfurt. RWE
retreated 0.5 percent to 44.48 euros.  Hermann Groehe, the general secretary of Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said yesterday that most of the oldest
reactors may never start again.  “We’ll know by the end of the three-month moratorium at
the earliest” whether the price increase will be sustainable,
said Kitz. “In the short term the negative effects are stronger
because the utilities can’t build replacement power plants
overnight and have to buy power from their competitors.”  Merkel, who had decided last year to extend the lives of
Germany’s 17 reactors by an average of 12 years, said yesterday
that the government’s reassessment of its energy plans will lead
to a change in policy. “My view on nuclear energy has changed
since the events in  Japan ,” she said.  Offsetting Halts  A 5-euro increase in power prices would generate 524
million euros a year for E.ON, almost offsetting the 563 million
euros a year it would lose if the seven oldest reactors are
switched off after the review, said Lueder Schmacher, an analyst
at UniCredit SpA. RWE would stand to make 14 million euros a
year in that scenario, he wrote in a March 16 note.  The Greens are set to lead their first state administration
after ending the Christian Democratic Union’s 58-year grip on
Baden-Wuerttemberg.  That handed the Greens control of Germany’s third-biggest
utility,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) , and its four
nuclear plants. “It is probably reasonable to assume that a
Green local government will push for early closure of EnBW’s
remaining nuclear plants,” Credit Suisse Group AG said in a
note yesterday.  Boost Fossil Fuels  German reactors that were scheduled to get extensions to
operate until 2028 and 2036 may now be closed in 2020, said
Ashley Thomas, an analyst at MF Global. “That’s quite a big
difference” and utilities are likely to boost output of fossil-
fuel power generation as well as raise the number of planned
renewable energy projects, he said.  “While renewable power may be attractive to the populous,
the danger of going down the path of closing nuclear plants and
only replacing them with renewables, is the baseload power price
goes up,” he said. “To protect industry, the government will
not solely go down the renewable path. There will be more gas
and more coal with  carbon capture .”  Other European countries have “been measured in their
response to the Fukushima crisis,” Adam Dickens, an analyst at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a note to investors today. While
investment decisions on new nuclear plants may be delayed in the
U.K. and  France , they are still likely to proceed, Dickens said.  “One possible risk is that regulators or politicians may
frown on higher profits for nuclear generation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  