-- 
EADS Cuts Funding Request to Germany, France, Spain for Drone

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-03-28T17:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/eads-cuts-funding-request-to-germany-france-spain-for-drone.html
European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. is asking Germany, France and  Spain  for a combined
300 million euros ($423 million) over three years to help it
develop the Talarion unmanned aerial vehicle, the chief of
EADS’s defense unit said.  EADS said in January 2010 it needed 1.5 billion euros in
total from the three governments to continue developing
Talarion, which is intended to perform reconnaissance and
surveillance missions. EADS trimmed its request, recognizing the
countries’ severe budget constraints, said Stefan Zoller, chief
executive officer of the defense unit,  Cassidian , said today at
a briefing in Munich.  Government money is critical for a program that would help
keep  Europe ’s defense industry competitive with U.S. rivals,
which benefit extensively from state-funded research contracts,
said Zoller.  “We don’t want to lose a competitive edge, so we’ve
already started financing it on our own,” said Zoller. “Today
all the teams are still going full speed on development, pre-
financed with our own money, but we still lack financing from
the three nations.”  EADS Chief Executive  Louis Gallois  said last July his
company might pull the plug on Talarion research unless the
governments pledged funds by the following quarter. It kept
spending even after the countries failed to commit, however.
EADS has spent 500 million euros to 600 million euros developing
technologies in recent years for unmanned aerial vehicles, or
UAVS, Zoller said, declining to break out a specific figure for
Talarion.  Cassidian, based in Munich, has self-financed 4 percent of
research costs in recent years, with the rest coming from
governments, Zoller said. The figure earlier was 2.5 percent to
3 percent, he said.  Dassault Project  Dassault Aviation SA (AM) , a French company that is 46 percent-
owned by EADS, has been working on a drone program called the
Neuron. It has built a demonstration model, representing the
first stage of development of unmanned combat aerial vehicles,
fighter planes that could be controlled by people outside the
aircraft, either in the ground or in other aircraft behind.  Dassault recently agreed to work together with the U.K.’s
 BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  on the project. Cassidian has no involvement in
the Dassault program, even though the companies share an
investor in parent EADS, and Zoller said he considered the
Talarion  project  to be far more advanced than Neuron.  Turkey  wants to join the Talarion development program, and
if any of the three western European nations fail to commit,
EADS will ask the other two if they would accept Turkey as a
partner, he said. That would require Turkish companies to get a
third of the overall share of work on the project, he said.  Orders Fell  Cassidian’s activities include the German and Spanish
portions of the Eurofighter combat plane, a project that also
involves BAE and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  of  Italy .  Cassidian contributed 5.93 billion euros in revenue in 2010
to EADS’s total of 45.8 billion euros, two-thirds of which came
from Airbus SAS, which makes commercial airplanes. The unit won
orders of 4.3 billion euros, down from 8 billion euros in 2009.  Zoller is seeking to reshape Cassidian as European defense
ministries’ budgets come under pressure. The goal, he said, is
to have more than 60 percent of revenue from new markets such as
 Brazil ,  India , the  United Arab Emirates  and  Saudi Arabia , in
2020. Zoller said the principal means of breaking into new
markets would be through developing joint ventures.  Cassidian said last week it plans to cut 600 jobs, or
10 percent of its workforce of 6,000. Another 5 percent of
employees are being redeployed to new jobs in areas where
Cassidian wants to grow, such as in cyber security, Zoller said.
A reorganization taking effect Aug. 1 will erase boundaries
between divisions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 