-- 
EBay's Donahoe Aims for Big Retail Brands With $2.4 Billion GSI Purchase

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-29T14:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ebay-aims-for-big-retail-brands-with-2-4-billion-gsi-purchase.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  Chief Executive Officer
John Donahoe is stepping up an effort to woo big retailers and
challenge  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  through the $2.4 billion acquisition
of  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC) , his largest takeover yet.  The purchase will give EBay, owner of the biggest e-
commerce  marketplace , the chance to add brands such as Levi
Strauss & Co., Toys R Us Inc. and General Nutrition Centers
Inc., which are among the 180 retailers whose websites and
inventory are managed by GSI.  “It wasn’t until 18 months ago that EBay even contemplated
calling on larger companies or big brands,” Donahoe said in an
interview from  King of Prussia ,  Pennsylvania , where GSI is
based. “Retailers of all sizes are looking for help about how
they can compete in what is increasingly a multichannel world.”  Donahoe is working to reverse slumping sales growth and win
back customers lost to Amazon by positioning EBay as the go-to
partner for retailers wanting to streamline their online, mobile
and traditional businesses. The challenge will be setting EBay
apart from rivals on the technology side, such as Oracle Corp.-
owned Art Technology Group and warehousing services from Amazon,
said Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “This is a business of great complexity,” Rohan said. “It’s
one EBay may or may not have their arms around in terms of
understanding the competitive dynamics.”  Cash, Debt, Divestments  GSI investors will get $29.25 a share in cash,  San Jose ,
California-based EBay said yesterday in a statement. That’s 51
percent more than GSI’s closing price on the Nasdaq Stock Market
on March 25. EBay plans to finance the deal with cash and debt.  GSI rose 9 cents to $29.29 at 10:08 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq trading today. After the announcement yesterday, the
shares climbed above the offer price to as much as $29.82,
indicating that some investors may be betting on a higher bid.
EBay rose 52 cents to $30.86 today.  EBay plans to divest GSI’s licensed sports-merchandise
business, and 70 percent of online-retail sites ShopRunner and
Rue La La, because they aren’t central to its growth strategy.  Michael Rubin, GSI’s founder and CEO, will head a newly
formed holding company with the divested firms. Rubin owns 4.31
million shares of GSI, or 6.4 percent of the company, according
to Bloomberg data. His stake was valued at $125.9 million at
yesterday’s closing price.  The acquisition agreement drew the attention of private
securities-law firms, as many as 10 of which said yesterday that
they were investigating whether GSI’s board considered other
buyers and got the best deal for shareholders.  Go-Shop Period  As part of the agreement, GSI has 40 days to solicit
proposals from other potential bidders, in a so-called go-shop
period, the companies said. EBay then has a right to match any
superior proposal, they said. This may entice private-equity
firms such as KKR & Co. and Leonard Green & Partners LP to bid,
Rohan said.  “That ‘go-shop’ basically says, ‘OK, private equity, come
and get me,’” Rohan said.  GSI hosts retailers’ websites from its data centers, offers
marketing services to customers, and stores and ships inventory
on behalf of clients.  EBay’s acquisition of GSI creates a full-service company
for retailers that won’t also compete with them, Donahoe said --
a reference to Seattle-based Amazon, which lets merchants sell
goods through its site, next to its own rival offerings.  Many retailers have stopped selling on Amazon. In the past
five years,  Target Corp. (TGT) , Borders Group Inc., Toys R Us and
Circuit City Stores Inc. yanked their products from Amazon.com,
as it expanded its own line of goods.  “If you look at what Amazon has been has been doing, this
can create a platform that can compete in terms of the services
that they offer to sellers,” said Ken Sena, an analyst at
Evercore Partners Inc., referring to EBay’s purchase of GSI.  Savings by 2013  EBay said the purchase will result in savings of about $60
million by 2013. The acquisition is expected to cut 30 cents to
34 cents a share from EBay’s forecast earnings for 2011,
including costs for divesting the GSI businesses, the company
said.  The acquisition is the largest for a U.S. online-services
provider in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.
The buyers of more than 300 similar companies during that period
paid a premium of 44 percent compared with the target’s average
price over 20 trading days before the announcement.  EBay’s announced premium is about 53 percent on that basis,
according to Bloomberg data. EBay is paying about 21 times GSI’s
trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, close to the median of eight similar deals,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  