-- 
EBay Agrees to Acquire GSI Commerce for About $2.4 Billion

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-28T20:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ebay-agrees-to-buy-gsi-commerce-for-29-25-a-share-or-about-2-4-billion.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the largest e-
commerce market, agreed to buy  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC)  for about $2.4
billion to add services that help retailers market and
distribute their wares.  GSI investors will get $29.25 a share in cash,  San Jose ,
California-based EBay said today in a statement. That’s 51
percent more than GSI’s closing price on the Nasdaq Stock Market
on March 25. EBay plans to finance the deal with cash and debt.  EBay Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe, two years into a
three-year campaign to revive sales growth amid competition from
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , said the acquisition will help the company do a
better job connecting buyers and sellers. GSI, based in  King of
Prussia ,  Pennsylvania , has long-term commerce-services
relationships with retailers and brands, EBay said.  “EBay is lagging Amazon in becoming a platform for third-
party sellers because Amazon has a bigger distribution network,
which lowers costs,” said Jason Helfstein, an analyst at New
York-based Oppenheimer & Co. who has “outperform” ratings on
GSI and Amazon shares and no rating on EBay. “This deal
positions EBay with additional distribution centers and GSI’s
customer list.”  GSI Commerce rose $9.82, or 51 percent, to $29.20 in Nasdaq
trading at 4 p.m. New York time. EBay fell $1.36, or 4.3
percent, to $30.34.  GSI has 40 days to solicit proposals from other potential
bidders, the companies said. EBay then has a right to match any
superior proposal, they said.  ShopRunner, Rue La La  The company said it plans to divest 100 percent of GSI’s
licensed sports-merchandise business, and 70 percent of online-
retail sites ShopRunner and Rue La La, because they aren’t
central to EBay’s growth strategy. Michael Rubin, GSI’s founder
and CEO, will head a newly formed holding company with the
divested firms.  EBay said the purchase will result in savings of about $60
million by 2013. The acquisition is expected to cut 30 cents to
34 cents a share from EBay’s forecast earnings for 2011,
including costs for divesting the GSI businesses, the company
said.  Premium Price  The acquisition is the largest for a U.S. online-services
provider in the past five years, according to Bloomberg data.
The buyers of more than 300 similar companies during that period
paid a premium of 44 percent compared with the target’s average
price over 20 trading days before the announcement. EBay’s
announced premium is about 53 percent on that basis, according
to Bloomberg data. EBay is paying about 21 times GSI’s trailing
12-month Ebitda, close to the median of eight similar deals,
according to Bloomberg data.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Peter J. Solomon Co. are
acting as financial advisers to EBay, and Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is
providing legal counsel. GSI Commerce is receiving financial
advice from Morgan Stanley, while Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP is
its legal adviser. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is giving legal
counsel to a special committee of the GSI board, the companies
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  