-- 
Egypt Passes Parties Law, Sets Date for Parliament Elections

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-28T17:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/egypt-passes-parties-law-sets-date-for-parliament-elections.html
Egypt’s ruling military council
said the first parliamentary elections since the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak  will be held in September and a new law
has been passed easing some curbs on forming political parties.  The vote won’t be held under the decades-old state of
emergency now in place, Major General Mamdouh Shahine, a member
of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, told reporters in
Cairo today, indicating emergency laws could be lifted before
then. A date hasn’t been set for a presidential vote yet, he
said. He indicated presidential polls would be held after the
legislative vote. Mubarak ceded interim authority to the council
on Feb. 11 after weeks of protests demanding political freedoms.  Egyptians voted on March 19 on a set of constitutional
amendments. About 77 percent endorsed the changes, which include
 term limits  for presidents, fuller judicial oversight of voting
and fewer restrictions on presidential candidates. Backers said
the amendments will help speed up the transition to civilian
rule and help revive the economy. Opponents say the tight
timetable will favor established groups such as the Muslim
Brotherhood and members of Mubarak’s former ruling party.  “The situation now appears to be in line with what the
Brotherhood and the other Islamist groups have wanted,”
Mustapha K. al-Sayyid, a professor of political science at Cairo
University, said in an interview. “But the ‘yes’ vote was also
a victory for the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which
wants to abide by the timetable that it has set.”  Temporary Rule  The council will continue to run the country’s affairs
until there’s a new president, Shahine said. The ruling body
said last month that it would rule for six months or until
elections are held.  “The supreme council is keen on handing authority over to
a president who is freely elected,” he said.  Under the new law, political parties must notify a judicial
committee of their creation, Shahine said. Under Mubarak, the
body that approved the formation of parties was headed by the
speaker of the upper house of parliament, who was also a top
official of Mubarak’s ruling party, a main complaint of the
opposition.  No party can be created “on a religious basis,” Shahine
said. The Brotherhood, which was banned under Mubarak and
fielded candidates as independents, is  Egypt ’s biggest
opposition group. After Mubarak’s ouster, the group announced
plans to form a political party.  ‘Good Step’  “It is a good step,” leading Brotherhood member Sobhi
Saleh said of the new law in a phone interview. “It will lead
to the creation of a real political life.” The Brotherhood’s
party would be a “civic party with an Islamic reference” and
not a religious party, said Saleh, a member of the committee
that drafted the constitutional changes.  Shahine didn’t specify when the emergency law, which has
been in place for nearly three decades, would be lifted.  “The head of the Supreme Council has stressed that
parliamentary and presidential elections will not be held under
the state of emergency,” he said, adding that any country that
has “chaos” must have “exceptional measures to control the
issues of thuggery and terrorism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  