-- 
Lenders Could Get Exemptions Under New Risk-Retention Rule

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-29T23:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/lenders-said-to-get-exemption-option-under-risk-retention-rule.html
U.S. regulators proposed exempting
banks and bond issuers who meet high underwriting standards from
rules requiring them to keep a stake in loans they securitize,
according to a draft proposal.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Federal Reserve
Board today agreed to seek comment on the measure. Other
agencies including the Securities and Exchange Commission are
set to consider it this week.  “Fundamentally this rule is about reforming the
‘originate-to-distribute’ model for securitization and
realigning the interests in structured finance,” FDIC Chairman
 Sheila Bair  said before the vote.  The risk-retention proposal offers a package of options
tailored for business, auto, commercial real estate and home
loans, which would be eligible for exemptions under certain
conditions.  The rule would create a class of qualified residential
mortgages, or QRMs, that are exempt from having to retain risk.
Borrowers on those loans must be creditworthy and make down
payments of at least 20 percent. The goal is to avoid the
incentives that led to a flood of subprime mortgages and helped
trigger the 2008 financial collapse.  ‘Small Slice’  “This does not mean that under the rule all home buyers
would have to meet these high standards to qualify for a
mortgage,” Bair said. “On the contrary, I anticipate that QRMs
will be a small slice of the market.”  Jerry Selitto, chief executive officer of Mount Laurel, New
Jersey-based mortgage lender  PHH Corp. (PHH) , disagreed.  “It’s going to be more difficult for people to get
mortgages,” he said. “It will be more difficult for people to
buy homes.”  Qualified mortgages would be limited to fixed-rate loans
for borrowers with the best credit who make at least a 20
percent down payment and spend no more than 36 percent of their
income on debt payments.  The rules, mandated by the Dodd-Frank law that overhauled
the financial industry last year, were designed to prevent
shoddy underwriting practices.  The 367-page draft rule, which took six agencies eight
months to write, presents a range of possibilities rather than a
one-size-fits-all plan for regulating the $2.5 trillion private
asset-backed  securities market .  In addition to the FDIC, Fed and SEC, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development,  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency also need to
approve the rule before it’s formally proposed.  JPMorgan, Ford  Firms including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , based in Dearborn,  Michigan , had told regulators
that imposing a single method for retaining risk on different
types of bonds would force expensive changes on sectors that
already retain risk, such as auto lending. That would make loans
scarce and raise borrower costs, they said.  Regulators responded with a mosaic of alternatives,
tailoring the rules for different types of debt and offering
options within each category that can raise or lower a bond’s
risk-retention requirement.  Under the proposal, firms that securitize loans could avoid
holding a stake in the debt if their loans meet underwriting
standards set by regulators. The measure applies to originators
and issuers of debt tied to credit cards,  student loans , auto
leases, and residential and commercial mortgages.  Four Approaches  It presents four approaches, allowing lenders to keep 5
percent of every part of a security, known as a vertical slice;
a 5 percent stake in the riskiest tranche, called a horizontal
slice; a combination of the two; or a “representative sample”
of loans from the pool.  In the home-loan market, which makes up about a third of
asset-backed securities, falling housing prices led to defaults
in mortgage bonds. As mandated by Dodd-Frank, the plan is
designed to prevent defaults even if  house prices  decline by
encouraging higher down-payments. Regulators will ask whether
other steps, such as requiring private-mortgage insurance, would
also decrease a loan’s risk of default.  Housing advocates, small banks and mortgage insurers such
as  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  and  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW)  are seeking a
lower down-payment option backed by insurance to protect lenders
in case of default.  Loans guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage companies seized by the federal government in 2008,
would be exempt from retaining risk as long as they remain in
government conservatorship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 