-- 
Merkel's CDU Hints at German Nuclear-Policy Shift After State Vote Defeat

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-03-28T12:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/merkel-party-hints-at-german-nuclear-policy-shift-after-state-vote-defeat.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party
said that most of  Germany ’s oldest atomic reactors will probably
close following safety checks, signaling a shift in  energy
policy  after the anti-nuclear Greens surged in state elections.  The future of Germany’s 17 nuclear plants took center stage
in yesterday’s ballots in Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-
Palatinate after Merkel, reacting to the atomic crisis in Japan,
ordered a 90-day closure of the seven oldest reactors while
reviewing the running time of all plants.  “As a supporter of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, my
view on nuclear energy has changed since the events in Japan,”
Merkel said today as her Christian Democrats prepared to give up
power in Baden-Wuerttemberg after 58 years. “I think we’ll come
out with a good concept, but it will be a changed concept. What
happened in  Japan  was so improbable that I believe it will have
an impact” on Germany’s risk assessment for nuclear power.  The Greens were poised to enter both regional governments
after almost 7 million Germans voted in the shadow of the
nuclear disaster in Japan, in the biggest electoral test so far
of Merkel’s second-term government. In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the
Greens are set to lead their first state administration.  European Union carbon-permit and power prices advanced
today on speculation that the results in Baden-Wuerttemberg and
neighboring Rhineland-Palatinate will boost use of fossil fuels.  E.ON, RWE  E.ON AG (EOAN) , Germany’s largest utility, fell 0.1 percent to
21.39 euros as of 2:45 p.m. local time in Frankfurt trading.  RWE
AG (RWE)  added 0.6 percent. Shares in E.ON have declined 2.0 percent
since March 14, when Merkel suspended a planned extension of the
lifespan of nuclear plants, while RWE has fallen 1.5 percent.
The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.4029 at 2:34 p.m.  Hermann Groehe , the general secretary of Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said most of the oldest reactors may never
start up again. They are E.ON’s Isar 1 and Unterweser, RWE’s
Biblis A and B,  EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK) ’s
Philippsburg 1 and Neckarwestheim 1 as well as Brunsbuettel,
which is co-owned by E.ON and Vattenfall AB.  “I expect the majority of the seven temporarily idled
reactors to be permanently shut down,” because modernizing them
would be too expensive, Groehe said on ARD television. Safety
checks will be “tough” and Germany will move “quickly into
the era of renewable energy.”  ‘Radical Reordering’  The election result “will ultimately lead to a radical re-
ordering of Germany’s nuclear-energy policy, and an accelerated
schedule for the permanent shutdown of some or all of Germany’s
17 nuclear reactors,” said Mark Lewis, a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in Paris.  After taking a record 24.2 percent in yesterday’s Baden-
Wuerttemberg vote, the Greens are set to gain sway over policy
in a state whose economy is bigger than Belgium and Luxembourg
combined, driven by companies such as Porsche AG and  SAP AG. (SAP) 
Governing the region would also give them control of EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany’s third-biggest utility, and
its four reactors in the state just as public concern soars.  Merkel’s CDU tumbled to 39 percent in Baden-Wuerttemberg,
its worst result there since 1952, while its Free Democratic
Party coalition ally won 5.3 percent. That leaves the two
parties, which form the national government in Berlin, with
fewer seats than the Greens and Social Democrats, the main
opposition party nationally, which won 23.1 percent.  ‘Bedrock Territory’  “Baden-Wuerttemberg isn’t just another German state but
bedrock CDU territory with a showcase economy,” Ulrich Sarcinelli, a political scientist at the University of Koblenz-
Landau, said by phone. “When voters in that state abandon you
after almost 60 years, you’re not going to walk away unruffled.
But Merkel will struggle to find quick answers on nuclear
policy: quick, quicker, quickest exit? All the scenarios are
fraught with problems.”  Even before yesterday’s twin ballots, Merkel was backing
off her extension of the lifetime of German nuclear plants by an
average of 12 years beyond their planned closing by about 2022.
She pushed through the change in the policy, set in 2002 by a
federal government of  Social Democrats  and Greens led by her SPD
predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder, as the centerpiece of her second
term after her re-election in 2009.  After the disaster in Japan, Merkel ordered the safety
review and the idling of the seven oldest plants, including two
that were already offline. The rest comprise 25 percent of
German nuclear capacity, which accounted for 23 percent of the
power generated in the country last year, according to the
Berlin-based BDEW utility industry lobby group.  Closure Push  Winfried Kretschmann , the Green candidate for state premier
in Baden-Wuerttemberg who staked his claim to the post after his
party’s gains, said on March 23 that his party will push to shut
the seven oldest reactors and Vattenfall AB’s Kruemmel plant.  About 250,000 people took part in protests across Germany
on March 26 calling for an end to atomic power in what
organizers said were some of the country’s biggest anti-nuclear
demonstrations.  Merkel also faces pressure to renounce nuclear power from
the Free Democrats, who lost votes in both states. The FDP lost
all its seats in Rhineland-Palatinate, where the SPD has invited
the Greens to begin talks on forming a coalition government.  “The elections were a clear democratic signal,” Michael
Kauch, the FDP’s environmental spokesman in the national
parliament, said in a statement. “The majority of Germans want
to scrap nuclear power more quickly.”  While Groehe said the chancellor’s party “is firmly behind
 Angela Merkel ,” the defeat in a CDU stronghold after her policy
switch on nuclear power may raise questions about her authority.  “At some point, members of her party are going to start
asking whether she can lead this party and hold it together,”
Lothar Probst, a political scientist at the University of
Bremen, said by phone. “This could well be the beginning of the
end of the Merkel era.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  