-- 
Tesla’s Musk ‘Confident’ Electric Carmaker Can Stay Independent

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-03-28T21:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/tesla-s-musk-confident-electric-carmaker-can-stay-independent.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Elon Musk  said an article suggesting the electric
carmaker may be a takeover target was a bad analysis of the
company, which he expects to remain independent.  Tesla rose as much as 3.5 percent in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading after the  Business Insider website  posted a
column by two University of Virginia students who wrote that the
company could be a “prime acquisition target” and was unlikely
to be successful if it remained independent.  “Their analysis of Tesla is incredibly bad,” Musk said
today by e-mail. “Tesla is of course a potential takeover
target, like almost all public companies. However, I’m also
highly confident that we can succeed as an independent
company.”  Tesla, named for inventor Nikola Tesla, seeks to become the
leader in battery-powered cars, aided by supply agreements with
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , which also own stakes in it.
Palo Alto, California-based Tesla last month said its fourth-
quarter net loss widened to $51.4 million from $23.2 million a
year earlier as it increased investment in the Model S, an
electric sedan due in 2012.  “I agree that it is incredibly difficult to create a new
company in the car business, which has huge barriers to entry,”
said Musk, 39, who is also chief executive officer of Space
Exploration Technologies Inc., a privately held rocket launch
company based in Hawthorne,  California .  “The transition to electric vehicles is a huge technology
shift, which is always tough for large companies, and this is
where opportunity has historically arisen in many industries,”
Musk said.  Tesla rose 50 cents, or 2.2 percent, to close at $23.25 at
4:30 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  