-- 
German Power, EU Carbon Jump as Nuclear Plants May Remain Shut

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-03-28T16:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/eu-carbon-allowances-power-advance-as-merkel-party-loses-state-election.html
German power for next year rose to
a 19-month high and European Union carbon permits gained after
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition lost in a state election,
meaning the country’s oldest reactors may never reopen.  Power for next year in  Europe ’s biggest market gained as
much as 1.9 percent to 59.80 euros a megawatt-hour, matching its
highest price since August 2009, according to broker prices
compiled by Bloomberg. EU carbon allowances for December rose as
much as 3 percent to 17.35 euros ($24.37) a metric ton on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  “We think the outcome of the Baden-Wuerttemberg election
is bullish for both EU allowances and German power prices, and
we reiterate our year-end 2011 price forecast for EU allowances
of 21 euros a ton,” Mark Lewis, a Deutsche Bank analyst based
in Paris, said today in an e-mailed research note. “It now
seems clear that a material amount of CO2-free output will have
to be replaced with fossil-fuel fired output.”  Nuclear output accounted for 23 percent of the power
generated in the country last year, according to the Berlin-
based BDEW utility industry lobby group. Hard coal and lignite
accounted for about 41 percent, and natural gas, 14 percent.  German utilities  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and EnBW Energie Baden-
Wuerttemberg AG agreed to shut 25 percent of the country’s
nuclear capacity this month for safety checks after the nuclear
disaster in  Japan . Radiation levels that can prove fatal were
detected today outside reactor buildings at Japan’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant for the first time, complicating efforts to
contain the worst disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  Permanent Shutdowns Likely  The majority of the seven temporarily idled German reactors
will probably be permanently shut down, Hermann Groehe, the
general secretary of Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said
on ARD television today.  “What happened in Japan was so improbable that I believe
it will have an impact” on  Germany ’s risk assessment for
nuclear power, Merkel said today. All Germany’s seven reactors
built before 1980 are shut for the review.  In France, Europe’s second-biggest market, Electricite de
France SA halted the 1,330-megawatt Paluel 2 nuclear plant at
4:40 p.m. today, according to information on the RTE grid
website. No reason was given.  European union carbon permits for December traded at 17.25
euros at 4:33 p.m. London time. Next-year power was at 59.80
euros, matching its March 16 intraday high.  Bloomberg tracks prices from brokers including ICAP Plc,  GFI
Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd., Tullett Prebon Plc and
Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  