-- 
European Bank Funding Threatened as Basel III Meets Solvency II

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/european-bank-funding-threatened-as-basel-iii-rules-clash-with-solvency-ii.html
European banks are being forced to
sell more long-term bonds as regulators seek to prevent another
financial crisis. European insurers say their own regulator will
stop them from buying such debt.  Basel III’s liquidity rules mean European banks may need to
raise as much as 2.3 trillion euros ($3.2 trillion) in long-term
funding, according to New York-based  McKinsey & Co.  Insurers,
the biggest buyers of such debt, are being dissuaded from buying
long-term bonds under the European Union’s Solvency II rules,
which makes them more expensive to hold.  “The two bits of regulation are at tension with each
other,” said Simon Hills, an executive director at the British
Bankers’ Association, which represents more than 200 lenders
from 60 countries. “One bit is saying you should have more
funding with a longer duration and the other is saying watch out
when buying this stuff if you are an insurance company. It’s a
big problem for banks.”  European Commission President Jose Barroso called for a new
system of financial regulation built on “common ground” among
countries, regulators and international organizations following
the worst financial crisis in 70 years. His efforts, which were
 supported  by leaders such as  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
and President  Barack Obama , are being undermined by mismatching
rules for banks and insurers, say industry executives and
lobbyists, who are pushing to relax the new regulations.  Bank Shortfalls  Basel III, due to be implemented in 2019, proposes
requiring banks to hold enough cash or liquid assets to meet
liabilities for a year. The aim is to wean banks off the short-
term funding from other lenders that dried up during the crisis
and sent Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy.  European banks will have a long-term liquidity shortfall of
2.3 trillion euros in eight years based on current business
models, according to McKinsey. That’s about half the banks’
total capital and liquidity deficit under Basel III. U.S. banks’
deficit is about 2.2 trillion euros, McKinsey said.  To make up these shortfalls, banks will have to issue more
bonds with durations of more than one year or increase retail
deposits, the  management consultant  said. In the past 12 months,
European lenders sold $893 billion of debt with durations of
five years or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Insurers hold about 60 percent of banks’ subordinated debt,
making them the largest purchasers of bank bonds, according to
Paul Achleitner, finance head of Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
 Europe ’s biggest insurer.  Solvency II  The European Union’s Solvency II regulations, due to be
implemented in 2013, may change that. The rules make holding
long-dated corporate bonds more expensive for insurers, at a
time when banks are planning on selling record amounts of debt.  Without selling corporate bonds, banks may be forced to
increase borrowing through loan notes from other banks, boost
longer-term deposits or lend less, said Simon Willis, a London-
based analyst at Daniel Stewart Securities Plc.  It’s more likely that the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  will soften the proposed rules to allow banks the
freedom not to back their liabilities with assets of the same
duration, said  Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities at MF
Global Ltd. in London.  “By removing duration mismatching, you are condemning many
of them to an unprofitable future,” he said. “Politically, it
will not wash.”  Lloyds’s Funding Needs  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, is the U.K. bank most in need of increasing its long-
term funding, Maughan said. About half of the firm’s 298 billion
pounds ($477 billion) of wholesale funding has a maturity of
less than one year, Lloyds  said  in a presentation last month.
 Sara Evans , a Lloyds’s spokeswoman, declined to comment.  In the  euro zone , banks’ ability to tap the bond markets is
more determined by the credit worthiness of the country in which
they operate rather than their wholesale funding profiles,
according to Maughan. Banks in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  will
face the greatest difficulties, he said.  Solvency II provides the amount of capital insurers need to
hold against corporate bonds is directly proportional to their
maturity date, regardless of their relative returns, according
to a report by Morgan Stanley and  Oliver Wyman Group , a New
York-based consulting firm.  Firms must hold 8.2 percent of the face value of a five-
year bond in reserve in case the issuer defaults and 16.5
percent for a 10-year bond, despite the longer-dated bond
returning just 200 basis points more over its life, the report
said. Currently, European regulations only force insurers to
hold capital against their liabilities, not their assets.  Insurers Push Back  That makes it “unattractive” for insurance companies to
invest in long-dated bank debt, said Allianz’s Achleitner. “You
have a situation where the demand for capital is going up, but
the supply of capital - in a deleveraging environment and
rightfully pushed by regulatory concerns - will actually go
down,” he said.  Andrew Moss, chief executive officer of London-based  Aviva
Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s biggest insurer by sales, said insurance
companies are lobbying Brussels to relax the new rules.  “The capital required for holding long-dated corporate
debt is something that needs looking at,” Moss said. “We’re
still in a debate with the European Commission around that. I’m
not alone in the insurance community with that thought.”  EIOPA , the Frankfurt-based organization designing Solvency
II for the European Commission, said the rules didn’t
incentivize insurers to invest in longer or shorter-term bonds.  Asset of Choice  Capital charges may be “more significant” on long-term
bonds because of their increased volatility,  Carlos Montalvo , an
executive director at EIOPA, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. EIOPA is “investigating the issue,” he said.  Bonds with a three- to five-year durations will “become
the asset class of choice for European insurers owing to the
better expected return on economic capital versus other asset
classes,” according to the Morgan Stanley-Oliver Wyman report.  Insurers typically buy bonds to fund long-term liabilities
such as pensions that can require payments to customers for as
long as 30 years.  Instead of buying bonds to match the duration of the
liabilities, insurers may purchase shorter-dated debt and “use
interest-rate swaps to hedge out the duration,” according to
Emily Penn, a director at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
which helps insurers manage their investments.  Consumer Impact  Using interest-rate swaps in place of corporate bonds would
lower the insurers’ investment return and therefore reduce the
payouts to customers, Penn said. Annuity customers would be
particularly affected by the rule changes, she said.  The fallout of Solvency II’s capital charges may also
encourage insurers to hold more  government bonds  as they are
classed as free of risk, according to  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ,
the U.K.’s biggest seller of annuities. The lower return will
mean a 15 percent cut in pensioners’ income should the
regulations be implemented as planned, the insurer estimated.  “If providers have to invest more in gilts than corporate
bonds, the consumer will end up paying more for an annuity or
receiving less in pension income,” CEO Tim Breedon said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “This would be a poor outcome
for consumers.”  Even without the new Solvency II rules, bank regulators are
struggling to win over insurers as buyers of new securities
designed to bolster their capital base.  The  insurance industry  has a “limited appetite” for
contingency convertible bonds, or CoCos, which are designed to
convert into equity and will absorb losses in a crisis, the
Association of British Insurers said in January. That’s because
the securities don’t have the growth potential of equities or
the protection against declines of bonds, the ABI said.  Insurers’ unwillingness to buy CoCos, combined with the
Solvency II capital requirements on long-term bonds, mean the
industry is unlikely to be the answer to banks’ funding needs,
according to Antonello Aquino, a London-based credit analyst at
Moody’s Investors Service Ltd.  “The demand for bank debt will decrease because of these
two forces,” he said. “This may force the banks to seek other
types of funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 