-- 
Eurotech Rises in Milan After Company Wins U.S. Railroad Deal

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-28T08:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/eurotech-wins-supplier-role-in-u-s-rail-safety-upgrade-project.html
Eurotech SpA (ETH) , an Italian maker of
miniature computers, rose the most in eight months in Milan
trading after it was chosen as one of two producers for
computers used in U.S. railway crash-avoidance systems.  U.S. railway operators face a Dec. 31, 2015, deadline for
installing new systems at switching locations on tracks and rail
vehicles. The upgrade will cost the industry about $12 billion,
Eurotech said in a statement today. The company’s ISIS XL
platform will be incorporated into messaging servers to
communicate data like speed and wayside status.  The shares rose 12.5 percent to 2.25 euros at 10:28 a.m. in
Milan, the biggest intraday rise since July 12. Eurotech now has
a market value of 79.9 million euros ($113 million).  “We expect the first important orders to come in by the
end of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Roberto Siagri said
in an interview. “It’s hard to make precise forecasts but the
project will bring in significant orders for us.” He expects
the biggest revenue boosts to come next year and in 2013.  The new system, called positive train control, is designed
to prevent derailments and crashes such as the 2008 Los Angeles
collision between a  commuter train  and a  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) 
freight train that killed 25 people. Sensors would have detected
the risk of a crash and automatically applied brakes, the
Federal Railroad Administration said at the time.  CEO’s Stake  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,  Italy ’s biggest defense company, owns 11
percent of Amaro, Italy-based Eurotech. Siagri is the next-
biggest investor with about 7 percent, according to Italian
regulator Consob.  The CEO said in December that Eurotech may post a profit
this year as it adds services such as cloud computing, which
lets users access data, software and hardware through the Web.
In 2010 Eurotech posted a net loss of 6.08 million euros
compared with a loss of 9.6 million euros a year earlier.
Revenue gained 19 percent to 99.3 million euros.  Eurotech’s products include high-performance computers,
embedded boards and portable, nano devices such as  wrist-
wearable  computers. Its  handheld mobile computers  are used in
the logistics, transportation, health-care, defense and security
industries. Eurotech, whose clients include  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , generates almost half of its
revenue in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 