-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Cotton Rally Peaking on Record Crop

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-03-28T06:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/europe-commodity-day-ahead-cotton-rally-peaking-on-record-crop.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
EXCLUSIVES:  Cotton Rally Peaking as Farms Build Stocks on Record Crop  The rally that drove cotton prices to the highest since
America was recovering from the Civil War is ending as farmers
from  Texas  to New South Wales plant record crops and replenish
stockpiles for the first time since 2007.  Aluminum Stockpiles Dominated by Two Locations: Chart of the Day  Aluminum stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange
outside of Detroit and Vlissingen are falling, signaling demand
is still climbing with prices at a two-year high, according to
Harbor Intelligence.  Libya Can Tap $7 Billion in Gold Reserves for War: Chart of Day  Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  can tap gold reserves worth
$7 billion, equivalent to a 10th of the size of his country’s
economy, as he fights a civil war and resists air strikes from a
western-led coalition.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper, Aluminum Drop as Radiation Risk Boosts Recovery Concern  Copper, aluminum and lead declined as radiation from the
stricken Japanese nuclear plant may be worsening and as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition was defeated in state
elections, reducing optimism over the recovery.  MINING:  Gillard Faces Tax Fight With New South Wales as Labor Ousted  The Australian opposition’s victory in New South Wales
state elections for the first time in 16 years may signal a
growing backlash over Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s taxes on
 carbon emissions  and mining profits.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Declines as Improving  U.S. Economy  Curbs Investment Appeal  Gold declined as signs that the U.S. economy is improving
curbed the metal’s appeal as an alternative investment and as
some investors deemed last week’s rally to a record to be
overdone. Silver, platinum and palladium also fell.  China  Shouldn’t Use Reserves to Buy Oil, Ore, Gold: Eastmoney  China shouldn’t use its foreign-currency reserves to buy
commodities such as oil,  iron ore  or gold because such purchases
would push up prices and hurt China, the largest buyer of the
goods, financial website Eastmoney.com reported today, citing
People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  who wrote in an
article published in Century Weekly magazine.  AGRICULTURE:  Food Contamination May Climb as Japan Fights Radiation  Radioactive contamination in food is likely to increase as
Japan enters a third straight week of battling the biggest
nuclear-energy crisis since Chernobyl.  Wheat, Corn Gain as Japan May Boost Imports Amid Contamination  Wheat and corn rose on speculation that food contamination
in  Japan  from a damaged nuclear power plant may worsen, boosting
the Asian nation’s grain imports, and as dry weather in the U.S.
threatened wheat yields.  Rubber Drops for Second Day as Radiation Risk Erodes Optimism  Rubber declined for the second day as sustained radiation
levels from Japan’s stricken nuclear power plant reduced
optimism that the crisis would be resolved soon, hurting the
outlook for the economy.  China Starts Radiation Check of Food, Water in 14 Regions  China’s Ministry of Health started radiation monitoring of
food and water in 14 provinces and cities after the nuclear
accident in Japan, according to a statement on its website
yesterday.  Coffee May Fall 15% on ‘Head and Shoulders’:  Technical Analysis   Coffee futures in  New York  may drop 15 percent by mid-April
if it completes a so-called head-and-shoulders pattern,
according to Steel Vine Investments LLC, a Chicago hedge fund.  Rice Exports From  Vietnam  Reach 1.53 Million Tons, Group Says  Vietnam, the world’s second-largest rice exporter, shipped
1.53 million metric tons from the start of the year to March 24,
the Vietnam Food Association said.  Palm Oil Gains on Speculation Mideast Unrest May Boost Biofuels  Palm oil futures advanced on speculation that unrest in the
Middle East may prompt governments to increase use of biofuels
to help shield their countries from potential disruptions to
 crude-oil  supplies.  SHIPPING:  U.S. Navy Says Radiation ‘Easily’ Cleaned Off Ships Near Japan  The U.S. Navy, which is helping with recovery efforts
following an earthquake and tsunami in Japan, said radiation on
vessels from a leaking nuclear-power plant can be scrubbed off
with soap and water.  Capesizes at Anchor Rises to 124 From 120, Global Ports Says  The number of capesize ships anchored worldwide rose to 124
from 120, Truro, England-based Global Ports said in an e-mailed
report yesterday.  Ship Rejected in China on ‘Abnormal’ Radiation Heads to Japan  A ship that had “abnormal” amounts of radiation after
passing 67 nautical miles (124 kilometers) off Japan’s Fukushima
prefecture, site of a crippled nuclear-power station, was
heading back to the country after being rejected by authorities
in China.  South Korea ’s Incheon Port to Add 29 Berths by 2020, Daily Says  South Korea’s Incheon port plans to add 29 berths by 2020,
the Seoul Economic Daily said today, citing the Incheon Port
Authority.  ECONOMIES:  China Industrial Profits Jump Aids Fastest-Growing Economy  Chinese industrial companies’ profits jumped 34 percent in
the first two months of the year, underscoring the strength of
the world’s fastest-growing major economy amid higher  interest
rates  and lending curbs.  Companies Accelerate Spending as U.S. Productivity Bypasses Jobs  Cummins Inc. and Kohl’s Corp. are accelerating equipment
purchases to boost productivity, reinforcing an unprecedented
gap between  capital spending  and employment in the U.S. that’s
restraining a labor-market rebound.  U.K. Business-Confidence Index Falls to Lowest in Two Years  U.K. business confidence declined in March to the lowest in
two years, suggesting the economy may struggle to gather
strength in the second quarter.  Kan Told to Decentralize Japan on Tokyo Annihilation Danger  Takayoshi Igarashi has spent much of his career railing
against Japan’s public-works spending culture. Now, he’s
advocating what could become the nation’s biggest investment in
urban planning in decades.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Falls a Third Day as European Debt Outweighs Mideast Unrest  Oil fell for a third day in New York as concern that
Japan’s ongoing nuclear crisis is delaying rebuilding efforts
and European nations’ debt may cut demand, overshadowed turmoil
in  Libya  and the Middle East.  Asian Stocks Decline on Japanese Nuclear Situation; Acer Slumps  Asian stocks fell, dragging down the benchmark regional
index for the first time in three days, as radiation hampered
efforts to cool crippled nuclear reactors in Japan, and as
company earnings missed analyst estimates.  Yen Falls on Prospect Global Economic Recovery Gaining Momentum  The yen fell against the dollar and the euro before reports
this week forecast to show  consumer spending  increased in the
U.S. and  France , sapping demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  Treasuries Drop as U.S. Prepares $35 Billion Two-Year Auction  Treasuries fell, pushing yields to a two-week high, as the
U.S. prepared to sell $35 billion of two-year debt today in the
first of three auctions this week.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  