-- 
Most European Stocks Advance; Alcatel, Nokia, Vestas Increase

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-03-28T16:13:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/european-futures-asian-shares-retreat-on-japan-crisis-porsche-may-slide.html
Most European stocks rose,
extending last week’s rally, as U.S.  consumer spending  topped
forecasts and the  Federal Reserve  signaled the world’s biggest
economy may be strong enough to consider ending stimulus.  Alcatel-Lucent SA and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  led gains in technology
shares, each climbing more than 3 percent, after upgrades from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Vestas Wind Systems A/S led renewable-
energy companies higher after the anti-nuclear Greens’ vote
surged to a record in German state elections.  The Stoxx 600 rose 0.1 percent to 276.24 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, after earlier falling as much as 0.2 percent.
Five stocks advanced for every four that retreated. The gauge
rallied 3.1 percent last week, the most in six months, as
investors speculated that Japan would prevent further radiation
leaks from its stricken nuclear plant and the  U.S. economy  grew
at a faster-than-forecast pace.  “The picture still remains very positive in terms of
growth and corporate profitability,” said Henk Potts, an equity
strategist at Barclays Wealth in  London , which oversees $239
billion. “The Middle East and Japan are some of the events that
have grabbed a lot of the headlines, created a number of
distractions and lifted volatility, but in terms of the picture
and the recovery of the global economy, they don’t appear to
have done lasting damage.”  Commerce Department data showed consumer spending in the
U.S. rose 0.7 percent last month, the most since October. A
separate report from the National Association of Realtors showed
a 2.1 percent gain in the number of Americans signing contracts
to buy previously owned homes.  Fed Stimulus  Fed policy makers should review whether to complete a
second round of asset purchases due to end in June because of
strong U.S. economic data, Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said to reporters in Marseille, France, on March 26.
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Richmond Fed
President Jeffrey Lacker have also urged a review of the
stimulus measures in light of a strengthening economy and
concern over future inflation.  Workers have been unable to return to the No. 2 and No. 3
reactors at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant because of
radiation, more than two weeks after a magnitude-9 earthquake
and tsunami knocked out power to the nuclear plant. The
radiation has delayed efforts to drain contaminated water and
connect electricity to the reactors’ cooling systems.  Libyan Airstrikes  In Libya, rebel forces advanced westward with support from
North Atlantic Treaty Organization air strikes on Sirte, the
hometown of  Muammar Qaddafi , hours after the Western alliance
agreed to take over command of military operations from the U.S.  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 Index and the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index gained 0.1 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index
slid 0.1 percent.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 7.9 percent to 4.09 euros after
Goldman Sachs raised its recommendation for  France ’s largest
telecommunications-equipment maker to “buy” from “neutral.”
Analysts said they see “46 percent upside potential” to the
shares.  Nokia advanced 3.6 percent to 6.19 euros. Goldman Sachs
also upgraded the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones to
“buy,” saying the company’s “back-to-basics” strategy
creates a long-term opportunity for value investors.  Vestas, the world’s biggest wind-turbine maker, rallied 4.9
percent to 224.70 kroner after Germany’s Greens beat Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition in Baden-Wuerttemberg and stopped her
Christian Democrats winning control of Rhineland-Palatinate.  German Election  The Greens may lead their first state administration in
Baden-Wuerttemberg, handing the anti-nuclear party control of
Germany’s third biggest utility, EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg
AG and its four nuclear  power plants .  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA, Spain’s largest wind-
turbine maker, jumped 5.6 percent to 7.31 euros and Renewable
Energy Corp. ASA, a Norwegian maker of solar energy components,
advanced 4.7 percent to 19.53 euros.  Continental AG (CON)  rose 4 percent to 63.40 euros after
 Schaeffler Group  sold 1.8 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of shares
in  Europe ’s second-largest tiremaker to reduce its own debt.
M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus Metzler sold 29.7 million shares at 60
euros apiece in the tiremaker held on Schaeffler’s behalf,
reducing the stake controlled by the closely held company to
60.3 percent from 75.1 percent.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , owner of the Holiday Inn
chain, slumped 3.8 percent to 1,229 pence after rival Marriott
International Inc. predicted that sales will rise at the lower
end of its current forecast in the first quarter.  Accor SA (AC) ,
Europe’s largest hotelier, lost 3.3 percent to 30.80 euros.  Royal Philips Electronics NV retreated 1.8 percent to 22.18
euros after the company forecast a first-quarter loss of 100
million euros to 120 million euros from its television division,
close to the loss the unit had in all of 2010.  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  dropped 5.3 percent to 2.25 euros after
the Italian lender reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 159
million euros. Analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG cut their price estimates for the shares to 2.50 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  