-- 
Hevesi Judge Rejects Claim of Conflict, Says He'll Move Sentencing Anyway

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-28T17:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/hevesi-judge-to-transfer-sentencing-of-ex-comptroller-after-recusal-sought.html
The judge who accepted the guilty
plea of former  New York  Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi will transfer
the pension-fund corruption case to another judge for
sentencing, after refusing to withdraw because of an alleged
conflict of interest.  State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone, who was
scheduled to sentence Hevesi today, denied a motion requesting
his withdrawal over the accusation of a conflict involving a
relationship with the parents of Hevesi’s lawyer. He said
instead he would turn the case over to an administrative judge
for sentencing or reassignment with a new court date of April 4.  “The publicity over this court’s relationship with
Hevesi’s lawyer’s parents, while meritless, dims the clarity of
this sentencing,” Stone said.  The “counterstory” took away from “the real story here:
that of Mr. Hevesi’s felony conviction based upon his confession
of his central role in the corruption of the investment process
of the New York state Common Retirement Fund,” the judge said.  Hevesi in October admitted approving $250 million in
pension investments in exchange for almost $1 million in gifts.
He is the highest ranking official to plead guilty in a probe of
corruption at the state pension fund conducted by former New
York attorney general  Andrew Cuomo , now the state’s governor.  Hevesi from 2003 through 2006 was comptroller and trustee
of the retirement fund, recently valued at $140.2 billion. He
may be sentenced to as little as no time in prison or to a range
of one year and four months to four years.  Hevesi Hospitalized  Hevesi didn’t appear in court today. He was hospitalized
for tests, his lawyer Bradley Simon told the judge. In an
interview after the hearing, Simon said Hevesi had internal
bleeding.  Earlier this month, Simon filed a motion asking Stone to
recuse himself in connection with his role as trustee and
executor of the estate of the lawyer’s parents.  Stone disclosed the relationship in court March 1 and in
court papers. The judge told Simon then that his estranged
father had disinherited him.  “Faced with a clear conflict of interest, Judge Stone
intentionally hid the conflict, rather than disclose it, in
order to preside over this high-profile matter,” Simon wrote in
court papers.  State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said there was no
legal reason for Stone to step down.  The relationship “does not constitute an apparent conflict
of interest, and therefore does not call into question Judge
Stone’s impartiality,” the attorney general’s office wrote.  Favored Treatment  He admitted giving preferential treatment to Markstone
Capital Partners, approving $250 million in pension fund
investments in exchange for $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000
in sham consulting fees for a lobbyist and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  Hevesi should receive the maximum sentence for his
“monumental betrayal of the public trust,” Schneiderman said
in court papers made public today.  Hevesi is among about eight people who pleaded guilty in
criminal cases stemming from the investigation, including
Markstone founder Elliott Broidy. At least six people and 21
firms also settled with Cuomo, paying about $170 million to the
state and the pension fund.  About $5 billion of the fund’s $9.5 billion in alternative
investments made in from 2003 to 2007 were tainted by kickbacks,
according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
also investigated. New York’s Common Retirement Fund is the
third-largest public pension fund in the U.S.  ‘Bombshell’ Disclosure  The recusal issue delayed Hevesi’s sentencing earlier this
month. At his plea hearing in October, Stone said that he had
made a sealed record in which he determined he had no conflicts
in the case, according to a transcript of the hearing. Simon
said in a court filing that he was surprised the judge didn’t
disclose his close personal relationship with the lawyer’s
father. Stone unsealed the record this month.  Simon described the statement that he had been disinherited
by his father as a “bombshell.”  “It was a very unsettling feeling hearing the judge blurt
out, while I was representing a client in court, that I had been
disinherited,” Simon said.  “I knew that my father harbors extreme ill-will toward me
and I began to worry about what my father might be saying about
me to Judge Stone and how that animus might infect his decision
concerning my client,” Simon said in the filing.  Stone said today that Simon knew since 2003 that he had
fiduciary ties to the family.  Bruce A. Green, a Fordham University law professor, wrote
to the court in support of Simon’s motion that the circumstances
call into question the judge’s impartiality.  “Having agreed professionally to take a role in the senior
Mr. Simon’s punishment of his son by disinheriting him, will the
court also punish the son’s client?” Green wrote.  The case is People v. Hevesi, 4632/2010, New York Supreme
Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 