-- 
Hewlett-Packard’s Cloud Lag Spurring Lowest Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-28T20:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/hewlett-packard-s-cloud-lag-spurring-lowest-valuation-real-m-a.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , which paid the
highest multiple on record for a computer company six months
ago, now needs to spend as much as double the historical
valuation for software takeovers to catch up in cloud computing.  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ,  Informatica Corp. (INFA)  and  Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX) ,
which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says may be targets as Hewlett-
Packard adds software, trade as high as 42 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That compares
with the median 18 times for software and Internet acquisitions
in the last five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Leo Apotheker , 57, started as chief executive officer in
November after an interim CEO paid a record 325 times Ebitda for
3Par Inc. following a bidding war with  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the data show.  The former  SAP AG (SAP)  CEO inherited a company that trades at
the lowest valuation relative to earnings among the largest U.S.
technology companies and faces slowing sales growth over the
next two years. While Apotheker said this month he will follow a
“disciplined” approach to acquisitions for Hewlett-Packard, he
may be forced to pay up to offset cuts in development spending
by ousted CEO Mark Hurd and close the gap with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in cloud computing, which
lets users consume software and data over the Internet.  “It’s a difficult place,” said  Mark Bronzo , who helps
manage $25 billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington,
 New York . “Although he says he’s going to be patient, the
pressures from the shareholders and the pressures to keep up
with their competitors are going to force them to probably pay a
premium.”  Build, Buy, Partner  Bill Wohl , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer maker, declined to
comment on potential acquisitions.  “With an eye toward the strategy laid out by our CEO, we
intend to build, buy or partner,” Wohl said. “Our M&A strategy
is consistent with our overall company strategy.”  Kerri Catallozzi, a spokeswoman for Red Hat, and Debbie
O’Brien, a spokeswoman for Informatica, declined to comment.
Holly Burkhart, a spokeswoman for Tibco, didn’t return phone
calls requesting comment.  After retreating 20 percent in the last year before today
for the third-steepest drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
Hewlett-Packard was trading at 9.8 times profit as of March 25,
the cheapest among U.S. technology companies with market values
greater than $20 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hewlett-Packard fell 39 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $42.14 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Hurd Departure  The shares posted the biggest one-day drop in six years on
Aug. 9 after Hurd announced his resignation and the company said
he violated its standards of business conduct. As CEO for more
than five years, Hurd boosted sales and oversaw a doubling of
the stock amid cuts in research and development costs and more
than $24 billion in acquisitions.  Following Hurd’s exit, Hewlett-Packard spent $2.1 billion
including net debt on data-storage company 3Par after an 18-day
bidding war against Dell. The 325 times Ebitda that interim CEO
Cathie Lesjak, 52, offered for 3Par was the most expensive
valuation for any computer takeover greater than $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hewlett-Packard also
paid $1.5 billion, or 57 times Ebitda, for ArcSight Inc. in a
deal that was announced in September, the data show.  Apotheker started as CEO less than two months later. He
said on March 14 in  San Francisco  he plans a “disciplined”
acquisition approach while shopping for targets in areas
including security, data analysis and cloud computing.  Slowing Sales Growth  With sales growth projected to slow to 4 percent this year
and next from 10 percent in the year ended in October and the
company lagging behind rivals such as IBM and Oracle in
supplying the infrastructure for cloud computing, Apotheker is
aiming to build a cloud computing service that would let
software developers write, test and run applications securely in
its data centers using a suite of Hewlett-Packard technology.  To do that, the company needs to buy, build, or strike
partnerships for database software, data analysis applications,
software development tools and security software, Shane Robison,
Hewlett-Packard’s chief technology and strategy officer who
heads mergers and acquisitions, said in an interview March 15.  “The message is growth, and if they’re going to go for
small, high-growth companies, they’re going to have to pay up,”
said  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco. “Hopefully not as much as 3Par.”  Hewlett-Packard may have a high interest in Red Hat, the
largest seller of Linux software; Informatica, the Redwood City,
California-based corporate-software company; and business-
software developer Tibco in  Palo Alto , according to research
from Goldman Sachs.  Red Hat  Including net debt, Raleigh, North Carolina-based Red Hat
traded at 41.7 times Ebitda before today, more expensive than
all but three of the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Informatica
commands a multiple of 30.1 times, while Tibco trades at 24.5
times. Red Hat had a market value of $8.9 billion, compared with
$4.9 billion for Informatica and $4.4 billion for Tibco, the
data show.  Even without a takeover premium, all three are at least 38
percent more expensive than the median 17.7 times Ebitda
multiple for acquisitions of software and Internet companies
greater than $500 million in the last five years, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Software and Web companies globally trade at
a median of 14 times Ebitda, more than 50 percent cheaper than
Red Hat and Informatica, the data show.  ‘Pay Up’  “It’s going to be difficult to get anything cheap,” said
Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist in Richmond, Virginia,
for RidgeWorth Capital Management, which oversees $45 billion.
Apotheker will probably “have to pay up for anything that he
gets and he’s going to have to effectively leverage this quickly
so that it’s not too much of a drag on earnings,” he said.  Informatica or Tibco may draw the interest of IBM, Oracle
and SAP, according to Goldman Sachs. Oracle, San Jose,
California-based  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , Dell and  CA Inc. (CA)  may covet
Red Hat, Goldman Sachs’s research showed.  Representatives for Armonk, New York-based IBM, Oracle,
Cisco, Dell, SAP and CA of Islandia, New York, declined to
comment.  Hewlett-Packard trades at 0.8 times revenue after posting
sales of $126 billion last fiscal year, the highest revenue of
any large U.S. technology company. That makes it the only one
valued at a discount to sales besides Dell. Hewlett-Packard’s 7
percent profit margin is also the lowest after Round Rock,
Texas-based Dell, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Need Growth’  “They need growth,” said Mark Demos, a fund manager at
Fifth Third Asset Management in Minneapolis who helps oversee
$18 billion. “They need to be relevant in where the technology
landscape is heading. People would agree that maybe IBM, Oracle,
other companies are perhaps better positioned than them.”  Hewlett-Packard may focus on bidding for midsized software
companies like Tibco and Informatica, or smaller companies such
as closely held Ab Initio Software Corp. and  Engine Yard Inc. ,
said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San
Francisco, who recommends Hewlett-Packard shares.  “We genuinely love being a private company,” said Sheryl
Handler, CEO of Lexington, Massachusetts-based Ab Initio. “By
being a private company it lets us focus all of our attention on
making our customers successful.”  Engine Yard of San Francisco specializes in tools that let
developers create websites with the widely used Ruby on Rails
programming language, and could be for sale, CEO John Dillon
said in an interview March 15. Hewlett-Packard needs tools for
software developers to create applications that run on its
cloud, he said.  ‘Somebody Like Us’  “I would buy somebody like us,” Dillon said. “I do think
we’re a pretty good acquisition target.”  Hurd showed financial prudence in deals such as the $13
billion takeover of Electronic Data Systems Corp. in 2008,
Baird’s Noland said. Including net debt, the price of 5.3 times
Ebitda was the cheapest for any Hewlett-Packard acquisition of a
public company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hewlett-Packard’s 3Par deal was criticized by Oracle Co-
President Safra Catz during the company’s earnings conference
call last week. Redwood City-based Oracle announced in April
2009 it would buy Sun Microsystems for $5.7 billion, including
net debt, or 8.3 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Had we paid for Sun based on the HP-3Par multiple, it
would have cost us nearly $140 billion,” Catz said. “Don’t
worry. We wouldn’t do that.”  ‘Big Splash’  Apotheker and Robison ruled out buying large makers of
business applications and database software, while the new CEO
also said they wouldn’t pursue a blockbuster deal like the $17.6
billion purchase, including net debt, of Compaq Computer Corp.
completed in 2002.  “I don’t believe I’m the type of a person who wants to make
a big splash,” he said on March 14.  The companies Hewlett-Packard goes after may be smaller,
closely held software makers with niche technology specialties
that will command lower prices than public companies, said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at ISI Group in New York.  Apotheker, who studied economics at the Hebrew University
of Jerusalem, was appointed CEO Sept. 30 and started Nov. 1
after resigning as Walldorf, Germany-based SAP’s chief in
February 2010. The 22-year SAP veteran oversaw the largest maker
of business-management software’s first revenue drop since 2003.  ‘Catching Up’  Hewlett-Packard, which has $9.9 billion in cash and near
cash items and $20.4 billion in total debt, is rated B3H, the
eighth-highest level of investment grade, according to
Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings. It could add $7 billion to
its long-term debt without lowering its debt ranking, according
to Bloomberg’s ratings, which analyze borrowers based on
indebtedness, profitability and other financial ratios.  “They have a little catching up to do,” said James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, which oversees $108 billion including Hewlett-
Packard shares. “They are going to go out in a disciplined way.
That doesn’t mean that he’s not going to write a check that
people may say wow, that’s more than they thought.”  Overall, there have been 5,478 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $550.4 billion, a 21 percent increase from
the $454.9 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 