-- 
Hewlett-Packard Investor Can’t Get Hurd Report, Judge Rules

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-03-28T21:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/hewlett-packard-investor-can-t-get-hurd-report-judge-concludes.html
A  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  investor
isn’t entitled to a law firm’s confidential report about sexual-
harassment allegations that led to  Mark Hurd ’s ouster last year
as chief executive officer, a judge ruled.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons on March 25
denied Hewlett-Packard Co. shareholder Ernesto Espinoza’s
request for the report, which was prepared for the HP board by
lawyers at Covington & Burling LLP, court records show.  Espinoza sued HP Nov. 18 seeking company books and records
as a part of his investigation into possible wrongdoing by
directors. The board granted Hurd a severance package worth as
much as $40 million “rather than terminate him for cause” with
no payment, according to court filings.  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard has been sued
by shareholders in Delaware and California who contend the
computer-maker’s officials should be held liable for wasting
company assets on Hurd’s severance.  Investors contend Hurd, 54, could have been fired without
severance over his involvement with Jodie Fisher, an HP
contractor who claimed the former CEO sexually harassed her,
according to court filings.  Mylene Mangalindan, a Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the ruling. Felipe Arroyo, one of Espinoza’s
lawyers, didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Letter Unsealed  Hurd, now a co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
resigned in August after a company probe determined he violated
its standards of business conduct. HP officials said they didn’t
find that Hurd had violated the company’s sexual-harassment
policy.  Earlier this month, Parsons ordered that a letter from
Fisher’s lawyer detailing the sexual harassment allegations be
unsealed. Hurd’s lawyers vowed to appeal that ruling to the
Delaware  Supreme Court  and Parson’s cleared the way for that
move in an order today.  Hurd, under investigation by the  U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  over his departure from the company, told
Parsons in papers filed earlier that he should have a say in
Espinoza’s demand for company books and records because the
lawyer’s letter is personal and his alone, and should also be
kept secret.  HP also has started a review of company officials’ handling
of Hurd’s departure. The probe will be conducted by a committee
of directors who joined HP after Hurd left, according to court
filings. It will examine the circumstances of Hurd’s departure
and the board’s decision to approve his separation agreement.  The Delaware case is Espinoza v. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The  California 
case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  