-- 
Ex-Enron Broadband Executive Rex Shelby Sentenced for Insider Trading

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-28T17:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ex-enron-broadband-executive-rex-shelby-sentenced-for-insider-trading.html
Former Enron Broadband Services
executive  Rex Shelby  was sentenced today on an insider trading
charge linked to the investment fraud that destroyed the world’s
largest energy trader 10 years ago.  Shelby, 59, pleaded guilty to one count of insider trading
and was sentenced to three months in a federal halfway house and
three months of house arrest. Shelby will also forfeit about
$2.6 million in profits from the illicit trade.  Shelby’s lawyer Ed Tomko told a judge that Shelby has also
agreed to forfeit another $1 million to resolve related
Securities and Exchange Commission charges. He faced a maximum
of 10 years and a fine of $1 million on the one count before
reaching his plea deal. He’ll be in probation for two years,
including the six months of combined confinement.  “I take full responsibility for my actions and all the
decisions I made at Enron,” Shelby told the judge today. “No
one forced me to do those things.”  U.S. District Judge  Vanessa Gilmore  sentenced Shelby to
half the number of  months  confinement that he’d agreed to in a
plea deal.  “Mr. Shelby’s actions ultimately did not cause the
downfall of Enron,” she said. “Only a few individuals at the
pinnacle of Enron knew of the fraud.”  Gilmore said she moderated the sentence to fit Shelby’s
role and the punishments given to others in the Enron fraud
scheme. She said the fact Shelby has for the last eight years
devoted himself exclusively to working on his defense, in
“self-imposed home confinement"”, was also a consideration in
her decision.  Halfway House  Shelby must report to a federal halfway house in Houston in
about a week to begin his sentence, which requires him to
complete 230 hours of community service during  probation.  Shelby was senior vice president of engineering and
operations at  Enron Corp. ’s internet unit in December 2001, when
the energy trader plunged into bankruptcy on revelations of
widespread accounting fraud.  Shelby and six other EBS executives were indicted in 2003
on charges they helped the parent company’s senior management,
including Enron’s former Chairman  Kenneth Lay  and Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling , deceive analysts and
investors about the unit’s capabilities and financial
performance.  The executives were accused of misrepresenting EBS at a
January 2000 analysts’ conference, where they portrayed it as
one of Enron’s “core’’ units, worth about $50 billion. In
reality, the division struggled to launch products and never
earned a profit.  Enron’s stock soared from $54 a share the day of the
analysts’ conference to $72 a share the following day. Shelby
sold 150,000 shares on the price increase, reaping gross
proceeds of just under $10.7 million, according to his plea.  Avoiding Trial  Shelby had long maintained he sold the shares to diversify
his portfolio and not based on any inside knowledge of an
alleged conspiracy to inflate Enron’s stock price. To avoid a
trial on broader conspiracy and fraud charges, which had been
set to begin this past January, Shelby pleaded guilty to one
count of insider trading in November.  “The engineers were still working on it, but we left the
impression that the technology was complete,’’ Shelby told U.S.
District Judge  Vanessa Gilmore  when he enter his plea Nov. 22.
“The next day, I exercised some stock options when I had
knowledge that technology was not complete.’’  Shelby’s sentencing marks the end of the Enron Broadband
case, which yielded mixed results for the government.  Guilty Pleas  Two of the seven originally indicted EBS executives --
 Kenneth Rice  and  Kevin Hannon , who each served as president of
the division at one time -- pleaded guilty before trial and
testified against former colleagues.  The remaining five executives, including Shelby, were tried
together in Houston federal court in 2005. That trial ended with
no convictions and a smattering of acquittals, as jurors failed
to reach verdicts on scores of counts.  None of the men were completely exonerated at that trial,
and the government vowed to streamline its case and retry them
all on narrower charges.  To avoid that retrial, former CEO  Joseph Hirko  pleaded
guilty to a reduced charge in late 2008 and served about 16
months in prison, forfeiting $7 million.  Ex-strategy chief F.  Scott Yeager  appealed the government’s
retrial attempts and in 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled he
couldn’t be retried based on his partial acquittal by the first
jury.  Retrial  In 2006, prosecutors retried former EBS finance chief  Kevin Howard  and senior accountant  Michael Krautz , resulting in
Howard’s conviction and Krautz’s acquittal.  Howard’s verdicts were overturned a year later, after an
appellate ruling in a related Enron case found that prosecutors
used an invalid legal theory. Howard ultimately pleaded guilty
to a reduced charge in June 2009 and accepted a one-year term of
house arrest and a $25,000 fine in order to avoid a third trial.  Hannon, Rice and Hirko have since completed their sentences
and been released from prison.  The case is U.S. v. Shelby, H-03-093, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 