-- 
Goldman Ex-Programmer Aleynikov Denied Bail While Appealing 97-Month Term

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-28T18:04:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ex-goldman-programmer-aleynikov-denied-bail-pending-appeal.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer Sergey Aleynikov must remain in jail while
appealing a 97-month prison term for stealing the firm’s
computer code, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote , after sentencing Aleynikov
March 18, rejected a request by his lawyer,  Kevin Marino , to
free the defendant during an appeal. Aleynikov was convicted by
a  Manhattan  jury in December of violating the Economic Espionage
Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act.  “The facts that caused Aleynikov’s remand prior to his
sentencing have not changed,” Cote said in a ruling today.
“His sentence of roughly eight years’ imprisonment
substantially increases his incentive to flee and he has not
shown by clear and convincing evidence that he is not likely to
do so.”  Cote said that in papers filed seeking Aleynikov’s release,
Marino repeated prior arguments that she previously rejected.
She also said the defense “largely conceded” that the amount
of loss to Goldman Sachs as a result of Aleynikov’s actions was
properly calculated at more than $7 million.  The judge said her sentence was on the lowest end of the
guideline range for such a crime and that Marino had failed to
show that the term would be reduced on appeal.  Open-Source Code  Marino argued, as he had during the trial, that Aleynikov
only took open-source code he had written at Goldman Sachs and
that nothing he took was proprietary, Cote said.  “Aleynikov continues to argue in his motion for bail, as
he has throughout these proceedings, that the acts in which he
engaged in do not constitute violations of federal criminal
statutes,” Cote said in her ruling.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s trading system, prosecutors said.  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security system, sent the
code to an outside server in  Germany , and later compressed and
encrypted the code, prosecutors said.  Aleynikov, who started at Goldman Sachs in May 2007, left
his $400,000-a-year job to work for Chicago-based Teza
Technologies LLC, which promised him $1.2 million including
salary, bonus and profit sharing.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 