-- 
Executives Slaughtered at Gladiator Camp: A. Craig Copetas

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-03-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/executives-slaughtered-as-corporate-gladiators-rampage-a-craig-copetas.html
The burlap toga itches, the spiked
trident is clumsy and the bleacher section chants obscenities at
me in Latin.  The crowd at the  Gladiator School of Rome  wants me to stick
the big fork into the neck of Giovanni Bonmartini and bring to a
fiendish end his reign as chief executive officer of  Europe ’s
biggest chain of printing-supply stores.  “This is what a hostile takeover is all about,” the 48-
year-old, dual-national Italian-American co-founder of Prink SRL
mutters, spitting sand through the bulky rope fishing net I’d
hurled over his sword and 15-pound iron helmet. A BlackBerry
rings. “Hold on,” Bonmartini says. “I’m expecting an
important call from Credit Suisse.”  It’s not easy being a professional gladiator in MMXI.  “There are 850 of us left,” says Sergio Iacomoni, aka
Nero, the 58-year-old gladiator-in-chief of Gruppo Storico
Romano SRL, the last of what were once hundreds of human stables
that specialized in training Roman slaves and citizens for the
arena. “There’s no better place for corporate team building and
promoting incentive and competition.”  Who’s going to argue the point with a man wearing a
snarling dead wolverine around his shoulders and ready to thrust
a Thracian “sica” into your throat, particularly when one of
his 10,000 graduates is alleged New York organized-crime boss
John “Teflon” Gotti III.  Swords and Tridents  “I’ve taught executives from Honda and Nestle how to do
this,” Nero screams as his sickle-shaped sword sends my trident
into orbit and I scramble instead for my fallen notebook.
“Forget about writing what I’m saying, defend yourself!”  Nero says the only rule that I need to follow is the
guideline set by gladiator Encolpius in “Satyricon,” the bawdy
ancient Roman novel about a bunch of guys roaming around the
empire in uncomfortable sandals.  “I vow to endure to be burned, to be bound, to be beaten,
and to be killed by the sword,” is gladiator policy. There are
no exceptions. Nero says failure to comply will result in my
being ceremoniously slaughtered by the “editor,” the Latin
name for the umpire who refereed ancient gladiatorial bouts.  Today that would be Piero Giusto, a 48-year-old Alitalia
SpA flight attendant dressed in a scarlet skirt and wielding a 5
foot long staff capped with a bulbous bronze sphere that’s now
positioned to crush my skull. The insignia of his editorial
status is a brass bathroom towel hook shaped like a lion’s head
and festooned to his chest.  Business of Killing  “Gladiators were sent into the arena to be killed and that
was that,” Giusto says. “It was neither unusual nor uncommon
for 25,000 people to be killed during one day in the coliseum.
It was a business.”  Bonmartini removes his helmet, compares it to wearing a
microwave oven and says little has changed over the millennia.  “Business is still hand-to-hand warfare,” Bonmartini
says. “And it’s all encapsulated in the body: anger,
excitement, challenge. That’s why I come to the arena. This is
an invigorating perspective and perfect preparation for the
negotiating table.”  It’s also a great way to recuperate from root-canal
surgery. “I can’t feel a thing in my head,” says Prink
President Massimo Elser. He’s fresh out of the dentist’s chair
and ready to knock my teeth out. “I’m in attack mode,” Elser
warns.  At least Nero’s gladiators will live to see another day.
Ancient Roman slave gladiators rarely survived more than 10
matches that lasted 3 to 5 minutes. Few lived past the age of
30. Roman citizens joined the fray for sponsorship prize money
(some earning as much as 100,000 sesterces, about $350,000 at
today’s sesterce-gold rates) and to participate in crowd-
pleasing hijinks that included harpooning captured whales and
flinging lead-weighted darts to decapitate flocks of slaves and
ostriches.  Dressing Up  “We don’t do that,” says Nero, who until launching his
gladiator school in 1994 worked at Banca d’Italia and made more
money than anyone else in  Italy . “I was in charge of the
machines that printed lira. Everyone else at the bank played
golf or bridge, but I wanted to be a gladiator. It’s a
profitable enterprise and the women like how we dress.”  Gruppo Storico Romano, historically located on the Via
Appia Antica near the spot where Kirk Douglas found himself
crucified in Stanley Kubrick’s film “Spartacus,” also offers
customers a fully equipped Roman Legion, including catapults,
battering rams and a complete line of siege towers. They’ve done
battle-for-pay in  Shanghai  and  Hong Kong  and are scheduled to
march north on  Bulgaria  this summer.  Kiddie Swords  Gladiator training remains the company’s core business. A
2-hour lesson with padded wood swords for kids costs 20 euros
($28). Adults pay 30 euros and the pain is real. For anyone who
would like to get a feel for this at the office, duct-tape 40
pounds of cast-iron skillets to your body and run while a co-
worker in culottes tries to skewer you with an array of giant
shish-kebab sticks strapped to a rod of rebar.  If, after two hours of this, you find that you’re enjoying
yourself, it’s time to sign up for professional certification, a
40-hour seminar in Ancient Roman history and combat, along with
3 years of further intensive training in spears, pikes and axes.
Everybody enjoys the fortifying lunch of jug wine and pasta
shells stuffed with sheep intestines served at a nearby
catacomb.  Nero’s luxury gladiator course runs 500 euros and takes
place amid roaring marble lions and prancing bronze unicorns in
the aromatic garden at the  Rome Cavalieri Hilton . The hotel’s
scampi carpaccio is excellent, its cellar offers a rare 1958
Bartolo Mascarello Barolo and chief concierge Markus
Dobritzhofer is probably the only concierge in the world with a
diploma in professional gladiating.  No Dead Guests  “After the Vatican tour, the gladiator school is the
hotel’s most popular guest attraction,” Dobritzhofer says.
“But I beg you mention that none of our guests have ever been
killed or injured.”  Back in the arena, editor Valentino “Hermes” di Lorenzo
gives Elser a look that says I’m as good as dead. This was
supposed to be my ultimate moment in our absolutely not
choreographed match. I dropped my fork. Despite high marks for
my facial stubble and menacing snarl, the magister of net and
trident is not pleased with my progress.  “The gladiator with the trident always won,” laments the
professor, Pietro “Petronio” Gallone, a Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro teller who moonlights as the school’s specialist in
seafaring pitchforks.  “You’re cheap slave meat,” Hermes says. He fires up
another cigarette. “It takes 30 wins to gain your freedom in a
Roman arena,” the editor growls. “The Cavalieri Hilton? You
aren’t going anywhere.”  Information: Gruppo Storico Romano, 18 Via Appia Antica,
 Rome  00179,  http://www.gsr-roma.com  or +39-0651-6079-51.  To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas in Paris at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 