-- 
Mexico’s Output Gap to Keep Inflation on Target, Cordero Says

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-03-28T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/mexico-s-output-gap-to-keep-inflation-on-target-cordero-says.html
Mexico ’s economy has room to grow
before reaching its capacity and government subsidies for
gasoline insulate the country from rising oil prices to keep
inflation in check, said Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero .  “We are behind our potential GDP growth and that’s why
international inflation hasn’t passed through to the Mexican
consumer,” said Cordero, in an interview yesterday at the
Inter-American Development Bank’s annual meeting in Calgary.
“Mexico still hasn’t reached the point of operating at high
capacity.”  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
boosted borrowing costs in the past year as consumer prices rise
at the third-slowest pace in the region after Chile and Peru.  Mexican inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12 months
through mid-March from 3.6 percent in February. Annual inflation
this year will stay within the central bank’s target range of 2
percent and 4 percent as the economy grows as much as 5 percent,
said Cordero.  Surging oil, wheat and corn prices are boosting inflation
in developing nations from  India  to Brazil as the global
economic recovery strengthens. Mexico subsidies gasoline, so
crude prices won´t affect Mexican consumers, says Cordero.
Higher crude prices will bolster government revenue from oil
exports by Petroleo Mexicanos, the state-owned  oil company  known
as Pemex, says Cordero.  Pemex, Latin America´s biggest oil producer, generates
about a third of government revenue, and the rise in crude price
will offset the gasoline subsidies, said Cordero. The government
will raise gas prices “little by little” this year, he said,
declining to give a projection.  Revenue Gains  “The main risk of high energy prices is that it could be a
deterrent to an economic recovery,” said Cordero. “There´s
probably going to be some revenue gain from  oil prices  but
certainly heavily watered down by the subsidy of gasoline.”  Tighter fiscal policies are the best way to control
inflation, said Cordero.  Mexico’s government reduced payrolls and cut 27.2 billion
pesos ($2.2 billion) in federal expenses during 2010 as part of
its plans to narrow the  budget deficit , according to a document
sent by the government to Congress that was e-mailed to
Bloomberg News by the  Finance Ministry . The reductions were
applied across all federal government agencies, the report said.  Mexico’s federal budget targets a narrowing of the deficit
to 0.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from 0.7
percent of GDP in 2010. Mexico’s government last year decided to
cut 40 billion pesos in spending between 2010 and 2012. An oil
windfall won’t slow government efforts to tighten fiscal policy,
said Cordero.  Controls Don’t Work  “The way to proceed is with a tighter fiscal policy to not
overheat aggregate demand,” said Cordero. “The extra revenue
we have from oil will go to a stabilization fund so it won´t go
to aggregate demand exactly. So we won’t get more room for
fiscal policy.”  Cordero says he doesn´t believe in  capital controls .
Nations including  Brazil  and Colombia are trying to curb gains
in their currencies and fight inflation after near-zero
borrowing costs in advanced economies such as the U.S. and  Japan 
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  “Those countries that implemented capital controls have no
evidence that it had any impact in stopping the currency from
appreciating and we believe that this creates very strong
distortions in the economy,” said Cordero. “ Interest rates  and
tighter fiscal policy is the way to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in Calgary at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  