-- 
Lockhart Says Inflation Causing ‘Understandable’ Concern

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T19:07:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/fed-s-lockhart-says-inflation-causing-understandable-concern.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said rising commodity prices are
prompting “understandable” apprehension, even though the
increases will likely be temporary.  The regional president, in a speech today similar to one he
delivered on March 25, reiterated that he is ready to tighten
policy if overall price stability is at risk. His comments on
commodity prices are new, and he removed a reference to the
Fed’s current monetary policy as being supportive of its
employment and price stability goals.  Lockhart told reporters that he expects the Fed to end its
current round of $600 billion in Treasury securities purchases
through June as planned. The comments buttress views expressed
during the past week by other members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , including Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and
Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  that additional quantitative
easing is unlikely.  “My working assumption continues to be that” the bond
purchases “will be completed as was originally designed, on the
same time frame with roughly equal monthly purchases,” he said
after his speech to the Rotary Club of Atlanta.  Crude-oil futures in New York have gained 30 percent in the
past year and 23 percent since anti-government protests began
Feb. 15 in  Libya . The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s
largest crude reserves, helped push gasoline up 22 percent from
Feb. 15 to March 25.  ‘Upward Movement’  “I expect these strongly accelerating upward movements of
commodity prices to be short-lived,” with the risk of deflation
diminishing, Lockhart said in his remarks. Even so, “it’s
understandable to be somewhat apprehensive about the inflation
climb path we’re on, and whether or not it will level off.”  “Like my colleagues on the FOMC, I continuously monitor
performance against our  price-stability  objective,” the central
banker said. “I am prepared to support a change of policy if
evidence accumulates that the low and stable inflation objective
is at risk.”  In response to audience questions after the speech, the
bank president said commodity prices are responding to “a
supply and demand equation,” and it’s unclear how long markets
will continue reacting to unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa.  “We are concerned about oil prices and should be,” he
said. Still, “a high oil price has less effect” on the economy
than it did in the 1970s.  More Than Forecast  Economic data released today shows that  consumer spending 
in the U.S. rose more than forecast in February, helping to
bolster the expansion in the world’s largest economy. Purchases
increased 0.7 percent, the most since October, after advancing
0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed.  U.S. stocks rose and Treasury two-year yields posted a
sixth consecutive gain after the spending report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,315.73 at 2:36 p.m. in
 New York . Two-year Treasury yields rose four basis points to
0.77 percent.  The Fed’s policy-making committee determined on March 15
that the U.S. economic recovery “is on a firmer footing,”
while the labor market is “improving gradually.” Officials
reiterated their plan to complete the $600 billion purchase
program to help the recovery.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart next voting in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
David Beasley in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  