-- 
Fed's Evans Says Recent Economic Data Not Enough to Alter Stimulus Policy

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-03-28T20:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/fed-s-evans-says-recent-economic-data-not-enough-to-alter-stimulus-policy.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President Charles Evans said recent reports indicating a more
sustainable economic expansion won’t alter the central bank’s
plan to purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries through June.  “Despite recent improvements to the outlook, we are not
yet at that point” when “a change in the stance of monetary
policy will be necessary,” Evans said today in the text of a
speech in Columbia, South Carolina. “Slow progress” in
lowering unemployment “and underlying inflation trends that are
too low lead me to conclude that substantial policy
accommodation continues to be appropriate.”  Evans’ view contrasts with that of St. Louis President
 James Bullard , who said March 26 the U.S. central bank may need
to reduce the amount of asset purchases in light of stronger
U.S. economic data. Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser 
and Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have urged a review of
the purchases on signs of a strengthening economy and concern
over future inflation.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said March 15 that the
recovery “is on a firmer footing,” while the labor market is
“improving gradually.” Policy makers reiterated plans to buy
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June to bolster
growth.  “Recent data indicate that growth has picked up and
suggest a more sustainable, though still moderate, economic
expansion,” Evans said today at the University of South
Carolina. The economic reports suggest economic growth will be
“slightly lower” than the 3 percent to 3.6 percent range
forecast by policy makers in January.  Household Spending  A recent rise in energy prices could damp household
spending, said Evans, who was a professor at the University of
 South Carolina  before joining the Chicago Fed.  “Despite clear signs of progress, I am not yet satisfied
with the pace of improvement” in the economy, Evans said.
“Unemployment will remain uncomfortably high for too long
relative to our employment objective. So accommodative monetary
policy continues to be warranted to address this part” of the
Fed’s congressional mandate.  Fed officials purchased $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt and
Treasuries through March 2010 to pull the U.S. out of the
recession. The Fed’s second round of purchases has come under
fire from Republican leaders in Congress who say it risks
inflating asset-price bubbles and stoking inflation.  The central bank also has left its benchmark federal funds
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, and
pledged for the past two years to keep it “exceptionally low”
for an “extended period.”  Food, Energy Prices  Evans said he was confident inflation would stay low even
as recent reports showed an increase in food and energy prices.  “The new information has caused me to bump up my personal
forecast for  core inflation , but only by a couple of tenths” of
a percent, Evans said. “And while I think food and energy
prices will push the total PCE index up faster this year --
maybe at about a 2 percent rate -- I do not see total inflation
running very far from core for very long.”  The personal consumption expenditures index, excluding food
and fuel, rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier in February, the
most since October. Fed officials aim for long-run overall
inflation of 1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “Current measures of underlying inflation are subdued and
are running lower than what the FOMC judges to be consistent
with long-run  price stability ,” he said. “To be sure, we see
some increase in headline inflation due to higher food and
energy prices, but we do not expect these to materially boost
underlying inflationary trends.”  Evans has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and is a
voting member this year of the FOMC.  The regional bank chief has been among the FOMC’s strongest
supporters of monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a
five-state region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Columbia, South Carolina at 
1310 or  smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  