-- 
Fischer Boosts Israel Rate for Third Time to Focus on Inflation

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-03-28T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/fischer-boosts-israel-rate-for-third-time-to-focus-on-inflation.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the benchmark interest rate by the most in more
than five years as he focuses on fighting surging inflation amid
an expanding economy.  Fischer boosted the rate to 3 percent, its highest since
November 2008, the Jerusalem-based central bank said yesterday.
Only one of 21 economists and institutions surveyed by Bloomberg
had forecast the decision. Sixteen predicted a quarter-point
increase and four said the rate would remain unchanged.  “The Bank of Israel became much more hawkish,” Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd.,
said in a telephone interview. “Due to its increasing
confidence in the strength of the local and the global economy,
it seems like the Bank of  Israel  intends to focus, in the
upcoming months, mainly on the rising inflationary pressures.”  Fischer had until now kept the pace of rate increases
gradual, aiming to moderate shekel gains and help exporters
compete in world markets. In February, inflation surged to an
annual 4.2 percent, the fastest pace in more than two years and
outside the target range of 1 percent to 3 percent for the
second month. The economy expanded 7.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, the most in four years.  Shekel Strengthens  The shekel strengthened to the highest level in almost
three months, climbing as much as 1.1 percent to 3.5193 per
dollar yesterday. It was up 0.9 percent at 3.5277 at 7:28 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv . The yield on the 5 percent benchmark Mimshal
Shiklit government bond due January 2020 rose 1 basis point to
5.35 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the highest
since it was issued in November 2009.  Fischer “can look to other ways of controlling the
currency, the bank has other methods and means, and there
comes a point when your monetary policy has to be in line with
your economy,” Daniel Hewitt, senior emerging-market economist
at  Barclays Capital , said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Fischer has lifted the interest rate by 2.5 percentage
points since August 2009. He has also purchased foreign currency
since March 2008 to moderate shekel gains, more than doubling
reserves to a record $73.8 billion at the end of February. Even
so, the shekel has gained about 5 percent in the past year.  Exports make up almost half of Israel’s gross domestic
product. Sales abroad rose a monthly 4.6 percent to $3.8 billion
in February, the fifth month they increased.  Fischer will probably raise the rate to 3.5 percent next
month, Hewitt said.  Upper Limit  “Inflation expectations for periods longer than a year as
calculated from the  capital market  are still above the upper
limit of the inflation target range,” the Bank of Israel said
in its statement. “Domestic activity continued to expand,
converging toward a situation of full utilization.”  The Bank of Israel staff forecast is that inflation will
remain above the target range for the rest of 2011 and that the
interest rate will gradually be increased to about 4 percent in
a year’s time, the bank said in its statement.  Barclays Capital, the only institution in the Bloomberg
survey that predicted the decision, said in its report that the
interest rate will probably reach 4.5 percent by the end of this
year.  Inflation expectations for the next 12 months were 3.1
percent, according to the central bank’s survey of economists,
reported in yesterday’s statement. Inflation expectations
derived from the capital market were 3.7 percent.  The TA-25 benchmark index has climbed about 6 percent in
the same period, led by Avner Oil Exploration-L.P. and Delek
Drilling-L.P., partners in gas fields off the country’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 