-- 
Foreigners Weigh Huaso Bonds as Chile Eases Entry, Larrain Says

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-03-28T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/foreigners-weigh-huaso-bonds-as-chile-eases-entry-larrain-says.html
Chile expects international
borrowers to sell peso-denominated bonds in the coming months
after  South America ’s fifth-largest economy cut restrictions to
deepen capital markets, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  The  Inter-American Development Bank  and private companies
are among entities to show interest in so-called huaso bonds,
peso notes issued locally by foreigners, Larrain said in a March
26 interview at the IDB’s annual meeting in Calgary. Huaso is
the Chilean term for cowboy.  “Over the next couple of months we will probably see
some” issuances, he said. “We are seeing a lot of interest.
The IDB is one example, but there is a lot of examples of
private companies.”  The administration of President Sebastian Pinera wants to
make Chile a financial hub in Latin America by cutting red-tape,
expanding the use of the Chilean peso and simplifying taxes.
Authorities are broadening the possible universe of foreign
issuers of bonds to states, companies from emerging markets and
multilateral organizations.  Under changes announced March 10, entities from countries
with at least three sovereign credit ratings will be able to
sell bonds denominated in Chilean pesos. Previously,
authorization was limited to entities that traded in exchanges
recognized by the local credit rating regulator.  In the longer term, allowing more foreigners to sell bonds
in pesos and take proceeds home would create more demand for
U.S. dollars, Larrain said.  Chile ’s peso has strengthened 12
percent in the past year, the most among seven Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazilian Companies  “I would not be surprised to see a lot of Brazilian
companies issuing bonds in Chile,” Larrain said. “A banker
went to my office the other day and said he already had several
companies calling and saying ‘I want to go and have my own
issuance in Chile.’”  Only three peso-denominated bonds, totaling less than $500
million, have been issued by foreigners in Chile since they were
allowed to do so in 2006, Larrain said March 10.  The most recent was America Movil SAB, Latin America’s
largest wireless phone operator, which sold $198 million of 25-
year inflation-linked notes at a yield of 4 percent in May.
Banco de Credito del  Peru  sold bonds in 2009. The yield on a
basket of 20-year inflation-linked central bank bonds fell five
basis points this year to 3.08 percent.  Chile is allowing more foreign entities to sell bonds amid
rising global demand for local-currency securities from
institutional investors such as insurance companies and pension
funds. Chilean pension funds had $145 billion of assets under
management at the end of last month, up 11 percent from a year
earlier, according to the industry regulator’s website.  ‘Expanding Aggressively’  “The asset class that is expanding more aggressively at
the margin is the one in local currency,” said Alberto Ades,
managing director for emerging-market fixed-income and economics
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, in a March 26 interview at the
IDB meeting.  The IDB plans to help Latin American countries “de-
dollarize” their economies by providing more financing in local
currencies, said bank President Luis Alberto Moreno in an
interview at the meeting.  Surging foreign investment and faster economic growth are
leading to stronger currencies in countries such as Chile,
Brazil and  Mexico . The region accounted for twice as much of
global capital inflows in 2009 as it did in 2006, Moreno said.  While avoiding capital control measures, Larrain plans to
slice as much as $800 million from the budget this year to help
fight price rises and limit currency appreciation.  Chile’s central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate
in nine of its past 10 monthly meetings from a record low of 0.5
percent to 4 percent today. The budget cuts, announced March 23,
will lead to a “more gradual” increase in rates, Larrain said.  The fiscal tightening “should contribute to the moderation
of aggregate demand,” bank President Jose  De Gregorio  said in a
speech yesterday at the IDB meeting.  Even so, keeping inflation in check “is essential,” De
Gregorio said. “Delaying monetary policy adjustment may result
in more severe adjustments in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  