-- 
France Dodges Nuclear Angst From Fukushima That Cost Merkel Vote

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-03-28T22:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/france-dodges-nuclear-angst-from-fukushima-meltdown-that-cost-merkel-vote.html
About 250,000 anti-nuclear
protesters gathered in four German cities last weekend as  Japan 
fought to prevent a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactor.
At a similar demonstration in Paris, Frederic Geschickt, a
French wine grower, was joined by fewer than 300 people.  France has 58 reactors, second only to the U.S., and relies
on atomic power for about 80 percent of its electricity, the
highest in the world. By contrast,  Germany  has 17 reactors and
nuclear energy provides about 23 percent of the nation’s power.  “Fear about what is happening in Japan should work to
mobilize people, but it’s true, we don’t attract big crowds,”
said Geschickt, who joined environmentalists and leftist
political groups chanting slogans near the French parliament.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s government has strived to keep
public opinion firmly behind nuclear power, with the atomic-
 energy industry , led by Electricite de France SA, employing
about 200,000 people in France. The energy source keeps French
electricity prices among the lowest in  Europe  and gives it lower
carbon emissions than other large European Union countries.  “Right now the state is married to the industry,”
Corinne Lepage, an environmental lawyer and deputy of the
European Parliament, said at the Paris protest. In Germany,
voters backed the anti-nuclear Greens party against  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s coalition in the March 27 state elections in
Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate.  Mixed Opinions  Opinion polls show the French are more ambiguous. Fifty-one
percent of respondents in an Ifop survey commissioned by the
European Green party said the country’s reactors, along with its
nuclear  energy policy , should be phased out over the next 25
years. Just 19 percent wanted a more rapid pullout. The opinion
poll was taken days after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
damaged the Fukushima reactors.  A TNS Sofres poll organized by Paris-based EDF found that
55 percent of those surveyed were against abandoning nuclear
energy, even as 68 percent said an accident like Fukushima was
possible in France.  “The French feel more worried and vulnerable about nuclear
energy,” said Jerome Fourquet, deputy head of opinion polls at
Ifop. “They think it poses a threat, but there isn’t a credible
alternative. It’s a necessary evil.”  French power prices are the second lowest among 27 European
Union countries, after  Finland , when adjusted for purchasing
power, according to figures published in November by Eurostat.
French households paid about 36 percent below the average.  Reactor Age  As the first plumes of smoke rose over the stricken nuclear
plant in Japan, French ministers, atomic industry chief
executives and regulators worked to reassure the population that
a comparable accident couldn’t happen at home.  “Building confidence is now essential for our industry,”
 Areva SA (CEI)  Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon  told a hastily
arranged parliamentary hearing March 16.  Areva, based in Paris, is the world’s biggest builder of
nuclear reactors and the largest supplier to state-controlled
EDF, owner of all French reactors. Areva aims to develop more
reactors abroad in addition to projects in  China  and Finland.  The average age of French nuclear reactors is 24 years.
Nineteen of the reactors are about 30 years old. The oldest in
Fessenheim, located 1.5 kilometers -- or less than a mile --
from the German border, began operating in 1978. Protesters in
Germany and two Swiss cantons are calling on France to shut the
plant in the wake of the Fukushima accident even as the French
nuclear safety watchdog mulls whether to allow EDF to run it for
another decade.  Stress Tests  Sarkozy, who faces an election next year, said March 25
that  France  will stress test all its nuclear reactors and close
any that fail. Sarkozy has said the Japanese accident won’t
change France’s overall policy on nuclear power, with the
government deflecting calls immediately after the Japanese
accident for a referendum on the energy in France.  “There’s a major date coming up and that’s the
presidential election, which will allow us to do this,” French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said in a France 2 television
interview March 17.  Ministers have said the government may organize a nuclear
“debate” to enable people to voice their concerns.  “The nuclear industry in France has been considered
somewhat arrogant and closed,” Yves Giraud, head of economics
and industrial strategy at EDF’s power generation division, told
a nuclear conference this month. “This is an opportunity to
make it more open.”  Nuclear Future  Following the 1986 Chernobyl accident, France’s
environmental movement emphasized reversing the country’s
dependence on nuclear energy from plants built between 1977 and
1996. That focus faded as the fight against  climate change 
gathered prominence and nuclear energy was viewed as a way to
lower  carbon emissions .  Pushing ahead with plans to develop more reactors in France
and extend the lifetimes of existing installations “could be at
stake in the next presidential campaign,” according to Ifop’s
Fourquet.  The opposition Socialist Party wants France to move
progressively away from nuclear power over the next quarter
century with the country’s nuclear industry focusing on
dismantling reactors and managing waste.  After the Japanese accident “we can’t continue on as
before,” Opposition Socialist Party leader  Martine Aubry  said
in a March 21 Canal Plus television interview. “We must move
toward an energy transition.”  While the political debate continues, Geschickt, the anti-
nuclear protester who hails from the northeastern city of Colmar
in Alsace where France’s oldest reactor is located, knows what
he wants done.  “We want Fessenheim to be shut down and serve as a model
for the dismantling of other French reactors,” he said. “The
risks are just too great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  