-- 
Fukushima Farmers Might Abandon Rice Planting in Soil Tainted by Radiation

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-03-28T07:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/fukushima-farmers-might-abandon-rice-planting-in-soil-tainted-by-radiation.html
Farmers in Fukushima prefecture,
Japan’s fourth-biggest rice producer, may not plant the grain
this year after tainted soil was discovered near a crippled
nuclear plant leaking radiation.  “Farmers cannot grow anything without assurance from the
government that their paddies are safe for  food production ,”
Takuo Ichiya, agricultural production manager at the Central
Union of Agricultural Cooperatives, Japan’s largest farmers
group, said today in an interview. “Concerns about radioactive
contamination may hinder planting not only in Fukushima but
neighboring prefectures too.”  Hazardous radiation levels found at two damaged reactors
delayed repair work at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant, site
of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. Shoppers in  Hong
Kong , Singapore and Sydney are shunning Japanese food products
in supermarkets amid concern about radiation. The Japanese
government restricted milk and vegetable shipments in the area
after tainted products were discovered through random testing.  Rice production in Fukushima and neighboring Ibaraki and
Miyagi prefectures amounted to 1.22 million metric tons last
year, representing 15 percent of  Japan ’s total output.  The main growing regions are in the northern island of
Hokkaido, away from the affected area on the main island of
Honshu, followed by Niigata prefecture in the northwest and
Akita prefecture, which shares a border with Fukushima.  Milk, Vegetables  Radioactive contamination in food is likely to increase as
each prefecture tests its produce, Taku Ohhara, an official at
the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, said in a phone
interview yesterday. Some 99 products, including milk and
vegetables, were found to be contaminated in Tokyo and five
prefectures to its north and east as of late March 26, according
to the health ministry’s  statement  on its website.  Singapore  expanded its suspension on fruit and vegetable
imports to include those from Tokyo and two other prefectures
after more radioactive contaminants were detected in two samples,
the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority of Singapore said in an e-
mailed statement March 26. China’s Ministry of Health started
radiation monitoring of food and water in 14 provinces and
cities after the nuclear accident, according to a statement on
its website yesterday.  Japan’s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries is
collecting data for each crop on acceptable levels of
radioactivity in the soil. Farmland testing may not start by the
middle of April, when farmers in Fukushima normally start sowing
rice, said Takashi Himeda, director at the ministry’s food
safety and consumer affairs bureau.  ‘Useless’ to Plant  “It is useless to produce crops that may end up destroyed
because of contamination,” Himeda said today in a phone
interview. “If farmers may have no other option but to abandon
planting, they should be compensated for lost production by
 Tokyo  Electric Power.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co. President Masataka Shimizu is
facing calls to quit after the crisis at the utility’s nuclear
plant capped a tenure that has seen $26 billion wiped off the
company’s market value. The company has been battling to end the
release of radiation at the plant, struck 17 days ago by Japan’s
biggest earthquake on record and a tsunami.  The company faces a maximum 120 billion yen ($1.5 billion)
in costs to cover third-party damages resulting from the
accident, according to Japanese law. Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said this week the government will aid farmers if
the utility is unable to bear the costs.  Tolerable Levels  The government has discovered 163,000 Becquerels per
kilogram of radioactive cesium and 1.17 million Becquerels of
radioactive iodine in the soil in Iitate village, about 40
kilometers from the Fukushima nuclear plant.  Japan’s health ministry tentatively set tolerable levels of
radioactivity for each food. For grains including rice, the
level is set at 500 Becquerels per kilogram of cesium and 100
Becquerels per kilogram of uranium. The nation’s Food Safety
Commission is assessing the tentative standards for possible
revision as early as this week.  Japan, the world’s largest corn importer, is self-
sufficient in rice. Fukushima produced 439,100 tons of paddy
rice last year, accounting for 5.3 percent of the nation’s total
output, data from the agriculture ministry showed.  Ibaraki prefecture, south of Fukushima, was Japan’s fifth-
biggest rice producer last year with 392,800 tons. Miyagi
prefecture, north of Fukushima, was ranked as the sixth-biggest
grower with 391,300 tons.  Other Regions  “If rice production is hindered in areas affected by the
nuclear plant accident, growers in other regions will increase
planting to make up for the loss,” said Ichiya at the central
union, known as JA-Zenchu.  Japan’s food-rice stockpiles held by the private sector and
the government are forecast to climb 2.5 percent to 3.24 million
tons by the end of June because of declining consumption,
according to the agriculture ministry. The volume is the biggest
in eight years and equivalent to almost five months of
consumption, the ministry said in July.  The government also held 880,000 tons of foreign rice in
inventories at the end of October last year. Japan agreed to
give minimum-market access to exporting countries at the  Uruguay
Round  of world trade talks in 1993, buying 770,000 tons a year
from overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  