-- 
Gas-Ship Rates Seen Rising 67% as Japan Replaces Nuclear: Freight Markets

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-03-29T19:47:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/gas-ship-rates-seen-rising-67-as-japan-replaces-nuclear-freight-markets.html
The cost of shipping liquefied
natural gas may advance 67 percent to a five-year high as  Japan 
replaces its crippled nuclear industry with  power plants  burning
fossil fuels.  LNG-tanker rates will average $100,000 a day in the fourth
quarter from about $60,000 this quarter, according to Oyvind Hagen, an analyst at ABG Sundal Collier in Oslo, whose team’s
share recommendations returned 16 percent in six months.
Analysts covering  Golar LNG Ltd. (GOL) , which operates 13 of the
vessels, raised their 2011 earnings estimates by 24 percent in
four weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for LNG, liquefied by cooling the gas to about minus
260 degrees Fahrenheit, will reach a record this year as nations
from the U.K. to  South Korea  increase curbs on pollution,
 Barclays Capital  estimates. Natural gas emits about 50 percent
less carbon dioxide than coal. Owners are sailing the 900-foot
tankers at the highest speeds in at least three years as the
rush for gas erodes a decade-long glut of the ships.  “There’s no vessel available in the spot market,” said
Martin Korsvold, an analyst at Pareto Securities AS in Oslo who
also forecasts rates of at least $100,000 a day in the fourth
quarter. “In a shipping market where you have capacity
utilization of 100 percent, it’s almost ‘pick a number’” for
rates, said the analyst, whose share recommendations returned 13
percent in six months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Power Shortages  The surge in rates contrasts with slumping earnings
elsewhere in the merchant fleet. Profit on supertankers carrying
oil from  Saudi Arabia  to Japan, the benchmark route, fell 67
percent to $12,321 a day in the past 12 months, according to
data from the  Baltic Exchange . Returns on capesizes hauling coal
plunged 63 percent to $10,649 a day, according to the bourse in
London, which issues rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  The anticipated increase in LNG cargoes to Japan also
contrasts with some disrupted services in container shipping.
Hapag-Lloyd AG, which carries about 5 million containers a year
worldwide, stopped calling at the ports of Tokyo and Yokohama.  Any contamination to ships from the damaged Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant can be scrubbed off with soap and water and
poses no threat to people, said Commander Jeff Davis, a
spokesman for the U.S. Navy’s Seventh Fleet. The Baltic and
International Maritime Council, representing two-thirds of the
world’s merchant fleet, has had no indications from members that
they are avoiding Japan, said Peter Sand, a spokesman for the
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based group.  LNG Buyer  Japan, already the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, is facing
power shortages after a magnitude-9 earthquake and 23-foot
tsunami damaged nuclear, coal, oil and gas-fired power plants,
including Fukushima, which has become the world’s worst atomic
accident since Chernobyl a quarter century ago. The country
generated about 34 percent of its electricity from nuclear in
2009, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report March 16.  LNG will probably be used to compensate for about half of
the lost capacity, with crude and fuel oil making up another 30
percent and coal the remainder, Credit Suisse estimated. That
would mean about 6.5 additional LNG cargoes a month.  Russia ,
Qatar,  Indonesia  and South Korea have said they are willing to
ship more, the bank said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s biggest oil company,
diverted six LNG cargoes from Brunei, two from Russia and one
from  Nigeria  to Japan, De La Rey Venter, the Hague-based
company’s head of LNG, told reporters in Amsterdam on March 22.
More will follow in the next several weeks, he said.  Fossil Fuels  Japan also relied on fossil fuels for extra power
generation in 2007, when an earthquake shut the Kashiwazaki-
Kariwa nuclear plant, with LNG making up 20 percent of the
additional purchases, according to Credit Suisse. LNG’s share
will be higher this time because it now costs about half as much
as crude, compared with near-parity in 2007, the bank said.  Extra demand for gas may also come from nations shutting
nuclear plants or canceling orders for new ones.  Germany 
suspended its seven oldest reactors and the European Union is
planning safety checks on the region’s 143 atomic stations.  Global LNG demand will increase 5.1 percent to the
equivalent of 31.1 billion cubic feet a day in 2011, according
to Barclays Capital. Japan accounted for about 36 percent of
demand in 2009, according to GIIGNL, a Levallois, France-based
group with 54 full members drawn from the industry.  Oslo Trading  Shares of the shipping companies carrying the fuel are
already surging. Golar has advanced 52 percent in Oslo trading
this year while  Exmar NV (EXM) , based in Antwerp,  Belgium , jumped 23
percent and Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Teekay LNG Partners LP (TGP)  rose
6.4 percent in  New York  trading. The MSCI World Index of stocks
in developed markets gained 3.4 percent.  Golar, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will report earnings per
share of $1.39 this year, compared with a mean estimate of $1.12
a month ago, according to six analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Exmar will report full-year EPS of 64 cents, compared
with 25 cents a year earlier, and Teekay LNG Partners $1.91,
from $1.64, the data show.  “With the increased supply of LNG into Japan, you have to
believe that an already tight shipping market will get tighter,
with a consequent increase in rates,” said David Glendinning,
president of Teekay Gas Services. The unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Teekay Corp. provides LNG transport for energy companies
and utilities.  Sailing Speeds  Tanker owners are responding by sailing more quickly. The
fleet moved at an average speed of 13.3 knots (15 miles an hour)
this year, the highest since at least 2008, ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  LNG tanker rates have risen for three consecutive quarters,
the longest streak in at least five years, as firms controlling
the fleet of 349 vessels failed to keep up with demand,
according to data compiled by ABG Sundal.  The scarcity of spare ships won’t end soon because there
are just 27 new ones on order, equal to 10 percent of existing
capacity, according to Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay,
which compiles data on ships and ports. The ratio is 22 percent
for supertankers, the data show.  Most LNG tankers are leased on long-term contracts. The
market for single-voyage accords began about four years ago as
the fleet expanded at a time when LNG projects were delayed by
financing or construction, according to Calum Kennedy, a London-
based analyst at Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker.  LNG shipping, which started with a cargo from  Louisiana  to
the U.K. in 1959, connects producers and consumers who are too
far apart to trade by pipeline. Qatar, the biggest LNG supplier,
is about 5,000 miles from Japan.  Fleet Growth  Fleet growth has in part been hampered by the price of
ships. A new gas-carrier costs $210 million, more than twice as
much as a supertanker. The vessels need equipment to hold about
155,000 cubic meters (5.5 million cubic feet) of liquid that
expands to 95 million cubic meters in gas form, equal to about
25 percent of peak daily winter demand in the U.K., Europe’s
biggest gas market.  Shipyards are already getting asked about prices for new
tankers and orders should come soon, Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an
analyst at Arctic Securities ASA, said in a report March 22.
That won’t resolve the capacity crunch any time soon.  “Most shipyards will be unable to deliver until early
2015,” Stavseth said. “Shipping will be the LNG industry’s
Achilles heel for the next two to three years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Alistair Holloway in  London  at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 