-- 
Germany’s North-Rhine Westphalia Says Inflation Slowed in March

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-03-28T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/germany-s-north-rhine-westphalia-says-inflation-slowed-in-march.html
Inflation in the German state of
North Rhine-Westphalia slowed in March.  Consumer prices rose 2 percent from a year earlier after
gaining an annual 2.1 percent in February, the state’s
statistics office in Dusseldorf said today. Economists expect
German harmonized inflation to remain at 2.2 percent, according
to the median of 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. That
report, based on data from six states, is due from the Federal
Statistics Office tomorrow.  Rising energy and food costs are fanning inflation in
 Europe ’s largest economy, increasing pressure on the  European
Central Bank  to raise  interest rates . Officials have signaled
the impact of the Japanese earth quake will not deter them from
lifting borrowing costs for the first time in almost three years
next month.  “Energy costs and faster economic growth will probably
push up German inflation to 2.8 percent by the third quarter,”
said Marina Nikiforow, an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt .
“The ECB is going to watch this very carefully.”  Prices for heating oil surged 32.6 percent from a year
earlier, while fuel was 7.7 percent more expensive.  Crude  oil prices  have increased 37 percent in the past six
months, surpassing $100 a barrel, amid political tensions in the
Middle East and North Africa.  Adding to inflation pressure is  Germany ’s booming economy,
with companies increasing hiring and spending to meet export
orders. German business confidence held close to a record high
this month, the Munich-based Ifo institute said last week.  ECB Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said
on March 25 that risks to  price stability  are “very much on the
upside” and that the central bank should remain “strongly
vigilant,” a phrase officials use to signal a rate increase is
imminent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  