-- 
Greece's Surging Unemployment May Become ‘Bomb’ to Society, Minister Says

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-03-28T11:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/greece-s-surging-unemployment-may-become-bomb-to-society-minister-says.html
Greece ’s increasing jobless rate
may become a “bomb in the foundations of society” as the
government struggles to lower the country’s budget gap, Economy
and Competitiveness Minister Michalis Chrisochoides said.  “The economic problem will at some point be solved but the
social problems are getting continually more toxic,”
Chrisochoides said in an interview on March 22 in  Athens . “At
the moment we have a society that is patient and dealing with
the problem, but we have to show people that what we are doing
is working.”  Greece’s unemployment rate surged to a record 14.8 percent
in December, making it the second highest after  Spain  in the 17-
member euro region. The government has been forced to toughen
spending cuts and raise taxes in exchange for last year’s 110
billion-euro ($115 billion bailout from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  as the nation grapples with its
third year of recession.  A possible doubling of investment under the country’s
 National Strategic Reference Framework  may help shift the growth
drivers from  consumer spending  to exports and output,
Chrisochoides said. The funds are unaffected by government
efforts to implement deficit-cutting measures equivalent to 0.75
percent of gross domestic product this year, he said.  “We are trying to create a Greece that is friendly to
investment,” Chrisochoides said. “Many businesses that didn’t
have a healthy foundation will close during this crisis. The
issue is to avoid strong ones closing because of a lack of
available bank finance.”  Among those at risk is Elefsina Shipyards, which filed for
creditor protection on March 10. The shipyard, which builds
commercial and military ships, is in talks with the government
and its lenders, Alpha Bank SA and  Emporiki Bank SA (TEMP)  about a
restructuring.  Elefsina closing “would be a defeat because it is a very
strong operation that employs 700 people and gives work to small
businesses,” Chrisochoides said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  