-- 
Miami Rocks as Moby, Chemical Brothers Lead Beach Bikini Party

-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 
2011-03-28T04:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/miami-south-beach-rocks-with-moby-chemical-brothers-bikini-party-review.html
Thousands of young people wearing
neon wigs, butterfly wings, torn fishnets, space boots and, in
many cases, nothing more than bikinis or skimpy underwear,
descended on downtown Miami to bounce and rave at the weekend
 Ultra Music Festival , where DJs are rock stars and rock stars
are supporting acts.  Moby steered clear of songs from his multiplatinum CD
“Play” and “Destroyed,” out in May. He jumped on top of the
DJ booth and pumped his fist, spinning rave discs and urging the
crowd to get their hands in the air.  “At huge events like this you can’t play anything
subtle,” he said in an interview before his show. “You just
have to play big records that make people jump up and down.”  Ultra started as a party on the sands of  South Beach  in
1999 and now claims to be the world’s biggest dance-music
festival. It features more than 200 musicians and DJs performing
over three days on eight stages for a total of 150,000 people.  Continuing a tradition that has seen rock bands such as the
Cure and the Killers play, Ultra also features acts with
electronic influences, including Erasure and Underworld.  Duran Duran performed tracks from its latest album, “All
You Need Is Now,” and hits like “Girls on Film” and “Hungry
Like The Wolf.” Still, Friday belonged to trance king  Tiesto ,
who fired up the crowd as pyrotechnics blazed on the main stage.  The next day, his fellow Dutch DJ  Armin van Buuren  won over
a Miami fire rescue crew members. They blared their truck’s horn
and flashed its warning lights in step time with the music.  “Ultra has become a lot better,” van Buuren said in an
interview. “It’s a professional event and a legendary, mystical
thing now. You have to be here if you’re a DJ.”  Pendulum Turns  Anglo-Australian dance-rock act Pendulum performed fresh
after a disappointing U.S. tour where opening for Linkin Park
didn’t bring the wider audience the band was hoping for.  “At the moment, we wouldn’t give it another shot in
America,” singer Rob Swire said in an interview. “I don’t
believe in what we do enough to be losing money every tour.”  It would be a shame if he quits trying, because shortly
after our conversation, Pendulum raced through a blazing show.  Deadmau5 , sporting a fiberglass and LED rodent mask,
delivered dance-floor bombs and drew repeated roars from the
crowd. Motley Crue’s Tommy Lee made a cameo appearance, pounding
a drum kit that was elevated behind Deadmau5’s DJ booth.  At a festival that banks on sensory overload, the Chemical
Brothers closed the final day on the main stage with a
spectacular light show. The British duo pumped their big beats
from underneath a cylindrical cage of LED lights as videos were
projected on giant screens behind.  Ultra is expanding with spinoff festivals in  Brazil ,  South
Korea , Australia and  Spain .  “It’s about the love for the genre and watching it grow in
popularity,” said Adam Russakoff, director of business affairs
for the festival. “We’re a small business and whenever there’s
any drama we remind ourselves that it’s all about the music.”  Rating: *** 1/2.  (Gelu Sulugiuc writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Miami at  gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 