-- 
Libyan Forces Defend Sirte as U.K. Talks Look Beyond Qaddafi

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-03-29T18:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/libyan-rebels-advance-with-nato-help-as-france-u-k-say-qaddafi-must-go-.html
International leaders met to forge
a postwar blueprint for Libya as troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
dug in to block rebels advancing on his hometown of Sirte.  “People are suffering terribly under Qaddafi’s rule,”
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a speech opening the
meeting in London today. “We will continue to implement the
 United Nations  resolutions for as long as is necessary to
protect the Libyan people from danger.”  His remarks indicated that NATO may keep up military
operation until Qaddafi is forced out, since civilians would
remain in danger from reprisals from the regime even if it obeys
a cease-fire. U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said Qaddafi
“has no future” and Qatar’s Prime Minister, Sheikh Hamad Bin Jabr Al Thani, said the Libyan leader should quit now before an
offer to let him go into exile -- which he didn’t detail -- is
taken off the table “in a few days.”  “All of us must continue to increase the pressure on and
deepen the isolation of the Qaddafi regime,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said at the conference. “This includes a
unified front of political and diplomatic pressure that makes
clear to Qaddafi that he must go, that sends a strong message of
accountability, and that sharpens the choice for those around
him.”  Libyans’ Destiny  Cameron told the heads of NATO and the United Nations and
more than 37 foreign ministers that while the Libyan people
should determine their own destiny, “they cannot reach that
future on their own.” He said UN resolutions against Qaddafi’s
regime must be enforced, humanitarian aid rushed to rebel-held
parts of Libya and plans drawn up for post-war rebuilding of
hospitals, homes and “the mosques and minarets smashed by his
barbarity.”  The rebels’ drive toward Sirte extends their offensive
along  Libya ’s coast, where over the weekend they recaptured the
oil ports of Brega and Ras Lanuf, helped by U.S.-led air strikes
on government positions. The rebels’ progress was halted about
50 kilometers (30 miles) from Sirte, the  BBC  said today.  That may set the stage for an escalation of the fighting,
already the most violent yet seen in more than two months of
popular uprisings across the Middle East and North Africa.
Libya’s opposition estimates that as many as 12,000 people have
died.  Oil Reverses Drop  Crude oil was little changed, reversing an earlier drop of
as much as 1.2 percent in  New York  on speculation that the
rebels’ territorial gains may hasten a resolution to the crisis.
Crude oil futures for May delivery rose 56 cents to $104.54 a
barrel at 1:30 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Libya’s rebel Interim National Council published its
“vision of a democratic Libya” before the London talks with a
pledge to establish a constitution, give citizens the right to
vote and guarantee political pluralism.  “That there hasn’t been a coup against Qaddafi so far
indicates his grip on the armed forces is still strong,”
Florence Gaub, a North  Africa  expert at the NATO Defense College
in  Rome , said in an interview. “He’s installed loyalists in key
positions throughout the military.”  The U.S. will send an envoy to meet with the rebels in
their eastern stronghold of Benghazi within days to establish
better ties with the group, a move that won’t constitute formal
recognition, said a senior U.S. administration official who
spoke on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to
comment on the record.  ‘Qaddafi’s Deadly Advance’  Military intervention “stopped Qaddafi’s deadly advance”
and helped prevent a massacre of civilians that would have
“stained the conscience of the world,” President  Barack Obama 
said in a speech at the  National Defense University  in
 Washington  late yesterday.  Qaddafi sent a message to the  London  meeting, comparing the
international action against his forces to Hitler’s march across
 Europe  and bombardment of Britain.  “Stop your barbaric and unjust offensive against Libya,”
Qaddafi said in comments on the official state news agency,
JANA. “Leave Libya for the Libyans. You are carrying out an
operation to exterminate a peaceful people and destroy a
developing country.”  In the western port of Misrata, U.S. warplanes and a
guided-missile destroyer engaged a patrol ship from Qaddafi’s
naval forces after the Libyan vessel and two smaller craft fired
on merchant boats, the U.S. Africa Command’s task force for
Libya said today in an e-mailed statement. The patrol ship, the
Vittoria, was beached after the incident late yesterday.  ‘Bleed to Death’  Cameron said Misrata is under attack from “both land and
sea” and that Qaddafi “is using snipers to shoot” down people
and “let them bleed to death in the street.”  The U.S. part of the Libya mission has cost $550 million so
far, mostly for bombs and missiles, according to the Department
of Defense.  Sweden plans to send eight Gripen fighter planes to support
operations in Libya, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said
today.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said on March 27 it
would take over military control of the  Libya mission  from the
U.S. -- an action that comes amid spreading unrest throughout
the Middle East, with deadly clashes between protesters and
regime supporters in Syria, Yemen, Bahrain and Jordan, following
the ouster of oppressive regimes by popular movements in  Egypt 
and Tunisia.  Without Qaddafi  In his speech, Obama said there was “no question that
Libya -- and the world -- would be better off with Qaddafi out
of power.” Cameron and French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in
a joint statement yesterday that Qaddafi should quit now.  “There are countries in Africa that could offer him
hospitality,” Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini said
yesterday in Rome. “I hope that the  African Union  can come up
with a valid proposal. Qaddafi has to understand that on his
part it would be an act of courage to say: ‘I understand that I
have to go.’”  “Ideally, everybody wants the Libyan rebels to topple
Qaddafi in Tripoli,” said the NATO Defense College’s Gaub.
“Regime change is what it’s all about, even if the UN
resolution doesn’t say this.”  The overthrow of Qaddafi is the task of the Libyan
opposition, not the NATO-led coalition, a member of the rebel
council said.  “We are not seeking any outside power to change the regime
in Libya,” Guma El-Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator of the
opposition Interim National Council, told reporters today in
London. “That is a job for the Libyan people and the Libyan
people alone.”  Thousands Detained  He said more than 12,000 young people in Tripoli, mostly
men, have been detained by forces loyal to Qaddafi and have
either been killed or put in camps.  The rebels will respect all Qaddafi-era contracts with
foreign nations and companies if they take over the government,
the head of their council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, told  Italy ’s Rai
television. Jalil, a former justice minister, said the pledge
applies to oil contracts, including deals with Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
Libya’s biggest foreign investor.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Syrian President Bashar al- Assad accepted the resignation of Prime Minister Muhammad Naji Otri, state television reported.  The move follows a series of concessions the regime has
promised including the release of more than 200 prisoners, steps
to combat corruption, a media law guaranteeing more freedom,
improving  living standards  for residents of border areas and
legal changes to ban random arrests.  In Egypt, the army council that has been in charge since
the fall of  Hosni Mubarak  last month announced yesterday that
parliamentary elections will be held in September. The council
will remain in power until a presidential election, which hasn’t
been scheduled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 