-- 
Mine Safety Appliances Boosts Radiation-Mask Output

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T21:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/mine-safety-appliances-boosts-production-of-air-purifying-masks-for-japan.html
Mine Safety Appliances Co. (MSA) , a maker
of masks used to protect against radioactive vapors, has boosted
production of respirators for use in  Japan  as the country fights
to contain damaged nuclear reactors.  Production has increased, with two U.S. plants making
thousands of additional masks and parts, said Mark Deasy, a
spokesman for the company based in Cranberry Township, a suburb
of Pittsburgh, today in an interview. Mine Safety Appliances has
average monthly sales of $12 million for air-purifying
respirators, said Deasy, who couldn’t provide specific
production figures.  Mine Safety Appliances makes  respirators  and cartridges for
use against radioactive vapors and particulates. The company has
a unit in  Tokyo , consisting of a light assembly plant and about
30 workers.  “We are trying to understand what the longer-term need
is,” Deasy said.  Mine Safety rose 39 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $35.61 at
4:16 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares gained 14 percent this year.  The company has responded to an emergency request from the
Tokyo Electric Power Co. for respirators and other products,
according to a March 18 Mine Safety employee memo. Also, Mine
Safety responded to a request for 2,500 respirators and
cartridges from  Areva SA (CEI)  for donation to Japan, and the products
have been shipped, Deasy said.  Cleanup Workers  Areva, the Paris-based manufacturer of fuel rods used in
some Japanese reactors, bought the 2,500 Mine Safety masks for
use by cleanup workers, spokeswoman Kelly Cousineau said in an
interview.  Mine Safety is keeping up with demand and has established a
team to respond to the immediate request and assess longer-term
needs. The respirators are manufactured in a plant in
Jacksonville,  North Carolina , and a facility outside of
Pittsburgh, Deasy said.  Masks that protect against radioactive vapors are one
portion of the company’s sales for air-purifying respirators.
Other types of masks in that category include respirators for
general industry, masks for painters and dust and pollen masks
for maintenance workers. Air-purifying respirators represented
 14 percent  of 2009 company sales, according to Mine Safety’s
annual report.  “A large part of that is not in the nuclear business,”
Deasy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  