-- 
Inter-American Bank to ‘De-Dollarize’ Region With Local Currency Funds

-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-03-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/inter-american-bank-to-de-dollarize-region-with-local-currency-funds.html
The  Inter-American Development Bank 
plans to help Latin American countries “de-dollarize” their
economies by providing more financing in local currencies, said
bank President Luis Alberto Moreno.  “Part of our role should be to help the countries in the
region de-dollarize and to have more of their stock of debt in
local currency,” Moreno said in an interview during the bank’s
annual meeting in Calgary.  Surging foreign investment and faster economic growth are
leading to stronger currencies in countries such as Chile,
Brazil and  Mexico . The region accounted for twice as much of
global capital inflows in 2009 as it did in 2006, Moreno said.  “That is having a huge impact on our exchange rates, on
the tradable sector,” Moreno, 56, said. “All countries are
worrying about the impact of overheating.”  To offset the currency gains and to develop capital markets
across the region, the Washington-based lender plans to increase
borrowing in local currencies, while allowing more borrowers in
the region to convert their IDB loans from U.S. dollars.  “This is a choice for countries, depending on their total
pool of debt,” said Moreno, a Colombian native. “The important
thing is the bank has the flexibility to accommodate them.”  The  development bank , which received a capital increase of
$70 billion last year, may borrow in the Chilean market, selling
so-called “huaso” or “cowboy” bonds in pesos, said Chilean
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain.  Deeper Market  “We are creating a local market and we are deepening our
financial market,” Larrain said in a March 26 interview at the
IDB meeting. “We are moving in the direction of
internationalization of the Chilean peso.”  The IDB and private companies are among entities showing
interest in huaso bonds, peso-denominated notes issued by
foreigners, Larrain said.  “Over the next couple of months we will probably see
some” issuance, he said. “We are seeing a lot of interest. The
IDB is one example, but there are a lot of examples of private
companies.”  Total bond sales by the IDB may reach $10 billion this
year, down from $11.8 billion in 2010, according to a bank
presentation in Calgary. The bank has bonds outstanding in
currencies including Mexican pesos, Brazilian reais and Costa
Rican colones. About 73 percent of borrowing was in U.S. dollars
last year, down from 84 percent in 2009, according to bank data.
Five percent of the bonds were sold in Latin American currencies
last year, up from 2 percent in 2009.  Local Currencies  The bank has also been working with borrowers in the region
to convert their U.S.-dollar loans from the IDB to their local
currency using the swap market. Local currency loans accounted
for $2.1 billion, or 3.3 percent, of the $63 billion total at
the end of 2010, up from 2.5 percent the previous year, bank
documents show.  “We are building capacity to support the increased demand
we are seeing for local currency financing,” said IDB Treasurer
Soren Elbech, in an interview in Calgary.  “We are actively engaging capital markets to do whatever
we can to support this demand. If it makes best sense to issue a
bond in local currency, we will of course look at that,” he
said. “We are continually working with financial counter-
parties in the swap markets to provide as cost-efficient funding
as possible in the currencies in demand within prevailing bank
policies and guidelines.”  Moreno, who was re-elected to a second five-year term at
the IDB last year, said funding for infrastructure such as
roads, airports and ports, is a priority for the bank. Education
and productivity are also important.  Priorities Changing  “Infrastructure is the most important in terms of volumes
of resources,” he said in a March 26 interview. “The gains of
trade to be made are hugely dependent on the investment in
infrastructure.”  With strengthening currencies and economic growth of more
than 6 percent last year, the region’s priorities are changing,
he said.  “The set of challenges the region has today are very
different from the past in that we begin with a positive
outlook, derived from the good macroeconomic stability that we
have enjoyed over almost the last decade,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  