-- 
Intercontinental Nigeria Rises to Two-Week High on Access

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-03-28T15:29:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/intercontinental-bank-of-nigeria-rallies-to-two-week-high-on-access-merger.html
Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON)  rose to
an almost two-week high after announcing a planned merger with
 Access Bank Plc (ACCESS)  to create the country’s fourth-biggest bank by
assets.  The stock added 2 kobo, or 1.4 percent, to 1.5 naira by the
2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, giving it a market value of 28.3
billion naira ($181.9 million). Access lost 24 kobo, or 2.8
percent, to 8.4 naira, it lowest since March 18, with a market
value of 150.3 billion naira.  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA)  is the West
African nation’s biggest lender.  The transaction will create the fourth-largest lender in
the country, Access Chief Executive Officer Aigboje Aig-
Imokhuede told reporters in Lagos yesterday. The process is
subject to approval by regulatory authorities, the judiciary and
shareholders, so it is “premature” to give details of the
terms, he said.  A debt crisis in  Nigeria ’s banking industry in 2009 forced
the central bank to rescue some of country’s lenders by
injecting 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) of capital into them.
Eight of the lenders’ chief executive officers were fired and
the central bank called for interested parties to bid for stakes
in the banks.  Future Transactions  “Ordinarily, we should classify this as an acquisition
because Access Bank is much bigger, and it’s taking on
Intercontinental, which is much smaller,” David Adonri, chief
executive officer of Lambeth Trust and Investment Co., a Lagos-
based brokerage, said by phone today. “So we could see it an
acquisition, although we don’t know details of the transaction
yet.”  Intercontinental’s merger with Access is the second
agreement to be announced by the rescued banks after Union Bank
of Nigeria Plc said March 23 it signed a memorandum with a group
led by African Capital Alliance that will invest $750 million in
the bank.  “The retail banking operations of Intercontinental Bank
coupled with the wholesale and commercial banking strength of
Access Bank offer a high degree of synergy and complementarity
unique in the Nigerian banking environment,” the two banks said
in a joint statement distributed to reporters yesterday.  The merger “is a welcome development as it reduces
systemic risk,” in Nigeria’s banking industry,  Bismarck Rewane ,
chief executive officer of Lagos-based Financial Derivatives
Co., a brokerage, said by phone today. “The alternative would
have been to liquidate Intercontinental, which would be risky to
the economy.”  Amcon Boost  Central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on March 4 that
two rescued banks have signed accords to receive more capital,
either through mergers or acquisitions, and four others are
close to signing takeover agreements.  Nigeria’s banking industry will have as many as eight
mergers in the “near future,” most of them within weeks,
Deputy Governor Kingsley Moghalu said Feb. 22.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, a state-owned company,
is seeking approval from the central bank to start the second
phase of its program to buy bad debts from banks, according to
Chief Executive Officer Mustapha Chike-Obi.  Intercontinental received more than 146 billion naira from
Amcon, as the company is known, the Nation reported on Jan. 11.  The deal is “the best thing that has happened to the
shareholders of Intercontinental,” Rewane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  