-- 
IR Magazine Announces Winners of US Investor Relations Awards

-- B y  
-- 
2011-03-28T21:59:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ir-magazine-announces-winners-of-us-investor-relations-awards.html

Top-performing investor relations teams celebrated at annual
Wall Street gala  New York -- IR magazine, the only global publication dealing
with the interface between companies and their shareholders, is
excited to announce the winners of its annual investor relations
awards in the US. Held in association with Bloomberg L.P., the
IR Magazine US Awards 2011 recognized the leading investor
relations teams with 31 awards in important areas such as
earnings calls, corporate governance and  crisis management .
Executives and their IR teams were celebrated for demonstrating
the key competencies and actions that result in enhanced
transparency and shareholder communication.  Winners of the IR Magazine US Awards 2011 were determined
through a rigorous research and selection process managed by
XbInsight, IR magazine’s research arm. Surveys and interviews
with analysts and investors provided the information necessary
for the ultimate selection of the winners in each category.  A full list of winners by category is provided below.  Janet Dignan, CEO, Cross Border Ltd
‘It’s always interesting to see what is happening in the US
market for investor relations. This is where you see many of the
world’s leading practices originate, and today’s winners will
likely define IR globally for years to come. The nominees and
winners we celebrated tonight will undoubtedly have a worldwide
impact: you saw tomorrow’s standard take the stage at the IR
Magazine US Awards.’  Award winners
Grand prix for best overall investor relations - large cap
Covidien  Grand prix for best overall investor relations - mid-cap
F5 Networks  Grand prix for best overall investor relations - small cap
United Online  Best investor relations officer - large cap
Cole Lannum
Covidien  Best investor relations officer - mid-cap
Kenneth Ohashi
Aéropostale  Best investor relations officer - small cap
Carol DiRaimo
Jack in the Box  Best investor relations by a CFO - large cap
William Wheeler
MetLife  Best investor relations by a CFO - mid-cap
John Steele
Werner Enterprises  Best investor relations by a CFO - small cap
Victoria Reich
United Stationers  Best investor relations by a CEO - large cap
John Chambers
Cisco Systems  Best investor relations by a CEO - mid-cap
Emanuel Chirico
Phillips-Van Heusen Corp  Best investor relations by a CEO - small cap
Richard McCullough
Petroleum Development Corp  Lifetime achievement in investor relations
Mickey Foster  Best financial reporting
JPMorgan Chase & Co  Best investor relations website
Microsoft  Best earnings calls
Covidien  Best corporate governance
Berkshire Hathaway  Most progress in investor relations
Apple  Best M&A investor relations
Oracle  Best crisis management
JPMorgan Chase & Co  Best investor relations by a continental European company in the
US market
Roche Holding  Best investor relations by an Asia-Pacific company in the US
market
Li & Fung  Best investor relations by sector
Basic materials
Peabody Energy  Consumer goods
Johnson & Johnson  Consumer services
McDonald’s  Energy
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation  Financials
JPMorgan Chase & Co  Healthcare
Covidien  Industrials
United Technologies Corp  Technology
Qualcomm  Utilities
Northeast Utilities  Sponsors
The IR Magazine US Awards are held in association with
Bloomberg, L.P. Our other sponsors are:  American Stock Transfer & Trust Company
Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Barclays Capital
BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts
Business Wire
Computershare and Georgeson
Deutsche Bank ADR Group
General Electric Company
Innisfree M&A Incorporated
Ipreo
Laurel Hill Advisory Group
MacKenzie Partners
Marketwire
MessageBank
NASDAQ OMX
National Investor Relations Institute
NYSE Euronext
Okapi Partners
OnDemandIR
PR Newswire
UBS
Wells Fargo  About XbInsight
XbInsight is IR magazine’s research brand, building on the
publication’s established global research efforts. Since 1991,
IR magazine has taken its renowned investor perception study
around the world, to markets as diverse as  Brazil , China,
 Singapore , the Nordic region,  South Africa ,  Canada , the UK and
the US. In every market, the process is the same: each year
thousands of buy-side analysts, sell-side analysts and portfolio
managers are asked which companies have the best investor
relations. XbInsight is building on that expertise for its new
series of studies examining successful investor relations
practice and the key drivers of investor sentiment. To generate
customized reports on your global peer group, please visit our
website: www.insideinvestorrelations.com/research.  About IR magazine
IR magazine is the only global publication focused on the
interface between companies and their investors. IR magazine
hosts events in the US, the UK,  Europe , Canada, Singapore,  Hong
Kong ,  China  and Brazil. Inside Investor Relations
(www.insideinvestorrelations.com) is the magazine’s companion
website, which includes daily news updates that are highly
relevant to investor relations professionals. Visit
www.insideinvestorrelations.com for more details.  About Cross Border Ltd
Cross Border Ltd publishes IR magazine and Corporate Secretary.
Based in New York and  London , the company reaches highly
targeted audiences in the investor relations and corporate
governance communities through the two magazines and
accompanying newsletters, events and websites. With roots in the
Economist Group, we are renowned for providing quality insight
and a global perspective. Our flagship publications, IR magazine
and Corporate Secretary, are essential reading for executives
around the world. Our awards are a key part of the calendar in
leading financial centers including  New York , London and
 Shanghai . With an expanding portfolio of digital properties and
more than 20 conferences and events each year, we are well
positioned for growth.  Visit IR magazine:  http://www.insideinvestorrelations.com 
Visit Corporate Secretary:  http://www.corporatesecretary.com   Contact for Cross Border Ltd  Tom Johansmeyer, 212.430.6864,
 tom.johansmeyer@thecrossbordergroup.com 
