-- 
Ivory Coast Rebels Claim to Enter Western Cocoa-Producing Town of Duekoue

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-03-28T17:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ivory-coast-rebels-claim-to-enter-western-cocoa-producing-town-of-duekoue.html
Rebels in  Ivory Coast  who support
 Alassane Ouattara  as president say they have entered the western
cocoa-producing town of Duekoue, as they try to capture the
sixth town in a month from security forces loyal to incumbent
 Laurent Gbagbo .  “The fighting is quite serious,” said Lass Com, a
spokesman for the rebel group, now known as Republican Forces of
Ivory Coast and previously called the New Forces. The number of
people killed in the fighting wasn’t yet known, Com said by
phone from the town of Man.  On the opposite side of the country, near the eastern
border with  Ghana , fighting was reported for the first time
since the contentious Nov. 28 vote, according to Philippe
Digbeu, a resident of Bondoukou. “It started this morning and
most people here are staying inside,” he said by phone.  Gbagbo, who has been president of the world’s top cocoa
producer for a decade, refuses to step down and hand over to
Ouattara, the internationally recognized winner of the election.
Fighting has raged in the west of the country, as well as in the
commercial capital, Abidjan, since the disputed vote as
thousands of resident have fled to neighboring Liberia.  “We are very scared,” said Duekoue resident Laurent
N’Guessan by phone today. He said he has heard “heavy
artillery” since early in the morning.  Denied  Rebels said they had fully secured the town by midday,
 Agence France-Presse  said, citing Seydou Ouattara, another
spokesman for the rebel group. That was denied by Gbagbo’s
forces, the French  news agency  said.  Duekoue is strategic for the rebels because it sits along a
major north-south transit corridor linking the west of the
country with the cocoa exporting port of  San Pedro . It also
controls access to parts of northeastern  Liberia  that have
supplied militiamen and arms to Gbagbo’s forces, said J. Peter
Pham, director of the Ansari Africa Center at the  Atlantic
Council  in  Washington .  “If they succeed in taking that crossroads, they
essentially block Gbagbo from getting further supplies or
fighters from Liberia,” he said in a phone interview today.  The rebel offensive also demonstrates that the Republican
Forces have improved their military capabilities since a 2007
peace accord largely ended a civil conflict that divided the
country between a rebel-held north and a government-controlled
south.  “You don’t acquire artillery capacity overnight,” said
Pham. “Both sides are clearly seeking to move this to a head
and resolve the impasse that’s been going on for several months.
That’s worrisome both for the peace of the region and the human
security in  Ivory Coast .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 