-- 
Liz Claiborne Markets Bonds to Fund Euro-Note Tender Offer

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-28T19:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/liz-claiborne-to-sell-debt-for-tender-offer-after-s-p-downgrade.html
Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) , the maker of
Lucky Brand and Juicy Couture apparel, plans to sell $200
million of debt in dollars to fund a tender offer for euro-
denominated securities.  The apparel maker is marketing senior secured notes due
2019, according to a statement today from the New York-based
company. Proceeds may be used to fund a tender offer for up to
155 million euros ($218 million) of the New York-based company’s
outstanding 350 million euro 5 percent debt due July 2013 and
for general corporate purposes.  Liz Claiborne said in a March 8 statement that it would
offer bondholders 96 percent of the euro notes’ principal plus
accrued interest if they tendered by March 22. The announcement
prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to reduce Liz Claiborne’s corporate
credit rating to CC from B- and the rating on the euro bonds to
CC from CCC+. The clothing maker said in a March 24 statement
that 117.9 million euros of debt had been offered by the early
deadline.  “We assess the tender offer as distressed and the pending
transaction as tantamount to a default on the 5% notes,” S&P
analysts led by Jeffrey Burian said in a note dated March 11.
“We believe there is no contractual default, nor any cross-
default to other debt obligations.”  The company’s corporate credit rating is likely to be
restored once the tender offer is finished on April 7, said Liz
Claiborne Chief Financial Officer Andrew Warren in a March 11
statement.  ‘Technical Action’  “S&P’s downgrade is not a corporate rating downgrade in
the traditional sense, but rather a required short-term
technical action pertaining to the specific terms and conditions
of our tender offer refinancing,” said Warren. “Our liquidity
remains solid and Liz Claiborne Inc. will continue to do
business as usual.”  The downgrade is unlikely to affect the company’s ability
to sell the dollar-denominated notes being marketed today, said
James Goldstein, an analyst with CreditSights Inc. in  New York .  “It’s opportunistic to push out to seven-, eight-year
maturity,” he said in a telephone interview. “Things are
tightening up again and there’s a demand for yield out there.”  Spreads on high-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt declined 37
basis points to 479 basis points on March 25 from the monthly
high of 516 basis points on March 16, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The euro notes traded today at 91.875 percent of face value
and yielded 9.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  New Ratings  S&P reiterated its earlier ratings on Liz Claiborne’s euro
bonds and corporate credit and assigned a B- grade to the new
notes, according to a statement today.  Moody’s Investors Service affirmed Liz Claiborne’s
corporate family rating at B3 in a statement today and assigned
a B2 grade to the notes being marketed. The ratings company said
the outlook for the retailer is “stable.”  “The company’s credit metrics will continue to recover in
the near term as it reduces debt and as operating performance
improves while maintaining good overall liquidity,” Moody’s
analysts Scott Tuhy and Kendra Smith in New York wrote in a
statement today.  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., SunTrust Banks
Inc., and Wells Fargo & Co. are managing the sale, said a person
familiar with the transaction, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  