-- 
Japanese Stocks Attract Scottish Strategists After Nikkei Drop

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-28T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japanese-stocks-attract-scottish-strategists-after-nikkei-drop.html
Scottish fund managers overseeing
about 530 billion pounds ($846 billion) are joining the overseas
investors pouring into Japanese stocks in the wake of the
country’s most severe earthquake.  Foreign investors bought a record amount of Japanese stocks
last week after the market tumbled because of concern that the
March 11 earthquake and leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
would derail the world’s third-biggest economy.  “On the whole, we’re talking about a dip over the next two
quarters and then coming back up when they start spending money
on reconstruction,” said Mike Turner, head of global strategy
at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)  Aberdeen has put “a little
bit of money back into  Japan ,” he said.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which sank 10 percent in the
week after the temblor, had its biggest weekly gain since July
last week. Aegon Asset Management bought Nikkei futures, while
 Standard Life Investments  and  Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership  are still working out the economic implications of
the disaster, the Edinburgh-based firms said.  “Has 20 percent of the future corporate profitability of
the Japanese society and economy disappeared? No,”  Andrew Milligan  at Standard Life, said at a discussion with Aberdeen
and Scottish Widows at Bloomberg’s office in the Scottish
capital. “What proportion has disappeared? We don’t know.”  Catastrophe  The number of dead and missing from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 28,550 as of 3 p.m. yesterday, while  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co. is struggling to contain the worst disaster
since Chernobyl in 1986, at Fukushima. Elevated radiation levels
have been detected near the plant as well as the water supply in
Tokyo, 220 kilometers (138 miles) to the south.  Japan is “taxing me,” Ken Adams, head of strategy at
Scottish Widows Investment, which is considering putting more
money into the country, said at the March 23 meeting. “The
framework tells us we should be buying in a period of  risk
aversion  and what I’m trying to do is work out which market to
buy and I haven’t made up my mind there.”  Foreigners bought 891 billion yen ($11 billion) of stocks
in the week through March 18, the most since comparable records
began in 2005, the Ministry of Finance in Tokyo said on March
25.  The Nikkei rallied 3.6 percent last week, led by  Taiheiyo
Cement Corp. (5233) , which has surged 38 percent since the temblor,
including 33 percent last week.  Comsys Holdings Corp. (1721) , which
designs and builds phone and power facilities, rose 22 percent.  The decline in the market after the earthquake had driven
the average valuation of 1,666 shares listed on the Topix index
to 0.91 times book value in the week, the lowest since March 16,
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Cheap’ Market  Aberdeen remains “underweight” on Japan, meaning the
company’s holdings are lower than would normally be represented
in a portfolio of assets, Turner said.  “The market is as cheap now as it’s been for almost 30
years or more,” Bill Dinning, head of strategy at Aegon, said
in an interview on March 25. “It’s more of a trade to take
advantage of the steep sell-off. It’s very consensual to believe
this has created great value.”  Dutch insurer Aegon’s U.K. fund business ran 41 billion
pounds from Edinburgh on Dec. 31, an increase of 14 percent from
a year before. Aberdeen increased assets 27 percent to 183
billion pounds last year, while Standard Life’s funds went up 13
percent to 157 billion pounds and they rose 3.2 percent to 146
billion pounds at Scottish Widows Investment.  For the strategists in  Scotland , the effect of the nuclear
plant on the country’s energy supplies makes it harder to
calculate the detriment to the economy compared with the Kobe
earthquake in 1995, which caused $100 billion of damage based on
the cost reported at the time.  “If we thought it was simply the equivalent of Kobe
earthquake, we’d buy back in,” said Milligan. “But we are
concerned about not just what’s happening with the nuclear
reactor but how much damage there actually is to Japan’s energy
and other infrastructure and what might that actually cause in
terms of knock-on efforts for corporate profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  