-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Fall Amid Radiation Concern; Australian Shares Drop

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-28T23:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japanese-stock-futures-fall-amid-radiation-concern-australian-shares-drop.html
Japanese  stock futures  fell amid
concern the nation is struggling to prevent a meltdown at a
nuclear plant after potentially fatal radiation levels were
detected nearby. Australian stocks declined.  American depositary receipts of Sharp Corp., a maker of
flat-screen panels, lost 1.8 percent from its closing share
price in Tokyo. Those of Mitsubishi Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest
trading company, dropped 2.1 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s No. 1 mining company, slid 0.7 percent in Sydney today
after metal prices declined.  “The issue of radioactive contamination from the nuclear-
power plant just doesn’t seem to settle down,” said Yasushi Noguchi, a strategist in Tokyo at SMBC Friend Securities Co.  Yen-denominated futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
expiring in June closed at 9,355 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared
with 9,410 in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
9,350 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index retreated 0.2 percent today.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
slid 0.1 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index slipped 0.3 percent yesterday in New
York as Marriott International Inc. led consumer shares lower
and concern grew that Japan is failing to contain hazardous
materials at a nuclear plant damaged following a March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Radiation, Meltdown  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in northeastern Japan had
radiation levels exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a spokesman for
plant operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said yesterday. A
partial meltdown of fuel rods in the No. 2 reactor probably
caused a jump in the readings, Japan Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said.  Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would trigger nausea
and four hours might lead to death within two months, according
to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, forcing  Tokyo Electric  to dump
thousands of tons of seawater on the complex as a stopgap
cooling measure.  “Even though there are expectations that there will be
huge demand for reconstruction following the earthquake
disaster, the radioactive pollution could delay the recovery,”
SMBC Friend’s Noguchi said.  Metals, Dividends  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 4.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 0.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500 and 11.1 times
for the Stoxx 600.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum fell 1.6 percent
yesterday, its second consecutive drop. Crude oil for May
delivery declined 1.4 percent to $103.98 a barrel in  New York ,
its third day of losses.  In Japan, about 2,500 companies go ex-dividend today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That means investors
who buy the stock today won’t be entitled to receive the latest
dividends. That will erase about 80 yen from the Nikkei 225,
according to SMBC Friend Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 