-- 
Japan Moves to Relocate Quake Victims After Meeting Food, Clothing Targets

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-03-29T11:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japan-starts-to-rebuild-after-quake-as-evacuees-told-to-avoid-power-plant.html
Japan ’s relief effort following the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami is shifting to relocating the
homeless and assisting residents affected by contamination from
a crippled nuclear reactor as food needs are being met.  “We’re in the next phase,” said Atsuko Fujisawa, a
spokeswoman for Iwate Prefecture, one of the hardest-hit areas.
“We can provide enough calories for them to eat.”  Japan is seeking to resettle as many as 250,000 people
displaced by the temblor and tsunami, according to a United
Nations report, which so far has left more than 27,000 people
dead or missing. The government today set up a special team to
assist residents from near the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters.  “We will work on comprehensive assistance for nuclear
accident victims,” Edano said. The measures to be taken include
removing contamination, transporting goods, monitoring the
environment and providing information, he said without providing
further details.  The construction of temporary housing has started and
officials in Iwate said they began taking applications
yesterday. Authorities are also seeking to move victims away
from large shelters, where there have been reports of poor
sanitary conditions, to inland hotels while homes are built.  As of yesterday about 296 people had accepted offers to
move to hotels for about two to three months until they find
homes, Fujisawa said.  ‘Wiped Away’  “There is no time frame for when people can go home,” she
said. “Their homes are wiped away.”  Iwate plans to build 8,800 temporary homes, officials have
said, while neighboring Miyagi has requested 10,000 housing
units from the  Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers and
Manufacturers Association .  Fukushima prefecture began building temporary homes on
March 23 and aims to construct 14,000 units with a further 5,000
provided by the private sector.  While a lack of fuel hampered relief efforts immediately
following the disaster, the situation has improved with about 80
percent of gas stations in earthquake-affected areas back in
operation, economy minister  Banri Kaieda  said today in
parliament. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the government will
take responsibility for “rebuilding victims’ lives.”  Death Toll  The number of dead from the disaster rose to 11,102 with
16,493 missing at 6 p.m. local time today, the  National Police
Agency  said. About 250,000 people are living in more than 2,000
evacuation centers, with others residing in their cars,
according to the latest report from the United Nations Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  Kan today said for the first time that the tsunami defenses
at the damaged nuclear plant in Fukushima, where radioactive
emissions have led to evacuations, were inadequate. Radiation
leaks don’t pose a health threat beyond a 20 kilometer radius
(12.4 miles), he said.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s sea wall, designed to withstand
a 5.5-meter (18-foot) wave, was breached by a surge estimated by
the government to be almost three times higher following the
magnitude-9 earthquake.  Leaked nuclear materials that can be fatal for a person
exposed for several hours were yesterday detected for the first
time outside the reactor buildings. Plutonium traces found in
soil pose no threat to workers on site or people close by,
Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at the Japan Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said in  Tokyo  today.  Japan ordered Tokyo Electric to increase its monitoring of
radiation emissions. Radioactive water lying on the floor of
turbine buildings at the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors will be
drained and stored in tanks on site, Nishiyama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
-0- Mar/29/ :19 GMT 