-- 
Japan Stocks Fluctuate; Tokyo Electric Tumbles to Lowest Level Since 1977

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-03-28T03:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japanese-stocks-decline-on-nuclear-crisis-material-shortages-sony-falls.html
Japanese stocks fluctuated as  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co., operator of the crippled Fukushima nuclear
station, fell to its lowest level since 1977, while Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd. rose after restarting a furnace halted by
this month’s earthquake.  Tokyo Electric fell 15 percent. Sony Corp., an electronics
maker that closed plants due to component shortages, dropped 0.8
percent. Japan Tobacco Inc., the world’s third-largest publicly
traded cigarette maker, slumped 2.2 percent after saying it will
halt shipments because of factory damage. Sumitomo Metal
Industries, the country’s No. 3 steelmaker, climbed 5.6 percent.  “Supply-chain problems are spreading and that suggests the
manufacturing recovery will probably be slower than investors
initially expected,”  Junichi Misawa , head of equity investment
at Tokyo-based STB Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$14 billion. “The outlook will improve if more companies like
Sumitomo Metal Industries resume production.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average declined 0.4 percent to
9,501.64 at the 11 a.m. trading break in Tokyo. The broader
Topix index was little changed at 857.58 after earlier rising as
much as 0.2 percent. The Nikkei dropped 7 percent from March 11
to March 25, the biggest decline among indexes for the world’s
largest equity markets, after the earthquake and tsunami killed
more than 10,000 people, razed homes and factories and crippled
the Fukushima nuclear-power station northeast of Tokyo.  U.S. Growth Upgraded  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1
percent today. In  New York , the index gained 0.3 percent to
1,313.80 on March 25 after the pace of economic growth was
revised higher and Oracle Corp.’s profit forecast beat analyst
estimates.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, led by a jump in  consumer spending  that will be
hard to match early in the year as energy prices surge. The
growth numbers compare with a 2.8 percent estimate issued last
month, figures from the Commerce Department showed on March 25
in  Washington .  As the worst atomic accident since Chernobyl entered its
third week, the Japanese government said soil near the Fukushima
plant would be tested for plutonium contamination. The
radioactive metal was used in one of the reactors and its
presence outside the plant would suggest fuel rod damage.  Radiation Levels  Radiation levels in water in the Fukushima Dai-Ichi No. 2
reactor’s turbine building were measured at more than 1,000
millisieverts per hour,  Japan ’s nuclear safety agency said on
March 27. That level is higher than the dose that would cause
vomiting, hair loss and diarrhea, according to the  World Nuclear
Association .  Tokyo Electric plunged for a fourth day, losing 15 percent
to 720 yen, a level not seen since February 1977. The decline
was the biggest on the Nikkei.  Sony, which partially closed five domestic plants until
March 31, fell 0.8 percent. Tokyo Electron, which has shut a
factory in earthquake-struck Iwate prefecture, dropped 3.1
percent. Tiremaker Bridgestone Corp., which has also closed a
plant, lost 0.7 percent.  Japan Tobacco slumped 2.2 percent. The company said it will
halt shipments between March 30 and April 10 because of damage
to factories.  Sumitomo Metal Industries jumped 5.6 percent, the most on
the Nikkei 225. The company said it restarted the No. 1 blast
furnace at its Kashima works, which was halted after the
earthquake and tsunami. Both furnaces at the Kashima plant are
operational, it said.  Shares rose also as most companies in the Topix index will
go ex-dividend tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Denso Corp., an auto-parts maker planning to pay a final
dividend of 22 yen a share, climbed 1.9 percent. Honda Motor Co.
advanced 0.7 percent as the carmaker will pay a dividend to
those who own the stock as of today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 