-- 
Japan Weighs Scrapping Corporate Tax Cut, Increasing Levies on Households

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-29T04:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japan-weighs-scrapping-company-tax-cut-lifting-household-levies.html
Japan ’s ruling party is considering
abandoning a proposed corporate- tax cut  and boosting levies on
individuals to help pay for earthquake reconstruction and reduce
the need to step up bond sales.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said today more than one spending
package may be needed for rebuilding, and all revenue options
will be debated. Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi said
yesterday the government may scrap a planned 5 percentage-point
reduction in company tax rates, and the head of the party’s
fiscal committee last week advocated a sales-tax increase.  Increasing taxes would risk deepening the hit to economic
growth in the aftermath of the nation’s record earthquake and
ensuing tsunami on March 11. Some legislators have instead
advocated that the Bank of Japan buy debt directly from the
government to pay for the reconstruction.  “A tax increase will likely dampen personal consumption
when household sentiment has already cooled,” said  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and
Consulting Co. in Tokyo. He also said that “if the government
totally calls off a corporate tax cut, not temporarily abandons
it, it could accelerate the risk of the hollowing out of Japan”
as manufacturers shift operations abroad.  Toyota, Sony  Company earnings are likely to be impaired by the
catastrophe, which forced firms from Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony
Corp. to suspend factories in the devastated northeast and
elsewhere as supply chain and power disruptions spread. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1 percent to 9,385.98 at 12:56 p.m.
in Tokyo. It has lost about 10 percent since the temblor.  “We can’t avoid raising taxes as the great earthquake may
worsen an already dangerous fiscal situation,” Ikkou Nakatsuka,
the deputy chairman of the Democratic Party of Japan’s tax
committee, said in an interview last week. Shinichiro Furumoto,
director-general of the party’s fiscal committee, said “only
the consumption tax imposes the burden equally among citizens.”  Kan said that while “right now” he isn’t thinking about a
tax increase, “we need to discuss various possibilities.” He
said in parliament today that the government will review plans
including the company-tax reduction and tax breaks on dividends
and  stock trading .  The prime minister may avoid a political cost from the tax
measures, as 67.5 percent of the public support higher levies to
fund reconstruction, according to an opinion poll released by
 Kyodo News  two days ago. A tax increase may help to push back
the possibility of a future fiscal crisis with public debt
already about twice the size of the $5 trillion economy.  Bond Limit  Japanese Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said today that government bond sales are close to the limit.  The government estimates damage from the disaster, which
left more than 27,000 people dead or missing, at as high as 25
trillion yen ($306 billion).  Japanese government data released today suggested that the
economy was recovering in February before the quake struck this
month. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 4.6 percent
from January’s 4.9 percent, according to the statistics bureau
in  Tokyo . The number of available jobs rose to the highest level
in two years, and retail sales increased last month.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today said Japan’s economy will
shrink next quarter and lowered its growth forecast for the year
starting April 1 to 0.7 percent from 1.3 percent.  Consumption Tax  To raise about 5 trillion yen a year for the reconstruction,
Nakatsuka has suggested a two-percentage point increase in the
sales  tax rate , currently at 5 percent.  It would be the first increase since 1997, when the sales
levy was raised from 3 percent. The economy fell into a
recession after the increase and the then ruling Liberal
 Democratic Party  lost an election as a result. Mentioning a
possible increase in the tax was one reason Kan’s DPJ lost
control of the upper house in a national ballot last year.  To secure more funds, the government may forego the planned
reduction in the corporate tax rate, Igarashi told reporters
yesterday. The levy cut, which was supposed to begin in the year
starting April 1, would have decreased revenue by between 1.4
trillion yen and 2.1 trillion yen, according to calculations by
the Ministry of Finance.  The company tax rate in Tokyo is 40.69 percent, compared
with 28 percent in the U.K. and 25 percent in  China , according
to the ministry’s data.  ‘Fine With Me’  “If this will lead to a speedy reconstruction, personally
it’s fine with me if the tax reduction is scrapped,” Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of the Keidanren, Japan’s largest business
lobby, told a news conference yesterday  Some other lawmakers in both the ruling and opposition
parties are against tax increases, saying such steps would
damage private demand already depressed by the disaster.  “There’s no way that taxes can be increased when there’s
deflation,” Kozo Yamamoto, a member of parliament with the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party , said in an interview last
week.  He instead called for a 20 trillion yen rebuilding program
financed by  Bank of Japan  debt purchases. A group of ruling-
party lawmakers submitted a similar proposal to Noda this month,
DPJ member Yoichi Kaneko said in a blog post.  The LDP’s leader,  Sadakazu Tanigaki , appears to disagree
with Yamamoto’s views, as he said this month that he proposed to
Kan a temporary tax to help fund the relief effort.  Moody’s Investors Service said after the quake that Japan
may eventually reach a fiscal “tipping point” if investors
lose confidence in the soundness of public finances and demand a
 risk premium  on  government bonds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  