-- 
Japan’s Bonds Advance as Leaking Radiation Spurs Demand for Safety of Debt

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-03-29T06:45:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/japan-government-bonds-may-rise-as-radiation-concerns-boost-safety-demand.html
Japan’s bonds rose, halting a two-
day drop, after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the situation at a
radiation-leaking nuclear plant is unpredictable, supporting
demand for the relative safety of debt.  Ten-year yields fell from a one-week high after radiation
levels that can prove fatal were detected outside reactor
buildings at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which was damaged
this month in a tsunami triggered by the nation’s biggest
earthquake. Bonds also advanced after Japanese Economic and
Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  signaled the government
can’t rely on debt sales for spending and needs to push ahead
with making changes to its tax and social welfare system.  “It remains to be seen how the nuclear issue will affect
stocks, and the extent of the earthquake damage is still
unknown,” said  Keiko Onogi , a Tokyo-based fixed-income
strategist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. “We hear
talk about how much the government may need to spend, but
nothing has been finalized. As investors find it hard to price
in the various factors, there’s no clear direction in bonds.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 fell 1.5
basis points to 1.23 percent at 3:06 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price advanced 0.134 yen to 100.621 yen.  The yield rose 2.5 basis points to 1.245 percent yesterday,
the most since March 22. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery gained 0.14 to
139.78 as of the afternoon close at the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.
Ten-year yields have dropped 2.5 basis points this month and
gained 12 basis points this quarter.  Lethal Radiation Level  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.2 percent, and the
broader Topix index dropped 0.9 percent.  Water in a tunnel outside the Dai-Ichi No. 2 reactor
emitted radiation exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a Tokyo Electric
Power Co. spokesman said yesterday. Exposure to that dose for 30
minutes would trigger nausea while for four hours might lead to
death within two months, according to the  U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency .  Preventing radioactive water from spreading into the ground
or air is key to containing the crisis, triggered by the quake
in northeast  Japan  that has left more than 28,000 people dead or
missing.  “The situation of the nuclear accident still doesn’t allow
us to let down our guard,” Kan told lawmakers today. “We’ll
continue to work on this with our full attention.”  ‘In Gridlock’  Japan is close to its limit in terms of the amount of bonds
it can sell, Yosano said today. That followed comments yesterday
by Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi that the government
may scrap a planned 5 percentage-point cut in company tax rates.  “Japan’s bonds are likely to remain in a gridlock until
the government gets freed from the burden of dealing with the
nuclear plant so that it can focus on earthquake
reconstruction,”  Chotaro Morita , chief strategist at Barclays
Capital Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, wrote in a research note today.  Bonds initially rallied after the March 11 temblor and
tsunami, driving yields down to as low as 1.145 percent on March
15. Bonds have fallen since then amid expectations rebuilding
after the quake will spur growth.  The difference between 2- and 10-year yields was 103 basis
points today, compared with 107 basis points on March 10. Two-
year yields have fallen 2.5 basis points to 0.20 percent since
the day before the tsunami as the  Bank of Japan  injected 40
trillion yen in successive one-day emergency cash injections
from March 14 to March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 