-- 
Jeffrey Archer’s Warhol, Monet to Boost $8 Million London Sale

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-03-28T15:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/jeffrey-archer-s-warhol-marilyn-monet-to-boost-8-million-london-sale.html
The best-selling author Jeffrey Archer is to sell art and personal mementos valued at more than
5 million pounds ($8 million) at two London auctions in June.  The writer of novels such as “Not a Penny More, Not a
Penny Less” will be the auctioneer himself at a charity sale of
20 personal items at Christie’s International on June 27, the
London-based auction house said today in an e-mailed statement.  The following day, Christie’s South Kensington will host an
auction of 150 works of art from Archer’s personal collection,
as well as pieces from the recently closed  Neffe Degandt
Gallery , Mayfair, with whom the author had a business
partnership, said Christie’s.  “I recently celebrated my 70th birthday -- an event which
prompts a certain degree of thought and realization,” Archer
said in the statement. “As a result, I have begun restructuring
my art collection with a view to the future.”  Highlights of the June 28 auction will include the 1878
Claude Monet painting, “La Seine pres de Vetheuil, temps
orageux,” valued at 800,000 pounds to 1.2 million pounds, and
an Andy Warhol “Marilyn” silkscreen at 100,000 pounds to
150,000 pounds.  Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust --
chaired by the author’s wife Mary Archer -- is among the several
charities that will benefit. Proceeds from the sale of a
stopwatch used by a timekeeper in May 1954 when Roger Bannister
became the first person to run a mile in less than four minutes
-- will be donated to the Oxford University Athletics Club, As
yet, the evening charity auction hasn’t been allocated any
estimates.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 