-- 
JPMorgan’s $20 Billion Loan ‘Credit Negative,’ Moody’s Says

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-28T20:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/jpmorgan-s-20-billion-at-t-loan-credit-negative-moody-s-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s decision to
be the sole lender on a $20 billion loan to  AT&T Inc. (T)  is a
“credit negative” for the bank and may encourage other lenders
to take on more risk, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “JPM’s large AT&T commitment highlights how the risk
profile of a capital markets business can change quickly,”
analyst Sean Jones wrote today in a research note.  JPMorgan is the lone underwriter on the bridge loan to AT&T
in its $39 billion bid for Deutsche Telekom AG’s U.S. wireless
unit T-Mobile USA Inc. Moody’s called the deal a credit negative
for JPMorgan’s corporate debt because it shows the bank’s
willingness to finance riskier deals to win a spot as an adviser
on the acquisition.  “We assumed they would sell down the loan,” Jones said in
an interview. JPMorgan is planning to syndicate the loan to
several other lenders, according to a person involved with the
deal, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
“The tail risk scenario is that the loan cannot be sold and
becomes non-performing,” Jones wrote. Shares of JPMorgan rose
10 cents to $46.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Even by JPMorgan’s standards, the loan is big at 17 percent
of the New York-based bank’s Tier 1 common equity as of Dec. 31,
Moody’s said. It’s rare for a loan of that size to be
concentrated at a single bank, according to Moody’s.  May Encourage Risk  “If this translates into giving the bank an advantage in
winning the mandate to underwrite AT&T’s long-term bond
issuances to pay off the bridge facility, then it may encourage
more banks to take on greater single-risk exposure, which would
be credit negative for the industry, including JPM,” Jones
wrote.  JPMorgan, ranked second by assets among U.S. lenders,
stands to earn fees of about $20 million from providing the one-
year unsecured loan, according to estimates by New York-based
research firm Freeman Consulting. The loan-arrangement fee could
become “significantly higher” if AT&T’s credit rating is
negatively affected by the deal, said Freeman.  Excluding transfers of government assets, the AT&T deal is
the largest takeover proposed anywhere since Melbourne-based  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, offered $40
billion for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan last August. BHP’s bid
was blocked by the Canadian government.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  