-- 
JPMorgan Sues Florida Law Firm Ben-Ezra to Return Foreclosure Case Files

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-03-28T22:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/jpmorgan-chase-sues-florida-foreclosure-law-firm-over-files.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sued the
Florida law firm of Ben-Ezra & Katz to force it to return files
of foreclosure cases in which the firm represented the bank.  JPMorgan said in a complaint filed March 25 in federal
court in Miami that the files include thousands of original
promissory notes, mortgages and other documents that “evidence
and secure” loans worth more than $400 million. The New York-
based bank seeks a court order forcing  Ben-Ezra  to return the
files and unspecified damages.  The Florida attorney general’s office is investigating law
firms in the state that handle residential foreclosure cases on
behalf of lenders. The probes focus on whether the firms were
“fabricating and/or presenting false and misleading documents
in foreclosure cases,” according to the attorney general’s
website.  On March 25, the attorney general said she had reached a
$2 million settlement with one of the firms, the Law Offices of
Marshall C. Watson. Ben-Ezra, based in  Fort Lauderdale , is one
of four law firms still under investigation, the office said.  JPMorgan terminated Ben-Ezra on March 8, according to the
complaint. The law firm refuses to return the files because it
claims it is owed $5 million, according to the complaint.  “We are working to resolve the issues raised in the
lawsuit,” Ben-Ezra said today in a statement. “We don’t
believe at this point that the differences are insurmountable,
and we are seeking to reach a satisfactory conclusion.”  In a separate lawsuit filed March 14 in state court in
Miami, the law firm of David J. Stern sued Chase Home Finance,
claiming the firm was owed $398,980. Stern’s firm is also under
investigation by the  Florida  attorney general’s office.  The case is JPMorgan Chase Bank v. Ben-Ezra & Katz,
11-60655, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 