-- 
Judge Orders NFL to Maintain Benefits to Injured Players

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-28T21:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/judge-orders-nfl-to-maintain-benefits-to-injured-players-1-.html
A federal judge ordered National
Football League team owners to stop trying to reduce workers’
compensation benefits to former players who were injured while
playing.  U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in  New York  issued a
permanent injunction March 25 enforcing an earlier judgment won
by the NFL Players Association against a council representing
the teams.  The players association filed grievances against NFL teams
in 2005 on behalf of injured players including Steve Harvey and
Dusty Renfro. The  Buffalo Bills ,  New York Jets  and  Carolina
Panthers  claimed “dollar for dollar” offsets from workers’
compensation awards paid to the men, according to court papers.  The association argued that the teams were entitled to only
limited offsets. An arbitrator ruled in the players’ favor in
2007. The association sued in 2008 to confirm the arbitrator’s
award and received a court judgment in its favor in 2009.  “These benefits are important to the players and we’re
pleased the judge preserved them,” Richard Berthelsen, the
general counsel for the players association, said in a telephone
interview. “The clubs should be made to abide by the
arbitrator’s ruling that they cannot offset salary against
future workers’ compensation benefits.”  Lawyers for the NFL Management Council didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  “Because management admits that the clubs persist in
claiming dollar for dollar offsets, the players have met their
burden for a permanent injunction,” Crotty said in his order.  The suit was also filed on behalf of players David
Alexander, Marlon Kerner, Charles Smith, Michael Swift and Jason Peter.  The case is National Football League Players Association v.
National Football League Management Council, 08-3658, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  