-- 
Greenberg Judge Ramos Won’t Quit New York State’s Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-03-28T20:38:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/judge-in-n-y-s-greenberg-aig-lawsuit-rules-he-won-t-step-aside.html
The judge presiding over  New York 
State’s suit against Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive officer, said
he won’t leave the case as Greenberg asked, citing an appeal
court’s stay of the trial.  Justice Charles Ramos of state Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
denied a motion asking him to step aside in an order made public
today. Greenberg and his co-defendant, former AIG Chief
Financial Officer Howard Smith, said Ramos should disqualify
himself after making improper statements and relying on
inadmissible evidence.  In the 2005 suit, the state accused Greenberg and Smith of
using sham transactions to distort New York-based AIG’s reported
financial condition.  On March 1, an appeals court put on hold Ramos’s plan to
start a trial May 2. The Appellate Division,  First Department ,
said it would hear arguments in the case during its May term.  The Greenberg-Smith motion was denied “in light of the
Appellate Division stay of this trial pending appeal,” the
judge wrote. “This motion may be renewed once the stay has
expired.”  In their motion, Greenberg and Smith’s lawyers said the
judge repeatedly demonstrated an “intention to use improper and
inadmissible evidence in adjudication of the case.”  At a hearing last April, Ramos said the attorney general’s
office has put together “a devastating case.”  Judge’s Remarks  “I can see big problems with establishing a defense” to
the state’s claims about  securities fraud , Ramos told  David
Boies , a lawyer for Greenberg.  The judge has called a deal with General Reinsurance Corp.
“a phantom transaction” and has used the 2008 criminal
conviction of former Gen Re CEO Ronald Ferguson to wrongly infer
Greenberg must have acted improperly, according to defense
lawyers. The judge’s statements suggest a bias against the
defendants, based on the fraud trial in  Connecticut , the lawyers
said. Neither Smith nor Greenberg was a defendant in that trial.  State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said in court
papers the bias claim was “manufactured” on the eve of trial.  Ramos has overseen the case for almost six years and has
presided over about 33 hearings, decided 45 motions and
supervised discovery involving 30 million pages of documents and
more than 45 depositions, the state said.  “The only possible purpose of this frivolous motion can be
to try to intimidate the court before it presides over a hotly
contested trial,” the state’s lawyers wrote said.  Greenberg’s Ouster  AIG, based in New York and once the world’s largest
insurer, ousted Greenberg in March 2005, two months before the
suit was filed by then-Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer .  Greenberg is seeking dismissal of the claims. Spitzer
dropped parts of the suit in 2006 that included four allegations
tied to his investigation. The company settled with Spitzer and
other regulators, agreeing to pay $1.64 billion, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing.  The case is State of New York v. Greenberg, 401720-2005,
New York State  Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 