-- 
Kenya Inflation May Accelerate on Food, Oil, Central Bank Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-28T08:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/kenya-inflation-may-accelerate-on-food-oil-central-bank-says.html
Kenyan inflation may accelerate
further, after hitting a 16-month peak last month, driven by
rising food costs and higher global  oil prices , central bank
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said.  The bank’s  Monetary Policy Committee  on March 22
unexpectedly increased the key lending rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 6 percent, reversing a cut two months
earlier, to try to curb inflation. The rate of price growth
climbed for the fourth straight month in February to 6.5
percent, the highest since October 2009 and above the
government’s target of 5 percent. The Nairobi-based  Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics  is scheduled to publish the latest
inflation data on March 31.  "It was clear from internal analysis that the dominant
picture of the inflationary pressure was being initiated on the
supply side through food shortfalls and high oil prices,"
Ndung’u said in an e-mailed statement today explaining the MPC’s
deliberations last week. "The temporary supply shocks were
starting to appear as persistent and hence require remedial
action."  The interval between the onset of rains and the harvesting
of crops will probably give rise to food price increases "for at
least a couple months" and may result in higher consumer
inflation, Ndung’u said. Much of  Kenya , the world’s largest
black-tea exporter, will probably receive below normal
precipitation during the March-to-May long rainy season,
crimping agricultural production, the Kenya Meteorological
Department said on March 8.  Middle-East Unrest  Other factors that have brought greater pressure to bear on
Kenya’s inflation rate include political unrest in the Middle
East and North Africa, which has increased the cost of oil and
other imports, Ndung’u said.  Food and non-alcoholic drinks  comprise  36.04 percent of the
consumer-price measure, while transport, which includes
components such as petrol and diesel, accounts for 8.66 percent.  Kenya also raised the benchmark rate to help stabilize the
shilling exchange rate, Ndung’u said. The Kenyan currency
weakened as much as 6.3 percent against the dollar this year,
hitting a 17-year low of 86.15 per dollar on March 14, on higher
dollar demand from oil importers as global crude prices surge.
The shilling was trading at 84.26 per dollar as of 9:47 a.m. in
Nairobi, compared with 84.40 at the close on March 25.  Prior to last week’s increase, the central bank had reduced
the benchmark rate eight times since December 2008 to persuade
commercial lenders to provide cheaper loans and spur economic
growth. The reductions buttressed a growth rate expected to
swell to 5.7 percent this year, from 5.2 percent in 2010 and 2.6
percent the year-before, according to government estimates
released on March 23 in a three-year budget plan.  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami this month may have
implications for Kenya’s economy because the East African nation
receives development assistance from the world’s third-largest
economy, Ndung’u said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 