-- 
Kenyan Banking Profits Will Probably Increase This Year, Central Bank Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-28T11:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/kenyan-bank-earnings-likely-to-rise-in-2011-central-bank-says.html
Kenya ’s banking industry will
probably see increased profit this year as credit to businesses
expands, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said.  Commercial banks forecast that lending to private industry
may surge by as much as 20 percent over the rest of this year,
Ndung’u said in an e-mailed statement today. The banks lent 41.3
billion shillings ($490.5 million) to businesses in January and
February, the same amount that was issued in the entire fourth
quarter, he said. Net non-performing loans eased to 1.44 percent
of total loans in February from 1.51 percent a month earlier.  “The banking sector was noted to be strong with initial
figures showing that the performance of the sector was expected
to improve in 2011,” Ndung’u said.  Bank earnings in East Africa’s largest economy grew last
year as accelerating economic growth spurred more Kenyans to
take out loans, open bank accounts and demand other financial
services. The industry’s combined pretax profit surged 46
percent to 66 billion shillings in the 11 months through
November on loan growth and higher income from fees and
commissions, the  Central Bank of Kenya  said on Feb. 11.  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , the nation’s biggest lender by market
value, said full-year profit last year jumped 69 percent, while
 Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. (BCBL) , the country’s second biggest, said
earnings leaped 74 percent, boosted by the sale of its custody
business.  Interest Rate Spread  Kenyan banks’ average interest rate spread, the difference
between deposit and lending rates, widened to 10.51 percentage
points in February from 9.82 points in May, Ndung’u told
reporters in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, today. Deposit rates have
fallen faster than the cost of borrowing, he said.  Interest-rate spreads of 5 percent to 6 percent would be
“profitable,” Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki said on March 4.  “We are concerned about the spread, it still remains
high,” Ndung’u said. “We may be preventing potential investors
from coming in.”  Kenya’s  central bank  increased the benchmark interest rate
on March 22 by a quarter of percentage point to 6 percent to try
to tame inflation, following eight reductions since December
2008 to help coax commercial lenders to offer cheaper credit.  Economic growth will swell to 5.7 percent in 2011, from 5.2
percent last year, the government estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 