-- 
NBA Tells Teams to Pay Ticket Refunds Plus Interest in Labor Work Stoppage

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-28T14:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/nba-tells-teams-to-pay-ticket-refunds-plus-interest-in-labor-work-stoppage.html
National Basketball Association
season-ticket holders will receive refunds plus interest if
games are canceled because of a labor dispute next season, in
contrast to the  National Football League , which has said it’s up
to clubs to decide how to handle deposits.  While both leagues have told fans that they’ll get their
money back for tickets to lost games, the NBA will also pay
interest on what could amount to loans to franchises from fans,
Mike Bass, a spokesman for the NBA, said in a telephone
interview. The NFL is letting its clubs set their own policies.
At least one team, the  Chicago Bears , is not offering interest.  Whether interest payments are addressed at the league or
team level should be of less concern than how fans are treated
overall, said  David Carter , executive director of the Sports
Business Institute at the University of  Southern California .  “Individual fans will be made more than whole by the
teams, directly or indirectly, or these franchises will face an
extraordinary community relations backlash,” Carter said in a
telephone interview.  The NFL shut down on March 12 following the expiration of
its collective bargaining agreement with players, putting the
2011 season in jeopardy. The NBA’s agreement with its players’
union expires June 30.  The interest rate on NBA tickets will be set by the league
before games are potentially canceled. The league hasn’t
determined when interest will begin to accrue.  Team Options  Teams can also offer their own options, such as leaving
deposits on account in exchange for future tickets.  The  Golden State Warriors  are guaranteeing a 5 percent
interest payment on season-ticket renewals for 2011-2012
received by April 13.  The Miami Heat offered season-ticket holders an option to
receive discounted 2011 playoff tickets and a 5 percent payment
in exchange for keeping renewal deposits in a Heat account
rather than seeking a refund should there be a work stoppage. A
six-month certificate of deposit offers about a 1 percent
return, according to bankrate.com.  The Heat last week said it had sold all its season tickets
and that 97 percent of those renewing chose the team option over
what the league will offer, said Kim Stone, an executive vice
president for the team.  The NBA’s decision to at least guarantee interest payments
is “just good business practice,” Stone said in a telephone
interview.  “We are a fan-friendly league and what the NBA was trying
to do was develop a fan-friendly policy in the event of a work
stoppage,” Stone said.  NFL Policy  While the NFL mandated a leaguewide refund policy, “the
clubs wanted to be responsible for the execution,”  Brian McCarthy , a spokesman for the league, said in an e-mail.  Jim Christman, a spokesman for the Bears, confirmed the
team’s plans in an e-mail while declining to comment further.  “When you think about the amount of money involved in
giving interest over what is hoped to be a short period of time,
they would lose so many more millions of dollars in bad
publicity if they didn’t take care of those fans,” USC’s Carter
said.  The NBA also offered refunds with interest during the 204-
day lockout that ended in January 1999. That season was
shortened to 50 games from 82, the only time games were missed
because of a work stoppage in league history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 