-- 
Netflix Signs First-Run Canada Streaming Pact With Paramount

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-03-28T20:04:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/netflix-signs-first-run-canada-streaming-pact-with-paramount-1-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online and mail-
order film rental service, reached an exclusive five-year
agreement to stream first-run movies from Viacom Inc.’s
 Paramount Pictures  to subscribers in  Canada .  The accord will add more than 350 movies to Netflix’s
streaming service in Canada, the Los Gatos, California-based
movie-rental company said today in a statement.  The deal gives Netflix exclusive pay TV rights to the
films, the companies said. The agreement will add pictures
including “The Last Airbender” and “Iron Man 2” to the
library of movies and TV shows that Canadian subscribers can
watch on computers and Internet-enabled televisions.  Netflix rose $7.31, or 3.2 percent, to $237.32 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares are up
35 percent this year and have risen for six straight days, the
best streak since September. Viacom, based in  New York , gained
58 cents to $45.48 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Netflix is in talks for online access to the 700-movie
library of Miramax, including “Pulp Fiction” and “Good Will
Hunting,” the Wall Street Journal reported on March 25.  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman, declined comment.  The premium cable networks Starz and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime
last week moved to re-evaluate or delay Netflix online access to
the channels’ original shows. Showtime may curb access to past
seasons of current programs, according to a statement.  Starz, part of Liberty Media Corp., will impose a 90-day
delay on online viewing of episodes of new original series,
beginning with the April 1 cable television debut of the drama
“Camelot,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. The
channel had made its shows available on Netflix after they aired
on the network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  