-- 
New York Yankees Parking Garage Bondholders Waive Default, Filing Shows

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-03-28T17:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/new-york-yankees-parking-garage-bondholders-waive-default-filing-shows.html
Nuveen Asset Management and other
holders of almost $240 million of municipal debt issued to
finance parking garages at the new  Yankee Stadium  agreed to
waive declaring the bonds in default after the operator of the
facilities consented to management changes.  Bronx Parking Development Co., a subsidiary of a nonprofit
development agency, agreed to replace the management company
overseeing the five garages, file monthly revenue and expense
reports and add a board member approved by bondholders,
according to a waiver agreement dated March 22.  The agreement between Bronx Parking and  U.S. Bank National
Association , the trustee that protects bondholders’ rights, also
called for the operator to  make “reasonable efforts” to get
better signage on the  Major Deegan Expressway , directing cars to
the parking facilities, the waiver said.  Revenue from the garages and parking lots managed by the
nonprofit is almost 40 percent below projections as the
facilities face competition from public transportation and other
parking at a mall near the stadium.  Bronx Parking is drawing on reserves to make a $6.9 million
debt payment due April 1, according to Nuveen. It also has
failed to maintain a debt-service coverage ratio of 1.15. The
ratio, or the amount of cash available to meet annual interest
and principal payments, is 0.56, according to Bronx Parking’s
2011 budget.  Nuveen, T-Rowe Price  John Miller, chief investment officer for Chicago-based
Nuveen, which owned $116.5 million of the bonds at the end of
February, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  T-Rowe
Price Group Inc. (TROW)  and a subsidiary of  Aetna Inc. (AET)  also owed some
of the bonds as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  William Loewenstein, president of the Community Initiatives
Development Corp., the nonprofit parent of Bronx Parking
Development Co., based in Hudson,  New York , about 100 miles (160
kilometers) north of the Bronx, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  Steven Polivy, an attorney at Akerman Senterfitt LLP in New
York, which represents Bronx Parking, also didn’t return a call.  Bronx Parking issued $237.6 million of municipal bonds in
2007 through  New York City ’s Industrial Development Agency to
build three garages and renovate two others at the 50,287-seat
stadium, home of the New York Yankees Major League Baseball
team. The stadium, which opened in 2009, was built across the
street from the original ballpark, where  Babe Ruth  once played.  The garages and parking lots managed by the nonprofit have
generated 39 percent less revenue in the first nine months of
2010 than projected, according to financial statements.  As part of the waiver, Bronx Parking also agreed to provide
bondholders with 13-week rolling cash-flow projections, monthly
parking volume reports and hold monthly investor meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 