-- 
News Corp. Said to Approach Vevo.com About Myspace Joint Venture

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/news-corp-said-to-approach-vevo-com-music-site-on-myspace-joint-venture.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  is in talks to hand over
control of Myspace to Vevo.com, the online music website partly
owned by the world’s biggest record companies, according to
three people with knowledge of the situation.  The talks are preliminary and an agreement may not be
reached, said the people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly. Under the scenario being discussed, News Corp. would
exchange the Myspace social network for a stake in a new
venture, the people said. Vevo.com is one of several parties
looking at Myspace, two of the people said.  Vevo.com, which offers advertising-supported music videos,
could draw on Myspace music assets, including artist and fan
pages, the people said. Vevo was introduced in December 2009 and
is owned by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group , Sony Music
Entertainment and Abu Dhabi Media Co.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Universal
Music also are investors in Myspace Music, the part of the
social network that streams songs online.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., declined to comment, as did Jennifer Press, a spokeswoman
for New York-based Vevo.  News Corp. hired the New York-based investment bank Allen &
Co. to evaluate offers for the social-networking website, with a
goal of concluding a deal before the fiscal year ends in June,
the people said. News Corp. is seeking responses in the next
several weeks, they said.  No. 5 Video Site  Vevo is the Web’s fifth-biggest video destination in the
U.S. with 45.9 million visitors in February, according to
ComScore Inc., an Internet researcher based in Reston, Virginia.
The website would gain control of Myspace as part of a wider
agreement with News Corp., owner of the Twentieth Century Fox
film studio and Fox broadcast network, the people said.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , gained 7 cents to $17.09 yesterday in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have climbed 17
percent this year.  Myspace’s worldwide traffic shrank 29 percent to 62.6
million visitors in February from 88 million in October 2010,
when News Corp. introduced a redesigned website and a new focus
on entertainment, according to ComScore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  