-- 
Next U.S. Terror Attack Might Come From New Toys: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 1 5 8 ]   C h a r l e s   W .   S t e v e n s   [ ]
-- 
2011-03-28T23:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/next-u-s-terror-attack-may-come-from-new-toys-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
The U.S. ended the  Cold War  the way
a master pilot lands a fighter jet, in a sort of ecstasy of
precision and the gradual reduction of force. Today that same
jet is screeching around the runway, as our capacity for messy
outcomes ( Iraq ,  Libya ,  Egypt ) expands before our eyes.  All of us have less faith in precision these days. Events
such as  Japan ’s nuclear plant crisis or the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill have proven that even in the private sector, technicians
are far less masters of their situations than many believed.  One place where the potential for unparalleled damage has
increased is the U.S. That’s because there are more tools
available to terrorists, extremists or just plain kooks now than
in 2001. As John Geis, director of the Air Force Center for
Strategy and Technology has been  saying , people looking to make
trouble have a least four new technologies at their disposal.  “As nuclear proliferation was to the 1950s, the
proliferation of lasers, microwaves and bioengineered disease is
to coming decades,” Geis told me in an interview.  The military has worked for years on an airborne laser. The
chemical oxygen iodine laser, known as COIL, uses chemical
reactions to generate intense beams. But these lasers remain
unwieldy. It’s a different story for private industry, which is
developing electric lasers the size of a flashlight.  Products such as the handheld Spyder III Pro-Arctic can
blind pilots, temporarily or permanently, from more than 100
feet. The device can also pop balloons and melt Dixie cups, as
fans have demonstrated in YouTube videos.  Targeting Cockpits  People are already using such devices to disrupt  air
travel . Federal Aviation Administration officials  reported  2,836
incidents of lasers pointed by people at aircraft cockpits last
year, compared with fewer than 300 in 2005. Last year there were
102 laser incidents at Los Angeles International Airport, 98 at
 Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport, and 38 at Newark Liberty
International.  The Spyder is cool. It so resembles a “Star Wars” light
saber that filmmaker  George Lucas  threatened to sue unless its
maker, Hong Kong-based Wicked Lasers, publicly stated the device
has no connection to Lucas’s products. However, the Spyder is a
Class IV laser, which means it shouldn’t be available, and
various state and federal rules seek to block civilian use. But
the reality is that people can buy them. An NBC reporter who
placed an order had no trouble and produced a segment featuring
burning cups and paper.  Pulse Attacks  A second advance, that of microwave pulse systems, is also
a threat. A microwave pulse system induces a current into the
circuitry of a microprocessor, frying the computer chip. The
technology has gained so much power that it can disable an
entire computer network.  The hazard has increased because computers are much denser
than they were even a few years ago, Geis says. Here, Moore’s
Law, the rule about how rapidly computer chips grow in speed and
capability, does double damage. With each doubling of
transistors per chip, the weapon becomes more powerful and the
target more vulnerable.  What might a microwave pulse terror attack look like? A
truck driving up next to the back of a power plant.  A third vulnerability is in the area of cyberterror. It
used to be that companies and government offices could isolate
their computers from the world. Today that is much harder to do
because systems are almost always exposed to the Internet in
some way or another.  A fourth vulnerability involves the human genome. In 15
years, scientists will be able to engineer a disease that will
kill an entire population, according to Geis. Soon after that,
it may even be possible to use viruses or other diseases that
target a specific ethnic group, while leaving another healthy,
he says.  Big Bang Theory  How might a terror attack play out? Andrew Krepinevich,
president of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments,
a nonprofit research group in  Washington , modeled such an attack
in his book, “7 Deadly Scenarios: A Military Futurist Explores
War in the 21st Century.” Nuclear explosions are the main
feature of his scenario for a terror attack in the U.S. But he
foresees threats as large as nuclear attacks coming from other
types of weapons.  The point is not for Americans to scare themselves silly.
It is to reconsider the antidotes.  One may well be to increase defense spending, which is
still at about 5 percent of gross domestic product, or half the
presence in the economy that it was in the  1950s . But
cooperation among agencies to an extent that goes beyond the
creation of the unifying Department of  Homeland Security  is
probably also needed. Too, government must spend more flexibly,
and the old 10- or 20-year cycles for new weapons must become
shorter.  On the civilian side this means more restrictions, less-
happy Internet shopping and more security lines. It’s not
pleasant to contemplate, given the battle fatigue most Americans
feel a decade into the War on Terror. But the reality is that
just when we want to downgrade defense in our lives, the
technology that can be used against us is relentlessly
upgrading.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) 