-- 
NFL Quarterbacks Manning, Brady Seek Court Order Ending League's Lockout

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/nfl-players-brady-manning-ask-minneapolis-court-to-block-league-s-lockout.html
The National Football League should
be ordered by a federal judge to end its lockout of players,
quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and  Peyton Manning  said in a
court filing.  The NFL said it would shut down the most-watched and
wealthiest U.S. sport on March 11, after talks broke down over
how to divide $9 billion in annual revenue. The three
quarterbacks, along with seven other players, filed an antitrust
lawsuit against team owners and the league that day.  “Defendants do not contest that their ‘lockout’ is a per
se unlawful group boycott and price-fixing agreement in
violation of antitrust law,” lawyers for the NFL players said
in a court filing yesterday. The alleged violation “denies all
players the ability to enjoy a free market for their services,”
they said.  The players are seeking an injunction ending the lockout.
U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota ,
is scheduled to hear arguments from attorneys for the NFL
players and the team owners April 6 on this injunction request.  During the lockout, players won’t be paid, and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades.  The judge can’t stop the lockout, the owners said in court
papers March 21. Only the  National Labor Relations Board  has
such authority, they said.  Owners’ Argument  “The jurisdictional bar applies as long as this case
‘involves or grows out of’ a labor dispute,” the owners said in
a court filing.  The National Football League Players Association dropped
its status as a union after talks toward a new labor agreement
failed. This action gave the players the right to pursue an
antitrust lawsuit, the players’ lawyers said in yesterday’s
filing. The court, and not the NLRB, has jurisdiction over the
dispute, they said.  “By disclaiming their union, the players have given up the
right to strike, to collectively bargain, to have union
representation in grievances, to have union representation in
benefits determinations, and to have union regulation of
agents,” they said yesterday in a reply to the New York-based
NFL’s March 21 filing.  “The players have sacrificed these labor law rights for
one reason: to gain the ability to assert antitrust claims
against anticompetitive restrictions imposed by the
defendants,” the lawyers said.  ‘Antitrust Scrutiny’  The defendants’ response to the antitrust suit was that
“their conduct should be immune from antitrust scrutiny based
on the remarkable assertion that courts and the NLRB can force
employees to unionize,” the players’ lawyers said in the
filing.  The NFL has the right to lock out employees and the union’s
decertification was an attempt to manipulate the law, the league
said in its March 21 filing.  “One party to a collective bargaining relationship cannot,
through its own tactical and unilateral conduct, instantaneously
oust federal labor law or extinguish another party’s labor law
rights,” NFL lawyers said.  The team owners voted in 2008 to end the NFL’s collective
bargaining agreement with players on March 3, saying the deal
didn’t account for costs such as building stadiums. That
deadline was extended until March 11 as the owners and players
met with a mediator.  The owners and players also disagree on expansion of the
season to 18 games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care
for players.  The case is Brady v.  National Football League , 0:11-00639,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  