-- 
No Reports of Shipping Avoiding Japan, World's Largest Maritime Group Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-28T14:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/no-reports-of-ships-avoiding-japan-largest-maritime-group-says.html
The Baltic and International
Maritime Council, representing two-thirds of the world’s
merchant fleet, said it has yet to be told by any shipping line
they are avoiding Japan because of the threat of radiation.  The group told its members last week that radiation levels
in  Tokyo  and outside a 30 kilometer (19 miles) zone around the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant weren’t dangerous.
Bimco, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , is still monitoring the
situation, Peter Sand, a spokesman, said by phone today.  Five kinds of radioactive materials were found in the sea
around the Fukushima plant north of Tokyo, which was damaged in
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. The  International Maritime
Organization , a United Nations agency, said on March 21 there
was no medical basis for restricting shipping and the U.S. Navy
today said any radiation on vessels can be scrubbed off with
soap and water and is not harmful to people’s health.  “The contamination coming out of the reactors will not be
a major issue for the shipping industry,” said Jack Edlow,
president of Washington-based Edlow International Co., which
ships radioactive materials. “I don’t think this is anything
that’s life threatening to crew members and I don’t think it
will be a significant harm to ships.”  The Liberian Registry, which represents about 11 percent of
the world’s merchant fleet, lifted its recommendation that ships
stay 100 nautical miles away from a section of  Japan ’s east
coast. Captains should now follow the guidance of the Japanese
government, which is to stay 30 kilometers away from the
Fukushima nuclear plant, the registry said in a March 25  notice .  Coast Guard  The U.S. Coast Guard advised all ships to stay 50 miles
away from the Fukushima plant, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said in a  notice  March 18. Any U.S.-bound ship
passing through this limit should submit the information to the
U.S. Coast Guard, according to the notice.  Five out of six of the world’s biggest container shipping
lines have said they are maintaining routes to Tokyo and
Yokohama, Japan’s two busiest container ports. Hapag-Lloyd AG,
the fourth-largest, is instead sending vessels to docks further
south. Golden Ocean Group Ltd., the commodities shipping line
led by billionaire  John Fredriksen , said today it won’t refuse
shipments to Japanese ports.  Tokyo Bay ports are safe and do not pose a safety threat,
Andrew Linington, a spokesman for Nautilus,  Europe ’s largest
union for shipping officers, said March 23. The union took
advice from the U.K.’s  Maritime and Coastguard Agency .  Oil Terminals  There were 66 oil ports and terminals operating normally in
Japan as of March 25, with five closed and three partially open,
according to  Inchcape Shipping Services , which handles as many
as 4,000 port calls in Japan every year.  Japan is the world’s third-largest oil importer behind the
U.S. and China. Of the 33 supertankers signaling Japan as their
destination on March 24, four have non-Japanese owners,
according to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  Abu Dhabi National Tanker Co., a state-owned shipping
company, is “taking measures” to ensure its vessels are safe
from possible radiation, General Manager Ali Al-Yabhouni told
reporters in Dubai today. The company is distributing equipment
to check for radiation on its tankers, he said.  Japan is also the world’s largest coal importer and the
second-biggest buyer of  iron ore , used in steelmaking, according
to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., part of the world’s biggest
shipbroker. Of the 82 capesizes signaling Japan as their
destination on March 24, no more than seven have non-
Japanese owners, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Radiation Levels  Radiation “is something owners should bear in mind when
negotiating charter parties,” Bill Box, a London-based
spokesman for the International Association of International
Tanker Owners, said by phone today, referring to the contracts
entered into when a vessel is hired. “It’s a fairly worrying
prospect that a ship arrives anywhere in the world and is told
you’ve come from Japan and your radiation levels are too high.”  The container ship MOL Presence was rejected by a port in
 China  last week because of “abnormal” radiation levels after
passing more than 120 kilometers off Fukushima prefecture,
according to a March 25 notice on the website of the Xiamen
Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  