-- 
Obama Says U.S. Strength Depends on Bolstering Education System

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-03-28T15:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/obama-says-u-s-strength-depends-on-bolstering-education-system.html
President  Barack Obama  said
bolstering the education system is as crucial to the U.S. as
keeping defense strong, saying “we won’t be able to project
military strength or any other kind of strength” without an
educated population.  “Over the last 10 years the  defense budget  was going up
much more quickly than our education budget,” Obama said at a
discussion with about 600 students, parents and teachers in
Washington. “We are only going to be as strong as we are here
at home.”  The president was speaking at a town hall-style event that
is part of an administration campaign to make the case that
improving the education system is vital to the nation’s future.
Obama also is using the issue to counter Republican proposals to
cut as much as $61 billion from this year’s budget, which
Democrats say would slash education programs. The government is
operating on temporary spending authority for fiscal 2011 as
Democratic and Republican lawmakers negotiate a spending plan.  The question-and-answer session is scheduled for broadcast
at 7 p.m.  Washington  time on Univision Communications Inc., a
Spanish-language television network. With Obama scheduled to
deliver an address on U.S. involvement in  Libya  at 7:30 p.m.,
the subject of national defense colored some of the questions
and answers.  Asked to preview his speech on Libya, the president
repeated his message that U.S. involvement in Libya “is going
to be limited both in time and in scope.”  Focus on Hispanics  Today’s event at  Bell Multicultural High School  was focused
on Hispanics, which the  Census Bureau  reports make up the
biggest minority group in the nation, comprising 16 percent of
the  U.S. population . They are a key target for politicians in
both political parties in the 2012 elections.  Hispanics are even more heavily represented in schools.
Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  told reporters in a March 25
conference call that there are almost 12 million Latino students
in public elementary and secondary schools, making up 22 percent
of all pre-K through 12 students in the nation.  Yet, Duncan said, only about half of Hispanic students earn
their high school diploma on time and only one in eight have a
bachelor’s degree.  Obama said he’s proposed putting more money in his fiscal
2012 budget proposal for early childhood education even as other
federal programs are being frozen or cut.  Young Population  “The Latino community is a young population so there are a
lot of young kids,” Obama said. When children “come to school
prepared then they are more likely to stay on grade level than
fall behind,” he said.  Obama said he still believes the Dream Act can be passed.
The legislation, which would provide permanent residency to most
college graduates and military veterans who arrived in the U.S.
as children illegally, was passed in the House and was blocked
in the Senate in December.  “We’ve got to keep the pressure up on Congress,” he said,
urging Hispanics to contact members of Congress to contact their
lawmakers to help get it passed. He said the immigration system
is “broken right now” and he said there has to be “pathway to
citizenship” to immigrants to the U.S. even while borders are
being secured.  The president has called on Congress to overhaul the
country’s signature education law, known as No Child Left
Behind, before the start of the next school year. Duncan said
the law is too punitive and it needs to be more flexible and
reward success.  Obama proposed $77.4 billion in federal spending on
education in his budget for the fiscal 2012, which starts Oct.
1. His proposal reduces higher education outlays by $10 billion
while raising spending for kindergarten through high school
education by 6.9 percent to $26.8 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  