-- 
Obama Says Libya Civilian Massacre Would Have `Stained' World Conscience

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-03-29T17:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/obama-says-u-s-allies-acted-to-head-off-massacre-in-libya.html
President  Barack Obama  declared a
doctrine for using military force that envisions a global U.S.
role to halt atrocities repugnant to “our common humanity”
while limiting the burden the nation will bear.  In an address on the mission in Libya, Obama presented a
rationale for committing U.S. armed forces in the North African
country that balances humanitarian principles and strategic
calculation. In doing so, he set out differences with the way
his two immediate predecessors handled foreign crises.  “We should not be afraid to act, but the burden of action
should not be America’s alone,” Obama said last night at the
 National Defense University  in Washington.  Obama’s speech, coming nine days after the U.S. and its
allies began airstrikes in  Libya , was his first televised
address directly to the U.S. public seeking to explain and
defend his use of force. Leading Republicans and some members
of his own party have criticized the president for not defining
the mission’s objectives, costs and timeframe and for not
consulting more with Congress.  Obama said he had to take military action in Libya to
avert a massacre of civilians that would have “stained the
conscience of the world.”  Guide to Action  Arguing that circumstances in Libya were unique, he laid
out principles to guide military commitments abroad that
involve case-by-case decision-making when U.S. security isn’t
directly threatened. He emphasized collective international
action and prospects for success in humanitarian endeavors.  “American leadership is not simply a matter of going it
alone,” Obama said. “Real leadership creates the conditions
and coalitions for others to step up as well.”  In Libya, Obama cited the coalition of European and Arab
allies participating in the mission, as well as an appeal to
act from regional governments through the  Arab League  and a
mandate from the  United Nations .  “He wasn’t setting down an Obama doctrine of whenever
there is a potential humanitarian catastrophe we will have our
troops there,” said  Mark Quarterman , an analyst at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “If
there’s any doctrine there, it’s the burden-sharing doctrine.”  Dealing With Qaddafi  Obama said  Muammar Qaddafi  must relinquish power, while
declaring that expanding the military effort to overthrow the
Libyan regime would be a “mistake.”  The president also touched on the broader turmoil sweeping
across the Middle East and North  Africa , saying the instability
in Libya could threaten the democratic transitions in Egypt and
 Tunisia . He said the U.S. role in Libya would be limited,
without giving a timeline for the military campaign.  The upheavals in the region have raised concern that crude
supplies from the Middle East could be reduced.  Oil prices  have
jumped more than 20 percent since the mid-February outbreak of
the rebellion in Libya, which holds Africa’s largest proven
reserves.  Obama used the speech to mark the progress the alliance
has made in stopping the advance of Qaddafi’s forces and
announced that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization would
assume command of the entire operation tomorrow.  Contrasts With Predecessors  Without mentioning former Presidents  Bill Clinton  or
 George W. Bush  by name, Obama, 49, suggested he is choosing a
different approach than they did in using the military.  He said he “refused to wait for the images of slaughter
and mass graves before taking action,” a charge that has been
leveled against Clinton’s responses in Bosnia and  Rwanda .  He contrasted the speed of the U.S. response to the
actions in Bosnia during Clinton’s administration in the 1990s,
saying then “it took the international community more than a
year to intervene with air power.”  In arguing against using the military to overthrow
Qaddafi, Obama said it would splinter the coalition and
probably require troops on the ground.  “To be blunt, we went down that road in  Iraq ,” said
Obama, who ran as a candidate for president as an early critic
of Bush’s decision to go to war in 2003. “Regime change there
took eight years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and
nearly a trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford
to repeat in Libya.”  London  Meeting  To map out the path ahead, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is meeting today in London with counterparts from more
than 30 nations. The aim of the group is to work on the next
steps for what the allies say will be a transition for Libya.
Clinton said the allies “must continue to increase the
pressure on and deepen the isolation of the Qaddafi regime.”  Much of the U.S. public perceives a murky commitment in
Libya. Only 39 percent of Americans said they believe the U.S.
and its allies have a clear goal for the military mission,
according to a poll by the  Pew Research Center  completed March
27. Six out of 10 Americans said they anticipate a lengthy U.S.
military involvement, according to the poll.  Obama’s speech didn’t quell objections from leading
Republicans and some Democrats that he hasn’t explained the
mission’s objectives or the scope of the nation’s commitment.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Republican House Speaker
 John Boehner , said Obama hasn’t answered questions about the
operation’s goal.  “Nine days into this military intervention, Americans
still have no answer to the fundamental question: What does
success in Libya look like?” he said in a statement.  Many of Obama’s fellow Democrats came to his defense.
Representative  Adam Smith  of  Washington , the top Democrat on
the House Armed Services Committee, said he backed Obama’s
approach in reining in the military commitment.  “It is also important to note that many who urged the
administration to act, are now criticizing the administration
for its actions,” Smith said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  