-- 
Obama Confronts Congressional Questions, Public Skepticism in Libya Speech

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-03-28T19:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/obama-confronts-congressional-questions-public-skepticism-in-libya-speech.html
President  Barack Obama  tonight
plans to give the American people his justification for
intervening in  Libya  and how it fits in with broader U.S.
interests in the region as he faces questions from Congress and
skepticism from the public.  With the U.S. now engaged in a third military action in a
Muslim country, Obama is being challenged to show that his goals
in Libya are achievable and won’t lead to a protracted
commitment of troops and money.  Obama’s advisers stressed that, by taking action in Libya,
the president isn’t setting a policy for U.S. involvement in
uprisings that have spread across North African and Middle
Eastern countries including Yemen, Jordan, Egypt, Libya,
Morocco, Syria and Bahrain.  Each case is “unique,”  Denis McDonough , deputy national
security adviser, said at a briefing today.  “We don’t make decisions about questions like intervention
based on consistency or precedent,” McDonough said. “We make
them based on how we can best advance our interests in the
region.”  Obama is giving the address, scheduled for 7:30 p.m. local
time at the  National Defense University  in  Washington , a day
after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization agreed to take full
command of all military operations related to enforcement of the
United Nations mandate to ensure the safety of civilians in
Libya against forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  Oil Prices  Oil prices have jumped about 25 percent since the Libyan
rebellion began in mid-February, heightening concerns that
Middle East crude supplies could be disrupted. The revolt in
Libya has evolved into an armed conflict from the kind of
popular uprising that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia .  The president and members of his administration have
repeatedly used the word “limited” to describe the U.S. role
in Libya.  In his weekly  radio and Internet address  on March 26, Obama
said the mission in Libya is “clear and focused.” He also laid
out a rationale that aides said would be part of tonight’s
speech.  “When someone like Qaddafi threatens a bloodbath that
could destabilize an entire region, and when the international
community is prepared to come together to save many thousands of
lives, then it’s in our national interest to act,” Obama said.  At an education event today in Washington, Obama was asked
to give a preview of his address, and he repeated that U.S.
involvement will be restricted in “time and scope.”  Update on Progress  Tonight’s speech, which likely will last 20 to 25 minutes,
is being cast as an update on the progress in the operation and
will touch on the broader issues raised by the upheaval sweeping
the Middle East and North Africa, according to an administration
official who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the
address.  “He needs to tell Americans why this is important, why
seeing a huge potential humanitarian disaster unfold was
important to stop,” said Steve Clemons, an analyst with the  New
America Foundation , whom the administration has consulted about
democracy movements in the region.  Potentially the toughest task for Obama will be explaining
what his Republican critics say is the gap between his
declaration that Qaddafi “must go” and the narrow objectives
of the UN-mandated military campaign.  Qaddafi’s Future  Asked yesterday if Obama wants Qaddafi to leave, Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said the administration wanted the Libyan
leader removed without using military means.  “The president’s policy is that it’s time for Qaddafi to
go,” he said on the NBC program “Meet the Press.” “That’s
not part of our military mission, which has been very limited
and very strictly defined.”  In addition to the military intervention, the Obama
administration also has pursued an array of economic sanctions
directed at the Qaddafi regime. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has said there is evidence that some members of
Qaddafi’s regime are trying to open a dialogue with members of
the coalition arrayed against the Libyan leader.  “We have things in our tool box in addition to hammers,”
Gates said.  Still, administration critics are calling for more clarity.
Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the ranking Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on the NBC program that
Obama thus far hasn’t offered a plan or objectives for U.S.
involvement in Libya and that there should have been
congressional debate on the issue.  American Interests  “I don’t believe we should be engaged in a Libyan civil
war,” Lugar said. “American interests are not at stake.”  In a speech today on the Senate floor, Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said Obama’s speech was
“overdue.”  Obama, he said, hasn’t yet detailed his objectives for the
Libyan operation and he went forward “without adequate
consultation with Congress or sufficient explanation to the
American people.”  Peter Feaver, who was on the staff of the National Security
Council under Bush and President  Bill Clinton , said Obama’s
approach to the conflict is similar to the administration’s way
of dealing with Afghanistan and  Iraq . Obama has sought to avoid
making those wars central to his presidency.  “Their approach to Libya is to view this as a limited
liability operation,” said Feaver, director of security studies
for the Sanford School of Public Policy at  Duke University  in
Durham,  North Carolina . “Their real focus is elsewhere; their
focus is health care or jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  