-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near One-Week Low in New York as Libyan Rebels Make Gains

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-03-29T06:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-after-libya-rebels-gain-territory.html
Oil traded near the lowest in a
week in  New York  as Libyan rebels advanced against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops, bolstering speculation the conflict in
 Africa ’s third-largest crude producer may be resolved soon.  Futures yesterday fell for a third day after rebel forces
pushed westward with support from Allied air strikes on Sirte,
Qaddafi’s hometown, as  France  and the U.K. said the Libyan
leader “must go immediately.” Crude has rallied 23 percent
since anti-government protests began Feb. 15 in the country, a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  “Speculation that territorial gains by Libyan rebels could
speed up a resolution and active discussions to have sanctions
lifted on purchases of crude produced from Libyan fields no
longer in Qaddafi’s control removed some of the supply risk
premium from the market,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne said in an e-mailed note.  Crude for May delivery was at $103.87 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 11
cents, at 2:40 p.m. Singapore time. It fell as much as 80 cents,
or 0.8 percent. Yesterday, the contract dropped $1.42 to $103.98,
the lowest settlement since March 22. Futures have gained 14
percent between January and March, a third quarterly increase.  Brent crude  for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $114.73 a barrel, down 7 cents.
Yesterday, it declined 79 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $114.80.  Uprising  Libya’s conflict is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings
that has toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
won’t need to compensate for a drop in Libyan output, according
to Algerian Oil Minister Youcef Yousfi. Current  oil prices  are
“not driven by fundamentals,” said Ali Al-Yabhouni, the United
Arab Emirates governor to the 12-member group.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, probably gained for a fourth week as imports rose
ahead of the peak gasoline demand season, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  Commercially held inventories climbed 2 million barrels in
the week ended March 25, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Supplies previously increased to 352.8 million, the
highest since December, as imports reached a six-week high.  The highest U.S. gasoline prices since October 2008 may be
raising concern over economic growth, another Bloomberg News
survey showed. The Conference Board today may report its index
of  consumer confidence  fell to 65 this month from 70.4 in
February, based on the median of 68 economist estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  