-- 
Oil Falls a Third Day as Europe Debt Concerns Outweigh Middle East Unrest

-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-28T06:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/oil-falls-a-third-day-as-europe-debt-concerns-outweigh-middle-east-unrest.html
Oil fell for a third day in  New
York  on speculation  Japan ’s nuclear crisis will delay rebuilding
efforts and as European nations’ debt concern overshadowed
turmoil in Libya and the Middle East.  Futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent as the European
Union reduced the amount committed to an emergency support
system for the euro region. Japanese equities fell as radiation
hampered efforts to cool stricken reactors at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant and damage from the March 11 earthquake slowed the
supply of materials to manufacturers. Libyan rebels yesterday
recaptured the oil port of Ras Lanuf as Allied warplanes began
airstrikes on the capital, Tripoli.  “Investors will be pausing for any prospects of delays in
the Japanese recovery effort following this nuclear issue or
radiation,” said Serene Lim, an energy and commodity strategist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore.
“The news in the  euro zone  has been overshadowing other news
like Libya. The situation in Libya doesn’t seem to improve or
worsen.”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 54 cents to $104.86
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $104.93 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract was down for a third day, the longest decline since a
four-day drop through March 11. Prices have gained 15 percent
this quarter, the most since the three months ended June 2009.  Brent  Brent crude  for May settlement slipped as much as 34 cents,
or 0.3 percent, to $115.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Prices are up 22 percent since January,
the most in six quarters.  The highest gasoline prices since October 2008 in the U.S.,
the world’s largest oil consumer, are raising concern over
economic prospects, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
Conference Board’s report on  consumer confidence , due tomorrow,
may show its index fell to 65 this month from 70.4 in February
based on the median of 54 economist estimates.  New York futures for May reached $108.25 a barrel in
intraday trading on March 7, a technical level that may stall a
rally, according to  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group Inc., a consultant in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  “We will look for resistance at May’s 2011 high,” Schork
said in a note today. “Unless something especially severe
happens in the Middle East, of course, in which case all bets
are off.”  Libya  Crude has rallied 25 percent in New York since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in  Libya , a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The conflict is
the bloodiest in uprisings that have unseated the presidents of
Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman,
Syria and Yemen.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization yesterday agreed to
take command of all military operations related to enforcement
of a United Nations mandate to ensure the safety of Libyan
civilians against forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Within
hours of that decision, Allied warplanes attacked Tripoli and
Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace, the Associated Press reported.  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh said he would offer
no more concessions to his opponents and warned that the country
faces a “time bomb” nearing civil war, as a senior military
official called for him to step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  