-- 
Oil Drops for a Third Day in New York Following Victories By Libyan Rebels

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-28T11:36:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/oil-drops-for-a-third-day-in-new-york-following-victories-by-libyan-rebels.html
Oil fell for a third day in  New
York  on speculation that territorial gains by Libyan rebels may
quicken a resolution to the country’s civil war.  Futures declined as much as 0.9 percent after insurgents
recaptured the Libyan oil port of Ras Lanuf yesterday while
allied warplanes began airstrikes on the capital, Tripoli. In
 Japan , radiation hampered efforts to cool stricken reactors at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant while damage from the March 11
earthquake slowed the supply of materials to manufacturers.
Prices have gained 14 percent this quarter, the most since the
three months ended June 2009.  “The gains by the anti-Qaddafi rebels are a good
explanation for the short-term weakness this morning,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in
 London . “But their advances are far from the end of story. Even
if Qaddafi is overthrown, there might be civil war for an
extended period, as in  Iraq .”  Crude for May delivery fell as much as 90 cents to $104.50
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $104.52 at 12:34 p.m. London time. The
contract was down for a third day, the longest decline since a
four-day drop through March 11. Brent crude for May settlement
slipped as much as 86 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $114.73 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The highest gasoline prices since October 2008 in the U.S.,
the world’s largest oil consumer, are raising concern over
economic prospects, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
Conference Board’s report on  consumer confidence , due tomorrow,
may show its index fell to 65 this month from 70.4 in February
based on the median of 54 economist estimates.  Rally May Stall  “Investors will be pausing for any prospects of delays in
the Japanese recovery effort following this nuclear issue or
radiation,” said Serene Lim, an energy and commodity strategist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore.  New York futures for May rose as high as $108.25 a barrel
on March 7, a technical level that may stall a rally, according
to  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., a
consultant in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  “We will look for resistance at May’s 2011 high,” Schork
said in a note today. “Unless something especially severe
happens in the Middle East, of course, in which case all bets
are off.”  Crude has rallied 25 percent in New York since anti-
government protests began Feb. 15 in  Libya , a member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The conflict is
the bloodiest in uprisings that have unseated the presidents of
Tunisia and Egypt and spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman,
Syria and Yemen.  NATO Command  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization yesterday agreed to
take command of all military operations related to enforcement
of a United Nations mandate to ensure the safety of Libyan
civilians against forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi. Within
hours of that decision, Allied warplanes attacked Tripoli and
Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace, the Associated Press reported.  In Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh said he would offer
no more concessions to his opponents and warned that the country
faces a “time bomb” nearing civil war, as a senior military
official called for him to step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at   akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  