-- 
Tokyo Electric Says It Found Plutonium in Soil Samples Near Nuclear Plants

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-03-28T17:16:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/tokyo-electric-discovers-plutonium-in-soil-near-damaged-fukushima-reactor.html
Tokyo Electric  Power Co. found
plutonium in soil samples taken near the stricken Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant a week ago, the company said.  The presence of plutonium outside the plant means there’s
been degradation of the fuel in at least one of the six
reactors, Denis Flory, deputy director general of safety at the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , said yesterday at a press
briefing in Vienna.  Tokyo  Electric can’t determine which reactor
emitted plutonium, Vice President Sakae Muto said in a briefing
shown on a webcast.  The contamination “shouldn’t have any effect on human
health,”  Muto said.  Soil chemistry may determine whether the plutonium can
spread from the site, Edwin Lyman, a radiological specialist for
the  Union of Concerned Scientists , said on a conference call.
Some compounds formed by plutonium are water soluble, and some
aren’t, he said.  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano said there are “mixed
signals” coming from emergency repair efforts at Fukushima.
“The situation continues to be very serious,” Amano said in
Vienna yesterday.  Radiation levels that can prove fatal have been detected
outside reactor buildings at the plant for the first time,
complicating efforts to contain the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl in 1986.  The magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked
out power at the plant, disabling its cooling systems and
forcing Tokyo Electric to dump thousands of tons of seawater on
the complex as a stopgap measure.  Tainted Seawater  Radioactive iodine in seawater collected near the Nos. 5
and 6 reactors was 1,150 times the legal limit,  Japan ’s nuclear
safety agency said. The iodine is unlikely to have come from the
No. 5 or 6 reactors, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman for the
agency, told reporters yesterday.  Damage to reactor buildings, including a possible breach in
the No. 2 unit’s containment vessel, has made it harder for
workers to get close enough to fix the equipment without risking
their health.  Elevated radiation levels have been detected in crops grown
near the plant as well as the water supply in Tokyo, 220
kilometers (138 miles) to the south, and other regions. This has
triggered bulk-buying of bottled water at supermarkets that have
been forced to restrict purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  