-- 
Hong Kong Newly Drawn Mortgages Fall to Year Low on Property Curbs, Quake

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-03-28T03:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/hong-kong-newly-drawn-mortgages-fall-to-year-low-on-property-curbs-quake.html
Hong Kong’s newly drawn down
 mortgage loans  fell to the lowest level in a year in February,
after the government adopted measures to reduce the risk of a
property bubble.  The amount of loans which had previously been approved and
were taken up declined 16 percent from January to HK$18.3
billion ($2.3 billion), the least since February 2010, the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority said on  March 25 . The value of newly
approved loans in the month rose 8.2 percent to HK$30.3 billion,
according to the HKMA.  Hong Kong’s government in November imposed additional taxes
on home sales and tightened mortgage requirements, the toughest
measures yet to rein in home values. Hong Kong may adopt further
measures on mortgages to contain risks in banking credit if
needed, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said this month.  “This indicates the impact from the government’s
tightening measures in November,” said Cusson Leung, property
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Hong Kong. “The
uncertainty from Japan’s earthquake has worked as an excuse for
buyers to ask for a cut in prices, but I expect there will a
rebound in home sales volume in the coming month on strong
demand.”  Home prices have surged more than 70 percent since the
beginning of 2009 to the highest since 1997, according to an
index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s
biggest privately held real-estate broker, fueled by record-low
 mortgage rates  and an influx of wealthy mainland Chinese buyers.  The U.S. may raise  interest rates  “sooner than expected,”
said Chan, the head of Hong Kong’s de-facto central bank, which
is unable to conduct an independent monetary policy because of
the Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the  U.S. dollar .  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, has gained 2.6 percent this year, compared
with a 0.5 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Hong Kong slid into its first recession in more than a
decade after the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis, sending
property values more than 50 percent lower until they started
recovering in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  