-- 
Fake Hedge-Fund Operators Sentenced to 87 Months in Prison for Fraud

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-28T19:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/operators-of-fake-hedge-fund-in-new-york-sentenced-to-87-months-in-prison.html
Two men who in December admitted to
defrauding investors of more than $7 million though bogus hedge
funds were each sentenced to 87 months in prison, Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said.  Igor Levin, 41, of  Brooklyn , New York, and Yevgeny
Shvartsshteyn, 40, of Belle Harbor, New York, each pleaded
guilty last year to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud. The two said they operated A.R. Capital, a general
partner of A.R. Capital Global Fund LP, which they told
investors was a hedge fund that invested primarily in equity of
international real estate companies, and in oil, gas and other
commodities, according to a statement from Bharara’s office.  The U.S. said that in reality, there were no such
investments. The defendants instead wired more than $7 million
of investor funds to bank accounts in the Ukraine. Levin and
Shvartsshteyn received the proceeds from these illegally
obtained investments, prosecutors said.  “My client wanted to get this sentence behind him,”
Joseph Mure, a lawyer for Shvartsshteyn, said today in a
telephone interview.  “Obviously, this occurred during a time in my client’s
life when he was having personal difficulties. He’s a totally
changed person as a result of this case and wants to get this
sentence over and done with so he can get on with his life.”  20-Year Sentences  U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein in  New York  imposed the
sentences upon the two men on March 25, Bharara’s office said.  From February 2006 until September 2006, when the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission shut down the operation,
Levin and Shvartsshteyn controlled ARC Global Fund, Bharara’s
office said.  Both men had faced as long as 20 years in prison. As part
of their guilty pleas, the men also agreed to forfeit the $7
million in proceeds, Bharara’s office said.  Both men were directed by Stein to surrender to a federal
prison designated by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons on April 25,
Mure said. Andrew Frisch, a lawyer for Levin, declined to
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Levin, 10-CR-00031, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 