-- 
Orchard Brands’ Unit Lines Up Better Exit Financing With PNC

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-03-28T20:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/orchard-brands-unit-lines-up-better-exit-financing-with-pnc-1-.html
A unit of Golden Gate Capital
Corp.’s Orchard Brands has obtained a commitment from PNC Bank
NA for an alternative $90 million loan to finance its exit from
bankruptcy.  The company, Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC, will
seek court permission to enter into the new loan agreement,
which provides the clothing retailer with $10 million in
additional funds, at a hearing scheduled for tomorrow.  Orchard Brands, which didn’t file for bankruptcy, sells
clothing and home products targeted toward women and men aged 55
and older, under 17 brands such as Gold Violin, Haband and
Appleseed’s, court papers show. The company, based in Beverly,
 Massachusetts , listed as much $1 billion in debt and as much as
$500 million in assets in Chapter 11 documents. The company has
about $725 million in funded debt.  The PNC exit financing proposal is better than the original
$80 million facility offered by UBS Loan Finance LLC, Wells
Fargo Bank NA and Ally Commercial Finance LLC because it
provides “additional flexibility and continued liquidity” with
“covenants that are less stringent,” company lawyers wrote in
court filings. The PNC loan would save Appleseed’s about
$630,000 annually in interest and fees.  The loan, which would mature after five years, may pay as
much as 3.25 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate, according to court documents. Other options
include paying PNC’s prime interest rate or the Federal Funds
rate plus 0.5 percentage points.  Reorganization Plan  Appleseed’s filed a pre-negotiated reorganization plan that
would cut its debt by more than $420 million, or more than half,
according to a company statement. The plan is supported by more
than 80 percent of lenders with first priority of repayment and
unanimously by lenders with a secondary priority.  If the company can’t meet certain deadlines, it would
pursue a sale through a bankruptcy auction, with the lenders
allowed to bid their debt, court papers show.  The case is In re Appleseed’s Intermediate Holdings LLC,
11-10160,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  