-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Christianson, Strong Asia CEOs

-- B y   P h i l i p   L a g e r k r a n s e r   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-03-28T12:05:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/morgan-stanley-names-christianson-strong-asia-pacific-co-ceos.html
(Corrects company name in final paragraph.)  Morgan Stanley (MS)  appointed Wei Christianson and William Strong as co-chief executive officers
for the Asia-Pacific region excluding  Japan , replacing Owen Thomas, who is moving back to the U.S.  Christianson, 54, will continue to run Morgan Stanley’s
 China  business in addition to her new role, the New York-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement today. Strong, 58, is
currently vice chairman of investment banking and head of the
U.S. Midwestern region, according to the release.  Under Christianson, Morgan Stanley got regulatory approval
for an underwriting venture in China after selling its stake in
China International Capital Corp., the Sino-foreign investment
bank it helped set up in 1995. Morgan Stanley was the top-ranked
arranger of stock sales overseas by Chinese companies in the
past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bill and Wei are two of our most experienced and
respected bankers,” Colm Kelleher, Morgan Stanley’s co-head of
institutional securities, said in the statement.  Strong will relocate to Hong Kong, while Christianson will
continue to be based in Beijing, Morgan Stanley said. Thomas
announced this month he would return to the U.S. after about
three years in Hong Kong, citing “family reasons” and
declining to say whether he’ll remain at the company. His
predecessor, Hans Schuettler, resigned after less than two years
on the job.  Sixth in M&A  Strong joined Morgan Stanley in 1993 from  Salomon Brothers ,
where he was head of international investment banking based in
 London . He was responsible for the firm’s investment banking
activities in Asia,  Australia ,  Canada ,  Europe  and Latin America.  Morgan Stanley ranked sixth in advising on mergers
involving Chinese companies in the past 12 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. In the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan, the
firm was second in M&A advisory after UBS AG in the period and
held the same position in equity underwriting, the data show.  The firm generated 20 percent of its revenue in the first
nine months of 2010 from Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and
10 percent from Asia.  Investment banking fees earned by securities firms in  Asia 
may rise 29 percent this year to $25.3 billion, outperforming
fees generated from Europe and the Americas, according to New
York-based research firm Freeman & Co.  Christianson first joined Morgan Stanley in 1998, and
worked at Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. from 2002 to
2006, according to the statement. She rejoined Morgan Stanley in
2006 to run its China business.  CICC Sale  The banker scored a victory in December, when Morgan
Stanley sold its 34 percent stake in Beijing-based CICC to KKR &
Co., TPG Capital,  Singapore ’s Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. and
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., saying the deal would
result in a $700 million pretax profit.  Unloading the CICC stake was a precondition for Morgan
Stanley to gain regulatory approval for a securities joint
venture in China that it can exert influence over. The firm lost
management control of CICC in 2000 after the last of three CEOs
appointed by Morgan Stanley resigned.  In January, Morgan Stanley said it will create a joint
venture with Huaxin Securities Co. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
UBS have been operating Chinese underwriting ventures for years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ; 