-- 
Lloyds Taps JPMorgan, Citigroup to Oversee Sale of 600 Branches

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-29T11:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/lloyds-is-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-citigroup-to-oversee-sale-of-600-branches.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  to oversee the sale of 600 branches required by European
Union regulators.  The units account for about 5 percent of the U.K. checking
account market, London-based Lloyds said in a statement
yesterday. The sale may raise 2 billion pounds ($3.2 billion) to
3 billion pounds, said a person with knowledge of the talks, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.  Lloyds, 41 percent owned by the U.K. government, has to
sell the branches by the end of 2013 to comply with EU state aid
rules following its bailout. Antonio Horta-Osorio took over as
chief executive officer on March 1 and within 10 days met with
investment banks pitching to manage the sale.  “We made the decision to accelerate the start of the sale
process in order that we met the timescales agreed with the
government and EU,” Horta-Osorio said in the statement. “By
doing this we also bring greater certainty and clarity for our
colleagues and our customers.”  Both banks were asked to provide 7.5 billion pounds each in
loans to plug a funding gap, the difference between the loans
extended by the branches and the smaller amount they hold in
deposits, the person said.  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , run by Chairman Peter Levene, may buy
the branches, two people briefed on the plans said in July.
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  may also bid for the branches, the
Sunday Times reported earlier this month, without saying where
it got the information.  Government Stake  Lloyds has sold assets, among them its Bank of Scotland
Integrated Finance investment unit, and cut more than 26,000
jobs since its rescue. The bank plans to shrink its balance
sheet by 200 billion pounds by 2014.  “There should be no surprise that Lloyds CEO is pushing
forward quickly to prepare the bank for the start of a sell down
of the government stake,” Mediobanca SpA analysts including
 Christopher Wheeler  wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
“Expect a lot more activity around Lloyds in the coming
months.”  The government is likely to start selling the taxpayer’s
20.3 billion-pound stake in Lloyds next year, four people
familiar with the talks said last week. Taxpayers will get a
“handsome return,” from the investment, Lloyds’s former CEO
 Eric Daniels  told a House of Commons committee on March 16.  Lloyds rose 0.9 percent to 60.6 pence in London trading
yesterday for a market value of 41.3 billion pounds. The
government paid an average 73.6 pence for its stake in the
lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch at   gfinch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  