-- 
Toyota Failed to Warn of Sudden Acceleration Risk, Lawyer for Driver Says

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-03-28T21:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/toyota-failed-to-warn-of-sudden-acceleration-risk-lawyer-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  failed to warn a
 Long Island , New York, driver that his vehicle could
unexpectedly accelerate, said a lawyer for a doctor who claims
his 2005 Scion sped up uncontrollably and didn’t stop until he
hit a tree.  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, for defects related to sudden
unintended acceleration. Amir Sitafalwalla’s lawsuit, filed in
2008, is the first such claim against Toyota to reach a  jury
trial  in the U.S. since the recalls.  “An accident did not simply happen,” Sitafalwalla’s
lawyer, George N. Statfeld of  Manhattan , said in his opening
statement today in federal court in  Central Islip  on Long
Island. “An accident was caused by the negligence” of Toyota.  “As soon as he attempted to place the vehicle in park --
voom -- it took off,” Statfeld told jurors and U.S. Magistrate
Judge E. Thomas Boyle, who is presiding over the case.  Toyota is facing hundreds of lawsuits claiming lost vehicle
value or personal injuries caused by incidents of sudden
unintended acceleration. Sitafalwalla claims the automaker knew
its vehicles could unintentionally speed up, leaving drivers at
risk for accidents and injuries. Sitafalwalla, an emergency room
physician, was injured in the October 2005 accident in the
driveway of his Port  Washington , New York, home.  Claim Disputed  The company disputes Sitafalwalla’s claim that there was a
defect in his Scion or that any flaws caused the accident.
Sitafalwalla’s vehicle wasn’t among those recalled.  “We’re here because Toyota Motor Sales firmly
believes that there was no defect in this car,” Toyota attorney
Brian Crosby said in his opening statement.  Evidence will show that Sitafalwalla “mistakenly put his
foot on the accelerator and not on the brake,” Crosby told
jurors.  Toyota began a series of recalls in September 2009,
announcing that 3.8 million vehicles were being recalled because
of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam down the
accelerator pedal. In January 2010, the company recalled 2.3
million vehicles to fix sticking gas pedals.  The carmaker, based in Toyota City,  Japan , said last month
that it’s recalling another 2.17 million vehicles in the U.S.
for carpet and floor-mat flaws that could jam gas pedals.  Wave of Litigation  The recalls set off a wave of litigation, including suits
by Toyota owners claiming alleged defects leading to sudden
acceleration cost a massive loss in the value of their vehicles
and claims by individuals or their families of injuries and
deaths caused by such incidents.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before U.S.
District Judge James V. Selna in  Santa Ana ,  California , who is
organizing the litigation and overseeing pre-trial evidence-
gathering, or discovery. Selna has been pushing to have the
first cases before him go to trial in early 2013. Sitafalwalla’s
suit, which was filed before the recalls, wasn’t sent to Selna.  Many of the lawsuits claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota vehicles  is to
blame.  Toyota has disputed any flaws in its electronic throttle
control system. Last month,  NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said their probe
of possible electronics defects found no causes for unintended
acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals and floor
mats that jammed the pedals.  ‘Faulty’ System  Sitafalwalla claims in court papers that Toyota failed to
correct a “faulty electronic throttle system” or “faulty
floor mat components.” Sitafalwalla also claims Toyota knew of
prior incidents like his and should have installed a “failsafe
braking system to override any sudden unintended acceleration.”  Statfeld told jurors today that Sitafalwalla’s accident had
three possible causes: the electronic throttle-control system
caused the acceleration; the driver-side floor mat pushed onto
the accelerator; or Toyota failed to install a brake-override
system.  Defense lawyer Crosby, of Gibson, McAskill & Crosby in
Buffalo, told the jury that the only way the car could go into a
wide open throttle as it did was for the driver to apply the
accelerator and not have his or her foot on the brake. A brake
override system only works when the brake is applied, which it
wasn’t in this case, he said.  No Malfunction  Celeste Migliore, a Toyota spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
statement today that “while we sympathize with anyone involved
in an accident in one of our vehicles, Toyota intends to defend
itself vigorously against Dr. Sitafalwalla’s unintended
acceleration claim. We are confident that the evidence will show
there was no electrical or mechanical malfunction of his
vehicle’s electronic throttle control or braking systems, and
that his claims of pedal entrapment cannot be substantiated.”  If the jury finds Toyota liable, it will hear evidence on
what, if any, damages should be awarded.  The case is Sitafalwalla v. Toyota, 08-03001, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Central Islip).  Most federal cases claiming economic loss or injuries
related to sudden acceleration are combined as In re Toyota
Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices
and Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Central Islip, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 