-- 
Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Unexpectedly Climbed 2.1% in February

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-28T14:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-unexpectedly-climbed-2-1-in-february.html
A gain in the number of Americans
signing contracts to buy previously owned homes in February
failed to make up for the ground lost a month earlier, a sign
the U.S. housing market has yet to join the economic recovery.  The index of pending home resales increased 2.1 percent
after a 2.8 percent drop the prior month, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called
for little change.  Foreclosures are augmenting the surplus of distressed
properties and causing prices to fall, leaving some Americans
with bigger mortgages than their homes are worth. Faster job
growth may be required to stabilize residential real estate, the
weakest link in the economy.  “The foreclosure overhang is oppressing the industry,”
said  Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper
Pike ,  Ohio , who projected sales would climb 1.8 percent. “All
this is keeping a lid on the market even though affordability is
terrific. This will be another sad year.”  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 3.8
percent to an increase of 3.5 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 33 economists.  Another report today showed  consumer spending  rose more
than forecast in February as incomes climbed, helping to bolster
the expansion in the world’s largest economy.  Consumer Spending  Purchases increased 0.7 percent, the most since October,
after advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, according to
figures from the Commerce Department. Incomes increased 0.3
percent, less than projected, and the  Federal Reserve ’s
preferred measure of inflation accelerated.  Stocks rose after the reports and  Treasury securities 
dropped. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.4 percent
to 1,319.18 at 10:27 a.m. in  New York . The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to
prices, climbed to 3.46 percent from 3.44 percent late on March
25.  From February 2010, pending home sales were down 9.3
percent.  Three of four regions showed an increase in contract
signings from a month earlier, today’s report showed, led by a 7
percent gain in the West. Pending sales fell 11 percent in the
Northeast, which may reflect the influence of “unusually bad
winter weather,”  Lawrence Yun , the group’s chief economist,
said in a statement.  February Slump  Sales of previously owned homes, which now make up more
than 95 percent of the market, dropped more than forecast last
month, sending prices to a nine-year low, the agents’ group
reported last week. Purchases decreased 9.6 percent to a 4.88
million annual rate. The median price fell 5.2 percent from a
year earlier, erasing all gains since February 2002.  “We may not see notable gains in existing-home sales in
the near term, but they’re expected to rise 5 to 10 percent this
year with the economic recovery,  job creation  and excellent
affordability,” Yun also wrote.  New-home purchases unexpectedly declined in February to the
slowest pace on record, and prices dropped to the lowest level
since December 2003, a Commerce Department report showed last
week. Sales decreased 17 percent to a 250,000 annual pace. The
median price fell 8.9 percent from February 2010.  Leading Indicator  Like the statistics on new-home purchases, pending home
sales are considered a leading indicator because they track
contract signings. Purchases of existing homes are tabulated
when a contract closes, typically a month or two later.  Housing, the industry that precipitated the recent
recession, is having trouble gaining strength after the
government’s homebuyer tax credit expired.  Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the housing slump is the biggest challenge
limiting the U.S. economic recovery.  “The problem of delinquent mortgages and falling home
values is the most stubborn, entrenched and damaging economic
problem our country faces today,” Moynihan said March 23 in
 Detroit , at a meeting of the city’s Economic Club.  With unemployment lingering near 9 percent and some
underlying home values worth less than the mortgages on the
properties, foreclosure filings may climb about 20 percent in
2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac said
earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  