-- 
Penta Investments Is Among 10 to 20 Potential Buyers of Warsaw’s SPEC SA

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-03-28T16:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/penta-private-equity-fund-bids-for-warsaw-heat-distributor-spec.html
Penta Investments Ltd., a Czech and
Slovak private equity fund, bid to buy SPEC SA as other
potential bidders declined to say whether they placed offers for
the Warsaw heating-network operator.  Penta met today’s deadline for initial bids, spokesman
Martin Danko said in an e-mailed response to a question from
Bloomberg News, declining to comment further. The city received
between 10 and 20 bids, it said in an e-mailed statement,
without identifying the potential buyers.  Warsaw is selling SPEC, which operates the European Union’s
biggest heating network, for more than 750 million zloty ($265
million), Deputy Mayor Jaroslaw Kochaniak said Feb. 10.  Polskie
Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA (PGN) , the dominant Polish gas
distributor known as PGNiG, values the company at 740 million
zloty to 1 billion zloty, it said last week.  Spokespeople for PGNiG, Dalkia SA and  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , the
Nordic region’s second-biggest utility, which earlier said they
might bid, declined to comment. Marta Wysocka, a spokeswoman for
Kulczyk Investments SA, which Puls Biznesu newspaper said was
interested in the sale, also declined to comment.  Dorota Idzi, a spokeswoman for PGE SA, the largest Polish
power utility, which earlier said it might bid, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  The success of the SPEC deal may hang on Vattenfall AB’s
separate sale of heat and power generation assets in Warsaw that
supply SPEC’s network. Potential SPEC bidders including
Gornictwo and Fortum said they would seek to buy both companies.  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW)  is advising the Warsaw city government
on the process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  