-- 
Philips Electronics TV Business to Report Loss of as Much as $169 Million

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-03-28T16:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/philips-tv-unit-poised-to-report-maximum-120-million-euro-loss.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV
predicted a first-quarter deficit from its television division
close to the loss the unit had in all of 2010, raising pressure
on the incoming chief executive officer to fix the business.  The loss will be 100 million euros ($155 million) to
120 million euros, Amsterdam-based Philips said in a statement
today. Last year, Philips lost 125 million euros from
televisions, measured as earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization. Philips attributed the loss to pricing pressure
and said “resolving this is an absolute priority for the
company.”  Philips will likely fail to break even with the business
this year, it said today, which would mark the fifth consecutive
annual loss. The television subsidiary has suffered as  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  cut prices to combat local Chinese
suppliers, and Philips has sought to limit losses by farming out
some production.  “The loss is of a serious magnitude,” said Victor Bareno,
an analyst at SNS Securities. “This shows that it is absolutely
necessary for Philips to resolve this issue.” Bareno, who
recommends that investors buy Philips shares, had predicted a
70 million-euro deficit for the first quarter from televisions.  Stock Drops  Philips dropped 40 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 22.18 euros in
Amsterdam, extending its decline this year to 3.2 percent.
 Siemens AG (SIE) , which competes with Philips in lighting and medical
equipment, has gained 1.7 percent in Munich trading in the time.  CEO Gerard Kleisterlee, who led Philips for a decade, will
hand the reins to Frans van Houten this week. Philips has taken
“clear actions” to further reduce television inventories in
the first quarter, spokesman Joost Akkermans said by telephone
today, without elaborating.  Last year, television sales amounted to 3.16 billion euros,
almost a third of the total revenue from the consumer lifestyle
division. Philips’ other activities focus on health-care
technology and lighting. Jos Versteeg, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV, had predicted a loss
of 36 million euros from TVs in the first quarter.  The Dutch company, which also makes coffee machines and
shavers, is among the last few remaining European brands to
mass-market televisions. Other companies, including Siemens,
pulled out of the business years ago, or moved into the high-
priced segments, such as Bang & Olufsen AS with its BeoVision 4-
103 television that costs more than $100,000.  Philips has set a target for earnings per share to grow at
twice the rate of sales until 2015 as it focuses on more
profitable lighting and medical products and faster-growing
markets including India and  Brazil . Revenue excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts will increase
2 percentage points faster than global economic growth, Philips
said when it set the goals. It excluded TV operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  or
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  