-- 
Poland to Assess Bids for Grupa Lotos by October, Prime Minister Tusk Says

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 
2011-03-28T11:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/poland-to-assess-bids-for-lotos-refiner-by-october-premier-says.html
Poland  will assess bids for  Grupa
Lotos SA (LTS) , the country’s second-largest oil refiner, in September
or October, Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said at the company’s
Gdansk refinery today.  Initial offers for Lotos are expected on April 29 and TNK
BP and OAO Rosneft of  Russia  may consider bidding, Russian
government and company representatives have said.  “There are no ideological reasons to say ‘no’ to investors
from any particular country, including Russia,” Tusk said
today. “Because of Russia’s position as commodities supplier
and our partial dependence on Russian supplies, a certain
caution and restraint is recommended.”  The government, which called for bids for Lotos in October
last year, already twice delayed the deadline for placing
initial offers. The sale of a 53 percent stake, valued at about
3 billion zloty ($1 billion) on the Warsaw bourse today, is part
of Poland’s 55 billion-zloty, four-year asset sale program
through 2013.  Companies around the world including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , BP Plc,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA are selling refineries to cut
debt and focus on more profitable extraction businesses. PKN
Orlen SA, Lotos’s bigger domestic rival, may also sell its
Lithuanian refinery, while Eni SpA is in talks with OAO Gazprom
to sell its stake in Ceska Rafinerska AS of the  Czech Republic .  Lotos just completed a 5.6 billion-zloty upgrade of its
Gdansk refinery, raising capacity by 75 percent to 10.5 million
tons of oil per year and increasing the high-margin diesel
yield.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  