-- 
Porsche, Schaeffler Selling $9.6 Billion in Stock to Fund Debt Repayments

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-03-28T16:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/porsche-schaeffler-selling-9-6-billion-in-stock-to-fund-debt-repayments.html
Porsche SE, the German sportscar
maker, and  Schaeffler Group , which controls  Europe ’s second-
biggest tiremaker, are selling 6.8 billion euros ($9.6 billion)
in stock to cut debt in the busiest week for German equity sales
since September.  Porsche, which is merging with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will start a
5 billion-euro rights offering on March 30. Closely held
Schaeffler, the world’s second-biggest maker of roller bearings,
today sold 1.8 billion euros of shares in Continental AG to
institutional investors to reduce borrowings accrued from its
purchase of a controlling stake in the tiremaker in 2008.  The stock sales coincide with a rebound in equity markets
on investor expectations that global economic growth will
overshadow the effects of the Japanese earthquake and unrest in
the Middle East. The Stoxx 600 Index rose less than 0.1 percent
today, extending last week’s 3.1 percent rally. Porsche’s stock
sale will be the biggest in the world so far this year.  “After all the geopolitical issues and natural disasters,
these transactions show that investors are still willing to do a
deal,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder
Equities GmbH in Munich.  Porsche preferred shares jumped 6.7 percent to 60 euros at
market close in  Frankfurt  today, the best daily performance in
two months. That valued the sports-car maker at 10.5 billion
euros. The new stock will be offered to existing investors at 38
euros apiece, a 32 percent discount to the March 25 close.  ‘Under Pressure’  “It’s not the perfect timing given how volatile the market
has been in recent weeks, but they’re under pressure to get this
done,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler who recommends buying the shares. “They’re
averting the much greater damage that would occur if the merger
were pushed back for months.”  Continental shares rose 4 percent to 63.40 euros in
Frankfurt. The sale of shares by M.M. Warburg and Bankhaus
Metzler AG increases the percentage of Continental’s publicly
traded stock to 39.7 percent, boosting its chances of re-
entering Germany’s benchmark DAX 30 Index.  Porsche’s 5 billion euros share sale will be the biggest in
Europe since  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in September sold 10.2 billion
euros of shares in a rights offer, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Together with Continental’s stock offer, it’s the
busiest week of stock offerings in Germany since September.  “Now that the volatility has come down quite a bit, we’re
seeing lots of stock offers coming back to the market,” said
Matthias Fankhauser, a Zurich-based  fund manager  at Clariden
Leu, which oversees $100 billion. “If they are priced at a
decent discount, there are institutional investors looking to
buy.”  Goldman Boost  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was the sole bookrunner on the
Continental stock sale. Porsche’s new preferred shares will be
underwritten by a banking syndicate led by Deutsche Bank AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the carmaker said
yesterday. Deutsche Bank will manage the sale of common shares.  Goldman, currently trailing Deutsche Bank and Bank of
America as the No. 3 underwriter of stock sales in Europe, the
Middle East and  Africa , may rise to the biggest equity
underwriter in the region after the sales by Porsche and
Continental. Goldman is also one of the eight bookrunners on the
Porsche deal.  Porsche plans to use the proceeds to cut debt to about 1.5
billion euros. Porsche and Volkswagen agreed to combine in
August 2009 after the maker of the 911 sports car racked up more
than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful attempt to gain
control of VW.  Porsche will issue as many as 131.25 million shares, evenly
split between preferred and common stock. The common shares are
controlled by the Porsche and Piech families. The subscription
for the sale begins March 30 and ends April 12.  Merger Delay  The combination, originally scheduled for completion in the
second half of 2011, will probably be delayed into next year
because of German legal obstacles. An investigation into share-
price manipulation allegations will likely push the deal’s
completion into 2012, Porsche said Feb. 24.  Net debt at Porsche’s holding company increased to 6.34
billion euros as of Dec. 31 from 6.05 billion euros on July 31
because of tax repayments. Porsche shareholders last year
approved the stock sale to raise the funds.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen now owns 49.9 percent
of Porsche’s carmaking operations. Proceeds from the share sale
will help pay back a 2.5 billion-euro  bank loan  expiring at the
end of June.  Hedge Fund Suit  “The company will use all of the net proceeds for the
repayment of liabilities under its credit facilities,” Porsche
said in the statement.  Full-year revenue at Porsche’s auto-making division may
exceed last year’s levels, Chief Executive Officer  Matthias Mueller  said this month. The carmaker posted record revenue of
3.87 billion euros for the August-to-December period. Porsche’s
holding company expects another profit in 2011, Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said.  Short sellers of VW stock have sued Porsche in the U.S.,
claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares and later
caused the investors to lose more than $1 billion. At the same
time, institutional investors in  Germany  are seeking 2.5 billion
euros in damages over the matter. Porsche has repeatedly denied
all the allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  