-- 
Porsche’s Home State May Face Speed Limits After Greens Victory

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-03-28T13:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/porsche-s-home-state-may-face-speed-limits-after-greens-victory.html
German voters who propelled the
Greens party to a record result in Baden-Wuerttemberg may have
ushered in a speed limit on highways in the state that’s home to
luxury carmakers Porsche SE and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz unit.  The Greens helped defeat Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition in a regional election yesterday on  a platform  that
includes a speed limit to reduce vehicle emissions of 120
kilometers per hour (74.6 miles per hour), less than half the
top speed of a recent Porsche model. About 65 percent of the
state’s highways currently have no speed limit.  “Traffic in Baden-Wuerttemberg contributes around 30
percent to carbon-dioxide emissions,” Winfried Kretschmann, who
is poised to become the Greens’ first state premier,  said  on the
party’s website. “It’s clear that the transportation sector has
to make a contribution of its own to reduce this gas that’s
harmful to the environment.”  An Autobahn speed limit is just one measure that may affect
the car industry in the state where the first gasoline-powered
automobile was  patented in 1886  by Carl Benz. The Greens also
favor “more efficient engines,” the development of cars that
use less gas, the introduction of city tolls and tax breaks for
environmentally friendly vehicles.  Stuttgart-based Porsche, which was this month due to begin
selling a 63,400-euro ($89,300) Boxster S Black Edition with a
top speed of 276 kilometers per hour, declined to comment on the
outcome of yesterday’s elections, spokesman Dirk Erat said by
phone today.  ‘High Speeds’  “The fact that our cars are built for high speeds is an
important argument in other countries for buying them,” Daimler
Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche  said  in a March 2 Stern
magazine interview. “We’re well advised to maintain the
Autobahn sections that don’t have a speed limit.”  The Greens want to build on the state’s track record of
innovation to focus on environmental products and services, and
“for the car industry that means we will try to push technology
that cuts petrol consumption,” Kretschmann told reporters in
Stuttgart on March 23.  “The car industry would definitely have no reason to fear
us,” he said in an interview the same day.  The Greens took a record 24.2 percent in Baden-Wuerttemberg
while their Social Democratic Party allies won 23.1 percent. The
parties’ combined 47.3 percent is enough to beat Merkel’s
 Christian Democrats  and their Free Democratic Party coalition
partner, which together won 44.3 percent. The CDU and FDP reject
blanket speed limits.  The Greens will begin talks later today on forming a
coalition with the  Social Democrats , Kretschmann said in Berlin.
The  SPD favors  a speed limit of 130 kilometers per hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  