-- 
Portuguese President Says Larger Parties Commit on Deficit-Reduction Aims

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-03-28T07:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/portuguese-president-says-larger-parties-commit-on-deficit-reduction-aims.html
Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva said the country’s three biggest political parties told
him they are committed to cutting the budget gap and meeting the
government’s deficit targets.  “ Portugal ’s three largest parties guaranteed to the
president their unequivocal commitment to a strategy of budget
consolidation and the targets of  deficit reduction  announced by
the Portuguese state to guarantee the path of sustainability of
public debt,” Cavaco Silva told Bloomberg News in a written
response to questions.  The three biggest parties are the ruling Socialists, the
 Social Democrats , the largest opposition group, and the
conservative People’s Party or CDS-PP. The government set a
target for a budget deficit of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011 and aims to reach the European Union limit of 3
percent in 2012 and a gap of 2 percent in 2013.  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  presented his resignation to
Cavaco Silva on March 23 after parliament rejected his proposed
deficit-cutting program. Cavaco Silva met with all six political
parties represented in parliament on March 25 and will meet
Jaime Gama, the president of parliament, at noon today. He must
also consult with the  Council of State  before accepting
Socrates’s resignation.  Portugal is raising taxes and implementing the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades to convince investors
it can narrow its budget gap, curb debt and avoid seeking a
rescue from the EU. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield rose to a
euro-era record of 7.8 percent on March 25, and the five-year
bond yield also jumped to a record 8.51 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Ireland in November became the
second euro country to seek a bailout, after  Greece .  The parliamentary vote last week came after Finance
Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos on March 11 presented
additional deficit-cutting measures equal to 4.5 percent of GDP
over three years, including a reduction in pensions of more than
1,500 euros ($2,112) a month and further cuts in tax benefits.
The five opposition parties united to reject the proposals.  All parties, including the Socialists, advised Cavaco Silva
to call early elections. Under Portuguese law, the elections may
be held no sooner than 55 days after being called.  Socrates became prime minister in 2005 and his Socialist
Party won re-election in 2009 without a majority in parliament.
The Social Democrats agreed in October to let the government’s
2011 budget proposal pass in parliament by abstaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 