-- 
Portuguese Bailout Costs More Than Money Alone: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-03-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/portuguese-bailout-costs-more-than-money-alone-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Is it 50 billion euros? Or perhaps
70 billion euros? The cost of bailing out Portugal varies
according to who makes the calculation. No one will know the
real price until officials from the  International Monetary Fund 
and the  European Central Bank  tell us.  But it isn’t the actual amount that counts. It is the price
the euro area is paying for having a single currency.  And on that measure, a rescue package for the beleaguered
Portuguese economy comes with far too high a price tag attached.
It will raise too many questions about whether the euro can ever
be made to work; it will mean there is no longer a firewall that
stops the crisis from spreading to  Europe ’s core; and the
Portuguese don’t seem willing to accept the same type of
austerity package that Greece and Ireland got.  For all three reasons, the last thing the euro area can
deal with right now is a Portuguese rescue.  It now seems inevitable that Portugal will be forced to
accept a bailout from the rest of the euro area. Last week, the
country’s parliament rejected the package of budget cuts
proposed by Prime Minister  Jose Socrates , prompting him to offer
his resignation.  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s both
lowered the country’s debt rating, and bond yields soared.  Debt Payments  The country needs money. It faces redemptions valued at
about 9 billion euros ($12.7 billion) in total on April 15 and
June 15, perhaps around the time of early elections to choose a
new government. Portugal intends to sell as much as 20 billion
euros of bonds this year to finance its budget and cover
maturing debt. Right now, it doesn’t look as if the markets are
willing to come up with that kind of cash. That leaves the euro
area and the IMF as the only viable alternative -- the same way
it was for Ireland and  Greece .  The money can be found if it has to be. A bill for 70
billion euros won’t bankrupt Germany or  France . But just because
you can afford something financially doesn’t mean you can afford
it in other ways. The euro area can’t take the cost of bailing
out Portugal. Here’s why.  First, there’s no easy explanation for why Portugal needs a
rescue. Greece got into trouble because it fiddled its way into
the single currency. It never really met the entry criteria in
the first place, and its first application was quite rightly
turned down. Ireland had a huge property and banking bubble,
which then popped, plunging the economy into a deep recession.
In both cases, you could argue that some external event created
the crisis. It wasn’t the single currency as such.  No Bubble  But Portugal? It didn’t fiddle any figures or have any kind
of bubble. Ever since joining the euro, the country has had low
growth, and that has worsened its debt position.  It is hard to conclude that the problem was anything other
than the currency itself -- and the way it affects countries
that aren’t able to stay competitive with  Germany . After this
bailout, it will be impossible to claim that the euro represents
a functioning monetary system with just a couple of rogue
members. Its flaws will be impossible to ignore.  Second, once Portugal is bailed out, the hard questions are
raised. For the last three months, the markets have been
focusing all their firepower on this one tiny country on the
western edge of Europe. Whether it is bust or not has never been
a huge deal. It is the questions that come next that matter.  Bank Stability  Once Portugal is out of the way, the markets will start
looking hard at Spain and  Italy . And they will probe the
stability of the euro area’s banking system. The answers may
well turn out to be explosive.  Portugal  has been a kind of
shield -- and without it, the euro will look a lot more exposed.  Third, the Portuguese don’t look willing to play by the
rules -- at least as they are written in Frankfurt and Brussels.
The indebted, peripheral countries are meant to accept massive
austerity programs, and to allow the ECB and IMF to effectively
run their economies. But the results elsewhere haven’t been
encouraging. Greece is still stuck in a recession, and bond
yields remain high. Ireland’s economy sinks further into the
mud. It is no surprise the Portuguese have looked at the results
of the medicine and wondered if it is a treatment they need.  But if the Portuguese refuse to accept the austerity
measures, what is Plan B? So far there hasn’t been any sign that
anyone has thought of one.  The euro area can pay for a Portuguese bailout. The 70
billion euros won’t matter much. But the final bill will end up
being much costlier.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  