-- 
British Pound Depreciates Against Dollar as U.K. Business Confidence Falls

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-03-28T15:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/pound-declines-versus-dollar-as-u-k-business-confidence-falls.html
The pound depreciated after a
report showed business confidence in the U.K. slid to the
weakest in two years, bolstering the case for maintaining
 interest rates  at a record low.  The British currency fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded
pears and touched its lowest level versus the dollar in eight
weeks. Data from the  Office for National Statistics  tomorrow is
forecast to confirm the U.K. economy shrank more than initially
estimated in the fourth quarter. Bank of England policy maker
 Adam Posen  warned inflation will drop to 1.5 percent in 2012 as
the economy weakens.  “Confidence in pretty much all measures has been fairly
pessimistic over the course of the last few weeks,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “It’s a bit of a
game of snakes and ladders as far as sterling is concerned.
We’ve been climbing up the ladder getting north of $1.63, and I
think we’re now we’re on our way back down the snake again.”  The pound slipped less than 0.1 percent to $1.6035 at 4:25
p.m. in  London  after earlier touching $1.5937, the weakest since
Jan. 31. The U.K. currency weakened 0.2 percent to 87.97 pence
per euro and gained 0.3 percent to 130.872 yen.  Stretch said the pound may slide to $1.5825.  A gauge of sentiment, which aims to predict economic
developments in the U.K. four months in advance, fell to 1 from
3 in February, London-based Lloyds Banking Group Plc said today.
The share of companies that were less optimistic about economic
prospects increased to 44 percent from 36 percent in the
previous month.  Posen’s Inflation Forecast  Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent from the previous
three months, compared with an initial estimate for a 0.5
percent drop, according to the median forecast of 24 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the report tomorrow.  The  Bank of England ’sPosen said the U.K. inflation rate
will slide to 1.5 percent by the middle of 2012 as consumer
spending declines amid government austerity and a weak economy,
the Guardian reported yesterday, citing an interview.  Posen maintained his call for an expansion of stimulus with
further bond purchases at the March 10 meeting of the Monetary
Policy Committee. Consumer price inflation rose to 4.4 percent
in February, more than twice the central bank’s target.  “People were assuming that with CPI continuing to squeeze
up aggressively, the bank would be forced to react to that,”
Stretch said. “Now we’re seeing a realization that whilst there
is an inflation spike, maybe it’s not going to be reflected in
terms of an immediate tightening process.”  Other U.K. central bank policy makers scheduled to speak
this week include  Martin Weale ,  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles .  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the central bank
uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases is
published tomorrow. Data is also expected to show February
mortgage approvals rose for a second month and the U.K. current
account deficit widened in the fourth quarter.  Gilts Fall  The U.K. currency has gained 0.3 percent this year in a
gauge of 10 developed-market currencies, lagging the euro’s 3.4
percent advance. The dollar has declined 2.5 percent.  Short-sterling futures slipped, pushing the implied yield
on the contract maturing in December up two basis points to
1.42, as traders boosted bets on an increase in U.K. rates.  U.K. government bonds were little changed with the yield on
the benchmark 10-year gilt at 3.61 percent.  U.K. government debt lost investors 0.6 percent this year,
compared with a 2 percent loss for German bonds a zero return
for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 