-- 
Power Plants Using River Water to Cool Operations Face U.S. Rules on Fish

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-03-28T22:46:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/power-plants-using-river-water-to-cool-operations-face-u-s-rules-on-fish.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said it proposed water standards aimed at protecting
millions of fish drawn each year into cooling water systems at
more than 1,200  power plants  and factories.  The rules proposed under the federal  Clean Water Act  will
save about 615 million fish and shellfish a year at an annual
cost to industry of $384 million, the EPA said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The agency is complying with a court order to issue rules
for industrial facilities that withdraw water from rivers or
lakes to cool machinery. The standards will give companies two
options to meet the requirements and reduce the number of fish
killed when pinned against screens covering intake pipes. The
EPA said it will review public comments when crafting the rule.  “The input we receive will make certain that we end up
with a flexible and effective rule to protect the health of our
waters and ecosystems,” Nancy Stoner, the acting assistant
administrator for the EPA  Office of Water , said in a statement.  The EPA has been criticized by industry groups and
Republican lawmakers who said the agency is burdening businesses
with overly stringent and costly rules.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican, in
December had said the EPA’s rule might affect more than 400
power plants and cost as much as $300 million per site for coal-
fired utilities and as much as $1 billion for nuclear-powered
generators, exceeding the agency’s projections.  The EPA said about 1,260 industrial operations will be
covered by the rule, including 670 power plants and about 590
factories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  