-- 
China Finds Traces of Radioactive Material in Atmosphere of Coastal Areas

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-29T05:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/radioactive-iodine-traces-found-above-china-s-coastal-areas-ministry-says.html
China  said radioactive material was
found in the atmosphere of more provinces and cities including
Guangdong and  Shanghai , as the government took measures to allay
health concerns after the nuclear accident in Japan.  Trace amounts of radioactive iodine-131, first detected in
the atmosphere above northeastern China’s Heilongjiang province
on March 27, were also detected yesterday over the provinces of
Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Guangdong and Guangxi and the city of
Shanghai, the  Ministry of Environmental Protection  said on its
 website  yesterday. Radiation in China’s atmosphere was within a
natural range this morning, the ministry said today.  China has begun testing food and water in 14 provinces and
cities and inspecting incoming ships and air passengers from
 Japan  to ease concerns of contamination from substances leaked
by the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant on Japan’s eastern
seaboard. The People’s Daily newspaper, published by the
 Communist Party of China , today ran a half-page article listing
the efforts of various government departments to ensure safety.  The nuclear accident in Japan hasn’t affected residents in
China, the environmental ministry said today. The amount of
radioactive particles found above Heilongjiang won’t jeopardize
health or contaminate food and water, the  Ministry of Health 
said March 27. Iodine-131 doesn’t exist naturally and is among
substances leaked from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,
according to the health ministry.  Earthquake, Tsunami  Japan’s March 11 earthquake and subsequent tsunami, which
disabled backup cooling systems at the six-reactor Fukushima
complex, has left more than 28,000 people dead or missing. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., operator of the complex, said it has found
plutonium in soil samples taken near the plant, where radiation
levels that can prove fatal have been detected outside reactor
buildings.  The article by the official Xinhua News Agency published in
People’s Daily said that the environmental ministry, the State
Oceanic Administration, the China Meteorological Administration,
researchers at government institutes and academics at
universities were cooperating to monitor and assess the spread
of radiation within Chinese borders.  China has also banned imports of  milk products , vegetables,
fruit and seafood from regions of Japan near and including
Fukushima, Xinhua said in the article. Inspections are also
being conducted on food imports from other parts of Japan,
according to the report. Tests of food and water are being
carried out in 14 northeastern and coastal provinces and cities,
including Beijing, the health ministry said March 27.  Buying Salt  Contamination concerns earlier this month prompted Chinese
shoppers to clear shelves of salt as a perceived defense against
 radiation exposure . The National Development and Reform
Commission pledged March 17 to crack down on hoarding and price
rigging of salt, with the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology , and the China National Salt
Industry Corp. saying March 17 and 18 that salt supplies are
sufficient.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  