-- 
Radiation Found Outside Japan Reactor, Signaling Meltdown

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-28T20:07:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/radiation-level-outside-damaged-japan-reactor-may-cause-death-within-hours.html
Radiation levels that can prove
fatal were detected outside reactor buildings at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, signaling a partial fuel meltdown and
complicating efforts to contain the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl.  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor had radiation
levels exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a spokesman for plant
operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. told reporters yesterday.
Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would trigger nausea and
four hours might lead to death within two months, according to
the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency .  A partial meltdown of fuel rods in the No. 2 reactor
probably caused a jump in the readings, Japan Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano said. Preventing the contaminated water
from leaking into the ground or air is key to containing the
spread of radiation beyond the plant.  “There’s not much good news right now,” said Gennady
Pshakin, a former official with the  International Atomic Energy
Agency . Questions of how much fuel will leak, what isotopes will
be carried and how quickly they will settle mean “it’s becoming
less predictable.”  Rubber-lined tunnels outside reactor buildings 1, 2 and 3
are almost full of water, a Tokyo Electric official said in a
webcast briefing today. The trenches, which aren’t connected to
the sea, range in depth from 16 meters (52 feet) to almost 22
meters, he said.  Reactor Breach  A magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11
knocked out power at the plant, forcing Tokyo Electric to dump
thousands of tons of seawater on the complex as a stopgap
cooling measure.  The  number of dead and missing  from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 28,343 as of 9 p.m. yesterday. About 200,000
households in northeast Japan remain without power and more than
350,000 have no gas, the government said. There are 242,882
refugees living in 2,045 shelters, the  National Police Agency 
said.  Residents evacuated from a 20-kilometer (12-mile) radius of
the plant shouldn’t return home yet, Edano said.  Elevated Radiation  Elevated radiation levels have been detected in crops grown
near the stricken plant as well as the water supply in Tokyo,
220 kilometers to the south, and other regions.  Plutonium-239, a byproduct of fission used in nuclear
weapons, was found in soil samples taken on the plant site March
21 and March 22, Tokyo Electric said in a  statement  today. Two
of the five samples contained more plutonium than known to have
been deposited by atmospheric nuclear-bomb fallout and probably
came from the damaged plant, according to the statement.  The amount found shouldn’t be enough to affect human
health, Sakae Muto, a Tokyo Electric vice president, said at a
press conference yesterday.  “The high radiation levels seem to have come from fuel
rods that partially melted down and came into contact with water
used to cool the reactor,” Edano said at a briefing in Tokyo,
citing a draft report from Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission.
“We’re trying to contain the whole situation while preventing
the health impact from spreading.”  Restored Power  Ever-higher  radiation emissions  at Dai-Ichi and evidence
water has leaked out of the No. 2 reactor’s containment vessel
comes after success last week in restoring power to control
rooms and injecting fresh water into the reactor pressure
vessels to keep temperatures from rising.  Tokyo Electric slumped 18 percent to 696 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange yesterday, the lowest close since February 1977.
The Japanese government is considering nationalizing the
company, buying a majority of its shares so it can pay damages
from the accident, Yomiuri newspaper reported, citing multiple
anonymous government officials.  Plutonium was part of the  fuel mix  in reactor No. 3. Used
fuel rods from other reactors may also have been a source of the
material, Edwin Lyman, a radiological specialist for the
watchdog group Union of Concerned Scientists, said on a
conference call with reporters. Plutonium inhalation causes
lung, liver and bone cancer,  according to  the U.S. National
Institutes of Health.  Tokyo Electric  needs to drain water in four reactor turbine
buildings to determine where the radiation came from and assess
damage to the fuel rods, a company official told reporters
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  