-- 
Kan Slams Tepco's Tsunami Defenses, Offers Assurances Over Radiation Leaks

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a ,   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-03-29T20:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/radiation-outside-damaged-japan-reactor-may-cause-death-within-two-months.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said that a damaged nuclear plant’s tsunami defenses were
inadequate, while reassuring the public that radiation leaks
pose no health threat beyond an evacuation zone.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s sea wall, designed to withstand
a 5.5-meter (18-foot) wave, was breached by a surge estimated by
the government to be almost three times higher following a
magnitude-9 earthquake on March 11. Back-up diesel generators
for cooling systems, which might have prevented the nuclear
disaster, were positioned in a basement swamped by the wave.  “It’s undeniable their assumptions about tsunamis were
greatly mistaken,” Kan said in parliament. “The fact that
their standards were too low invited the current situation.”  There is no danger of contamination outside the 20-
kilometer (12.4-mile) exclusion zone imposed around the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, he said.  Plutonium traces found in soil pose no threat to workers on
site or people close by, Hidehiko Nishiyama, a spokesman at the
 Japan  Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, said in Tokyo
yesterday. Radioactive water on the floor of turbine buildings
at the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors will be drained and stored in
tanks on site, he said.  “Plutonium can’t really travel by air, but we have to be
careful about water,” said Tetsuo Iguchi, a professor
specializing in isotope analysis and radiation detection at
Nagoya University in central Japan.  Water Hazard  Water in a tunnel outside the No. 2 reactor emitted
radiation exceeding 1 sievert an hour, a Tokyo Electric
spokesman said. Exposure to that dose for 30 minutes would
trigger nausea and four hours might lead to death within two
months, according to the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency . A
person standing 1 kilometer away would receive a dose 1 million
times smaller, Iguchi said.  “Workers can’t work near water with radiation levels
exceeding 1 sievert per hour, at least not within a few
meters,” said Hironobu Unesaki, a professor at Kyoto
University’s Research Reactor Institute. “They may need to
remotely remove water or rotate workers for very short periods
of time.”  Higher readings inside and outside the No. 2 unit indicate
that a partial meltdown of fuel rods is “pretty much without a
doubt,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said yesterday.
“This is a grave situation.”  The leakage of plutonium is another sign of such damage,
Nishiyama said.  ‘Puff Releases’  “If you have any damage to the fuel, you are likely to be
spreading some of that around,” said  Kathryn Higley , a
radiation health physicist at  Oregon State University  in
Corvallis, who has worked on reactors and inspected nuclear
power plants for emergency preparedness. “As they start getting
in there to try to remove the liquid, you’re probably going to
see some localized spreading of contamination and maybe some
puff releases.”  Sheep grazed in parts of the U.K. and Scandinavia
contaminated by radioactive cesium from the 1986 Chernobyl
reactor meltdown and fire are still routinely tested before
they’re sold for slaughter, Higley said.  International Help  Cleanup probably will take at least five years because of
the time needed for radioactivity to diminish so experts can
assess the damage, Akira Tokuhiro, a professor of mechanical and
nuclear engineering at the University of  Idaho , said in an
interview. That assessment will determine whether the reactors
should be entombed or dismantled to eliminate any further
radiation risk, he said.  “It will need international intervention, perhaps by the
 United Nations  or the  International Energy Agency ,” to assure
lessons of the disaster are learned by other nuclear operators,
Tokuhiro said.  The plant “continues to further stabilize,” Bill Borchardt, the executive director for operations at the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said during a briefing for the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in  Washington .  The  number of dead and missing  from the earthquake and
tsunami had reached 27,575 as of 9 p.m. yesterday, Japan’s
 National Police Agency  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  