-- 
Radiation Detector Demand for Ships Surges Amid Japan's Nuclear Disaster

-- B y   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 
2011-03-28T15:25:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/radiation-detector-demand-for-ships-surges-amid-japan-s-nuclear-disaster.html
Demand for radiation detection
devices from companies sending oil, natural gas and other
cargoes to and from  Japan  is rising after an earthquake damaged
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear reactor.  The MOL Presence, a ship with “abnormal” amounts of
radiation after passing 67 nautical miles (124 kilometers) off
Japan’s Fukushima prefecture, was heading back to the country
after being rejected by authorities in  China , a Xiamen port
official said yesterday. Abu Dhabi National Tanker Co. is taking
steps to check for radiation and protect its ships against
contamination, the company’s general manager, Ali Al-Yabhouni,
told reporters in Abu Dhabi today.  “There’s been exponential demand because of the nuclear
problems in Japan” for detection devices, said Alan Betts,
sales manager at  International Mining & Marine Ltd. , a safety-
equipment supplier to the shipping industry, based in Sheffield,
U.K. “The supply time from manufacturers that supply the
shipping industry have had such demand that delivery times have
gone out from 2-3 weeks to 8-9 weeks.”  The  International Maritime Organization , part of the  United
Nations , said in a March 24  circular  to shipmasters that,
according to Japan, there’s no health risk at its international
ports based on local radiation level measurements. The U.S. Navy
today said any radiation on vessels can be scrubbed off with
soap and water and is not harmful to people’s health.  Detection Devices  The type of radiation detection devices sought by shippers
range from personal hand-held units to instrumentation wired
into the ship’s bridge, with prices ranging from about 250
pounds ($400) to several thousands of pounds, Betts said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and Hapag-Lloyd AG have halted
services to some Japanese ports because of the earthquake and
radiation concerns.  Maersk Line, owner of the world’s largest container fleet,
has stopped taking orders for the ports of Sendai, Onahama and
Hachinohe due to the leak. Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd is avoiding
Tokyo, Yokohama and Nagoya because of the crippled reactor.  Abu Dhabi  National Tanker’s Al-Yabhouni said his company
will continue journeys to Japan and has devices to check for
radiation.  “We have equipment and are currently distributing it,” he
said. “There is no reason so far that necessitates that we
should stop going there. We are watching it very closely.”  The rejection by China of a Japanese container ship on the
grounds that it had an abnormal level of radiation is a
“worrying prospect” for tanker companies, Intertanko, a trade
group for owners said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  