-- 
Radiation Risks for Pregnant Women, Unborn Children: Questions and Answers

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-28T06:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/radiation-risks-for-pregnant-women-unborn-children-questions-and-answers.html
Radiation from  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern  Japan  has
contaminated food, water and the environment.  Radioactive Iodine-131 was detected at 210 becquerel per
kilogram at a water purification plant in Tokyo, exceeding a
limit of 100 Bq/kg for infants, the city’s water department said
on March 23. Reported levels of radioactivity have since
declined.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
the effects of radiation on pregnant women and their unborn
babies. The information was compiled from the websites of the
 World Nuclear Association , the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration , the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
and the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Q: Can radiation harm a fetus? 
A: Potentially, yes. Children and unborn babies are more 
sensitive to radiation than adults because their cells are 
dividing frequently as they grow. Radiation can disrupt that 
process, increasing the risk of birth defects, leukemia or 
mental retardation. Following the Chernobyl accident there has 
been no increase in congenital abnormalities or adverse 
pregnancy outcomes, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  When a fetus is exposed to radiation equivalent to at least
500 chest X-rays during the more sensitive stages of development,
the health consequences can be severe, especially to the brain.
Fetuses exposed to the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki, Japan, during the 8- to 15-week stage of pregnancy 
were found to have a high rate of  brain damage  that resulted in 
lower IQs and even severe mental retardation. They also suffered
stunted growth (as much as 4 percent shorter than average) and an
increased risk of other birth defects.  Q: Is there a safe or unsafe level of radiation exposure during
pregnancy? 
A: Unborn babies, particularly from the second to 15th week of 
pregnancy, are especially sensitive to the cancer-causing effects
of radiation. A dose of 100 millisieverts or more may result in 
the death of the fetus in the earliest stages of pregnancy.  The level of increased risks depend on the amount of
radiation to which the fetus was exposed and the duration of
exposure. For example, if the radiation dose to the unborn baby
was roughly equivalent to 500 chest X-rays at one time, the
increase in lifetime cancer risk would be less than 2 percentage
points greater than the normal lifetime cancer risk of 40
percent to 50 percent.  Q: At what period of development is radiation of biggest concern
to a fetus? 
A: The embryo is made up of only a few cells during the first two
 weeks of pregnancy. Damage to one cell can cause the death of 
the embryo before the mother even knows that she is pregnant. Of
the babies that survive, however, few will have  birth defects  
related to the exposure, regardless of how much radiation they 
were exposed to.   In the 16- to 25-week stage of pregnancy, health 
consequences similar to those seen in the 8- to 15-week stage
could occur, but only when the doses equate to more than 5,000
chest X-rays at one time. At this dose level, the mother could
be showing signs of acute radiation syndrome, which is sometimes
known as radiation sickness.  At the 26th week of pregnancy, the fetus is fully
developed, though not fully grown. Unborn babies exposed to
radiation in the womb during this stage of pregnancy are no more
sensitive to the effects of radiation than are newborns. This
means that birth defects are not likely to occur, and only a
slight increase in the risk of having cancer later in life is
expected.  Q: Does a fetus receive the same amount of radiation as the
mother? 
A: Since the fetus is shielded by the mother’s abdomen, it is 
protected in the womb from radioactive sources outside the
mother’s body. Consequently, the radiation dose to the fetus is
lower than the dose to the mother for most  radiation exposure 
events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  