-- 
Rajaratnam’s Brother Took Notebooks After Arrest, Smith Says

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-29T04:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/rajaratnam-arrest-led-rengan-to-take-notebooks-smith-says.html
Raj Rajaratnam’s brother Rengan
went to the Galleon Group LLC office after his sibling’s Oct.
16, 2009, arrest and removed notebooks, former Galleon trader
 Adam Smith  told prosecutors, according to a court filing.  Raj Rajaratnam’s lawyers, in a March 27 court filing, asked
a judge to bar Smith from testifying about Rengan Rajaratnam’s
actions on that day. Prosecutors want to offer the account from
Smith, who will testify for the government today, “to prove the
existence” of a conspiracy and “Rengan’s membership in it,”
they wrote.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell said yesterday that he
was “leaning” toward barring the testimony and will decide
before Smith takes the witness stand.  In other court papers filed March 27 in Manhattan federal
court, where Galleon Group co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is on trial
for  insider trading , prosecutors said they want Smith to testify
about comments Rengan allegedly made to him months after Raj’s
arrest. Holwell said he is weighing the request.  “Rengan told Smith that, when someone discussed ‘Kamal’
with Raj, Raj would say it was a reference to Kamal Das, a sell-
side analyst (and not Kamal Ahmed, a Morgan Stanley investment
banker whom the government intends to prove provided inside
information to Smith, which Smith in turn provided to Raj),”
Assistant U.S. Attorneys Jonathan Streeter and  Reed Brodsky 
wrote in their filing.  $45 Million  Raj Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history. The Sri
Lankan-born money manager is accused of making $45 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing,
saying he based trades on research.  Neither Rengan Rajaratnam nor Kamal Ahmed has been charged
with wrongdoing. David Tobin, an attorney for Rengan Rajaratnam,
didn’t return a call seeking comment yesterday. Douglas Tween,
Ahmed’s lawyer, said in an interview that his client did
“nothing illegal or improper” and is cooperating “with Morgan
Stanley and has answered every question they’ve put to him.”  Separately, the March 27 court filing also includes a
summary of an interview that the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
did with Smith on Feb. 1. Smith was present for a meeting at
Galleon days after Rajaratnam’s arrest.  “Raj was non-specific and very emotional, according to the
individual,” the report said. “Raj told the employees that he
was a fighter, that he was going to fight.” In another report
from Jan. 25, an individual who isn’t identified told agents
that Rajaratnam complained about his treatment by the FBI when
he was arrested, saying agents “would not let him use the
bathroom.”  Not Charged  Raj Rajaratnam’s lawyers say Smith’s testimony about the
notebooks should be excluded because their client, while under
arrest, had no control over his brother’s actions. Also, the
defense says that documents were removed from Rajaratnam’s
office at the instruction of a defense lawyer.  “It would be impermissibly prejudicial, and of no
probative value whatsoever, for the government to elicit
testimony suggesting that Mr. Rajaratnam and his brother were
concealing evidence,” defense attorney  John Dowd  wrote.  Smith, who pleaded guilty Jan. 26 and is cooperating with
prosecutors, may also discuss a conversation between Rajaratnam
and former Galleon trader David Lau on Oct. 24, 2008, according
to a court filing.  In it, Rajaratnam “referred to Goldman Sachs’ financial
performance for the fourth quarter of 2008, and stated: ‘I can
get that number,’” according to the filing.  ‘Get the Number’  The U.S. says the testimony will show that Rajaratnam
thought he could “get the number” on Goldman Sachs “before it
was officially announced on Dec. 17, 2008, and presumably, that
he could get it from an insider rather than through legitimate
means.”  Holwell yesterday ruled that Smith may not “interpret”
the conversation for jurors, even as he recounts the details of
it.  FBI notes of a Feb. 1 interview with Smith included
additional and as-yet undisclosed details of the case.  According to the notes, an “agitated and nervous”
Rajaratnam asked Smith in early 2010 whether he had
relationships with “any U.S. based consultants that worked for
companies” -- which may have been a reference to expert-network
consultants that  hedge funds  sometimes employ.  Galleon Analyst  Smith “replied no,” the FBI report said.  In the interview with the FBI, Smith told the agents that
he got information on Asian technology companies from Joseph
Liu, a Galleon analyst in  Asia , who, Smith said, claimed to take
a “thrill in having inside info edge.”  Smith met with Rengan Rajaratnam twice in spring 2010, the
court documents say. In one meeting, at a midtown Manhattan
Starbucks, Rengan asked about Smith’s “little black book of
information” and wanted “to confirm” that he “was not going
to say anything about the notebooks or black book.”  The typed FBI documents say the interview was with an
“individual” whom the government didn’t name. Other
handwritten documents identify the person as Smith.  This morning, the defense concluded its cross-examination
of Rajiv Goel, who had worked in  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s treasury group
and was a close friend of Rajaratnam’s. Goel pleaded guilty on
Feb. 8, 2010, and is cooperating with prosecutors.  Goel Cross-Examination  Terence Lynam, a lawyer for Rajaratnam, challenged Goel’s
testimony that he gave Rajaratnam inside information about Intel
earnings and about a multibillion-dollar joint venture between
Clearwire Corp. and Sprint Nextel Corp. in 2008.  Lynam showed Goel news articles and company releases from
the months leading up to the May 7, 2008, announcement of the
deal. The defense lawyer was trying to demonstrate that whatever
information Goel may have passed to Rajaratnam was already
public or wasn’t important to Rajaratnam’s trading decisions.  Lynam showed Goel part of a wiretap transcript in which
Goel and Rajaratnam, who were friends at the time, discussed how
to place a value on the Clearwire-Sprint joint venture.  “You wanted to show your old business school classmate
that you were smarter than him, didn’t you?” Lynam asked.  “He’s a lot smarter than me,” replied Goel. “Even
today.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 