-- 
Treasuries Snap Biggest Drop Since ‘09 as Oil Limits Growth

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-03-28T19:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/treasuries-snap-seven-month-losing-streak-as-100-oil-drags-on-u-s-growth.html
The first coordinated intervention
in  currency markets  by the Group of Seven nations in more than a
decade is combining with rising oil prices to end the biggest
sell-off in Treasuries since the first half of 2009.  After reaching a nine-month high of 2.19 percent on Feb. 8,
yields on U.S. government debt fell to 2.04 percent on average
last week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury Master
index shows. The index has gained 1.47 percent in that period,
compared with a loss of 4.18 percent in the prior four months.  The rebound shows bond investors expect oil at more than
$100 a barrel to temper economic growth at the same time
developed nations from  Germany  to Japan sell yen and buy  U.S.
debt  with the proceeds. Every $10 per barrel increase in crude
cuts U.S. growth as much as 0.3 percentage point, UBS AG
estimates. Japan will need to reinvest the estimated $25 billion
in greenbacks acquired as it drove the yen lower on March 18
after the nation’s worst earthquake on record.  “I don’t think the Treasury market has had the death spike
put into it at this point,” said Mark MacQueen, a partner at
Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory Services Ltd., which oversees
$9.5 billion. “The market’s extremely sensitive to perceptions
of future economic growth. Any time that comes into question,
the Treasury market’s the place to be.”  Diminishing Expense  Keeping yields contained will help taxpayers as the
Treasury boosts borrowing to finance a  budget deficit  exceeding
$1 trillion. Even though the U.S. sold more bonds in fiscal 2010
ending Sept. 30 than ever before, the interest expense fell to
2.7 percent of gross domestic product, from 3.1 percent the year
before, and matched the lowest since before 1998, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A financial model created by economists at the Fed that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation
suggests 10-year notes are fairly valued. The so-called term
premium was 0.79 percent today, compared with the 0.7 percent
average over the past decade.  The measure fell as low as negative 0.44 percent on Nov. 4,
signaling Treasuries were expensive, the day after the Fed said
it would conduct a second round of monetary easing through the
purchase of U.S. bonds in a policy known as quantitative easing.  “Our view has changed a lot over the last six months,”
said Robert Tipp, chief investment strategist for fixed income
in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at Prudential Investment Management,
which oversees more than $200 billion in bonds. “As Treasuries
got toward the top of the range in the last month, yields have
begun to look attractive.”  Rising Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, last week to 3.44 percent in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price
of the 3.625 percent security due February 2021 fell 1 1/2, or
$15 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 1/2. Ten-year notes yielded
3.46 percent as of 3:33 p.m. in New York.  Last week’s losses came as concern eased that the nuclear
crisis resulting from  Japan ’s earthquake and the military
conflict in  Libya  will undermine the global economic recovery.  Gains in Treasuries since Feb. 8 contrast with the view of
 Bill Gross , who runs the $237 billion Total Return Fund, the
world’s biggest, at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific
Investment Management Co. Gross said three weeks ago that he
eliminated government-related debt from the flagship fund
because investors aren’t being adequately compensated for the
risk of inflation as oil and commodities surge.  Rising Oil  Crude oil hit a 30-month high of $106.95 a barrel on March
7, up from last year’s low of $64.24 in May, contributing to a
36 percent surge in commodities ranging from corn to cotton
since August based on the Thomson Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index.  Instead of causing a longer-term increase in inflation,
higher  oil prices  may put a brake on U.S. growth and prices.
Gasoline hovering at about the highest level since 2008 is
straining finances of American households, whose spending makes
up about 70 percent of the economy. As energy prices rose, the
Labor Department said March 4 that average hourly earnings for
Americans were unchanged in February.  A $10-a-barrel increase in crude would “reduce growth by
somewhere between 0.2 to 0.3 percentage point per year in each
of the next two years,” said  Drew Matus , a senior economist at
UBS in New York. “It’s basically an overall impact on the
economy, but obviously the main conduit through which it would
act would be the U.S. consumer.”  Consumer Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment decreased to the lowest level since November
2009, the group said March 25. The Commerce Department in
 Washington  said the same day that the  U.S. economy  grew at a 3.1
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, up from its previous
estimate of 2.8 percent last month.  A bond market measure of inflation expectations the  Federal
Reserve  uses to help determine monetary policy has declined to
2.82 percent from a 10-month high of 3.28 percent in December.
The five-year five-year forward breakeven rate projects what the
pace of consumer price increases may be beginning in 2016,
smoothing blips in inflation expectations from swings in oil and
other temporary events.  Oil at $110 per barrel would be cause for concern,
according to a Bloomberg News survey earlier this month of U.S.
chief executive officers.  Crude at that price would offset the benefit from the $858
billion tax cut extension approved by Congress in December, and
slow growth, according to  Chris Low , an economist at FTN
Financial in New York.  Fed Purchases  The allure of Treasuries will diminish as the Fed finishes
its bond purchases to flood the economy with cash and keeps its
target rate for overnight loans between banks at a record low
range of zero to 0.25 percent, Gross said March 11 in a
Bloomberg Television interview. If U.S. gross domestic product
increases at the 4 percent to 5 percent pace that the Fed
expects, 10-year notes should yield about 4 percent, he said.  Yields on 10-year notes aren’t forecast to reach that level
until the first quarter of 2012, according to the median
estimate of 55 forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey. The yield
last touched 4 percent on April 5.  The Group of Seven’s intervention to stem the surge in the
yen after Japan’s earthquake may boost foreign purchases of
Treasuries at this week’s auctions of $99 billion in 2-, 5- and
7-year notes, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
strategists. An increase in foreign buying may reduce yields by
about 20 basis points for every $100 billion of purchases,
strategists Shyam Rajan and Priya Misra estimate.  Custody Holdings  The yen slid the most against the dollar in six months on
March 18, when G-7 members sold the currency after it reached a
post-World War II high of 76.25 per dollar, endangering Japan’s
recovery. The yen had gained on speculation insurers and
investors would sell foreign assets and repatriate funds to help
pay for damage from Japan’s worst earthquake on record.  G-7 central banks including the  Bank of Japan  sold about
$25 billion of yen, the Bank of America strategists estimated.
That compares with the Bank of Japan’s $23 billion intervention
in September, a month when the Fed’s custody holdings of
Treasuries surged by $104 billion, the largest increase since
October 2008.  “The G-7 countries and the three big central banks --
Japan, the U.S. and  Europe  -- stand ready to further act against
this trend in a coordinated action,” Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said March 23 in Luxembourg.  During Japan’s intervention six months ago the yield on the
10-year Treasury dropped to 2.45 percent on Sept. 28 from 2.85
on Sept. 13. Japan’s holdings of Treasuries climbed by $28
billion, the biggest increase since June 2009.  Concerns about Japan and the Middle East will continue to
attract investors to  U.S. government debt , said Jeffrey Caughron, associate partner in Oklahoma City at The Baker Group
LP, which advises community banks on investing assets totaling
$23 billion. “Treasuries still offer fair value in light of all
the geopolitical risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  