-- 
Treasury Two-Year Notes Drop as Yields Rise at Auction on Outlook for Fed

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-03-28T21:21:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/treasury-two-year-note-drops-following-auction-as-concern-grows-over-fed.html
Treasury two-year notes fell as the
U.S. sold $35 billion of the securities at the highest yield in
almost a year on concern the  Federal Reserve  may consider ending
its program of quantitative easing earlier than planned.  Yields on existing two-year notes had climbed to a three-
week high after comments from St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  on March 26 spurred speculation policy makers may review
whether to finish $600 billion in debt purchases due to be
completed in June. Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said
today signs of a more sustainable economic expansion won’t alter
the central bank’s plan.  “The auction was a little disappointing,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income
trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s private wealth management unit in
New York. “The hawkish comments didn’t help the Treasury market
in general, but given the attractive yield, I thought bidders
would have looked past those remarks,” said Pollack, referring
to Bullard’s remarks.  The yield on the current two-year note rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.75 percent at 4:59 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader figures. The
price of the 0.625 percent security maturing in February 2013
dropped 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  The 2-year note yield earlier reached 0.78 percent, the
highest level since March 4. The 30-year bond yield was little
changed at 4.50 percent. The difference between the yields fell
to 3.74 percentage points, the narrowest since Dec. 31.  Bullard’s View  U.S. debt  declined earlier after Bullard told reporters in
Marseilles,  France , two days ago that the U.S. economic recovery
may not need all of the stimulus planned through June. Evans
took a different view today in text of a speech in Columbia,
 South Carolina .  “Comments like Evans’s are slanted to the dovish side and
help to support the front end of the market,” said Tom Tucci,
head of U.S. government bond trading in New York at Royal Bank
of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , which as a primary dealer is
obligated to participate in U.S. auctions.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has given no indication that
the central bank will deviate from its plan to buy bonds through
June to spur economic growth and reduce the 8.9 percent
unemployment rate.  Traders have increased bets that policy makers will raise
borrowing costs at its January meeting. Fed funds futures showed
a 52 percent chance of an increase in the target lending rate,
compared with 41 percent odds a week ago. The Fed has kept its
benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed Outlook  “There’s continued rattling about how quickly the Fed is
going to act to remove accommodation,” said Christian Cooper,
head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., a primary dealer. “We can’t underestimate how
quickly the environment could change.”  The central bank purchased $6.753 billion of government
debt maturing from March 2015 to August 2016 under its program
of quantitative easing.  At today’s debt sale, the two-year notes produced a yield
of 0.789 percent, the highest since the Treasury auctioned $44
billion of the securities at 1.024 percent in April 2010. The
average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 7 of the Fed’s 20
primary dealers was for a yield of 0.776 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.16,
compared with an average of 3.40 for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 33 percent of the notes, compared with
an average of 33.8 percent for the past 10 sales. Direct
bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.3 percent of the notes,
compared with the 10-sale average of 14.5 percent.  Note Sales  The offering is the first of three note sales this week
totaling $99 billion. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $35
billion in five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year
notes on March 30.  Yields on two-year notes rose 15 basis points last week on
speculation the global economic recovery will withstand  Japan ’s
nuclear turmoil,  Libya ’s military conflict and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The markets need more of a concession these days to do
just about anything,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-
rate strategy in New York at Morgan Stanley, a primary dealer.
“What’s trumping geopolitical fears are steady growth and
rising inflation and the concern that the Fed will have to
respond.”  Consumer spending  gained 0.7 percent in February after a
0.3 percent increase in the prior month, the Commerce Department
reported. The median forecast of 71 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 0.5 percent gain.  Treasury two-year notes have lost 0.067 percent this month
and 0.021 percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. That compares with a 0.036 percent drop in the
broader market in March and a 0.114 percent decrease this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  