-- 
Deutsche Bank, Standard & Poor’s Must Face Anschutz Claims

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-03-29T00:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/s-p-deutsche-bank-ordered-to-face-claims-over-auction-rate-investments.html
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and
 Standard & Poor’s  must face claims in a lawsuit brought by the
 Anschutz Corp.  seeking damages over its purchase of auction-rate
securities, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  in San Francisco
yesterday refused to throw out Anschutz’s claims of market
manipulation and fraud against Deutsche Bank and negligent
misrepresentation against S&P, according to a March 27 ruling.  Banks running periodic auctions abandoned the $330 billion
market for the securities in 2008 amid the fallout from the
subprime market slump. Investors were stuck with the products.
Denver-based Anschutz in 2007 bought $40 million of the
securities underwritten and rated by the defendants, the ruling
said.  “The case is without merit and we will defend ourselves
vigorously,” Edward Sweeney, a spokesman for S&P, said in a
statement.  In a separate lawsuit over auction rate securities, a
federal judge in  San Francisco  today conditionally granted
Deutsche Bank Securities’ request to dismiss claims by Louisiana
Pacific Corp. while giving the building products company an
opportunity to revise its lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White gave Nashville,
Tennessee-based Louisiana Pacific until April 29 to amend its
case or face dismissal of most of the lawsuit, which seeks to
recover damages from its $300 million purchase of auction-rate
securities, according to a court filing.  Elizabeth Frolich, an attorney for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, had no immediate comment.  The first case is Anschutz v. Merrill Lynch, 09-3780, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).
The second case is Louisiana Pacific v Money Market 1
Institutional Investment Dealer, 09-3529, U.S. District Court,
San Francisco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  