-- 
Saudi Women Inspired by Fall of Mubarak Step Up Equality Demand

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-03-28T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/saudi-women-inspired-by-revolt-against-mubarak-go-online-to-seek-equality.html
Activists among  Saudi Arabia ’s
women, who can’t drive or vote and need male approval to work
and travel, are turning to the type of online organizing that
helped topple Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  to force change in a system
they say treats them like children.  The “Baladi” or “My Country” campaign is focused on
this year’s municipal elections, only the second nationwide
ballot that the absolute monarchy has allowed. The election
board yesterday said women will be excluded from the Sept. 22
vote. Another group, the Saudi Women’s Revolution, citing
inspiration from the Arab activism that grew into revolts
against Mubarak and  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, is
pressing for equal treatment and urging international support.  The wave of anti-regime protests that spread from Tunisia
and Egypt into some of Saudi Arabia’s Persian Gulf neighbors,
such as Bahrain and Oman, hasn’t translated into mass street
demonstrations in the kingdom that holds the world’s biggest oil
reserves. Saudi rulers have taken steps to ensure it won’t,
pledging almost $100 billion of spending on homes, jobs and
benefits. They also deployed thousands of police in  Riyadh  on
March 11, when a protest was planned by Internet organizers -- a
group that increasingly includes Saudi women.  “Women are raised to fear men and to fear speaking out,”
said Mona al-Ahmed, a 25-year-old in the coastal city of  Jeddah .
She said she joined the Women’s Revolution campaign after her
brother refused to let her take her dream job, as a biochemist,
because it would involve working in a mixed-gender environment.
“I opened my eyes one day and said, ‘This is not the life I
want’,” al-Ahmed said in a phone interview.  Least Democratic State  Like other opposition and protest groups in Saudi Arabia,
the women’s movement faces a tough task. The kingdom ranked as
the least democratic state in the Middle East, according to the
Economist Intelligence Unit’s 2010  Democracy Index .  “Women will not participate in this session,” Abdul-
Rahman al-Dahmash, director of the kingdom’s electoral
commission, said at a press conference yesterday, referring to
the municipal balloting. “There is a plan, though not with a
definite time, to put in place a framework so that women can
participate in upcoming elections.”  Baladi said on its Facebook page that Saudi women “are
like other women in the world who have hopes and ambitions” and
must be allowed to vote.  While Saudi Arabia was placed in the top one-third of
nations in the United Nations 2010 Human Development Report --
higher than European Union member  Bulgaria  -- its score for
 gender equality  was much lower. On that UN measure, which
includes assessments of reproductive health and participation in
politics and the labor market, the country ranked 128th of 138
nations, below Iran and  Pakistan .  ‘You Are Divorced’  Saudi Arabia enforces the Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam
and its clerics say that requires strict segregation of the
sexes, including in government offices, workplaces and public
spaces such as restaurants. Other areas of discontent
highlighted by women writers and activists include family law. A
Saudi man can end his marriage by telling his wife, “You are
divorced,” while women must go to a court or an authorized
cleric to get a dissolution. Custody of children above a certain
age is usually granted to the father.  Saudi Arabia is also one of the few countries that has a
high rate of executions for women,  Amnesty International  said in
a 2008  report . Adultery is among the capital offenses.  “Authorities continue to systematically suppress or fail
to protect the rights of nine million Saudi women and girls,”
 Human Rights Watch  said in a  January report  on the country. In
an  open letter  to Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal two
months earlier, the group urged his government to meet pledges
it had made to “end the system of male guardianship over women,
to give full legal identity to Saudi women, and to prohibit
gender discrimination.”  ‘Treated Like Minors’  Those are among the goals of the Women’s Revolution group,
which began as an exchange of Twitter messages among likeminded
women, and now has more than 2,000 Facebook supporters. “Women
are treated like minors, except if they commit a crime,” the
group said in a statement on Facebook. “Then they are equal.”  Alia al-Faqih, 19, said this year’s Arab revolts inspired
her to join the group and demand change in her country.  “The protesters in  Egypt  and Tunisia did something that
was almost impossible,” she said in a telephone interview from
Jeddah. “If they could bring down two tough presidents, why
can’t we demand our rights?”  Improve Access  Saudi Arabia’s ruler,  King Abdullah , who turns 87 this
year, has pledged to improve the status of women. He opened the
kingdom’s first co-educational university in 2009, appointed its
first female deputy minister, Nora bint Abdullah al-Fayez, the
same year, and has promised steps to improve access to jobs for
women, who make up about 15 percent of the workforce. That would
help improve productivity in the kingdom’s oil-dominated
economy, say analysts including John Sfakianakis, chief
economist at Banque Saudi Fransi.  A change of policy in 2008 allowed women to stay in hotels
without male guardians, and an amendment to the Labor Law
allowed women to work in all fields “suitable to their
nature.” Women can now study law at university, without being
allowed to practice as lawyers in courts.  At some companies, such as billionaire investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , women are permitted to
work alongside men. That isn’t typical, though. Most companies
that hire women must provide a women-only section that is off-
limits to the male staff.  Human Rights Watch concluded in January that “reforms to
date have involved largely symbolic steps to improve the
visibility of women.”  Lingerie Dispute  Some measures have been opposed by religious
traditionalists. Others that are on the statute books haven’t
been implemented, including a 2006 law that says only female
staff can be employed in women’s clothing stores.  That issue has prompted petitions and even boycotts of
lingerie stores in recent years by women activists angry that,
while required to cover themselves in black cloaks in public,
they are also obliged to discuss intimate details about their
underwear with men, who monopolize most sales jobs under current
practice. Reem Asaad, who has spearheaded the campaign, said
more actions are planned in the coming months.  The Baladi campaigners, who are focusing on the elections,
say that gaining the vote would help change the outside world’s
perception of Saudi women, as well as improving their lives.  “The stereotype of women in Saudi Arabia is that they are
unaccounted for, incapable of reacting to their surroundings and
vulnerable to cruelty,” the group said on its Facebook page,
which has more than 2,000 followers. “It is vital to contribute
to change such perceptions.”  ‘Claims of Reform’  The last municipal election in 2005 was the first full
nationwide ballot the country has held, even though only half of
the council members were elected and the rest appointed. It was
held at a time when the kingdom was under international pressure
to reform after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks in the U.S., in which
most participants were Saudi citizens. Some regime critics have
blamed the lack of democracy for the prevalence of an Islamist
ideology that offers justification for militant acts.  The breadth of the franchise in this year’s vote is a test
of sincerity for Saudi rulers, said Hatoon al-Fassi, one of the
Baladi campaigners. Expanding it to include women “would show
that Saudi Arabia is serious about its claims of reform,” she
said in an interview yesterday -- hours before the government
announced that women won’t be allowed to vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 