-- 
Saudi Arabia to Spend More than $100 Billion on Power Plants, Distribution

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-28T12:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/saudi-arabia-forecasts-spending-81-billion-on-power-plants-through-2020.html
Saudi Arabia  plans to spend more
than $100 billion on power plants and distribution networks by
2020 to meet domestic electricity demand that’s growing twice as
fast as the Arab world’s largest economy, officials said.  The Ministry of Water and Power expects to raise by 30
percent an earlier forecast of 303 billion riyals ($81 billion)
in power-related expenditures over the decade, Deputy Minister
Saleh Al-Awaji said at a conference today in  Abu Dhabi , the
capital of the  United Arab Emirates .  “That’s probably a conservative estimate,” Abdullah al- Shehri, governor of Saudi Arabia’s Electricity and Co-Generation
Regulatory Authority, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi. About
one-third of the new investment would be for  power plants , with
the rest going toward the national grid, al-Shehri said.  The projected increase reflects in part Saudi Arabia’s need
to electrify 500,000 new homes that its king ordered to be built
as the government tries to forestall potential unrest, amid
protests for better employment opportunities and democracy that
have engulfed the Middle East.  King Abdullah  announced $67 billion in public spending on
March 18, including payments for new homes and for military and
religious groups that backed the government’s ban on
demonstrations. The spending plan comes in addition to a $36
billion handout announced on Feb. 23.  Biggest Oil Reserves  Saudi Arabia, which holds the world’s largest oil reserves,
wants to increase power supplies to propel economic growth and
create jobs for its expanding population of 27 million. The
kingdom is building cities on its Red Sea and Persian Gulf
coasts and diversifying into plastics, steelmaking and other
industries.  Power demand in the kingdom is set to increase about 8
percent annually over the next five years, according to
government estimates. That’s roughly twice the economic growth
rate of more than 4 percent that Muhammad Al-Jasser, governor of
the country’s central bank, forecast last week for 2011.  The country has about 45,000 megawatts of generating
capacity, according to the 2009 annual report of state-run  Saudi
Electricity Co. (SECO)  To satisfy future demand, capacity must expand
to 75,000 megawatts by 2018 and more than 120,000 megawatts over
the next two decades, al-Shehri said.  As demand for power surges, the country is also burning
greater quantities of crude oil and refined products in its
power plants. It uses crude and other liquid fuels to supply
about 60 percent of its electricity, Al-Awaji said at the MEED
Arabian Power and Water conference.  The kingdom is also looking to renewable energy such as
solar power and to nuclear plants in its program of expanding
output. Saudi Arabia is set to announce a plan for those
supplementary power sources next week during a solar power
conference in  Riyadh .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  