-- 
Container Ship Rejected in China Had ‘Barely Detectable’ Radiation Levels

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-28T15:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/ship-rejected-in-china-had-barely-detectable-radiation-levels.html
A Japanese-operated ship that was
turned back from a Chinese port last week because of radiation
concerns had a degree of contamination equivalent to less than
20 percent of that from a standard X-ray.  The MOL Presence exhibited a maximum 3.5 microsieverts per
hour of radiation, operator Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. said late
yesterday in an e-mail, citing a report from authorities at the
port of Xiamen. A chest X-ray gives a dose of 20 microsieverts,
according to the U.K. Health Protection Agency’s  website .  “It’s very, very barely detectable,” said Jack Edlow,
whose Washington-based Edlow International Co. specializes in
shipping radioactive materials.  The vessel is heading to Kobe,  Japan , where Mitsui O.S.K.
will arrange for another inspection, the Tokyo-based shipper
said. Authorities rejected it in Xiamen last week, citing
“abnormal” amounts of radiation on the deck and containers.  The ship had traveled to  China  from  Tokyo  after previously
passing 67 nautical miles (124 kilometers) from the coast of
Japan’s Fukushima prefecture, site of a nuclear-power station
damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The Japanese government has barred vessels from traveling
within 30 kilometers (19 miles) of the plant.  The U.S. Navy, helping with recovery efforts in Japan
following the quake and a tsunami, was able to scrub radiation
off one of its vessels with soap and water, Commander Jeff Davis, a spokesman for Seventh Fleet, said yesterday by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  