-- 
Shippers Maintain Tokyo Route as U.S. Says Radiation Is Easily Cleaned Off

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-29T07:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/shippers-maintain-tokyo-route-as-u-s-says-radiation-is-easily-cleaned-off.html
Five of the six biggest container
shippers are maintaining routes to  Tokyo  and Yokohama after the
U.S. Navy said radiation on vessels from the leaking Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant can be scrubbed off with soap and water.  A.P Moeller-Maersk A/S, Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA
CGM SA, the top three, are still serving Japan’s two busiest
container ports, 2 1/2 weeks after an earthquake and tsunami
damaged the Fukushima plant, 220 kilometers (135 miles) to the
north. Among the top six shippers, only Hapag-Lloyd AG, the No.
4, is diverting vessels to docks in the south of the country.  The Japanese government is allowing ships to sail as close
as 30 kilometers to the stricken reactors, and the  International
Maritime Organization , a United Nations agency, says operations
in and out of  Japan  can continue as normal, with levels of
radiation presenting no medical basis for imposing restrictions.  “These are extremely low levels and are easily cleaned
off,” Commander Jeff Davis, a spokesman for  Seventh Fleet ,
which is helping with recovery efforts, said by yesterday by
telephone. “Even if they weren’t, they still wouldn’t rise to
the level where they would cause any harm to human health.”  Tokyo port, which accounted for 22 percent of Japanese
container throughput last year, according to market researcher
Alphaliner, has tried to ease fears through steps including
posting information about radiation  readings . Levels were safe
as of March 27, according to the Transport Ministry’s  website .  Sales of radiation-detection devices to companies shipping
cargoes to and from Japan have increased, U.K.-based safety-
equipment supplier International Mining & Marine Ltd. said.  Trade Hub  Japanese ports handle about 4 percent of the world’s boxes
and, prior to the quake, 18 percent of the containership fleet
by capacity was due to call in the country, according to data
from the research unit of Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker.  CMA CGM, based in Marseille,  France , said on March 25 that
all of its owned and chartered vessels would continue to call in
Japan as scheduled, serving nine ports -- none of them in the
contaminated area.  Evergreen Marine Corp. of Taipei, the fifth-largest
container line, is serving Tokyo and Yokohama as usual,
spokeswoman Katherine Ko said by telephone. Neptune Orient Lines
Ltd.’s APL unit, the world No. 6, is maintaining services to
Yokohama, Japan’s second-biggest container port, spokesman Mike
Zampa said today.  “Alarm bells aren’t ringing for the shipping industry at
this stage,” Jan Fritz Hansen, executive vice president of the
Copenhagen-based Danish Shipowners’ Association, whose members
account for as much as 7 percent world sea transportation, said
yesterday by phone. “It’s pretty much business as usual.”  Nagoya Return  Hamburg, Germany-based Hapag-Lloyd said March 25 that it
would resume services to Nagoya, Japan’s third-largest container
port, though the moratorium on sailings to Tokyo and Yokohama
will be lifted only when the locations are “considered safe,”
adding that “security is above everything.” Ships are being
rerouted to ports further away from Fukushima, such as Kobe.  The U.S. fleet has taken steps to avoid contamination,
including trying to keep ships upwind from the Fukushima plant
and asking helicopter pilots to fly with windows closed, Davis
said. For sailors on some land missions within 50 nautical miles
of the power plant, it’s also administering potassium iodide.  Radiation on the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier and
helicopters using the ship as a base was cleaned off after the
vessel passed through a plume on March 13, the spokesman said,
adding that there was both surface and air contamination.  “It’s absolutely possible to protect our people against
the possible effects of radiation while carrying out our mission
to help the Japanese people,” Davis said. “It is a risk that
absolutely can be mitigated and managed.”  Debris  The navy is working with Japan’s Self-Defense Forces to
clear harbors of wreckage from the March 11 tsunami and helping
deliver aid. The seven container ports damaged in the disaster
handled only 1.3 percent of Japanese container volumes last year,
according to Alphaliner.  Japan is advising against sailing within 80 nautical miles
of Fukushima because of debris dragged out to sea, Hidefumi
Akagi, who is responsible for advising companies on ocean routes
at the Japan Coast Guard, said today by phone.  Container lines including Copenhagen-based Maersk have set
up their own exclusion zones that go beyond official
recommendations. Neptune Orient’s APL division is keeping ships
200 nautical miles away from the plant and has stopped taking
bookings for cargo to be hauled by land or barge into “high-
risk” areas.  China Action  Overseas authorities are also scanning cargos, and the MOL
Presence was turned away from the Chinese port of Xiamen last
week after passing more than 120 kilometers off the coast of
Fukushima prefecture on March 16. The vessel showed “abnormal”
radiation levels, according to a March 25  notice  on the website
of the Xiamen Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau.  The MOL Presence exhibited a maximum of 3.5 microsieverts
per hour of radiation, operator Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. said
late yesterday, citing a report from the Chinese authorities. A
chest X-ray gives a dose of 20 microsieverts, according to the
U.K. Health Protection Agency’s website, and Jack Edlow, whose
Washington-based Edlow International Co. specializes in shipping
radioactive materials, said the quantity is “barely
detectable.”  The ship, which was loaded with 4,698 containers, is
heading for Kobe, Japan, where Mitsui will arrange for another
inspection, the Tokyo-based shipper said.  Detection Devices  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection  scanned 355 boxes at the
port of  Los Angeles  on the first container ship to arrive from
Japan following the quake, according to operator APL. All boxes
on the vessel, the APL Korea, were cleared for delivery.  Demand for detection devices ranging from hand-held units
to instrumentation wired into the ship’s bridge has shown an
“exponential” jump, said Alan Betts, sales manager at
Sheffield, England-based International Mining & Marine. Delivery
times have stretched to eight or nine weeks from two to three,
he said.  Nippon Yusen KK, Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
hasn’t seen any major impact on schedules because of the
exclusion zone, Jun Katayama, a spokesman, said by phone. The
company is operating liquefied-natural gas, oil and dry-bulk
shipping operations as normal, he said today  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
shipping line, has no plans to operate ships in Fukushima and
the rest of Tohoku region, said Makoto Arai, a spokesman. There
are no major ports in that area, he said. Commodity-shipping
operations are also unaffected, he said today.  Orient Overseas (International) Ltd.,  Hong Kong ’s biggest
container line, is continuing services to all Japanese ports
except those shut because of damage from the tsunami, it said in
an e-mailed reply to questions today. No radiation has been
found on any of its cargos, it said.  The company has been affected by Hapag-Lloyd’s decision to
skip calls because it has an agreement to use space on those
services. Its own vessels are still serving Tokyo, Yokohama and
Nagoya, it said.  Two, Three Hours  Hanjin Shipping Co., the operator of a container terminal
in Tokyo, began inspecting cargo for radiation a few days after
the quake, said Sonya Cho, a spokeswoman. No contamination has
been found, she said. The inspections take two or three hours
and are causing few disruptions to cargo movements, she said.  Seoul-based Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. is operating its
usual services, Lee Jun Ki, a spokesman, said by phone. STX Pan
Ocean Co., South  Korea ’s biggest bulk carrier, also is operating
normally at Japanese ports, spokesman Lim Wang Joo said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  