-- 
Siemens Targets Osram Listing as Loescher Builds Clout to Retool Company

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-29T09:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/siemens-to-sell-shares-in-osram-unit-as-ceo-loescher-shakes-up-structure.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Loescher  only needed two hours to clinch one of the most
sweeping revamps in the engineering company’s 164-year history.  Siemens plans to sell shares in its Osram lighting unit
later this year, slicing off of a business with sales of 4.68
billion euros ($6.59 billion) in 2010 and 40,000 employees. The
Munich-based company will also create a fourth division that
focuses on infrastructure and cities, bundling products such as
trains, airport services and building technologies.  Giving up control of the 105-year-old Osram underscores
Loescher’s clout to see through extensive changes at the
engineering company, as he seeks to narrow the focus on energy,
health care, infrastructure and industry tools. The plan to sell
Osram, approved by the supervisory board yesterday at a two-hour
gathering, follows a sale of a computer-services business
earlier this year, a unit that had racked up years of losses.  “It makes lots of sense and will highlight why Siemens is
one of the best organized and broadest infrastructure suppliers
in the world to help developing economies modernize their
countries,” said Nicholas Heymann, an analyst with Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. in  New York . He predicts Siemens will generate more
than 5 billion euros from the Osram IPO.  Among the Biggest  Siemens fell as much as 1.02 euros, or 1.1 percent, to
93.25 euros in  Frankfurt , and traded at 93.61 euros as of 11:47
a.m., for a market value of about 85.5 billion euros.  Osram has an enterprise value of 5 billion euros to 7
billion euros, according to analyst predictions. An initial
public offering stands to be one of the biggest listings in
 Germany  in a decade, when the country’s average IPO had a value
of 119.5 million euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There were 203 initial public offerings in Germany in the
last 10 years. The largest IPO in that time was of  Tognum AG (TGM) , a
maker of industrial engines that was sold by  Daimler AG (DAI)  for 1.8
billion euros, the Bloomberg data show.  Siemens said it will retain a minority stake in Osram. The
company will remain a “long-term anchor shareholder,” after
selling more than 50 percent of the business, Chief Financial
Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on a conference call today.  Cash Reserves  The disposal will swell cash reserves beyond the 15.6
billion euros that Siemens hoarded at the end of last year,
setting the stage for potential acquisitions after years of
abstaining from takeovers. Loescher has shunned acquisitions and
focused instead on overcoming a bribery scandal that haunted
Siemens for years and felled his two predecessors.  “We are looking at opportunities within our core
sectors,” Loescher said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move,” when asked about
potential acquisitions.  Siemens may inject part of the proceeds back into Osram to
ensure a “rock-solid”  capital structure  for Osram, with a
credit rating target of between A- and BBB+, Kaeser said.  The revamp contrasts with Loescher’s assurance four months
ago that more than a dozen years of restructuring had come to an
end and that Siemens would now be a “normal” company with
higher profitability and predictable dividend payouts.  Adding a Pillar  When Loescher took over, he recast Siemens along three main
so-called sectors that focused on health care, industry and
energy. The structure was skewed toward the industry unit, which
accounted for almost 50 percent of total sales.  Loescher said the new business structure will let Siemens
target 100 billion euros in overall business volume “in the
next few years.” Siemens defines business volume as order
intake plus sales, divided by two. By that calculation, business
volume stood at 78.57 billion euros in the last fiscal year.  Osram, which competes with Royal Philips Electronics NV’s
lighting unit, had operating profit of 569 million euros last
year. Siemens said analysts estimate the total market for
components, luminaires and lighting at about $45 billion. The
size of the market will likely grow to about $65 billion by
2016, Siemens said yesterday.  Wolfgang Dehen, who runs the energy unit, will become head
of Osram, while Strategy Chief Roland Busch will lead the new
unit, called Infrastructure & Cities. Siemens will enlarge its
management board by two members, from eight now.  No More Consumers  Dehen, who will leave Siemens’ management board, initially
ran the VDO automotive division at Siemens, before the company
sold the business to  Continental AG (CON)  in 2007 for 11.4 billion
euros. Osram CEO Martin Goetzeler will become chief operating
officer. Michael Suess, who runs the fossil power unit, will
succeed Dehen at the helm of the energy division.  “We want to play a decisive role in shaping the future of
the lighting market with green, energy-efficient solutions and
products,” Dehen said in the statement.  The planned Osram listing accelerates Siemens’s shift away
from consumer-based products, after the company exited
industries including phones and consumer electronics. Siemens
products range from high-speed trains to  power plants  to medical
scanners and hearing aids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  