-- 
Rand Weakens for 1st Day in Three as Bonds, Equities in South Africa Drop

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-03-28T12:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/south-africa-bonds-extend-longest-rally-in-two-years-on-outlook-for-rates.html
The rand weakened for the first day
in three as the prices of metals including copper, platinum and
gold fell, reducing demand for shares in South African mining
companies.  The rand depreciated as much as 0.7 percent and traded 0.5
percent weaker at 6.8844 per dollar as of 2:17 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It slipped 0.1 percent to 9.6630 per euro.  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the metals producer that accounts for
11 percent of the benchmark gauge, and  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP)  slumped as the prices of  raw materials  retreated for a
second day, lowering the FTSE/JSE Africa All Share index by as
much as 1.1 percent. Mining accounts for half of the country’s
export earnings and 14 percent of  South Africa ’s economy,
according to government data.  “The rand has been weaker today on the back of weaker
equity prices,” said Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13
billion rand ($1.9 billion) of fixed-interest investments at
Metropolitan Asset Management in  Cape Town . “Commodities are
also lower.”  Raw materials, measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index of 24 futures, fell for a second day, slipping 1.1 percent
to 711.21. Copper in  London  lost 1.8 percent, platinum declined
1.2 percent and gold dropped 1.2 percent.  Federal Reserve Speculation  Speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will end its
bond-buying program, reducing the supply of dollars, contributed
to the rand’s retreat. St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President
 James Bullard  said on March 26 policy makers should review
whether to complete $600 billion of Treasury purchases, a policy
known as quantitative easing. The dollar gained today against
most emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  “The rand will continue tracking global risk appetite and
commodity price developments,” wrote  Michael Keenan , an analyst
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, in a research note.  The government’s 57 billion rand of 13.5 percent bonds due
2015 dropped 2 cents to 121.26 rand, leaving the yield little
changed at 7.76 percent.  The bonds, which had gained every day last week, may rally
further if data due this week shows that inflationary pressures
aren’t increasing, enabling the central bank to leave its
benchmark interest rate at a 30-year low for longer, van Zyl
said.  Policy makers led by Governor Gill Marcus left the
benchmark repo rate at 5.5 percent last week, signaling the need
to boost the economy outweighed the risk of inflation from
higher food and oil prices.  Money supply  and credit growth data
due this week may show whether a recovery in  Africa ’s largest
economy is gathering steam.  Credit Data  “We’ve had the Monetary Policy Committee meeting, and
there was no sign that they are close to hiking rates,” van Zyl
said. “There is nothing in this week’s data that is likely to
spook the market.”  Private sector credit probably rose 5.2 percent in
February, compared with 5 percent in January, according to the
median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
broadest measure of money supply probably rose by 8.6 percent,
from 8.2 percent. The data is due on March 30.  “Soft credit growth remains one of the primary reasons why
inflation is likely to soften in the second half of the year,
which will allow the  Reserve Bank  to leave rates on hold for
longer,” Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in an e-mailed research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  