-- 
Anglo’s Kumba Proposes $7 Billion South African Steel Plant

-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 
2011-03-28T14:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/south-african-iron-ore-miners-can-double-output-in-next-decade-kumba-says.html
Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , a unit of
 Anglo American Plc (AAL) , proposed that  South Africa  build a $7
billion plant to make steel slab for export to Asia, helping to
cut unemployment and boost growth in Africa’s largest economy.  The plan would increase the steel industry’s contribution
to economic output to about 17 billion rand ($2.5 billion) in
2015, from 12.7 billion rand in 2008, and create as many as
3,000 jobs, Kumba said in a report today. The plant would export
to  China ,  South Korea  and Japan, countries with surplus rolling
capacity and a shortage of iron ore, a raw material, it said.  South African President Jacob Zuma has pledged in the next
decade to create 5 million jobs in the country, which has the
highest unemployment rate among 60 ranked by Bloomberg. While
the government will increase infrastructure spending, business
also shares the responsibility of creating work, he said.  Kumba said the plant, with an annual capacity of 5 million
metric tons, might cost about $6 to $7 billion and be built at a
coastal site such as Saldanha, Maputo, Richards Bay, or Coega.  “It would require government assistance in terms of
financing,”  Robert Stillman , an economist at Charles River
Associates who contributed to the company’s report, said in
Johannesburg today. “The rate of return could be marginal.”  Rival to ArcelorMittal  The country’s steel market is dominated by  ArcelorMittal
South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , source of about 70 percent of local supply,
and the state has for years sought to curb prices. In August,
the government said it was concerned that higher prices and a
shortage of competition were damaging the economy.  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , the Asian nation’s second-
largest steelmaker, will consider building a 21 billion-rand
plant to rival ArcelorMittal, according to Lazarus Zim, chairman
of Afripalm Resources Ltd., the venture’s local partner.  Zim stepped down as chairman of Kumba in December because
of a possible conflict of interest. Kumba had become embroiled
in a dispute over prospecting rights at its Sishen mine awarded
to Imperial Crown Trading, a company with links to Zim through
his relationship with Jagdish Parekh, an Imperial shareholder.  Anglo American, based in  London , owns about 65 percent of
Johannesburg-based Kumba, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  