-- 
South Korea's Current-Account Surplus Widens in February as Exports Grow

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-28T23:20:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-widens-in-february-as-exports-grow.html
South Korea ’s current-account
surplus widened in February from an 11-month low in January amid
sustained export growth and a narrower travel deficit.  The surplus was $1.18 billion, compared with a revised
$154.7 million, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in Seoul
today. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  South Korea has tried to limit won gains fueled by foreign
capital inflows to keep exports competitive. Overseas shipments
contributed to the fastest economic expansion since 2002 last
year, stoking price pressures and prompting the central bank to
raise interest rates four times since July.  “Exports will likely keep growing, lending significant
support to economic growth,” June Park, an economist at Woori
Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said before the release.
“The central bank may raise interest rates in May as inflation
is an imminent threat.”  The won traded at 1,114.40 per dollar as of the 3 p.m.
close yesterday in Seoul, little changed from 1,114.20 at the
end of last week. The currency has advanced about 1.06 percent
against the dollar this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Kospi index (KOSPI)  of shares rose 0.1 percent to close
at its highest level since Feb. 8.  Overseas Shipments  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis rose 16.9 percent
last month from a year earlier, compared with a revised 45.1
percent gain in January. Imports climbed 16.4 percent after
expanding revised 32.4 percent in January.  Overseas shipments have been boosting earnings at companies
including Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones.  Samsung reported record sales and a 58 percent jump in
operating profit to 17.3 trillion won last year as global sales
of smartphones and NAND flash memory chips climbed.  The central bank raised the benchmark interest rate to 3
percent this month, the second increase this year, after
inflation quickened to 4.5 percent last month. That exceeded the
bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012.  The surplus on traded goods widened to $1.58 billion last
month from revised $1.56 billion in January, today’s report
showed. The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $569 million in February,
compared with revised $1.64 billion in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  