-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: Cajas Present Capital Plans to Bank of Spain

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-28T06:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/spain-daybook-cajas-present-capital-plans-to-bank-of-spain.html
The Bank of Spain receives plans
from savings banks, or cajas, to boost their capital in order to
meet new solvency criteria.  ECONOMY:
*Today is the deadline for cajas that were told on March 10 they
don’t meet new capital requirements to tell the Bank of Spain
how and when they plan to raise the additional funds. The Bank
of Spain has until April 14 to approve those plans or demand
changes to them.
*Spain must be alert and focus on completing economic changes
and creating a more flexible labor system to be more
competitive, Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said
after meeting with Spanish business leaders on March 26.
*Spanish business executives who participated in a meeting with
Zapatero said early elections would be detrimental to Spain’s
economic recovery, Efe reported, citing unidentified people with
knowledge of the matter.
* Norway ’s sovereign fund is interested in investing in small
Spanish companies, including lenders or cajas, El Pais reported,
citing an interview with the Norwegian central bank’s deputy
governor, who is also responsible for managing the fund.
*European Central Bank Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo said the ECB remains “strongly vigilant” for
inflation risks. “When we say strong vigilance it means that
when we assess what the risks to price stability are, they are
very much on the upside,” Gonzalez-Paramo told reporters after
an event in  Washington  on March 25.  EQUITIES:
* China  Construction Bank Corp.’s board has adjusted a plan to
set up a rural joint venture in China with  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
the bank said in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday. The venture will have an initial investment of 3.5
billion  yuan  and CCB will hold 80.1 percent.
* Bankinter SA (BKT)  Chief Executive Officer Maria Dolores Dancausa
said she sees remote chances of purchasing a savings bank, or
caja, as it focuses on organic growth to achieve profit growth
of 20 percent in 2011, El Pais reported.
*Demetrio Carceller, chairman of Disa Corp. Petrolifera SA,
boosted his stake in  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  to 15.7 percent,
becoming the biggest shareholder in the Spanish builder, Cinco
Dias reported, citing a statement from Disa.
* Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA  sold on the market 159,063
shares from March 16 to March 25. It sold the shares at 2.26 to
2.31 euros each, it said in a regulatory filing.
*The boards of Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA and Vivo
Participacoes SA agreed that all of Vivo shares will be owned by
Telesp as part of a restructuring. Telesp will boost its share
capital and Vivo’s shareholders will get 1.55 new shares of
Telesp for each of the Vivo shares they owned,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
said in a regulatory filing.  MARKETS:
*The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  dropped 0.4 percent to 10,710.4.
*The  spread  between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
narrowed to 189.3.  -- Editor: Chris Peterson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  