-- 
Sprint Asks U.S. to Block AT&T’s ‘Anticompetitive’ Purchase

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-28T20:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/sprint-opposes-proposed-at-t-acquisition-of-t-mobile-usa.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless provider, said  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s planned
$39 billion takeover of  T-Mobile USA  will damage industry
competition and called on the government to block it.  “We think the anticompetitive nature of the transaction
simply will not allow it to pass,” Charles McKee, a Sprint vice
president of government affairs, said today in an interview.
“This is really an important transaction to stop.”  Sprint said in a statement that the industry would be
dominated by two carriers, the combined AT&T-T-Mobile and
Verizon Wireless. AT&T said March 20 it agreed to buy T-Mobile
from parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , pending government approval.
The deal would combine the second- and fourth-largest U.S.
wireless providers.  Sprint had also held talks with Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom
to buy T-Mobile, people with knowledge of the matter said this
month. McKee declined to say whether Sprint had held discussions
with T-Mobile over a possible merger.  McKee said  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint would voice
its objections throughout the regulatory process, which AT&T
said could take 12 months. Dan Hesse, Sprint’s chief executive
officer, said last week that the carrier planned to file
objections to the  U.S. Congress  when it begins its review.  Not Acceptable  AT&T expects regulators will require it to divest wireless
spectrum and subscribers to win approval for the acquisition, a
person with knowledge of the situation said last week.  “This is a transaction that should not happen and is not
one that can be conditioned in a way that makes it acceptable,”
McKee said.  Mike Buckley, an AT&T spokesman, said the acquisition “will
improve quality for consumers, provide a solution to impending
spectrum exhaust” and bring so-called fourth-generation service
to more Americans.  Reid Walker, a spokesman for T-Mobile in Bellevue,
 Washington , and Jeff Nelson, a Verizon Wireless spokesman,
declined in e-mails to comment. Robert Kenny, a spokesman for
the Federal Communications Commission, the phone-industry
regulator, also declined to comment.  Sprint rose 10 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $4.78 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. AT&T added 51 cents,
or 1.8 percent, to $29.36.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  