-- 
Stalin Hands Out Laptops as Indian Politicians Ramp Up Campaigns

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-03-28T03:54:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/stalin-hands-out-laptops-as-indian-politicians-ramp-up-campaigns.html
With pledges to dole out laptops to
students and food blenders to housewives, the ruling party in
 India ’s southern state of  Tamil Nadu  kicked off its re-election
bid in the same generous way it captured power five years ago.  Leaders of the  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam  said they will
also hand out color televisions and bus passes for people over
60. Last week, they promised to buy homes for slum dwellers if
victorious in state assembly polls beginning April 13.  “In every election, the DMK takes bribing voters to a new
level,” said Bibhu Mohapatra of the India Development
Foundation, an organization based in the federal capital,  New
Delhi , that campaigns for better governance. “This is now part
of the political process in Tamil Nadu. Voters expect it.”  While about one-fifth of Indian voters surveyed in 2009 by
the Centre for Media Studies, also based in Delhi, said that
politicians or party workers had offered incentives for their
vote in the past 10 years, in  Tamil Nadu  the figure was a third,
the second-highest level in the country. The DMK is part of the
coalition government of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh .  Kanimozhi , daughter of the chief minister of Tamil Nadu,
helps run the governing party with her half-brother M.K. Stalin
and denies it is guilty of buying votes. “People need these
welfare schemes,” Kanimozhi, who uses one name, said in an
interview March 24. “Election promises are made all over the
world.” Neither Kanimozhi nor her party have been charged with
any wrongdoing by officials in connection with this year’s poll.  Her party says it will distribute laptops to all students
from groups at the lower end of India’s caste hierarchy who are
in their first year at university or government colleges.  ‘Women’s Recreation’  Not to be upstaged, the DMK’s chief rival, the All India
Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, said in its manifesto it will
give portable computers to all students aged 16 to 18. Families
will receive a fan, a blender, and a grinder, it said. Those
living below the poverty line will get an extra bonus: four free
sheep.  At the last state elections in 2006, the DMK offered free
color televisions in the name of “women’s recreation and
general knowledge.” Since then the party has bought 16 million
sets for about $827 million of taxpayers’ money, enough for one
in every four people in the state, according to Tamil Nadu’s
 interim budget  published last month.  Handouts included in party manifestos are not barred by
election rules, said T.S. Krishnamurthy, who served as India’s
chief election commissioner for 15 months up to May 2005. The
 Election Commission  can only prevent the practice during the
period between the vote being called and the announcement of the
result, he said in an interview March 24.  Mass Poverty  “If you promised a dam, a bridge or a school, it’s for the
public good, but when you promise something for a section of
voters, in my opinion, it’s a bribe,” Krishnamurthy said.  While Tamil Nadu, with a  per capita  income of about $1,000
in 2009, according to the government’s statistics department, is
prosperous in comparison with other Indian states, about 22
percent of rural households don’t have access to electricity, a
 study  by  New York ’s  Columbia University  found. It is home to
more than 12 million people -- greater than the population of
 Portugal  -- living on less than $2 a day, the  World Bank  says.  “Nobody is dying of starvation, the standard of living is
reasonable,” Kanimozhi said. To tackle the power shortage, “we
have come up with lots of projects in the last five years and by
2012 it will be under control.”  Sari Stampede  Politicians handing out saris to voters in  Uttar Pradesh 
triggered a stampede in 2004 that killed 21 women. In other
regions such as Andhra Pradesh parties have pledged free power
and cheap rice to poor voters. State assemblies will also be
elected in Assam, West Bengal and Kerala in April and May.  Subramaniam Balaji, a Tamil lawyer, filed a complaint to
the Election Commission on March 22 claiming that the DMK is
breaking rules that prevent parties from paying for votes. He
said DMK promises would cost 200,000 rupees ($4,500) per family
over five years and that the money would be better spent on
poverty-reduction programs or building roads and power grids.  “The government cannot afford to fritter away its money,”
Balaji said in an interview in Chennai. “The chief justice of
Madras High Court came to a local court recently where there
were no tables, no chairs, no bathrooms, no water. And the
government is proposing to throw away money on these  luxury
goods . What on earth is going on?”  Parties led by film stars and scriptwriters have dominated
politics in Tamil Nadu for four decades, using cinema to promote
Tamil culture and language and win support. DMK head and Tamil
Nadu chief minister Muthuvel Karunanidhi wrote plays and film
scripts, while AIADMK leader Jayalalitha was formerly a popular
actress.  Former Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja , a member
of the DMK, resigned from the government in November and is now
in jail after being accused of benefitting telecommunications
companies in the 2008 award of licenses to run mobile-phone
services. He denies any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net 
Ganesh Nagarajan at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  