-- 
Stanford, BNP, Madoff, HSBC, Glaxo, Galleon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-28T10:29:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/stanford-madoff-hsbc-deutsche-bank-galleon-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was sued by eight of R. Allen Stanford’s investors,
who claim regulators’ “negligence and misconduct” caused their
losses.  U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s operations in
February 2009 on suspicion of fraud. Investors who purchased
certificates of deposit at the financier’s Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. lost more than $7 billion,
according to a lawsuit filed by the SEC.  The SEC’s inspector general, in a report issued last year,
faulted the agency’s Fort Worth,  Texas , office and some of its
employees for failing to act against Stanford before it did. The
investors, in a lawsuit filed at the U.S. court in Dallas on
March 24, claim regulators should have investigated Stanford
earlier and caught on sooner to what the agency ultimately
contended was a “massive” Ponzi scheme.  “But for the negligent acts and omissions, misconduct and
breaches of duty by Spencer Barasch, a former SEC regional
Enforcement Director, the negligent supervision of Barasch by
his SEC supervisors, and other inexcusable acts of negligence by
SEC employees, the plaintiffs would not have made, and lost,
their investments,” according to the complaint filed by the
investors’ lawyer, Edward Gonzales III.  Barasch, who left the SEC’s Fort Worth office in 2005 and
is now a lawyer in private practice, didn’t return a call March
25 to his law firm, Andrews Kurth LLP in Dallas.  “We strongly believe this action is without merit,”
Andrews Kurth Managing Partner Bob Jewell said in an e-mailed
statement. “Spencer Barasch served the SEC with honor,
integrity and distinction. We disagree with the characterization
of Mr. Barasch’s involvement put forth by the inspector general
in his report last year in regard to the Stanford Financial
Group matter.”  Stanford, 61, who is in jail awaiting trial on parallel
criminal charges, denies any wrongdoing.  The case is Robert Dartez LLC v. the U.S., 3:11-cv-0602,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  ‘Mini-Madoff’ Arrested in $300 Million Suspected Ponzi Scheme  Spanish police said they arrested a foreign-exchange
operator suspected of running a $300 million Ponzi-type fraud
that may have affected at least 100,000 investors in  Europe , the
U.S. and Latin America.  The “mini-Madoff,” dubbed in reference to jailed Ponzi
conman Bernard L. Madoff, offered returns of as much as 10
percent to 20 percent monthly for investments in foreign
currencies and instead used the money to buy real estate for
himself and colleagues, according to a National Police statement
March 25.  The man, German Cardona Soler, is 49 years old and a
Spanish citizen, said a police spokeswoman who declined to be
named, following agency policy. He was arrested in the
Mediterranean city of Valencia. Two more people were apprehended
and seven people were accused in relation to the suspected
fraud, the statement said.  Accounts in 12 banks have been blocked and the titles
frozen for more than 20 properties in Spain, the police said.  In Ponzi schemes, money from new customers is typically
used to pay phony “returns” to earlier investors, giving the
pretense that actual investments have taken place.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BNP, Deutsche Bank Suits Against Bank of America Narrowed  A federal judge narrowed suits filed against  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  by  BNP Paribas Mortgage Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
over hundreds of millions of dollars in losses on asset-backed
commercial paper, dismissing some of the claims while allowing
the cases to go forward.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet on March 23 dismissed
several claims against Bank of America and ruled that  BNP
Paribas (BNP) , the parent of BNP Paribas Mortgage, is an improper
plaintiff in the suit.  Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas Mortgage sued separately in
2009, claiming they lost $1.6 billion in asset-backed notes. The
notes were issued by a special-purpose entity known as Ocala
Funding LLC, which provided funding for mortgage loans
originated by Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  The BNP Paribas unit and Deutsche Bank claim their
agreements required that Ocala hold $1.6 billion in cash or
mortgage loans as collateral to be deposited with Bank of
America, the deal’s trustee.  “BNP Paribas is pleased with the judge’s decision and we
look forward to continuing to pursue our remedies in court,”
bank spokeswoman Megan Stinson said in an e-mailed statement.  “The judge significantly limited the plaintiffs’ case,
dismissing 14 of their 20 claims, and held that the remaining
claims must be decided on the facts,” Bank of America spokesman
 Bill Halldin  said in an e-mailed statement. “We look forward to
presenting those facts to the court.‬‪"  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Amanda Williams didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  The cases are Deutsche Bank v. Bank of America, 09-cv-9784,
and BNP Paribas v. Bank of America, 09-cv-9783, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Calls Lawyer’s Demand ‘Baseless, Fallacious’  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm said a
lawyer’s attempt to remove him from his job was a “baseless,
fallacious and unprofessional attack” that should be
“summarily rejected” by the bankruptcy judge.  Helen Chaitman, a lawyer for Madoff investors, has been
seeking to overturn trustee  Irving Picard ’s $220 million
settlement with heirs of Norman Levy, saying Picard concealed
the scale of Levy’s business with the jailed conman. Last week
in a court filing, she asked a judge to remove Picard from his
post.  Chaitman didn’t “set forth” any basis for the trustee’s
removal, a lawyer for Picard said in a letter to U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan on March 25.  “The attempt to remove the trustee and counsel in a reply
brief is procedurally flawed and lacks any foundational
support,” wrote  David Sheehan  of Picard’s law firm, Baker &
Hostetler LLP. “Moreover, it is a baseless, fallacious and
unprofessional attack upon the integrity of the trustee and his
counsel.”  The effort to undo the settlement should be denied, he
said.  Chaitman said Sheehan’s letter hadn’t challenged her claim
that Picard withheld “material” information.  “We will be seeking the appropriate relief,” she said in
a voice-mail message.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  EIIB Can’t Join HSBC Joint Lawsuit Against Algosaibi  European Islamic Investment Bank Plc (EIIB) , the London-based
lender whose deals comply with Sharia law, cannot add its $78
million claim against Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co. to a
U.K. group lawsuit, a judge ruled.  The bank knew about the joint claims by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and five other lenders against Algosaibi, a Saudi investment
company, by at least October and waited too long to ask to join,
Justice Julian Flaux ruled March 25 at the High Court in  London .  Allowing EIIB to join the consolidated lawsuit “runs the
risk of derailing the whole case,” Flaux said in the hearing.
The bank “has only itself to blame” for deciding to spend time
on settlement talks instead of suing sooner, he said.  The dispute, stemming from the largest default in Saudi
Arabia to come out of the financial crisis, has total claims of
about $250 million and is scheduled for trial in June. The case
already faces potential delays in procuring evidence because of
unrest in the Middle East, Flaux said.  The suit includes HSBC’s $85 million claim, British Arab
Commercial Bank Ltd.’s $19 million claim, Arab Banking Corp.’s
claims totaling $140 million and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million
claim. The banks, which say they are competing for limited
assets, challenged EIIB’s bid to join the case.  The suit was triggered by a dispute between Algosaibi, a
holding company with interests from bottling to finance, and
Maan al-Sanea, the founder of Saudi Arabia’s Saad Group. Units
of the two families defaulted after borrowing at least $15.7
billion from more than 80 banks, and lawsuits are pending around
the globe.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts and Settlements  Ex-CSK Auto Chief Settles SEC Clawback Suit, Records Show  Former CSK Auto Corp. Chief Executive Officer Maynard
Jenkins settled a U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
lawsuit seeking to recover $4.1 million he received during an
accounting fraud he didn’t orchestrate, according to court
filings.  Jenkins, who stepped down as CSK’s top executive in 2007,
agreed to resolve regulators’ claims that he improperly received
bonuses and wrongfully profited from stock sales, SEC officials
said in the March 24 filing. Terms of the “tentative
settlement” weren’t disclosed.  “The settlement agreement will avoid the need for the
parties to spend further resources prosecuting or defending
these claims,” lawyers for the SEC and Jenkins said in the
filing in federal court in Phoenix.  The SEC’s 2009 case against Jenkins was the first so-called
“clawback” suit seeking to seize executive payouts from an
official who wasn’t directly involved in wrongdoing at his
company.  Matthew MacDonald, a Los Angeles-based lawyer for Jenkins,
and  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t return calls seeking
comment on the settlement.  The SEC sued Jenkins after CSK, acquired by  O’Reilly
Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  in 2008, was forced to restate financial results
from fiscal year 2001 through 2005. Company officials said as
much as $89 million in inventory and vendor allowances were
overstated.  The case is SEC v. Jenkins, 09-cv-1510, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Deutsche Bank Asked About Business With Kirch Media  Leo Kirch , in his first court appearance in a nine-year-old
dispute with Deutsche Bank AG, said the lender in 2001
“surprisingly” contacted him about doing business with his
media group.  Kirch, 84, testified at a Munich appeals court hearing
March 25 in a 2 billion-euro ($2.8 billion) lawsuit against the
bank and its former chief executive officer,  Rolf Breuer .  Kirch’s feud with the Frankfurt-based bank stems from a
February 2002 Bloomberg television interview in which Breuer
said, “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Four months later Kirch Holding GmbH filed the
country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  “Breuer requested information from us and said he needs to
know everything,” Kirch said in a statement read to the court
on his behalf. “There was no doubt that he meant the complete
Kirch group.”  Kirch lost the case in lower court and appealed. The bank
and Breuer deny wrongdoing.  Kirch is seeking to establish that negotiations with
Deutsche Bank in 2001 and early 2002 reached a point under
German law that allows a plaintiff rights similar to breach of
contract claims. Breuer told the court in February that Kirch
took the initiative and asked former German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl to help arrange the meeting.  Kirch, who suffers from diabetes and deteriorating
eyesight, was brought into the courtroom in a wheelchair. He
voice was barely audible and an aide sitting next to him helped
him answer the court’s questions. After 90 minutes, a doctor
said Kirch could no longer testify. The court will recall him at
another date.  The case is OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09 For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Florida Settles With Law Firm in Foreclosure Investigation  A Fort Lauderdale, Florida, law firm agreed to pay $2
million to resolve an investigation by the state attorney
general’s office into the firm’s handling of foreclosure cases
on behalf of lenders.  The Law Offices of Marshall C. Watson also agreed to adhere
to certain requirements in its foreclosure cases, Attorney
General Pam Bondi said in a statement March 25. Investigations
into other law firms are ongoing, she said.  “We are aggressively investigating these law firms in
order to protect the interests of everyone involved in
foreclosure proceedings,” Bondi said.  The Florida attorney general’s office said last year it was
investigating law firms in the state that handle residential
foreclosure cases. The firms appeared to be “fabricating and/or
presenting false and misleading documents in foreclosure
cases,” the office said on its website.  The attorney general’s office continues to investigate four
firms, spokeswoman Jennifer Meale said in a phone interview
March 25. The firms are the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA,
Shapiro & Fishman LLP, Florida Default Law Group and Ben-Ezra &
Katz PA, she said.  The state also has “informal inquiries” into additional
foreclosure law firms, Meale said. She declined to provide
details of the probes.  Watson, the president and chief executive officer of the
firm, said in a statement he is pleased the investigation was
resolved “without any findings.”  Ex-Glaxo Lawyer May Face New Indictment After Case Dismissed  An ex- GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  lawyer who won dismissal of a
false-statements case against her may face new charges after a
federal judge said he would allow prosecutors to seek another
indictment.  U.S. District Judge Roger Titus set an April 26 trial date
in Greenbelt, Maryland, for the lawyer, Lauren Stevens, saying
it was conditioned on whether the government could secure a new
indictment in time. Titus dismissed the case against Stevens on
March 23 after finding prosecutors misinformed the grand jury
about a key element of Stevens’s defense.  “The government can’t make a commitment as to which way it
will go,” Titus said at a hearing March 25, noting the
prosecutors could also seek to appeal the dismissal.  Stevens was charged with obstructing an investigation into
whether Glaxo marketed the antidepressant Wellbutrin for
unapproved uses. She based her defense on the claim that, in
responding to a Food and Drug Administration inquiry, she took
the advice of the law firm King & Spalding, her attorney Reid
Weingarten said at a hearing two weeks ago.  Weingarten declined to comment March 25.  Prosecutors wouldn’t say in court March 25 what they plan
to do. At the previous hearing on whether the case should be
dismissed, government lawyers said they wanted an opportunity to
seek another indictment if Titus threw out the case. Stevens was
scheduled to go to trial on April 5.  Patrick Jasperse, the Justice Department attorney
prosecuting the case, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Stevens, 10-cr-694, U.S. District
Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  Rajaratnam Criminal Case Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  Galleon Group LLC’s  Raj Rajaratnam , who is accused of
making $45 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders, had
the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  Rajaratnam, 53, is the central figure in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing, saying he based trades on
research.  The trial began March 8. Prosecutors said last week that
they will present another two weeks’ of testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 