-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance as UBS, Credit Suisse, Swiss Re Lead Gains

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-28T15:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/swiss-stocks-advance-as-ubs-credit-suisse-swiss-re-lead-gains.html
Swiss stocks advanced for an eighth
day, the longest winning streak in 13 months, as banking shares
climbed.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank rose 1.3 percent. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-largest reinsurer, gained
1.9 percent as the head of Aon Corp.’s German brokerage unit
said the industry may see a stabilization of rates after  Japan ’s
worst earthquake on record.  The Swiss Market Index of the biggest and most actively
traded companies gained 0.1 percent to 6,359.02 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich. The gauge surged 4.2 percent last week, its
largest weekly gain in more than a year, as investors speculated
that Japan will contain its nuclear crisis and the U.S., the
U.K. and  France  took control of Libya’s airspace. The broader
Swiss Performance Index added 0.2 percent today.  “Markets have rebounded after two particularly difficult
weeks,” said Jean-Paul Jeckelmann, chief investment officer at
Banque Bonhote & Cie. SA in Neuchatel,  Switzerland , who helps
manage 1.2 billion Swiss francs ($1.3 billion) of equities. “We
should expect from now on to see markets switching between
optimism and skepticism.”  Workers have been unable to return to the No. 2 and No. 3
reactors at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant because of
radiation, more than two weeks after a magnitude-9 earthquake
and tsunami knocked out power to the nuclear plant. The
radiation has delayed efforts to drain contaminated water and
connect electricity to the reactors’ cooling systems.  Libyan Airstrikes  In North Africa, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
yesterday agreed to take command of all military operations in
Libya to protect civilians from forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Within hours of that decision, allied warplanes
attacked the capital, Tripoli, and Sirte, Qaddafi’s birthplace,
the Associated Press reported. The strikes on Sirte were the
first of the military campaign, which began on March 19.  UBS gained 1.3 percent to 17.05 francs as Morgan Stanley
added the stock to its “best ideas  Europe ” list, saying it
sees the bank as “one of the key beneficiaries of the changes
facing the industry, with its industry-leading book value
growth” and attractive valuation.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  rose
0.6 percent to 39.17 francs.  Swiss Re increased 1.9 percent to 51.50 francs, erasing its
drop on March 25. Jan-Oliver Thofern, head of AonBenfield in
 Germany , Austria and Switzerland, said European reinsurers may
see a stabilization of rates after two years of declines.  Japan’s earthquake “and other events during the first
quarter will definitely leave marks on reinsurance rates,”
Thofern said in an interview. “I would expect reinsurance rates
in Europe to stabilize, depending on the further course of
catastrophes such as the U.S. hurricane season this year.”  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  declined 1.5 percent to 92.65 francs as
Credit Suisse downgraded the stock to “underperform” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net 
Giles Broom in Zurich at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 