-- 
U.K. Olympic Group Seeks ‘Amicable’ Solution to London 2012 Funding Row

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-28T15:22:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-k-olympic-group-seeks-amicable-solution-to-london-2012-funding-row.html
The British Olympic Association is
seeking an “amicable solution” to a financial dispute with the
organizers of the  2012 London Olympics , the governing body’s
chairman Colin Moynihan said.  “I can report that good progress was made over the
weekend,” Moynihan said at a press conference introducing 27
gold medalists as Team GB ambassadors in  London  today. “The
government has agreed to a meeting to discuss an amicable
solution to the dispute.”  The BOA is taking legal action against London 2012
organizers in a wrangle over whether the association’s share of
profit from the London Summer Games should include the
Paralympics. Inclusion of the cost of the Paralympics would
shrink the surplus left over for the BOA, which is responsible
for the U.K.’s participation in the  Olympic Games .  The  association  has filed a case with the Court of
Arbitration for Sport, the top sports tribunal in  Switzerland ,
even though the  International Olympic Committee  ruled against
the BOA in the dispute.  On March 24, Moynihan and Chief Executive Officer Andy Hunt
were excluded from board meetings of the  London 2012 Olympics 
organizing committee because of the disagreement between the two
bodies.  With 487 days to go before the opening ceremony in the
Olympic Stadium, the U.K. government had this weekend called on
the sides to settle their differences and focus on the athletes
and the Games. The BOA will be looking after 550 British
athletes before and during the Olympics.  ‘Sort It Out’  “This is not the right argument for us to be having so
close to having the Olympics in our country and we need to sort
it out very quickly,”  Jeremy Hunt , the U.K. Secretary of State
for Culture, Olympics, Media and Sport, told the British
Broadcasting Corp. yesterday.  The BOA today introduced its Team GB ambassadors at a press
conference at the Tate Modern museum in London.  They include former figure-skating gold medalists Jayne
Torvill and Christopher Dean, double middle-distance Olympic
champion Kelly Holmes, heptathlon gold medalist Denise Lewis and
five-time Olympic rowing champion Steve Redgrave.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  