-- 
U.S. Stocks Erase Gains as Marriott Leads Consumer Shares Lower

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-28T21:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-at-t-kodak-increase-in-european-trading.html
U.S. stocks fell, erasing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s gain in the final 20 minutes of
trading, as Marriott International Inc. led consumer shares
lower and concern grew that Japan is failing to contain
hazardous materials at its damaged nuclear plant.  Marriott lost 6.3 percent after the largest U.S. hotel
chain said revenue growth is being held back by weak North
American demand.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) 
slumped 5.7 percent.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  slipped 4.3 percent after
announcing a $2.4 billion takeover of  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC)   Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  fell 5.7 percent as it sold preferred stock.
 RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  rallied 5 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
after saying it will sell Apple Inc.’s iPad 2 starting tomorrow.  The S&P 500 lost 0.3 percent to 1,310.19 at 4 p.m. in New
York after climbing as much as 0.5 percent earlier. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  decreased 22.71 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 12,197.88. Trading volume on U.S. exchanges totaled 5.96
billion shares, the lowest since Dec. 31.  “I’d expect the market would struggle more, particularly
with unknowns, not only in  Japan , but all across the Mideast and
north Africa,” said Bruce Bittles, chief investment strategist
at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co., which oversees $85
billion. “There’s a lot of uncertainty out there.”  Equities rallied earlier, sending the Dow average 52.33
points higher, after  consumer spending  and sales of existing
homes topped projections. Stock indexes dropped as radiation
levels that can prove fatal were detected outside reactor
buildings at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Consumer Spending, Incomes  Consumer spending increased 0.7 percent, the most since
October, to beat the 0.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, Commerce Department figures showed.
Incomes rose 0.3 percent, less than projected. The index of
pending home resales increased 2.1 percent after a 2.8 percent
drop the prior month, according to the National Association of
Realtors.  Policy makers should review whether to complete a second
round of asset purchases scheduled to end in June because of
strong U.S. economic data, Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said to reporters in Marseille,  France , on March 26.
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and Richmond Fed
President Jeffrey Lacker have also urged a review of the
stimulus measures in light of a strengthening economy and
concern over future inflation.  Plutonium  U.S. equities fell on concern that Japan is failing to
contain hazardous materials at the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant. The discovery of plutonium particles outside the plant
north of  Tokyo  means there has been degradation of the nuclear
fuel in at least one of the reactors, International Atomic
Energy Agency Deputy Director General of Safety Denis Flory said
today at a press briefing in Vienna.  Nine out of 10 industry groups in the  S&P 500  fell, led by
an index of companies dependent on discretionary spending by
consumers, which slid 1.1 percent.  Marriott tumbled 6.3 percent to $35.30 for the biggest drop
in the S&P 500. The company expects first-quarter revenue per
available room to rise about 7 percent, at the low end of the
company’s forecast of 7 percent to 9 percent, as North American
demand has been below expectations, the hotel chain said.  Starwood, the owner of the St. Regis and W hotel brands,
slid 5.7 percent to $55.37.  EBay  EBay fell 4.3 percent to $30.34 after the owner of the
largest e-commerce market agreed to buy GSI for about $2.4
billion to add services that help retailers market and
distribute wares. GSI investors will get $29.25 a share in cash,
San Jose, California-based EBay said today in a statement.  Goodyear Tire lost 5.7 percent to $14.57 after the largest
U.S. tiremaker said it started a public offering of $435 million
of mandatory convertible preferred stock.  RadioShack surged 5 percent to $15.01. The electronics
retailer will start selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad2 tablet computer
tomorrow at 500 locations. Stifel Nicolaus raised the Fort
Worth, Texas-company to a “buy” from a “hold” with a
forecast price of $21.  Some energy companies surged, as Bank of America Corp. said
oilfield activity will accelerate in Saudi Arabia.  “A rapid increase in Middle East activity is imminent,”
according to a Bank of America note today, which “could cause
pricing power to shift to oil service companies.”  Schlumberger, Halliburton  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield contractor,
climbed 4.1 percent to $90.43 for the second-biggest gain in the
S&P 500. The Houston-based company was awarded $100 million in
contracts in Iraq. The impact from disruptions from Middle East
as well as weather will be 8 cents a share to 10 cents a share,
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Gould said at Howard Weil Inc.’s
energy conference in New Orleans.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest oilfield-
services provider, jumped 4 percent to $47.90 for the third-
largest increase in the S&P 500.  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  climbed 3.8
percent to $73.76.  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  jumped 5.3 percent to $3.58 after the
U.S. International Trade Commission said it will review a
judge’s findings from January that Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry don’t violate Kodak’s
patent on a way to preview digital images using less processing
power and storage space. The victory may add more than $1
billion in revenue from royalty payments, Kodak Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said in an interview.  AT&T Inc. (T)  rose 1.8 percent to $29.36 to help lead telephone
companies in the S&P 500 to a 1.4 percent advance, the only gain
among 10 groups. Robert Baird raised the shares to
“outperform” from “neutral.” AT&T may rally as much as 15
percent in the next year if the acquisition of T-Mobile USA is
approved, Barron’s reported. The company plans to expand 4G
wireless to cover 95 percent of the U.S., up from 80 percent,
after the proposed $39 billion takeover, Barron’s reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  