-- 
Navy Says Japan Radiation ‘Easily’ Cleaned Off Ships

-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-03-29T06:49:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-s-navy-says-japan-radiation-can-be-cleaned-off-vessels-with-soap-water.html
The U.S. Navy, which is helping
with recovery efforts following an earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , said radiation on vessels from a leaking nuclear-power
plant can be scrubbed off with soap and water.  “These are extremely low levels and are easily cleaned
off,” Commander Jeff Davis, a spokesman for  Seventh Fleet , said
by phone today. “Even if they weren’t, they still wouldn’t rise
to the level where they would cause any harm to human health.”  Concerns about radiation have disrupted commercial shipping
with Hapag Lloyd AG halting services to Tokyo, the Japanese
government barring vessels from within 30 kilometers (19 miles)
of the plant and overseas authorities scanning cargos. The MOL
Presence was rejected by a port in  China  last week because of
“abnormal” radiation levels after passing more than 120
kilometers off the coast of Fukushima prefecture.  The U.S. fleet has taken steps to avoid contamination,
including trying to keep ships upwind from the stricken
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, Davis said. The navy is
working with Japan’s Self-Defense Forces to clear ports of
debris from the March 11 tsunami and helping deliver aid, Davis
said.  MOL Presence  The vessel, operated by Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., is
heading for Kobe, Japan, according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking
data on Bloomberg. Eiko Mizuno, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based
Mitsui O.S.K., said today she couldn’t comment immediately on
what will happen to the ship. Calls to the port of Kobe were
referred to the shipping line, which operates a terminal there.  The ship sailed past Fukushima on March 16, according to
Mitsui O.S.K. It called in at  Tokyo  on March 17 before sailing
to Xiamen with 4,698 containers onboard. The nuclear-power plant,
damaged following Japan’s strongest recorded earthquake on March
11, is about 220 kilometers north of Tokyo.  The MOL Presence was rejected in Xiamen because of
“abnormal” radiation amounts on its deck and containers,
according to a March 25  notice  on the website of the Xiamen
Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau. The notice didn’t
say how much radiation was detected on the ship or what type it
was. The berth used by the vessel wasn’t contaminated, it said.  Radiation Cleaned  Radiation on the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier and
helicopters using the ship as a base was cleaned off after the
vessel passed through a plume from the reactor on March 13,
Davis said. There was both surface and air contamination, Davis
said. The navy didn’t identify the type of radiation, he said.  “It’s absolutely possible to protect our people against
the possible effects of radiation while carrying out our mission
to help the Japanese people,” Davis said. “It is a risk that
absolutely can be mitigated and managed.”  For sailors on some land missions within 50 nautical miles
of the power plant, the U.S. Navy is administering potassium
iodide, he said. It is also asking helicopter pilots to fly with
windows closed and cabin sealed, he said.  The nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS George Washington
last week left port at Yokosuka, 175 miles south from the plant,
to avoid getting residual traces of radiation on the vessel,
which could trigger alarms and require extensive cleanup.  Plant Proximity  Japan has barred ships from sailing within 30 kilometers of
the nuclear plant because of radiation concerns and it is
advising against going within 80 nautical miles (148 kilometers)
because of debris, Hidefumi Akagi, who is responsible for
advising shipping lines on sea routes at the Japan Coast Guard,
said today by phone.  Nippon Yusen KK (9101) , Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
hasn’t seen any major impact on schedules because of the
exclusion zone, Jun Katayama, a spokesman, said today by phone.
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , the nation’s third-largest shipping
line, has no plans to operate ships in Fukushima and the rest of
Tohoku region, said Makoto Arai, a spokesman. There are no major
ports in that area, he said.  NOL Ships  Neptune Orient Lines Ltd.’s APL Ltd. unit is keeping ships
200 nautical miles away from the plant, Mike Zampa, a spokesman,
said yesterday. The shipping line is continuing its regular
calls to Kobe and Yokohama, he said. It has stopped taking
bookings for cargos to be hauled by land or barge into “high-
risk” areas near the nuclear plant, he said.  Hapag-Lloyd has omitted stops in Japan’s Nagoya, Tokyo and
Yokohama port because of “the current situation,” according to
a March 22 statement on its website. That was still in effect
March 25. A Hapag-Lloyd spokesman couldn’t be reached for
comment yesterday.  Orient Overseas (International) Ltd.,  Hong Kong ’s biggest
container line, is continuing services to all Japan ports except
those shut because of damage from the tsunami, said Stephen Shen,
a spokesman. The company has been affected by Hapag-Lloyd’s
decision to skip Japan port calls because it has an agreement to
use space on those services, he said.  Hanjin Shipping Co., the operator of a container terminal
in Tokyo, began inspecting cargo for radiation a few days after
the quake, Sonya Cho, a spokeswoman, said today by phone from
the company’s  Seoul  headquarters. No contamination has been
found, she said. The inspections take two or three hours and are
causing few disruptions to cargo movements, she said.  Tokyo Port  Tokyo port has tried to ease fears through steps including
posting information about radiation levels  online . The levels of
radiation around Tokyo port were safe as of March 27, according
to the Transport Ministry’s  website .  Overseas ports have stepped up scanning of containers
arriving from Japan because of radiation concerns.  U.S. Customs 
and  Border Protection  scanned 355 boxes at the port of Los
Angeles onboard the first container ship to arrive in the
country from Japan following the quake, according to operator
APL. All boxes on the vessel, the APL  Korea , were cleared for
delivery.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., based in Seoul, is operating
its usual services, Lee Jun Ki, a spokesman, said by phone today.
STX Pan Ocean Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest bulk carrier, also is
operating its vessels normally at Japanese ports, Lim Wang Joo,
a spokesman, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  