-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance After Consumer Spending Beats Economists's Forecasts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 
2011-03-28T13:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-after-consumer-spending-tops-forecasts.html
U.S. stocks rose, adding to the
biggest weekly rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in
almost two months last week, after consumer spending topped
economists’ forecasts.  The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent to 1,315.51 at 9:32 a.m. in
 New York . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 10.44
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,231.03.  Consumer spending increased 0.7 percent, the most since
October, after advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed. Incomes increased 0.3 percent, less
than projected. The  Federal Reserve ’s preferred measure of
inflation, which excludes food and fuel, rose 0.2 percent for a
second month and was up 0.9 percent from a year earlier.  Federal Reserve policy makers should review whether to
complete a second round of asset purchases due to end in June
because of strong U.S. economic data, Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said to reporters in Marseille, France,
on March 26. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser and
Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker have also urged a review
of the stimulus measures in light of a strengthening economy and
concern over future inflation.  At 10 a.m., the National Association of Realtors may report
its index of pending home resales was unchanged in February
following declines the prior two months, economists in a
Bloomberg survey predicted.  The S&P 500 rose 2.7 percent last week, its biggest rally
since the beginning of February, after Oracle Corp.’s profit
forecast beat analyst estimates and the rate of economic growth
was revised higher.  The gauge has recouped all of its losses following  Japan ’s
magnitude-9 earthquake on March 11, which resulted in the worst
nuclear disaster since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  Stocks also climbed last week as the air forces of the
U.S., the U.K. and France took control of Libya’s airspace. The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization yesterday agreed to take
command of all military operations in Libya to protect civilians
from forces loyal to leader Muammar Qaddafi.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  