-- 
U.S. North May Receive More Rain and Cold, Climate Center Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-28T20:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-s-north-may-receive-more-rain-and-cold-climate-center-says.html
The northern U.S., with the
exception of  Minnesota , has a greater chance of precipitation
and cooler weather through the first 11 days of April, according
to the U.S. Climate Prediction Center.  Flood prone areas of North Dakota and New Jersey are among
the areas that may see more rain and possibly snow, according to
the center’s 6- to 10-day and 8- to 14-day outlooks updated
today.  The northern Plains states of North Dakota, South Dakota
and Minnesota are among the areas that have an increased threat
of flooding in coming weeks, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  The center also repeated its forecast for cooler weather to
hold in the northern U.S., including  New York  and the Northeast.
Private forecasters Commodity Weather Group LLC and MDA EarthSat
Weather have called for more moderate temperatures in that time
frame.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy gas futures or cover short positions.
Commodity traders watch precipitation forecasts for potential
impact on planting and yields.  There is a greater probability for less rainfall in the
U.S. Southwest,  Texas  northward into Nebraska, as well as in
Florida, from April 3 to April 7, according to the center. From
April 5 to April 11 there is a chance for below-normal rainfall
in Florida, southern Texas and the Southwest.  Drought Expectations  Severe drought is expected to continue in eastern Colorado,
as well as western and central Texas and parts of southern
Oklahoma, according to the  National Weather Service . Some relief
is expected in east Texas, southern Arkansas, Louisiana,
 Florida , parts of Alabama and  North Carolina .  Drought conditions exist across much of the area from
Arizona to North Carolina, according to the  U.S. Drought
Monitor . Eastern Texas, western Louisiana, southern Arkansas and
southern Florida are among the hardest-hit regions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  