-- 
U.S. Agencies May Spend $1 Billion to Initiate Dodd-Frank Act

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-28T18:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/u-s-agencies-may-spend-1-billion-to-initiate-dodd-frank-act.html
The Dodd-Frank financial-regulation
law may require the federal government to spend almost $1
billion and hire or transfer more than 2,000 employees in the
months ahead, according to the Government Accountability Office.  The 11 agencies implementing the law, including the
Treasury Department,  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., told the GAO they would need as much as $973
million to establish the new rules. The agencies, which provided
the GAO with their Dodd-Frank-related costs for either the 2011
calendar year or for fiscal 2012, said that most of the expense
would be recurring, according to a GAO slide presentation sent
to U.S.  House Republicans  and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Taxpayers are likely to bear only part of the
implementation costs. While three of the 11 agencies are at
least partly funded by congressional appropriations, six are
funded fully or partly by assessments on industry, one fully by
federal budget offsets and one, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, by transfers from the Federal Reserve.  The consumer bureau, which has been targeted by Republicans
for structural changes and funding cuts, may require $329
million in fiscal 2012 and more than 883 new employees, the GAO
said.  Republicans requested the GAO report in advance of a
Financial Services subcommittee  hearing  on Dodd-Frank this week.
Republican lawmakers have proposed several changes to the law,
which was enacted last year when Democrats held majorities in
the House and Senate. Democrats still control the Senate and
White House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  