-- 
Mubadala Aerospace in Talks With Boeing Over Parts-Supply Order

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-03-28T10:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/mubadala-aerospace-in-talks-with-boeing-over-parts-supply-order.html
Mubadala Aerospace, the Abu Dhabi-
owned maker of parts for Airbus SAS, is in talks with  Boeing Co. (BA) 
over a contract to make components for the U.S. planemaker.  Mubadala Aerospace, a unit of Mubadala Development Co., is
working on three to four new projects including joint ventures
for this year, Executive Director Hommaid al-Shemmari said in a
telephone interview from Abu Dhabi.  “We are working with Boeing on multiple levels,” said
Shemmari, when asked about opportunities for making parts for
Boeing planes. “Talks are still at the informal stage. Maybe
within the next few months we could make an announcement.”  Mubadala Aerospace, which also has partnerships with
Finmeccanica SpA and General Electric Co., aims to break even by
2012, even with the cost of taking on and developing new
projects. It’s building a maintenance facility costing as much
as $200 million to service engines for Airbus A380s and Boeing
787s. Parent company Mubadala generated earnings of 5.2 billion
dirhams ($1.4 billion) from aerospace interests last year.  Mubadala Aerospace manufactures composite aircraft
structures for Airbus A330s and A340s. It will also start making
five other plane parts this year, including for A380s, the
executive said.  “We are hoping to break even this year, even though we
will start new projects and companies, but 2012 is the target
date,” said Shemmari. The aerospace company is constantly on
the lookout for acquisitions and is eyeing a number of
opportunities, said Shemmari, declining to give further details.  FACC Flap Casings  Production of fairings for composite-part designer FACC AG
of  Austria  began last year after the two companies formed an
industrial partnership in 2009. Mubadala Aerospace has now
delivered 25 sets of the fairing that enclose the mechanisms
operating the flaps since making its first shipment in November,
and it aims to deliver 90 so-called ship sets by year end.  Abu Dhabi , home to more than 7 percent of the world’s
proven crude reserves, is building itself into a global hub to
supply the aerospace manufacturing industry, part of its
economic strategy to diversify away from oil.  Parent company Mubadala owns stakes in  Carlyle Group  and
General Electric Co. The value of its aerospace assets increased
26 percent to 11 billion dirhams last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  