-- 
Mugabe Vows to Force Foreigners to Sell Majority Stakes in Zimbabwe Mines

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-28T16:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/mugabe-vows-to-force-foreign-mining-companies-to-sell-stakes-in-zimbabwe.html
Zimbabwe’s government will make
sure foreign companies are “junior partners” in the country,
President  Robert Mugabe  said after the state published
regulations to take 51 percent of foreign-operated mines.  “We are taking back our country,” Mugabe said yesterday
in the capital, Harare. “Listen, Britain and America, this is
our country. If you have companies which would want to work in
our mining sector, they are welcome to come and join us, but we
must have our people as the major shareholders.”  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  “must transform and
become Zimbabwean,” the 87-year-old leader said.  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s second-biggest platinum and
chrome reserves after  South Africa , said in a March 25 decree
that foreign mining companies must explain within 45 days how
they’ll cede 51 percent of their local assets to “indigenous”
Zimbabweans. The companies have six months to sell the stakes,
it said. The regulations are in line with the Indigenization and
Economic Empowerment Act, signed into law three years ago.  “It’s another dimension to the struggle,” Mugabe said.
“Let that lesson go deep.” Investors should “come as friends,
not as masters and superiors,” he said.  Shares Drop  The government’s order weighed on the shares of companies
operating in the southern African nation.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , which has a stake in the Mimosa
mine, fell 7 percent, the most in eight months, at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London  today. The company said March 25 its Mimosa
Mining unit is in talks with the Zimbabwean authorities to find
out how to comply with the law, and is “confident it will be in
a strong position to meet the requirements.”  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , pursuing a $500 million mine
expansion in Zimbabwe, declined 2.8 percent to 192 rand in
Johannesburg.  Anglo Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , majority owned by Anglo
American, retreated 2.4 percent to 663 rand.  It’s unclear whether companies will get a market price, or
any payment, for the shares they’re forced to sell, John Robertson an independent economist based in Harare, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “Non-payment for what is being purchased would normally be
considered very good cause for not parting with the asset, but
it appears that the government has no intention of offering the
mining companies the right to cancel the sale of their shares on
such grounds,” Robertson said. “The much more serious longer-
term effect of these regulations will be the almost complete
arrest of new mining investment inflows.”  No Expropriation  Mugabe is pushing for elections this year, against the
wishes of the opposition. His Zimbabwe African National Union-
Patriotic Front is in a power-sharing government with the
Movement for Democratic Change, led by Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai . The law doesn’t allow for expropriation or
nationalization, Tsvangirai said on March 8.  Rio Tinto , which operates in Zimbabwe through its 78
percent-owned Murowa unit, said last year it may consider
expansion in the country if the “political situation” allows it.  “Rio Tinto continues to engage with the relevant
authorities in Zimbabwe so as to ensure that its local
operations comply with government indigenization policy,”
 Illtud Harri , a spokesman for London-based Rio, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 