-- 
UN Watchdog Mimics Japan Nuclear Lobbyists on Data

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 
2011-03-28T09:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/un-watchdog-mimics-japan-nuclear-lobbyists-on-data-correct-.html
(Corrects story published March 23 to remove reference to
IAEA’s independence in first paragraph and to add IAEA’s
position on how it handles data in second and sixth paragraphs.)  The United Nations atomic watchdog
relied on reporting techniques from Japanese lobbyists to
communicate damage assessments at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
stricken Fukushima reactor.  While the  International Atomic Energy Agency  has been using
 tables  taken from the  Japan  Atomic Industrial Forum Inc., a
group set up to “promote peaceful utilization of nuclear
energy,” it hasn’t been disclosing the source of the
presentation or data. The agency says it vets the information it
publishes.  “It is correct that the first time we adopted this format
is when we saw it on the forum,” Graham Andrew, an IAEA
spokesman, said yesterday in a briefing in Vienna. “Now it
tracks our own thinking.”  The disclosure that IAEA damage-assessment documents are
based on those issued by a Japanese industry group is likely to
raise pressure on the embattled organization. The agency has
released inaccurate information and been criticized by member
states, especially in  Europe , for doing too little since a 7-
foot (2.1-meter) tsunami damaged the reactors on March 11.  “The IAEA’s role in dispensing advice should go beyond
simply relaying information provided by the affected state,”
the agency’s former top inspector, Ollie Heinonen, wrote in an
 analysis  posted yesterday on  Harvard University ’s website. “It
is of fundamental importance that the IAEA assess such
information independently, relying on other sources of
information and from its own findings on the ground.”  Independent Assessment  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency provides the
data that IAEA uses to update its damage-assessment reports,
Andrew said at the briefing. IAEA workers in the agency’s
Incident and Emergency Center evaluate the data and don’t
necessarily track the industry group’s changes, he said.  IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano has said that the
agency’s role in the crisis is to disseminate information that
has been authenticated by Japanese authorities.  U.S. Ambassador Glyn Davies said on March 21 that the Obama
administration and  Canada  will work to ensure that the IAEA is
using all its resources to deal with the crisis. “Once the
immediate crisis is behind us, we will work with the agency and
member states to draw and act upon the lessons of this nuclear
emergency,” he said.  The Japanese  industrial group  has been posting three daily
status updates about damage at the Fukushima site since March
15, using a colored table for updates to damage at the reactor.  The IAEA began posting slides labeled with its “Atoms for
Peace” symbol on its emergency-response website beginning on
March 17 after diplomats urged the agency to improve the quality
of its information. Colored tables assess how worried officials
are about damage to different parts of the reactors, mimicking
the Japanese industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  