-- 
Murderers, Cuckolds, Traders Adored Odessa: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-03-28T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/murderers-poetic-cuckolds-traders-swarmed-to-odessa-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
Odessa: The name throws off a
mysterious dark glitter befitting a city on the  Black Sea .  Catherine the Great commanded its construction in the late
18th century as she beat up the Ottomans and built up her fleet.
French aristocrats fleeing the revolution and mercenaries like
John Paul Jones -- who would be sent packing for raping a 12-
year-old girl -- eagerly joined her service.  Jews, Europeans, Russians all preened and haggled on
Deribasovskaya Street. Soviet filmmaker Sergei Eisenstein sent a
famous baby carriage bumping down the immense staircase that
leads to the harbor during the massacre in "Battleship Potemkin.”  “Odessa: Genius and Death in a City of Dreams,” by
Charles King, a professor of government and international
affairs at  Georgetown University , is a captivating history
starting with the Greeks and ending in  New York ’s emigre enclave
of Little Odessa in Brighton Beach.  We spoke at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Hoelterhoff: I was surprised to find  Mark Twain  visiting
Odessa in the 1860s. So was it a popular destination, part of
the Grand Tour?  King: It was where the Grand Tour Plus might end up. If you
were a little more adventurous, then after  Venice  or  Rome  you
would tack on Istanbul, and if you were in Istanbul you might as
well head across the Bosporus and hit the two big places that he
goes to in the Russian Empire: Odessa and Yalta.  Odessa was very well-known around the world by then. And if
you were in shipping or the global grain trade, you really knew
Odessa.  Pushkin’s Mistress  Hoelterhoff: Interesting characters abound. There’s the
Neapolitan de Ribas whose name would become imbedded in
Deribasofskaya Street. And Pushkin, who was exiled here for a
while, and probably wandered along that street hoping for a
glimpse of his mistress, the countess wife of Odessa’s governor-
general.  King: That was a great  love triangle : Vorontsov, his wife
Lise Vorontsova, and Pushkin, the likely father of one of her
children.  She probably inspired Tatiana in his famous “Evgeny
Onegin,” who at the end of the day chooses her husband over
passionate love.  Hoelterhoff: I enjoyed Vorontsov’s imaginative revenge.  Revenge Is Mine  King: Yes. He sends Pushkin, who was in the social service,
to deal with a locust infestation. Even worse, not just to deal
with the locusts, but to write a report. The great poet is sent
to write a report on locust infestation.  Hoelterhoff: And then sent away, back home to his mother.
Thanks to another famous visitor, Odessa’s steps are
memorialized for all time when Eisenstein sends the soldiers
down the stairs shooting everyone in their way.  King: The baby buggy is one of the most copied sequences in
film history. Everyone from Brian de Palma to Terry Gilliam has
had a version of this.  In “The Untouchables,”  Kevin Costner  saves the baby. See,
that is the American version. In the Russian version, the baby’s
probably dead.  Hoelterhoff: What’s it like to walk through town today?  King: A lot of buildings have been refurbished. The grand
opera house was just renovated a few years ago along with the
old philharmonic hall.  The director of the Odessa Philharmonic is an American who
is doing really well with the local orchestra. There’s a great
musical tradition, with its violin school and its conservatory.  Hoelterhoff: You mention that old joke associated with
Isaac Stern: “They send us their Jews from Odessa and we send
them our Jews from Odessa.” How would you describe  Brooklyn ’s
Little Odessa?  In Amber  King: It’s an Odessa of the late Soviet period that will
probably never change because the people who built Brighton
Beach today came then.  So it’s almost like going into a time machine: Brighton
Beach is like Odessa frozen in amber.  “Odessa: Genius and Death in a City of Dreams” by  Charles
King  is published by Norton. To order the book in North
American, click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 