-- 
Virginia Commonwealth, Butler Lead Improbable NCAA Tournament Final Four

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-28T04:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/virginia-commonwealth-butler-lead-improbable-ncaa-tournament-final-four.html
     March 28 (Bloomberg) --Shaka Smart and his Virginia
Commonwealth University team play Butler University in what may
be the most improbable Final Four in the history of college
basketball’s national men’s tournament.  VCU extended its most successful season by upsetting the
top-seeded University of  Kansas  71-61 in yesterday’s Southwest
Regional final. The 11th-seeded Rams tied a record as the
lowest-ranked team to reach the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament semifinals, where they’re joined by the
University of  Kentucky ,  University of Connecticut  and Butler.  It’s the third time since the NCAA tournament began seeding
schools in 1979 that no regional No. 1 teams made the Final
Four. This is the first time in 33 years no school seeded second
or better is in the national semifinals.  “What it says about college basketball is any very good
team from any league can go to the Final Four,” said the 33-
year-old Smart, who’s in his second year as coach at Richmond,
Virginia-based  Virginia Commonwealth . “Over the last 10 or 15
years, the playing field has evened out a little bit. When you
have a senior-laden team like we do, you have an opportunity to
go make a run like this.”  The odds were against it. Virginia Commonwealth was rated a
350-1 chance of winning the championship at the start of the
tournament, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, 42nd among the 68
teams in the field. The Rams’ chances of winning their first
five games -- all as underdogs -- were 1,371-1, according to
Pregame.com.  ‘Phenomenal’  That doesn’t faze Smart, whose team is a 2 1/2-point
underdog for its April 2 semifinal in Houston against  Butler ,
which won the Southeast Regional as an eighth seed.  “Our guys have done a phenomenal job of putting all the
people that didn’t believe in us aside,” said Smart, who played
point guard at  Kenyon College  in Gambier,  Ohio , from 1995-99 and
remains the school’s career leader in assists.  Smart and Butler coach Brad Stevens, 34, who has
Indianapolis-based Butler back in the Final Four for the second
straight year, together are one year younger than Jim Calhoun,
in his 25th season as Connecticut’s coach.  While VCU and Butler are both seeking their first national
title,  Kentucky  and UConn have nine  between them . Kentucky’s
seven championships are second only to UCLA and the Wildcats’
107 NCAA tournament victories are the most all-time.  Championship Odds  Kentucky is favored by 1 1/2 points in their semifinal
matchup and has the best championship odds of the Final Four
teams at 7-5, according to the Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and
Sports Book.  Connecticut  is second at 9-4, followed by Butler at
3-1 and Virginia Commonwealth at 9-2.  While his team is now the favorite, Wildcats coach John Calipari said he’s “a little bit surprised” to have Kentucky
back in the Final Four for the first time since its 1998
championship. Kentucky was seeded fourth in the East, behind
Ohio State,  North Carolina  and Syracuse.  “I just thought the path to get here would be so
ridiculous that we would have to play out of our minds or people
would have to get knocked off,” Calipari said after the
Wildcats beat North Carolina 76-69 in the East Regional final
yesterday in  Newark ,  New Jersey .  Kentucky (29-8) has won 10 straight games behind the
improving play of freshmen Brandon Knight, Terrence Jones and
Doron Lamb, its top three scorers.  Huskies’ Streak  Connecticut  (30-8), which won the West as a third seed, is
led by national player of the year candidate Kemba Walker. The
Huskies have won nine in a row, a streak that started with five
victories in five days at the Big East tournament.  Butler (27-9) has won 13 straight games and will become the
first school from outside one of the major conferences to play
in two straight Final Fours since the University of Las Vegas-
 Nevada  in 1990-91. The Bulldogs, from the Horizon Conference,
lost to Duke University 61-59 in last year’s championship game.  VCU (28-11) has had the most unlikely run of all the Final
Four teams. The Rams slipped into the NCAA tournament field as
one of the last at-large selections and had to beat  Southern
California  in one of the expanded tournament’s First Four games.
VCU followed with wins over Georgetown, Purdue and Florida State
before upsetting top-seeded Kansas (35-3) as a 12-point
underdog.  “Let the chips fall where they may,” Smart said. “That’s
what we did. We made history here, winning five games, going to
the Final Four. And we’re not done yet.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Newark, New Jersey at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  