-- 
ViVOtech Plans IPO as Early as 2012 Amid Boom in Mobile-Payment Technology

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/vivotech-planning-ipo-as-early-as-2012-in-bet-on-mobile-payments-growth.html
ViVOtech Inc., a maker of in-store
payment systems, is planning an initial public offering for as
early as 2012, Chief Executive Officer Mick Mullagh said.  The company is capitalizing on demand for payment systems
that rely on mobile phones, rather than cash or physical credit
cards. As Internet companies, wireless carriers, banks and
retailers embrace the technology, ViVOtech expects to become
profitable in mid-2012, Mullagh said in an interview.  ViVOtech’s reader devices rely on a technology called  near-
field communications , which lets smartphone users pay for goods
and redeem coupons at checkout. ViVOtech, which provides
software and hardware, has already installed more than 800,000
NFC systems worldwide. The company has 80 percent of the U.S.
market for NFC readers, which are sometimes offered under other
companies’ brands, Mullagh said.  “Mobile commerce will be bigger and grow faster than e-
commerce did,” he said. “This market will be absolutely
huge.”  The company’s sales are in “double-digit millions,”
Mullagh said. Its customers include  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , Home Depot
Inc., Dairy Queen Stores Inc. and Rite Aid Corp. ViVOtech has 90
employees, and offices in  Santa Clara ,  California , and
 Singapore .  Google’s Plan  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which will be testing mobile-payment systems
in U.S. cities this year, is using some ViVOtech hardware and
software, a person familiar with the project said earlier this
month. Google’s backing may help speed adoption of NFC
technology. The number of in-store NFC readers worldwide has
reached about 5 million, and that number should double in the
next three years, consulting firm  ABI Research  estimates.  The number of phones with built-in NFC chips also is
climbing. Thirty-five million will be shipped this year, and
that number will double next year, ABI estimates.  ViVOtech’s success will hinge on carving out a niche for
itself among larger rivals.  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , a  San Jose ,
California-based provider of point-of-sale systems, is
aggressively pushing into NFC hardware.  Gemalto NV (GTO) , an
Amsterdam-based maker of smart-card systems, is targeting the
market as well.  The spread of NFC has spurred investor interest in mobile-
payment stocks, said Tom Taulli, an independent technology
analyst. VeriFone’s shares have climbed 42 percent this year,
after more than doubling in 2010. The company, which has a
valuation of $4.85 billion, used to resell ViVOtech’s NFC
equipment before developing its own.  “ViVOtech could be on its way to a $1 billion valuation,”
Taulli said.  Venture Capital  ViVOtech has raised $80 million from investors, including
Citigroup Inc. and venture-capital firms Alloy Ventures and
 Draper Fisher Jurvetson . It also has the backing of  Nokia Growth
Partners ;  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ; NFC chipmaker NXP Semiconductor
NV; payments processing company First Data Corp.; and  NCR Corp. (NCR) ,
which makes ATMs and self-help checkout systems.  “The company is poised for greatness,” Tim Draper,
managing director of Menlo Park, California-based Draper Fisher
Jurvetson, said in an e-mail.  ViVOtech has already conducted more than 30 market trials
around the world, Mullagh said. It ran a test with Sprint and
First Data in  San Francisco  in 2008, and with AT&T Inc. in
Atlanta in 2005.  Many of its investors also are strategic partners. NCR
 resells  ViVOtech’s gear, and it expects to collaborate with the
startup on future hardware and software products, said Richard Bravman, chief marketing officer at NCR. ViVOtech is working
with NCR to outfit ATMs in  China  with NFC technology, Mullagh
said. In addition to handling payments, ViVOtech’s software lets
merchants and banks send ads to mobile phones, and to redeem
coupons and loyalty points at the cash register.  “It’s the software dimension that ViVOtech has that we
think represents the key opportunity,” Bravman said. “ They
are well set up to be very successful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  