-- 
Volkswagen Chief Says Production Not Hampered by Japan Supply Disruptions

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-28T15:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/vw-ceo-says-production-not-hampered-by-japan-supply-disruptions.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s production has not
been hampered by disruptions at Japanese parts-makers because of
the earthquake, Chief Executive Officer Martin Winterkorn said.  “We are well supplied through next week,” Winterkorn said
today at a press conference in Salzburg, Austria. The CEO said
predictions beyond next week are impossible given the changing
situation in  Japan .  Europe ’s largest auto manufacturer set up a task force two
weeks ago to ensure production at its 61 factories worldwide
aren’t impacted by possible stoppages at Japanese component
suppliers. Volkswagen has no production facilities in Japan.  Production at parts suppliers has been interrupted by the
March 11 quake, with  Denso Corp (6902) , Aisin Seiki Co. and  Renesas
Electronics Corp. (6723)  suspending most or some of their manufacturing
after the disaster. Nissan Motor Co.’s CEO  Carlos Ghosn  said
last week about 40 component-makers in Japanremain hampered
after the quake.  Winterkorn said the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker may
be able to switch suppliers should deliveries from Japanese
parts-makers face disruptions.  “There are hardly any single-source situations,” the CEO
said at the press conference to mark the takeover of the Porsche
Holding Salzburg automotive sales business. “There is the
possibility to quickly get capacities from other sources within
a clear timeframe via other shift models or weekend shifts to
compensate for this.”  VW may post record deliveries this month, sales chief
Christian Klingler said. Sales in January and February rose 18
percent to more than 1.2 million cars and sport-utility
vehicles, Winterkorn said March 10. VW is aiming to increase
sales 5 percent in 2011 from last year’s 7.14 million units.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Salzburg,  Austria  via 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  