-- 
Walter Investment to Acquire GTCS Holdings From Centerbridge

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-03-28T21:19:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/walter-investment-will-buy-gtcs-for-745-million-to-expand-loan-servicing.html
Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC) ,
the Tampa, Florida-based mortgage servicer and investor, agreed
to acquire GTCS Holdings LLC from Centerbridge Capital Partners
LLC for $745 million as it expands loan servicing.  The entire transaction, including debt, is valued at $1.065
billion, Walter said today in a regulatory filing. GTCS, known
as Green Tree and based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , provides
services such as billing and collection on a $37 billion
portfolio, including residential mortgages, manufactured housing
loans and consumer loans, the filing shows. After the deal,
Walter will no longer qualify as a real estate investment trust.  “With the acquisition of Green Tree, Walter Investment
will be uniquely positioned to capture a significant share of
the growing specialty mortgage-services sector,” said Mark J.
O’Brien, Walter’s chairman and chief executive officer, in a
separate statement.  Walter will issue 1.8 million shares to the seller and $765
million in new debt to acquire Green Tree’s equity, repay Green
Tree’s obligations and cover expenses of the transaction,
according to the statement.  “This acquisition allows Walter to capitalize on the
company’s strong market share and fantastic management,” New
York-based Centerbridge said in a statement. The private-equity
company purchased Green Tree for an undisclosed amount in 2007.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  advised Walter, and Simpson Thacher
& Bartlett LLP provided legal counsel.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  advised
Green Tree with Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP providing legal
counsel. Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised the seller.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  