-- 
Wheat, Corn Gain as Japan May Boost Imports Amid Contamination

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-03-28T06:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/wheat-corn-gain-as-japan-may-boost-imports-amid-contamination.html
Wheat and corn rose on speculation
that food contamination in  Japan  from a damaged nuclear power
plant may worsen, boosting the Asian nation’s grain imports, and
as dry weather in the U.S. threatened wheat yields.  May-delivery wheat gained as much as 0.9 percent to $7.3975
per bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was at $7.345 at
2:07 p.m. in  Singapore , set for the first quarterly drop in four.
Corn for May delivery rose 0.3 percent to $6.9175 per bushel.  Radioactive contamination in food in Japan is likely to
rise, Taku Ohhara, an official at the Ministry of Health, Labor
and Welfare, said yesterday. Japan has been battling to regain
control of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant,
which was damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Some
99 products were found to be contaminated in  Tokyo  and five
prefectures as of late March 26, according to the ministry.  “Following the food contaminations in Japan, people expect
the country may want to secure more grains” from overseas, Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone
from Singapore.  Japan, the world’s fifth-largest wheat importer,  may
purchase 5.2 million metric tons this season, according to an
estimate from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , or USDA, which
doesn’t break out purchases of individual European Union member
countries. The International Grains Council has forecast the
same volume of imports for Japan as the USDA.  Winter-wheat areas in the central and southern plains of
the U.S. have “little chance for significant moisture” in the
10 days from March 25, Telvent DTN Inc. said. Parts of  Texas ,
 Oklahoma ,  Kansas  and  Colorado  had less than 25 percent of normal
precipitation in the past 30 days through last week, National
Weather Service data show.  “Weather is dictating the movement” in wheat, Ker said.  U.S. Yields  Crop yields in the U.S. this year may be comparable to 2007,
when dry weather trimmed winter-wheat output to 41.7 bushels an
acre, Kim Anderson, an agricultural economist at Oklahoma State
University in Stillwater, said last week. Since 2000, national
yields have averaged 43.8 bushels, according to the USDA.  The worst drought in 44 years in Texas, the second-largest
U.S. winter-wheat grower, is damaging the state’s crop,
according to State Climatologist John Nielsen-Gammon.  U.S. exporters sold 1.25 million tons of corn to unknown
buyers, the USDA said on March 25. The sale includes 1 million
tons for delivery in the 2010-2011 marketing year, which began
Sept. 1, and 250,000 tons for the 2011-2012 season.  There’s speculation the corn sales were bound for China or
Japan, Ker said today. Shippers are probably bringing grains
into some of the ports that were not damaged by the quake in
Japan, he said.  Japan, the world’s largest corn buyer, was forecast by the
USDA to import 16.1 million tons of the grain this year.  Soybeans for May delivery were little changed at $13.58 a
bushel in  Chicago , narrowing this quarter’s loss to 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  