-- 
Wisconsin Judge to Consider Whether Union Law Can Be Blocked

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-03-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/wisconsin-attorney-general-claims-collective-bargaining-measure-is-now-law.html
A Wisconsin judge will consider a
request to temporarily bar enforcement of legislation limiting
collective bargaining by public employees while a suit against
state lawmakers who passed the law moves through the courts.  Judge Maryann Sumi in Madison will be asked today whether
the law signed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  on March 11
can be enforced, and whether a clerical act by a state agency
means the statute is already in force.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne in Madison
filed a lawsuit alleging that lawmakers violated Wisconsin’s
open meetings law when they drafted the legislation. Sumi issued
a temporary order on March 18 that barred Secretary of State
Doug La Follette from making the  law  effective by publishing it.
On March 25, the Legislative Reference Bureau, a state agency,
posted the text of the measure on its website, leading Attorney
General J.B. Van Hollen to claim the law was in effect.  “This is just crazy,” La Follette, a Democrat, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You have the governor and some
Republican legislators saying one thing. Then you have the head
of the Legislative Reference Bureau, their legal counsel, a
number of law professors and me saying the opposite.”  La Follette said he opposed actions taken by  Van Hollen , a
Republican, whose office represents the secretary of state. Van
Hollen said in a statement yesterday that he is asking Sumi to
lift her temporary restraining order.  Recertification, Dues  The legislation, championed by Scott, a first-term
Republican, requires annual recertification votes for union
representation and makes payment of union dues voluntary. The
measure exempts firefighters and police officers. Their unions
have filed a separate lawsuit challenging the legislation.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute
5.8 percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health insurance costs. The legislation
would generate $30 million in savings this fiscal year and
$300 million in the following two years, the governor has said.  Democrats and organized labor called the bill an attack on
workers. Opposition to the legislation sparked almost four weeks
of protests around and inside the Capitol.  Acting on complaints by three public officials and a state
employees’ union leader, Ozanne sued four Republican legislators
who helped draft the measure, arguing their legislation was
created in violation of minimum notice requirements in the
state’s open-meetings law.  Restraining Order  Van Hollen asked state Court of Appeals in Madison for
permission to appeal Sumi’s ruling and for an order overriding
her restraining order. A three-judge panel of that court on
March 24 asked the  Wisconsin  Supreme Court whether a law could
be voided for a violation of the open-meeting law and whether a
court could bar La Follette’s publication of the measure
beforehand.  “Because the law is in force, the appeal, which was based
on the harm caused by enjoining the legislative process, is
moot,” Van Hollen said, referring to the posting of the bill by
the Legislative Research Bureau.  Ozanne didn’t reply to e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment yesterday.  At today’s hearing, Sumi will consider Ozanne’s request for
a preliminary injunction blocking implementation of the law to
maintain the status quo until the legislators named as
defendants are no longer in session. Under Wisconsin law,
lawmakers are immune from being sued during a legislative
session.  In papers filed with Sumi yesterday, Ozanne asked for a
declaration that the temporary order she rendered on March 18
hasn’t been trumped by the Legislative Research Bureau posting.
He claimed that the agency, like La Follette, was subject to the
restraining order and that the legislation “is not law in the
state of Wisconsin, pending further order of this court.”  The prosecutor’s case is State of Wisconsin Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison). The appellate case is Ozanne v. Fitzgerald,
2011AP613-LV, Wisconsin Court of Appeals, District 4 (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  