-- 
Twitter Co-Founder Dorsey to Become Executive Chairman Amid Facebook Fight

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-03-29T18:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/twitter-s-co-founder-dorsey-to-become-executive-chairman-of-microblogger.html
Twitter Inc. co-founder Jack Dorsey
will become executive chairman and head of product development
as the company aims to narrow Facebook Inc.’s lead in online
advertising and get users to be more active on its site.  The move means Dorsey, who stepped down as Twitter’s chief
executive officer and became chairman in 2008, will play a more
hands-on role at the San Francisco-based provider of
microblogging. He will also remain CEO of  Square Inc. , the
mobile-payments provider he co-founded in 2009.  Twitter needs to be “more approachable so that people can
get into it immediately and it’s extremely relevant right away,”
Dorsey said today during a lecture at Columbia University’s
Graduate School of Journalism. “Mainstream relevancy is still a
challenge.”  The company needs Dorsey, who helped build its blogging
platform, to develop other products that get users to spend more
time on the site, said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at
 EMarketer Inc.  Twitter may generate less than a 10th the
advertising sales of Facebook this year, her firm says, and its
user base is expanding more slowly.  “Twitter is recognizing that it might have a product
problem,” said Williamson, whose firm is based in  New York .
“To be anywhere close to the success that Facebook has
achieved, Twitter just needs to be used by more people on a more
regular basis.”  Advertising Sales  Ad sales on Twitter may more than triple to about $150
million this year, according to EMarketer. Facebook brought in
ad revenue of $1.86 billion last year, the firm estimated.
Facebook had 151 million users in the U.S. in February, up 35
percent from a year earlier, according to  ComScore Inc.  in
Reston, Virginia. Twitter had 23 million, up 16 percent.  Users of Facebook, founded two years before Twitter, will
be equal to 42 percent of the total  U.S. population  this year,
up from 38 percent last year, according to EMarketer. Twitter
users should be equivalent to 8.7 percent of the country’s adult
population this year, up from 7 percent last year.  Twitter says it has more than 200 million registered
accounts and that it’s creating almost 500,000 accounts a day.
It took about 18 months to sign up the first 500,000 accounts.  Still, a minority of users contribute an inordinately high
percentage of the service’s messages, according to a  study  by
researchers at Yahoo! Inc. and  Cornell University  earlier this
month. About 50 percent of the messages consumed on Twitter’s
service are generated by 20,000 users, researchers found.  ‘Power Users’  “Twitter currently is a platform that is dominated by a
small group of power users,” said Arnie Gullov-Singh, CEO of
social media advertising startup  Ad.ly Inc.  “The question is,
‘How do you get more consumers on the site creating more
content?’ If you can get to 100 million uniques in the U.S., it
would be a dominant media platform that no brand can ignore.”  The company’s product development is likely to thrive under
Dorsey’s direction, said Robin Chan, who has invested in Twitter
and Square. He compared Dorsey’s role to that of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  CEO
 Steve Jobs , who founded animated film studio Pixar while running
a different company.  “This is Jack’s decade,” Chan said. “Not since Steve Jobs
have we seen an entrepreneur innovate with two disruptive
companies. Managing his time between both companies will be a
challenge. Fortunately he is surrounded by great business
leaders.”  Square will remain Dorsey’s “top priority,” said Kay Luo,
a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Square.  Management Change  “As executive chairman, Jack will dive in to work with
more than 450 people, led by an experienced executive team,”
Twitter said. “Not only is Twitter experiencing record growth,
but we also now have a new infrastructure that will keep us
ahead of that growth and enable us to launch products that will
make Twitter more instant, simple and always present.”  Dick Costolo, who helped introduce a new advertising
service for companies on Twitter last year, became CEO in
October, replacing co-founder  Evan Williams . Costolo, who joined
in 2009, had been chief operating officer. Williams became CEO
in 2008, replacing Dorsey, who was then named chairman.  While Williams was set to work on product strategy after he
stepped down, he decided to become less involved day-to-day a
few months ago, Twitter said. He is now a “key adviser” for
Costolo and the company on strategy, Twitter said.  Billion Users  The company aims to get 1 billion users, Williams said in
October. Facebook founder  Mark Zuckerberg  had previously said
that signing up a billion members is “almost a guarantee.”  Twitter revamped its site in September with the aim of
being faster, easier to use and able to better handle photos and
videos. The service now features a second column that lets users
quickly look at messages without leaving a page.  Twitter, founded in 2006, said in December it was valued at
$3.7 billion after receiving a $200 million round of funding led
by venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. The
company had a valuation of about $1 billion in 2009, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  “It’s a wonderful thing when an inventor comes back to the
service they created,” said Peter Fenton, a general partner at
Benchmark Capital and a Twitter board member. “In the
development of any company, you benefit from having the founder
as a voice of moral authority. We’re ecstatic that that voice is
now back at the center of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 