-- 
Yen Declines on Signs of Economic Strength and Radiation Concern at Plant

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-28T21:13:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/yen-declines-as-signs-of-economic-strength-boost-demand-for-growth-assets.html
The yen fell against all its major
counterparts as radiation levels that can prove fatal were
detected at a damaged nuclear power plant in  Japan  amid signs
the global economic recovery is gaining momentum elsewhere.  The euro erased losses against the dollar after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said inflation rates
that stick above 2 percent would be a concern. The dollar
remained higher against the yen as Federal Reserve official
 Charles Evans  said recent reports won’t alter the central bank’s
plan to purchase $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries through June.
Canada’s currency was the best performer against the dollar as
crude oil traded near a two-week high.  “You’re seeing a bounce-back in currencies against the yen
and Canada, Australia and euro have all had pretty good runs
today,” said  Brian Taylor , chief currency trader a
Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo  New York . “There are
many variables with a combination of people want money out of
Japan, repatriation concerns are over and people placing a
little more risk.”  The yen weakened 0.4 percent to 81.70 per dollar at 5:09
p.m. in New York, from 81.34 yesterday. The Japanese currency
fell 0.4 percent to 115.10 per euro. The euro was little changed
at $1.4087 after falling as much as 0.5 percent.  Calendar Numbers  The Japanese currency has weakened 0.1 percent against the
dollar in March after strengthening to a post-World War II high
of 76.25 March 17. The euro has gained 2 percent versus the yen
this month, also advancing 2.1 percent against the greenback.
The yen has fallen 3.2 percent this year against nine developed-
market currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. That compares with a 3.5 percent gain by the euro and a
2.4 percent loss from the dollar.  The Swiss franc, the best performing major currency in the
past year, is the third-best performer against the dollar today,
rising 0.3 percent to 91.68 centimes per dollar and 0.3 percent
to 1.2913 per euro.  “Given the nuclear situation right now, I think yen as a
safe haven has disintegrated and Swiss franc as the global safe
haven is a much more probable trade right now,” said Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of capital markets at currency-
trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc. in Washington.  The franc has surged 8.5 percent in the past year, the most
among the 10 most-widely traded currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Fed View  Chicago  Fed PresidentEvans said today in the text of a
speech in Columbia,  South Carolina  “despite recent improvements
to the outlook, we are not yet at that point” when “a change
in the stance of monetary policy will be necessary.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said March 26 the
U.S. central bank may need to reduce the amount of asset
purchases in light of stronger U.S. economic data.  The Dollar Index, which InterContinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against six of its major trading partners,
fell 0.1 percent to 76.124. The gauge is weighted 57.6 percent
to the movements in the euro.  Yields on U.S. two-year notes rose as much as five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.78 percent, the highest
since March 4. Japanese two-year bonds were unchanged at 0.205
percent.  Futures Bets  Futures show traders are betting there is a 52.5 percent
chance the  Federal Reserve  will raise U.S. interest rates from
near zero at the January 2012 meeting, according to CME Group
Inc. exchange futures. That compares with 41.1 percent a week
ago.  Radiation levels that can prove fatal were detected outside
reactor buildings at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant for the
first time today. Elevated radiation levels have been detected
in crops grown near the stricken plant as well as the water
supply in  Tokyo , 220 kilometers to the south, and other regions.  Consumer spending  in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
February as incomes climbed, helping to bolster the expansion in
the world’s largest economy. Purchases increased 0.7 percent,
the most since October, after advancing 0.3 percent the prior
month, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The Labor Department will report the  U.S. economy  added
190,000 jobs this on April according to the median estimate of
77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Trichet Speaks  The euro erased losses against the dollar as Trichet spoke
about inflation in Paris today.  “Our definition of  price stability  is below 2 percent,
close to 2 percent,” Trichet said. “Differences must be a
worry because they can become persistent.”  Markets reacted to Trichet’s “hawkish” comments, said
 Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of Montreal
in Chicago. “It caught the markets at a point where we’d been
at the lows for the euro. You get people running the other
way.”  Trichet, told the European Parliament March 21 he has
“nothing to add” to his March 3 remarks when he said policy
makers may raise the benchmark rate from a record low of 1
percent at their next meeting April 7.  Canada ’s currency rose against all its most traded
counterparts as crude oil for May delivery advanced as much as
0.3 percent to $105.76 per barrel in New York.  The loonie gained 0.3 percent to 97.79 cents per  U.S.
dollar  from 98.05 cents on March 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  