-- 
Yen Falls Toward Two-Week Low on Speculation Global Recovery Gaining Pace

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-28T12:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/yen-falls-toward-two-week-low-on-speculation-global-recovery-gaining-pace.html
The dollar strengthened as U.S.
consumer spending increased more than forecast in February, and
after Federal Reserve official  James Bullard  said the central
bank may consider scaling back its monetary stimulus.  The yen weakened versus most of its 16 major counterparts
on signs the global recovery is gaining momentum, boosting
appetite for higher-yielding investments. Policy makers should
review whether to curtail plans to buy $600 billion in
Treasuries because of strong economic data, St. Louis Fed
President Bullard said on March 26. The euro depreciated for a
second day against the dollar after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition was defeated in a regional election.  “If you take the Fed speak, coupled with positive data
surprises, that could certainly support yields and in turn
support the dollar against the yen or the euro,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. “It’s because of the relative shifts in
two-year interest rates.”  The dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to 81.75 yen as of 8:55
a.m. in  New York . The euro slipped 0.3 percent to $1.4043, after
reaching $1.4021, the least since March 18. The yen depreciated
0.2 percent to 114.80 per euro.  The Dollar Index, which InterContinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against six of its major trading partners,
was 0.2 percent stronger at 76.398, the most since March 18.
The U.S. currency strengthened against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts.  QE2 Review  “The economy is looking pretty good,” Bullard told
reporters in Marseille,  France . “It is still reasonable to
review QE2 in the coming meetings, especially this April
meeting, and see if we want to decide to finish the program or
to stop a little bit short,” he said, referring to the second
round of so-called quantitative easing, due to end in June.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  and Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  both speak today.  There’s a “slightly hawkish tone from Fed officials,”
said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The market might be
inclined to bring forward slightly the start of the Fed’s exit
strategy, and at the margin that is supportive of dollar-yen.”  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
February as incomes climbed, helping to bolster the expansion in
the world’s largest economy.  Purchases increased 0.7 percent, the most since October,
after advancing 0.3 percent the prior month, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Incomes increased 0.3
percent, less than projected, and the Fed’s preferred measure of
inflation accelerated.  Interest-rate futures on the Chicago Board of Trade showed
a 39 percent chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by
December, up from 29 percent a week earlier. The rate has been
at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Bank of  Japan  will lift its target for the unsecured
overnight call rate by two basis points over the next 12 months,
compared with 47 basis points of increases by the Fed, Credit
Suisse Group AG indexes show. Policy makers in Japan are seeking
to aid an economy reeling from a record earthquake that struck
March 11, generating a tsunami and setting off the worst
nuclear-power disaster since Chernobyl.  Bank of Japan   “The BOJ’s exit from accommodative policy won’t be in
sight for some time,” said Masato Mori, a senior manager in
 Tokyo  at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Japan’s biggest phone
operator. “Prospects for a higher interest rate in the U.S.
will buoy the dollar-yen rate gradually.”  The euro fell against the dollar for a second day after
Merkel’s coalition lost in yesterday’s state elections and
Ireland said it wants to force losses on to the nation’s banks’
senior bondholders.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  won 39 percent of the
votes in Baden-Wuerttemberg, its worst result since 1952, while
its Free Democratic Party allies won 5.3 percent. That leaves
the two parties short of a majority and marks the end of the
CDU’s 58-year rule in the state. The opposition Greens took a
record 24.2 percent, while the  Social Democrats , who say they
will form a coalition with the Greens, won 23.1 percent.  EU Moves  EU leaders last week pared the emergency-aid fund’s paid-in
capital as of 2013 to 16 billion euros ($22.4 billion), less
than the 40 billion euros foreseen in a March 21 accord. The
announcement came after  Portugal ’s credit rating was cut last
week by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings.  “It’s a double whammy for the euro,” said Kurt Magnus,
executive director of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura
Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage. “All political
instability weighs on currencies.”  The Irish government, which took office last month, said it
wants to impose losses on banks’ senior bondholders. The
government is raising the prospect to try to win a cut in the
interest charges on its bailout package and secure medium-term
funding from the  European Central Bank . European Union
authorities opposed the imposition of losses on senior
bondholders amid concern that it may cause the debt crisis to
spread to Spain and Portugal.  Australia ’s dollar advanced to its highest level versus its
U.S. counterpart since it began trading freely in 1983,
surpassing the previous record set on March 25. The currency
strengthened as much as 0.5 percent to $1.0315, before trading
at $1.0260. It reached $1.0294 on March 25.  “There’s been some return of risk appetite, and that
always benefits higher yielding currencies” like the Australian
dollar, said Michael Derks, head of currency strategy at FXPro
Financial Services in  London . “Domestic news has been
supportive and U.S. economic conditions are looking a little
perkier.”  New Zealand ’s dollar fell from a one-month high after Prime
Minister John Key said the nation may post a record budget
deficit because of costs arising from last month’s earthquake.  The currency weakened 0.5 percent to 75 U.S. cents after
climbing to 75.76 cents on March 25, the highest since Feb. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  