-- 
Yen Falls to an 11-Month Low Versus the Euro on Central Bank Rate Outlooks

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-03-29T21:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/yen-near-one-week-low-versus-dollar-before-u-s-jobs-french-spending-data.html
The yen fell to the lowest level in
10 months against the euro on speculation central banks in
Europe and the U.S. are closer to removing stimulus as the
global economy recovers.  Japan ’s currency weakened against all of its major
counterparts as St. Louis Federal Reserve President  James Bullard  said signs of an improving economy may lead the central
bank to curtail debt buying. New Zealand’s dollar was the top
currency against the yen after posting its first  trade surplus 
in eight months.  Brazil ’s real was the second-best performer
even as the country imposed a tax designed to stem gains.  “The yen has come under a little bit of pressure the last
couple of days alongside the move up in Treasury yields because
of the recent hawkish comments coming out of the Fed,” said
 Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “The view is
becoming increasingly that Japan will lag when it comes to
normalization of monetary policy.”  The Japanese currency weakened 1.1 percent to 116.39 per
euro at 5:11 p.m. in New York, the weakest since May 14, 2010.
The yen declined 1 percent to 82.48 per dollar, from 81.69
yesterday. Europe’s shared currency traded at $1.4113, compared
with $1.4087.  Yields, Brazil  The yen is headed for a 6.7 percent drop against the euro
and a 1.7 percent decline against the dollar this quarter.
Yields on two-year Treasuries rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 0.813 percent. Comparable Japanese debt
yielded 0.205 percent.  New Zealand  posted its first trade surplus in eight months
in February on record-high commodity prices, while imports grew
more than forecast. The nation’s exports outpaced imports by
NZ$194 million ($146 million), Statistics New Zealand said
today.  The South Pacific nation’s dollar gained 0.7 percent to
75.66 U.S. cents, from 75.13 cents yesterday, when it declined
0.3 percent. The currency climbed 1.6 percent to 62.36 yen, from
61.37 yen.  Brazil’s real rose 0.7 percent to 1.6520 per dollar even as
the nation imposed a tax of 6 percent on international bond
sales and loans with an average minimum maturity of up to 360
days, according to a decree published today in the Official
Gazette.  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the move is an attempt
to stem the 39 percent gain in the real since the end of 2008.  Europe ’s shared currency’s strength was unfazed against the
yen as Standard & Poor’s Ratings services lowered  Portugal ’s
sovereign credit ratings to BBB-/A-3. BBB- is the lowest
investment grade.  Greece  was also cut by S&P to BB- from BB+ and
its outlook remains negative.  “We got the downgrades on Greece and Portugal. That
catalyzed the euro to go higher,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,  Connecticut . “Either people
were pricing in a lot of the bad news or this pushes Portugal
closer to asking for aid, and they’re viewing that as
positive.”  Makuch, who also heads the National Bank of Slovakia,
declined at a press conference in Bratislava today to comment on
how much rates might be changed and whether it could be the
start of a series of moves.  Europe’s common currency has strengthened 5.3 percent
versus the dollar this year and 6.9 percent against the yen as
euro-region policy makers stiffened their anti-inflation stance.  The ECB will lift its main refinancing rate by 25 basis
points to 1.25 percent at its April 7 meeting, according to the
median forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Rate Differences  Europe’s rate will reach 1.75 percent by the end of this
year, up from the current record low 1 percent, while the Fed
will lift rates in the first quarter of next year and the  Bank
of Japan  will leave its key interest rate unchanged, separate
surveys show.  The implied yield on the three-month Euribor contract
expiring in December rose one basis point to 2.08 percent today,
up from 1.33 percent at the beginning of the year, as investors
added to bets that interest rates will rise. There is now a 53.3
percent chance the U.S. central bank will raise rates in
January, compared with 43.3 percent a week ago, according to CME
Group Inc. exchange futures.  “If the economy is as strong as I think and hope it will
be in 2011, I think it will be time for us to start to reverse
our ultra-aggressive and ultra-easy monetary policy,” Bullard
told reporters in  Prague  today.  He said the central bank may be able to cut about $100
billion from its plan to buy $600 billion  Treasury securities 
through June.  “Bullard is going all out and possibly pushing the
envelope on creating a rethink in the market place for the Fed’s
eventual exit strategy,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,
Connecticut.  Bullard’s view differs from those of at least three other
Fed regional bank leaders who yesterday urged completion of the
purchases. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said reports
showing a more sustainable recovery don’t justify reducing
support, while Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said high
unemployment makes Fed aid necessary. Atlanta Fed’s  Dennis Lockhart  reiterated he expects the Fed to finish the purchases.  The Dollar Index, used to track the currency against six
major U.S. trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 76.167,
trimming its quarterly fall to 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  