-- 
Your Rights Are Wrong If They Cost Too Much: Terrence R. Keeley

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   R .   K e e l e y
-- 
2011-03-28T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/your-rights-are-wrong-if-they-cost-too-much-commentary-by-terrence-keeley.html
The raging budget battle in
 Washington  is among the most momentous in U.S. history. It
primarily pivots on two questions: What benefits are Americans
entitled to and how do we pay for them?  The first is the hardest.  Richard Trumka , president of the
AFL-CIO federation of labor organizations, recently said
Governor  Scott Walker ’s effort to roll back collective-
bargaining rights in  Wisconsin  violated  Article 23  of the United
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 23
specifies all workers are entitled to remuneration that ensures
an existence worthy of human dignity.  The UN’s Declaration, which was adopted in a moment of
moral rectitude and clarity following World War II, does much
more than promise Wisconsin’s public employees dignified work.
It states every human being -- 7 billion and counting -- is
entitled to food, clothing, housing, medical care, free
elementary education, social security,  unemployment insurance ,
“just and favorable work conditions,” regular paid vacations,
and the benefits of cultural and scientific advancement.  All of these rights are laudable, but fewer than one in
eight humans actually possesses them. How do we guarantee one
person what seven others can’t have? Shouldn’t universal access
to essential needs, like food and shelter, take precedence over
the partial expansion of others, like paid vacations and
cultural benefits?  $90 Trillion  The forward curve looks even worse. Unless Americans find
an additional $90 trillion for currently mandated Medicare,
Medicaid and Social Security benefits, no more than one in 10
may meet the UN’s standards by this century’s end.  Rights need to be prioritized if we are to achieve them.
Some -- such as life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness --
are inherent to the human condition. Known as natural or
inalienable rights, they must be actively thwarted not to
thrive. Others -- like education, retirement benefits and
medical care -- depend on the goodwill and solidarity of others.
These so-called statutory or alienable rights must be actively
striven for. Without collective effort, they die.  Statutory rights evolve.  King Hammurabi’s code  -- the most
ancient recorded law, dated about 1700 B.C. -- set out 282 rules
for Babylonian citizens. One entitled victims of faulty  home
construction  to put their builder’s sons to death.  Arbitrary Taxes  In 1215, the  Magna Carta  prohibited arbitrary taxes and
instituted due process for Britain’s landed gentry; until then,
the British monarch could do whatever he wished.  In 1791, Americans gained  10 highly coveted rights ,
including one to keep and bear arms. It took another 75 years
before slavery on American soil was prohibited, however, and a
half-century beyond that before women were allowed to vote.  Unlike natural rights, alienable rights tend to collide
with one another.  Article 17  of the UN’s Declaration states no
person may be arbitrarily deprived of his or her property.
Presumably, this means no Western or Asian wealth may be
expropriated even if it is used to build water-filtration plants
in  Africa , providing thousands of people with clean water.  Many public workers in the U.S. have guaranteed retirement
benefits that are funded by private workers who have no
comparable safety net. Is that right? Without higher taxes,
Americans younger than 40 will have no assets left in the Social
Security  Trust Fund  to pay for their benefits, even though they
paid Social Security taxes all their lives. Surely that’s wrong.  Chinese Surge  Medicare and Medicaid costs are set to quadruple in the
decades ahead, from about 5 percent to  22 percent of gross
domestic product by 2080 . If American children are to have the
same benefits as their grandparents, either the  U.S. economy 
must grow as fast as  China ’s or tax rates levied to provide
those benefits must quadruple as well.  Given how hard it is to determine which rights are wrong,
perhaps we should place the budget debate back-to-front. That is
to say, maybe we should focus on the second question first,
determining the amount of federal revenue the American economy
could reliably generate without stifling economic growth. Then
we could decide which public services to prioritize.  Rights -- alienable and inalienable, natural and statutory
-- are the cornerstones of civilization. But financial
constraints place many beyond our reach. We’ll have to
prioritize to know which rights are affordable.  (Terrence R. Keeley is the senior managing principal at
Sovereign Trends LLC and a founder of the ethics website
www.financialhippocraticoath.org. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Terrence Keeley at  trk@sovereigntrends.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  