-- 
Yuan Falls Most in Five Weeks on Calls for U.S. to End Purchases

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-03-28T09:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-28/yuan-weakens-on-calls-for-u-s-to-end-quantitative-easing.html
China ’s yuan declined the most in
five weeks against the greenback as calls for the  Federal
Reserve  to rein in its purchases of U.S. Treasuries bolstered
demand for dollars.  The Fed should review whether to complete its $600 billion
second round of so-called quantitative easing, due to end in
June, because of strong U.S. economic data, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  said March 26. Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  and Richmond Fed President Jeffrey
Lacker also urged a review of the debt purchases. Asian stocks
dropped for the first time in three days as radiation hampered
efforts to cool crippled nuclear reactors in Japan.  “Investors expect the U.S. will stop printing money sooner
than expected given the Fed officials’ comments,” said Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign exchange at BWC Capital Markets in
 Hong Kong . “Asian currencies, including the yuan, were also
weighed on by poor sentiment due to the Japan nuclear crisis.”  The yuan fell 0.11 percent to end at 6.5645 per dollar in
Shanghai, the largest drop since Feb. 22, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.5549 per
dollar on March 25, the strongest level since the country
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.
In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the currency slipped 0.06
percent to 6.5635.  China’s central bank set the reference rate 0.06 percent
weaker at 6.5618 per dollar. The currency is allowed to trade up
to 0.5 percent on either side of the official rate in  Shanghai .  Yuan Forwards  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.09 percent to
6.4465 as of 4:46 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the yuan
will strengthen 1.8 percent in a year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  International Monetary Fund  sees the yuan as
“substantially below levels consistent with medium-term
fundamentals” and its appreciation will help rebalance the
country’s economy away from an export-led model, an official of
the fund said on March 25.  Still, an appreciation would be “just a part of a much
broader package of reforms,” Steven Barnett, the IMF’s deputy
division chief in the Asia-Pacific department, said in
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  