-- 
3M Names Operations Chief Said to Be in Line for CEO’s Job

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T20:25:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/3m-appoints-thulin-as-chief-operating-officer.html
3M Co. (MMM)  promoted one of three
executives said to be in line to succeed Chief Executive Officer
 George Buckley , naming Inge G. Thulin to the new post of
operations chief.  Thulin, 57, will continue running international operations
in addition to his new responsibilities and report to Buckley,
3M said today in a statement. The CEO’s contract expires in
February on his 65th birthday, unless he and the board agree to
extend it.  Buckley, who is also chairman, said in a January interview
that he considered an internal hire to be an “imperative,”
after taking over in 2005 as only the second CEO ever recruited
from outside  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M. Bloomberg reported in
December that Thulin was among the contenders being considered
for the top spot.  “This announcement probably continues to strengthen that
belief that he’s a very strong candidate for the position,”
said Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst with  Edward Jones .  3M declined to make Thulin available for an interview. The
company isn’t “announcing anything relative to succession
today,” said Donna Fleming Runyon, a spokeswoman.  Thulin will oversee 3M’s six businesses. The company
manufactures products for the health care, consumer, automotive
and energy markets, including respiratory masks and touch-screen
films for tablet computers, making it an economic bellwether.  COO Role  The chief operating officer job has been increasingly used
to prepare an executive to become CEO, according to Thomas Kolder, president of executive recruiting firm Crist|Kolder
Associates in Hinsdale,  Illinois .  “I doubt that the company all of the sudden decided that
our structure demands that we have to have a COO and we will
have one now for eternity,” Kolder said of 3M’s move today.
“It’s more likely that the definition has been put forth to
create this position” so Thulin can work alongside Buckley, he
said in an interview.  Thulin’s appointment “represents continuing development of
3M’s leadership team with the goal of ensuring that 3M remains
on a strong growth track for many years to come,” Buckley said
in the statement.  3M fell 55 cents to $95.46 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 11 percent
this year.  Three Contenders  3M considered Thulin and two other executives, Bradley Sauer, executive vice president of health care, and Jean Lobey,
executive vice president of the safety and security businesses,
to succeed Buckley, Bloomberg reported in December, citing
people familiar with discussions. Lobey is retiring June 1, the
company said in April.  A native of  Sweden , Thulin joined 3M in  1979  in that
country and held about nine management positions before leading
international operations starting in 2003. He is a board member
for lawnmower maker  Toro Co. (TTC)  and serves on the executive
committee for the U.S. Council for International Business.  Thulin received  total compensation  last year valued at
$4.91 million, the third-highest of 3M’s executives, regulatory
filings show. Buckley was paid the most, followed by former
Chief Financial Officer Patrick D. Campbell, who retired May 1.  Naming Thulin as COO gives him “broader exposure within
the organization,” said Windau, who has a “buy” rating on 3M.
“Depending on what the timing is, it definitely gives everyone
the opportunity to continue to see his management style.”  About 70 percent of 3M’s $26.7 billion in sales last year
were generated outside the U.S., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  