-- 
Actis Considers Selling Rwanda Bank, Sees Kenyan Companies as Candidates

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-05-16T09:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/actis-mulls-selling-rwanda-bank-sees-kenyans-as-candidates.html
Actis LLP, a London-based private-
equity firm investing in Africa,  Asia  and  Latin America , may
sell its Rwandan bank to Kenyan lenders.  Banque Commerciale du Rwanda , based in Kigali, the capital,
is “a natural acquisition for one of the bigger East African
banks wanting to expand their footprint,” Peter Schmid, Actis’s
head of Africa, said in a May 12 interview at the firm’s London
office. “That’s a probable exit scenario.”  Actis, which has $4.6 billion  under management , bought an
80 percent stake of BRC in 2004 in a deal valuing the company at
$6 million. The Rwandan government kept the rest of the
previously state-owned bank. Kenyan lenders including  Equity
Bank Ltd. (EQBNK)  and  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  are expanding across
East  Africa , opening branches in  Rwanda , Tanzania, Uganda and
southern Sudan, as the region’s economies grow.  The Rwandan investment was Actis’s first in a country that
10 years earlier lost a million people in a genocide. Gross
domestic product has expanded an average 7.5 percent annually
from 2004 and 2009, according to the  World Bank . About 30
percent of Actis’s capital is invested in Africa, Schmid said.  The Rwandan Stock Exchange “is a bit small for now” to
list for an investment exit, Schmid said.  Rwanda held its first initial public offering in November
when the state sold 25 percent of Brassieries et Lemonaderies du
Rwanda SA, a unit of  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest
brewer. The stock is the only company listed on the Rwandan
Stock Exchange, which started trading on Jan. 31. Kenya
Commercial Bank and Nairobi-based Nation Media Group Ltd., East
Africa’s biggest media company, are listed on an over-the-
counter exchange.  Profit Forecast  BRC increased profit almost four-fold in the nine months
through September on reduced costs and higher revenue, Managing
Director Sanjeev Anand said in December. Net income climbed to
1.7 billion Rwandan francs ($2.8 million) from 433 million
francs a year earlier as sales rose 12 percent to 8.5 billion
francs, he said. The bank expects full-year net income of 2.2
billion francs, Anand said.  In 2004, Actis was spun out of CDC Group Plc, a U.K.
government-owned investor in developing markets that was
originally started 60 years ago as the Colonial Development
Corp., to raise money from government, insurers and pension
funds to invest in African and Asian companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  