-- 
Lafarge’s Gypsum Unit Said to Draw Bids From Carlyle, Bain, Belgium’s Etex

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-05-17T08:13:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/lafarge-s-gypsum-unit-said-to-draw-bids-from-buyout-firms-etex.html
Buyout firms Carlyle Group, Bain
Capital LLC and Advent International Corp. submitted initial
offers for  Lafarge SA (LG) ’s European gypsum business, said four
people with knowledge of the matter.  Other bidders include Belgian building-material company
 Etex Group (ETEVP)  SA, TPG Capital, based in Fort Worth, Texas, and
Cinven Ltd., a London-based private equity firm, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. Lafarge expects a sale will value the assets at as much
as 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), two of the people said.  Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont, who ran the unit from
1998 to 2003, has pledged to step up asset sales and cut
spending to trim debt by at least 2 billion euros this year as
the Paris-based company tries to regain an investment grade
credit rating. It was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  in March.
Lafarge is selling the U.S., European and Australian operations
of the unit separately and the European assets are the biggest
part, the people said.  Claire Mathieu, a spokeswoman for Lafarge, declined to
comment. Spokespeople at Carlyle, TPG, Bain Capital, Advent,
Cinven and Etex declined to comment.  On May 12, Lafarge agreed to sell some U.S. cement assets
with an enterprise value of $760 million to Colombia’s Cementos
Argos SA as part of a plan to sell at least 750 million euros of
assets this year. The divestment target doesn’t take into
account any potential “major” operation, Lafont has said.  Profit Recovering  The gypsum unit, the world’s third-largest supplier of the
mineral used in wallboard, saw a 53 percent increase in current
operating profit to 58 million euros last year as sales climbed
6 percent to 1.44 billion euros. That’s equal to 9 percent of
Lafarge’s total sales.  Revenue at the gypsum business, which employs almost 8,000
people in 30 countries, rose 9 percent in the first quarter 2011
and operating income climbed 80 percent to 18 million euros as
construction markets improved in some parts of  Europe  and the
company continued to cut costs.  In Europe, Lafarge’s largest competitors in the wallboard
market are France’s Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA and Germany’s Knauf
Gips KG. In the U.S., Lafarge faces rivals such as National
Gypsum, Saint-Gobain and Chicago-based  USG Corp. (USG)  and Delcor
Inc.’s National Gypsum.  In  China , South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia,
Vietnam and India, Lafarge’s gypsum activities are in a joint-
venture with Australia’s  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  Lafarge also owns wallboard
plants in Australia, eastern Europe, North African countries and
 South Africa , and jointly controls gypsum operations with
Belgium’s Etex Group SA in some Latin American countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at
   achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 