-- 
Air France Crash Data Retrieved From Black Boxes, Investigator Agency Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-16T11:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/air-france-crash-data-audio-retrieved-from-black-boxes.html
Investigators of the Air  France 
Flight 447 crash in 2009 said they successfully recovered the
full contents of the black-box flight data and voice recorders.  The flight parameters and cockpit audio from the black
boxes, recovered this month from the bottom of the Atlantic,
will be analyzed for an interim report to be published in
“several weeks,” France’s  BEA  air-accident investigation
bureau said today in an e-mailed statement.  Investigators retrieved “all the data from the flight data
recorder as well as the whole recording of the last two hours of
the flight from the cockpit voice recorder,” BEA said. The
black boxes were immersed for two years in 3,900 meters
(12,800 feet) of seawater.  The breakthrough comes two weeks before the second
anniversary of the Airbus A330’s unexplained plunge into the
Atlantic en route from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris, which killed all
228 people on board. According to the plane’s last automated
radio transmissions, faulty airspeed readings caused the
autopilot to shut down in bad weather, a situation pilots are
trained to cope with.  The voice recording alone is expected to help explain why
the crew flew into a storm that other planes deliberately
avoided, and whether flight Captain Marc Dubois was at the
controls or had handed over to his co-pilots.  The BEA had no comment on the recording or any of the other
recovered data, spokeswoman Martine Del Bono said today.  BEA chief Jean-Paul Troadec said May 12 the cockpit
recording would first be heard by two BEA investigators, a
police officer and a court-appointed expert. He said the agency
aimed to complete its investigation and issue a final report
early in 2012.  The flight data unit and audio recorder, made by  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) , were recovered from the seabed and
transported to Paris this month. An undersea search in April
located the plane’s wreckage, after three previous operations
had failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  