-- 
Majority in U.S. Say College Isn’t Worth the Price, Study Finds

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/majority-in-u-s-say-college-isn-t-worth-the-price-study-finds.html
More than half of U.S. adults say
higher education fails to provide students “good value” for
the money they and their families spend, a survey found.  That assessment comes in a report, “Is College Worth
it?,” released today by the Washington-based  Pew Research
Center . The organization, an independent research group funded
by Philadelphia-based  Pew Charitable Trusts , surveyed 2,142
adults, ages 18 and older, from March 15 through March 29.  The report follows a call by President  Barack Obama  for the
U.S. to achieve the highest college graduation rate in the world
by 2020. The U.S. now ranks 12th among 36 developed nations,
according to a report last year by the  College Board .  The debate over higher education’s value “has been
triggered not just by rising costs but also by hard economic
times,” according to the report.  In the survey, 75 percent of U.S. adults said college was
unaffordable for most Americans, and almost half said that
 student loans  had made it harder to pay other bills.  At the same time, 86 percent of college graduates said that
it had been a good investment for them personally. College
graduates said they earned an average $20,000 a year more
because of their degrees, a figure that closely matches  U.S.
Census Bureau  data, the survey found.  The report included a separate survey of 1,055 college
presidents that was designed by the Pew Research Center and the
 Chronicle of Higher Education . That survey, conducted March 15
through April 24, showed concern about diminishing higher
education standards and quality.  Some 58 percent of college presidents said public high
school students arrive at college less well prepared than their
counterparts a decade ago, according to the survey. Just 19
percent said the U.S. system of higher education is the best in
the world, and 7 percent said they believe it will be the best
ten years from now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  