-- 
Alberta Wildfires Halt Oil Sands Production, Town Evacuated

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-16T20:58:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/alberta-wildfires-halt-oil-sands-production-town-evacuated-2-.html
Fires burning out of control in
northern  Alberta  forced producers including Penn West Petroleum
Ltd. to halt output of crude oil and destroyed part of a town of
7,000 people.  Penn West’s production is down by the equivalent of 35,000
to 40,000 barrels a day because of the fires and flooding in
Manitoba, the Calgary-based company said in a statement. The
town of Slave Lake has been evacuated and hundreds of
firefighters and emergency personnel are working to douse the
flames, according to the province of Alberta.  “The wildfire situation in Alberta remains extreme,” said
Premier Ed Stelmach, the elected leader of the province.
Firefighters and police worked through the night to evacuate the
town, he said.  Penn West said production will resume as soon as staff can
safely return.  Canadian Natural Resources evacuated about 1,300 people
from its Horizon oil-sands project near Fort McMurray, Alberta,
as fire threatened the plant and camps that house workers. The
Calgary-based company said in a statement that a fire barrier is
expected to keep the facility and two camps intact.  Horizon has been shut since an explosion in a production
unit Jan. 6. It had been expected to resume operations in mid-
June.  Pipeline Shut  Plains All American Pipeline LP said it shut the southern
portion of its damaged Rainbow pipeline in Alberta yesterday and
evacuated workers doing spill clean-up on the northern section
after wildfires threatened the site. The top tier of the
220,000-barrel-a-day line was already closed after a spill.  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  said it may have to shut 22,000 barrels
a day of production at its Pelican Lake site if the pipeline
remains shut. The company has sufficient storage to keep
producing until late tomorrow, spokeswoman Rhona DelFrari said
in a telephone interview.  “The Pelican operation isn’t at risk of flames,” DelFrari
said. The company has employees who live in the town of Slave
Lake and is offering support to those who lost homes in the
fire, she said.  Exall Energy Corp. (EE)  shut its Marten Mountain plant, which
produces 1,750 barrels per day, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. Exall said Enerchem International Inc.  Winds gusting up to 60 kilometers an hour (37 miles per
hour) and a lack of rain have resulted in more than 10 fires
burning out of control in the oil-producing region about 250
kilometers north of  Edmonton , according to the ministry of
sustainable resources’ website. The fires were caused in part by
“human carelessness,” Stelmach said.  Other operators in the region are monitoring the fires.
TransCanada Corp.,  Canada ’s second-largest pipeline operator,
hasn’t been affected and has an emergency plan in place, said
Terry Cunha, a spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 