-- 
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Slides to Lowest Since March; Invensys Falls

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-17T15:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/allied-irish-banks-hsbc-vodafone-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined for a fifth day,
with the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  falling to its lowest level in
almost two months, as U.S. housing starts unexpectedly fell and
industrial production stalled.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  sank 2.8 percent as Exane BNP Paribas
downgraded the maker of controls for Whirlpool washing machines.
African Barrick Gold Plc slumped to a record low as seven people
were shot dead at one of its mines in Tanzania after hundreds
invaded the project.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  climbed 0.9 percent as
sales growth topped estimates.  The FTSE 100 lost 62.69, or 1.1 percent, to 5,861 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London , the lowest level since March 23. The
gauge has fallen for two straight weeks, led by a selloff in
commodity producers as oil and metal prices tumbled. The FTSE
All-Share Index slid 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
declined 0.2 percent.  “European fund managers’ outlook has deteriorated further
this month,”  Gary Baker , the London-based head of European
equity strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, wrote in
a report today. “Fund managers have started to rotate into
defensives, finally softening a pro-cyclical stance which has
increasingly seemed at odds with their worsening macro
outlook.”  Pared Bets  Investors have pared bets on rising stocks, according to a
BofA Merrill Lynch survey of participants that manage about $814
billion for clients, carried out between May 6 and May 12.
Forty-one percent were “overweight” equities in this survey,
less than the 50 percent in April. An index of risk appetite
slipped to 43 from 45, though remained above the long-term
average of 40, the brokerage said.  In the U.S., a report showed housings starts in the world’s
largest economy fell in April as home builders continued to
struggle almost two years into an economic recovery. Industrial
production was unchanged after a 0.7 percent gain in March,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed. Economists had forecast
a 0.4 percent gain, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.K. inflation accelerated more than economists forecast in
April to the fastest since October 2008, forcing  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  to explain publicly why officials haven’t
raised  interest rates  yet.  Invensys lost 2.8 percent to 310.5 pence. Exane cut the
stock to “neutral” from “outperform,” saying it is turning
more cautious on the rail business, the company’s largest
division, due to the failure to secure a London underground
contract.  African Barrick  African Barrick said seven “intruders” were shot dead at
its North Mara mine in Tanzania after hundreds invaded the
project armed with machetes, rocks and hammers in the latest
fatal confrontation at the site. The stock tumbled 5.8 percent
to 469 pence, the lowest level since its initial share sale in
March 2010.  Enterprise Inns Plc (ETI)  fell 3.6 percent to 85.3 pence after
the U.K.’s second-biggest pub owner said first-half profit
declined 13 percent as sales decreased and it reduced the number
of pubs in its portfolio.  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  rallied to a record after
reporting earnings before taxes that were ahead of some analysts
forecasts. Sales and profit were ahead of Liberum Capital’s
estimates, according to a report from London-based analysts
William Shirley and Joe Brent. Shares of the defense and
engineering contractor soared 4.4 percent to 680 pence.  Vodafone climbed 0.9 percent to 169.7 pence. Fourth-quarter
service revenue growth was unchanged at 2.5 percent in the three
months through March compared with the prior period. Analysts
had estimated 2.1 percent growth. Service sales include revenue
from voice, data, messaging and broadband offerings and exclude
handsets and accessories.  Pinewood Shepperton Plc (PWS)  slid 3.7 percent to 198.25 pence
after Former Harrods owner Mohamed Fayed said he currently has
no intention to make an offer for the film studio company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  