-- 
Halliburton Engineer Declines to Testify in Oil Spill Suit

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-16T20:20:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/halliburton-engineer-declines-to-testify-in-oil-spill-lawsuit.html
A  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  engineer who said
he warned  BP Plc (BP/)  of the risk of a natural-gas surge before the
Macondo well blew up has declined to testify in litigation over
the incident,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said today.  Jesse Gagliano, a technical adviser who was Halliburton’s
cementing engineer on the well offshore of  Louisiana , “refused
to testify last week” in a deposition and invoked his Fifth
Amendment rights against self-incrimination, Transocean said in
a court filing. Transocean asked the magistrate overseeing
depositions to give the company more time to question personnel
from Houston-based Halliburton.  The Macondo well blowout and the explosion that followed
killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP, which owned the well, Switzerland-based
Transocean, which owned the oil rig, and other partners and
contractors including Halliburton.  Transocean’s filing today came as parties are seeking sworn
testimony by witnesses and representatives of companies involved
in the lawsuits. A trial on determining liability for the
incident and subsequent spill is set for February 2012 in
federal court in  New Orleans . Depositions conducted by the
various parties may be used in that trial and others.  BP Warning  Gagliano told the U.S. Coast Guard at a hearing last year
that he warned BP five days before the explosion that its design
for the well was susceptible to a “severe” natural-gas surge.
He said he advised BP to assemble the well with 21 centralizers,
devices used to ensure the steel pipe lining the well could be
properly secured.  BP used six centralizers, according to the report on the
explosion by a U.S. presidential panel.  Joshua Berman, Gagliano’s attorney, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment. Donald Godwin, Halliburton’s lead
trial lawyer in the litigation, declined to comment.  The case is In Re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  