-- 
EU to Probe Control of Financial Data: Almunia

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-16T12:30:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/almunia-says-eu-to-probe-control-of-financial-market-data.html
European Union regulators, who are
investigating 16 investment banks over the swaps market, will
examine the “control and dissemination” of financial-market
data for possible antitrust abuses.  The European Commission will investigate whether data
providers are engaging in abusive behavior by “attempting to
leverage privileged access to information,”  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s competition commissioner, said in a  London  speech
today. “I also intend to discuss the legitimate scope of
intellectual property rights claims on such data,” Almunia
said.  Almunia is increasing the EU regulator’s scrutiny of
financial markets. Last month, he announced a probe into whether
16 banks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , colluded by giving data to Markit, a financial
information provider. The commission is also checking whether
nine of the banks struck deals with ICE Clear Europe, a
clearinghouse for derivatives, that prevent other clearinghouses
from entering the market.  “The commission is ramping up antitrust enforcement in the
financial services sector,” Suzanne Rab, a lawyer at King &
Spalding in London, said in an e-mail “An underlying theme is
the transparency of and access to data.”  Almunia, who is set to examine Deutsche Boerse AG’s bid for
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , said he is opposed to “essential” market
infrastructure being controlled by a small number of companies.  ‘Essential Infrastructure’  “We should prevent that any one entity or group controls
essential infrastructure -- be it a trading platform, a clearing
platform or a pre-trading service -- to the benefit of a
restricted few,” he said.  Seeking extra operators of financial-markets infrastructure
promotes “fragmentation,”  Xavier Rolet , chief executive
officer of the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , said at the same
event.  Almunia said that he “saw no risk” that increased
competition to supply services on financial markets would
threaten their stability. “Competition and stability are not at
odds.”  The LSE agreed in February to buy Toronto Stock Exchange
owner  TMX Group Inc. (X)  in an all-share transaction value as the
companies cut costs to counter lost market share. Maple Group
Acquisition Corp., which comprises four Canadian banks and five
pension funds, has made a counterbid.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
dropped their bid for NYSE Euronext after discussions with the
U.S. Department of Justice made “clear” they wouldn’t secure
regulatory approval.  Standard & Poor’s   Standard & Poor’s offered to change its pricing policy in
Europe to overcome antitrust concerns over licensing fees for
securities identification numbers, the commission said earlier
today.  The EU regulator sent an antitrust complaint to S&P in 2009
over the fees it charges financial firms and information-service
providers for using International Securities Identification
numbers in their databases.  The offer “promises to significantly reduce the cost of
using U.S. ISINs,” Almunia said in a separate statement. The
commission will “market test the commitments received and make
them legally binding on S&P if satisfied with the results.”  CUSIP Global Services, a provider of securities
identification data run by S&P, said it welcomed the commission
decision to start the market testing.  Real-Time Data  In his London speech, Almunia urged  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) 
to work with the commission on a possible settlement of a
separate antitrust probe concerning use of identification codes
for real-time market data feeds.  “I take this opportunity to encourage the company to work
with us for a speedy resolution of the case,” the commissioner
said.  Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman for  Thomson Reuters , said the
company is cooperating with EU regulators.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  