-- 
Manufacturing in New York Slows More Than Estimated on Raw-Material Costs

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-16T14:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/manufacturing-in-new-york-cools-as-raw-material-costs-jump.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded at a slower pace than forecast in May, showing that
surging raw-material costs are hurting confidence.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to 11.9 from a one-year high of 21.7 in April, the
central bank reported today. Measures of orders and sales fell
less than the headline reading, while managers were more upbeat
about the future and the group’s hiring index climbed to the
second-highest level on record.  Growing demand from overseas is prompting companies like
 Corning Inc. (GLW)  and PepsiCo Inc. to expand production and rebuild
stockpiles. Gains in manufacturing will keep bolstering the
economic expansion, laying the ground for further improvement in
the job market.  “Higher energy prices are having secondary effects,” said
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Manufacturing is still going to be
a plus for the economy, just not as big a plus as we’d like.”  Another report today showed confidence among homebuilders
was little changed in May as executives turned more pessimistic
on the outlook for sales, a sign the real estate market will
keep lagging behind areas like manufacturing.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index held at 16 this month, data from the Washington-
based group showed. A measure of sales expectations for the next
six months fell to an eight-month low.  Shares Fall  Stocks were little changed, restrained by the slowdown in
manufacturing and concern over  Greece , which is preparing to ask
for extra bailout funds. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at
1,338.31 at 10:22 a.m. in New York, up less than 0.1 percent
from the May 13 close.  The median forecast of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s factory
index would drop to 19.6. Estimates ranged from 15 to 25.
Readings greater than zero signal growth in the so-called Empire
State Index that covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and
southern  Connecticut .  The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  Rising costs may be making factory managers less
optimistic. An index of prices paid climbed to 69.9 from 57.7.
It was second to the July 2008 reading as the highest in data
going back to 2001. The measure of prices received increased to
28 from 26.9, indicating manufacturers are trying to pass some
of those increases along.  Raising Prices  A supplementary question showed the prices paid for inputs
by factory managers rose by a median 5 percent in the past 12
months, exceeding the 3 percent gain in the May 2010 survey.
Respondents planned to raise their own prices by a median 4
percent in the next 12 months, up from 3 percent a year earlier.  The employment measure rose to 24.7 from 23.1 in April.
Only the reading reached in May 2004 was higher in the 10-year
history of the data.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to 17.2 this
month from a one-year high of 22.3 in the prior month. A measure
of shipments fell to 25.8 from 28.3.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now rose to 52.7 from 47.4.  Manufacturing makes up 12 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of New York’s. Factory payrolls climbed by
29,000 workers in April for the sixth straight month of
employment gains, according to Labor Department data released on
May 6.  Rising Sales  Companies in the New York region are expanding. PepsiCo,
the world’s largest snack-food maker, reported a 27 percent jump
in first-quarter sales as new flavors helped it to appeal to
customers in international markets. The Purchase, New York-based
company raised its annual dividend on May 4.  Corning, a maker of glass for flat-panel televisions,
expects sales will grow to $10 billion by 2014, helped by demand
from China.  “We’re off to a great start in 2011,” Wendell Weeks,
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement after
the Corning, New York-based company’s annual meeting last month.
He said a significant portion of growth will come from  China ,
which is currently the world’s largest market for several of
Corning’s major products.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia report is due May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  