-- 
Aon Agrees to Lease Almost a Third of City of London’s Cheesegrater Tower

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d   a n d   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-05-16T15:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/aon-agrees-to-lease-almost-a-third-of-city-of-london-s-cheesegrater-tower.html
Aon Corp. (AON)  agreed to become the first
tenant in the  Cheesegrater , a skyscraper in the City of London
financial district that’s due to be completed in 2014.  Aon will occupy almost a third of the 47-story tower,
according to a statement today from the developers, British Land
Co. and Oxford Properties Group Inc. The property, officially
known as the Leadenhall Building, will be the Chicago-based
insurance broker’s U.K. base.  British Land revived the project in October after getting
backing from Oxford Property’s owner, Toronto-based  Ontario
Municipal Employees Retirement System . Prices for London office
buildings have recovered since August 2009 as the weak pound
fueled demand from overseas investors and a shortage of large
new offices lifted rents.  “This is good news for British Land, but doesn’t signal a
jump in demand for central  London  offices,” said Alan Carter,
an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. with an “add” rating
on the stock.  British Land fell 0.3 percent to 582.5 pence at the close
of trading in London. The shares have climbed about 19 percent
in the past six months, raising the company’s market value to
5.2 billion pounds ($8.4 billion).  Aon will occupy 191,000 square feet (17,700 square meters)
of space in the Cheesegrater and has the option of leasing an
additional 85,000 square feet in the building. The tower will
have total space of 610,000 square feet and will cost about 340
million pounds to build.  ‘Lots of Interest’  “The agreement demonstrates the high level of interest
being shown by major occupiers,” for the property, British Land
Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg said in the statement. His
London-based company is the U.K.’s second-largest real estate
investment trust after Land Securities Group Plc.  Four other skyscrapers are planned for central London. None
of the owners have signed up office tenants yet.  British Land and Oxford Properties didn’t say how much rent
Aon will pay. The Leadenhall Building is called the Cheesegrater
because of its angular shape. The floor space will taper from
21,000 square feet at the base of the building to 6,000 square
feet at the top.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 