-- 
Arbs See L-1 Takeover Return Evaporate on Safran Query: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-16T20:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/arbs-see-l-1-takeover-return-evaporate-on-safran-query-real-m-a.html
Merger arbitragers who bet  France ’s
 Safran SA (SAF)  would succeed in a takeover of  L-1 Identity Solutions
Inc. (ID)  are facing possible losses of as much as 39 percent as a
U.S. national security panel holds up the deal.  L-1, the Stamford, Connecticut-based maker of fingerprint
scanners, American passports and driver’s licenses, has slid 8.1
percent in two weeks after approval for Safran’s $1.58 billion
acquisition was delayed for a second time by a U.S. review of
cross-border deals affecting national security. L-1 closed 10
percent below the $12-a-share cash offer at the end of last
week, the widest gap since it was announced in September. If the
takeover is completed in June, traders would reap an annualized
return of as much as 207 percent, the most of any pending all-
cash U.S. deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Arbitragers may lose at least 33 percent more on their
investment if the transaction falls apart and would end up
owning an unprofitable company that already sold its counter-
terrorism business to help close the deal. Meanwhile, short
sellers have pushed bearish bets against L-1 to an all-time high
and stand to reap gains if the acquisition is blocked.  Traders “could get blindsided,” said Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of M&A and special situations trading at New
York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC. “You can imagine the level
of discomfort in Washington ceding control of that business to a
foreign company. The downside is obviously big because they’ve
already sold off some of their business.”  Deal Premium  Catherine Malek, a spokeswoman for Safran, didn’t respond
to an e-mail sent outside normal business hours.  “The negotiations are progressing,” Robert V. LaPenta,
chief executive officer of L-1, said in an e-mailed statement.
“And while there can be no assurance that an agreement will be
reached, we believe the transaction will be completed in
approximately 30 days.”  Safran, a Paris-based maker of airplane engines for Airbus
SAS and Boeing Co., agreed to buy L-1 for $12 a share, or 48
percent more than L-1’s 20-day trading average before it was
first reported July 15 that Safran was considering a purchase of
L-1. The offer is valued at $1.58 billion including net debt.  Since closing at $11.73 on April 29, L-1 had slumped $1.22
below Safran’s offer as of May 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference is now the widest since Safran agreed
to buy L-1 on Sept. 20. Prior to April 29, shares of L-1 had
never fallen more than 51 cents below the bid.  ‘Selling Off’  “The confidence level seems to have gone down,” John Maysles, an event-driven analyst at Elevation LLC, said in an
interview from  Los Angeles . “It has been selling off ever since
that second extension.”  L-1 fell 4.3 percent to $10.32 today in New York, the
biggest decline since July 16. Safran dropped 0.3 percent to
27.50 euros in Paris.  L-1  makes  everything from fingerprint- and eye-scanning
products to face-recognition technology and passport-
verification software. It’s also the  largest  producer of U.S.
driver’s licenses, according to the company’s website. The deal
was contingent on L-1’s sale of its counter-terrorism business
to London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest defense
company, for about $297 million. That transaction was completed
in February.  Safran agreed to pay 37 times L-1’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months
through June. The median multiple paid for identification-
systems companies in the last 10 years is 17 times Ebitda,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘In the Dark’  The deal was originally expected to close in the first
quarter of 2011, the companies said when it was announced.
Safran and L-1 voluntarily notified the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S., which reviews foreign acquisitions of
national defense and security businesses, last year to be sure
the U.S. President wouldn’t block the transaction or require
divestitures, L-1 said in a regulatory  filing . Safran, which is
30 percent owned by the French government, and L-1 have since
resubmitted their request twice to gain more time for approval.  Sandra Salstrom, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Treasury
Department, said it doesn’t comment on specific CFIUS cases.  “With CFIUS you’re really in the dark and people are going
off of what they feel is the confidence level after speaking to
the company,” Elevation’s Maysles said. “There haven’t been
any details on what exactly is holding this up, so we’ve been
left in the dark here.”  ‘Meaningful Progress’  The companies refiled at the end of April, and L-1 said
“the parties have made meaningful progress” and expect the
deal to close 30 days to 40 days after May 4. That means traders
who purchased L-1 shares last week stand to reap a profit of 11
percent if the acquisition closes on June 2, for a return of 207
percent on an annualized basis.  “There’s a big gross number to make because the bid is
$12, so there’s over a dollar to make now on an $11 stock,”
Maysles said.  L-1 options traders are making the most bearish bets since
October. Open interest for puts to sell the stock more than
doubled in a week to 30,944 contracts as of May 13, or more than
six times the number of calls to buy.  Put volume spiked to 11,256 on May 11, the highest level
since August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after the
deal’s approval was delayed a second time and L-1 reported
earnings that missed estimates.  ‘Substantial Downside’  The options are “definitely reflecting substantial downside
risk,” said Ophir Gottlieb, head of client services at Livevol
Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of options market
analytics. “In other words, the risk that the deal doesn’t go
through and that the company stock returns back to the pre-deal
price.”  L-1 shares closed at $7.25 on July 14, the day before
Safran’s interest was reported. That’s 33 percent lower than the
share price on May 13 and 39 percent less than the stock’s peak
of $11.95 since the deal was announced.  Short interest in L-1’s stock has almost quadrupled since
Jan. 7 to a record of 17.3 million shares on May 9, according to
London-based research firm Data Explorers. That represented
almost 24 percent of shares available for trading. A short sale
is the practice of selling borrowed shares on the bet prices
will decline and the seller will profit from the difference.  L-1 reported May 10 that first-quarter revenue rose to
$97.2 million, short of the $114 million estimate from Paul Coster, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who
rates the shares “neutral.”  ‘Worst Case’  CFIUS investigations are difficult to predict, and L-1 may
trade even lower than $7 a share if the acquisition is
terminated, said Keith Moore, an event-driven strategist at MKM
Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “They already sold off that one operation that was
profitable to BAE, and now the remaining operation is not doing
as well as people thought it should be doing,” Moore said.
“That’s usually the worst case for an arbitrager. If a deal
breaks that’s one thing, but if you now have a fundamentally
unsure outlook for the security, you can’t just go back.”  Overall, there have been 9,104 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $895.4 billion, a 21 percent increase from
the $739.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 