-- 
Stocks, Oil Fall on Greek Aid Talks as Swiss Franc Strengthens

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 
2011-05-16T13:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/asian-stocks-fall-euro-weakens-on-greece-debt-concerns-oil-won-decline.html
Stocks fell for a fourth day, the
longest streak for the MSCI World Index since February, as
international finance leaders debated extending aid to  Greece 
and  New York  manufacturing growth slowed more than forecast. Oil
declined and the Swiss franc strengthened.  The MSCI World Index lost 0.6 percent at 9:37 a.m. in New
York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4 percent.
Greece’s ASE Index sank to a 13-year low and the yield on the
government’s 10-year bond rose 17 basis points to 15.607
percent. The 10-year Treasury note was little changed. The Swiss
franc appreciated against all 16 of its most-traded peers. Oil
fell 0.7 percent while wheat rebounded from last week’s slide.  Greece will plead for a boost in its 110 billion-euro ($155
billion) rescue from European governments and the  International
Monetary Fund  in Brussels, with IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn absent from the talks because of attempted-rape
charges in New York. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its weighting
on Japanese and South Korean shares, citing the weaker global
outlook. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s manufacturing
gauge for May slid amid a surge in commodity costs.  “There’s nothing close to a resolution” for Europe’s debt
crisis, Norval Loftus, the chief investment officer at Allegra
Investment Management Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Francine Lacqua in London. “There’s a lot of
risk in the system. It’s a very important time to maintain a
slightly risk-averse outlook.”  Lowe’s Slides  Nine of the 10 main industry groups in the  S&P 500 
retreated, led by energy and consumer-discretionary shares.
Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home improvement retailer,
reported a first-quarter profit of 34 cents a share, less than
the average estimate of 36 cents a share in a Bloomberg survey
of 19 analysts. The shares dropped 2.9 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.7 percent, a third
day of losses, as about six stocks fell for every one that
advanced.  Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA (UBI) ,  Italy ’s fourth-largest
bank, declined 2.6 percent as earnings missed estimates.
 Securitas AB (SECUB)  sank 4.6 percent after the world’s biggest provider
of security services, offered to acquire Niscayah Group AB
through a share swap.  Greece’s ASE slid 1.9 percent to the lowest level since
1997 as  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  fell 2.9 percent. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of
similar-maturity German bunds, the euro-region’s benchmark
government securities, increased 13 basis points. Bailout talks
may be clouded by the arrest of IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  Greece Discussions  Europe’s donor countries, led by  Germany , are demanding
deeper budget cuts in exchange for granting Greece extra aid or
giving it more time to pay back official loans. Any extension of
Greece’s bond maturities would need to prevent “the private
sector steadily withdrawing from its positions” and shifting
the burden to taxpayers, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told ARD television yesterday. “If there is an
extension, then everyone has to be extended.”  The yield on  Portugal ’s 10-year bond fell 19 basis points.
Finance ministers in Brussels are set to approve 78 billion
euros in assistance for the nation.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 1 percent, set
for the lowest close since March 23. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.8
percent in  Seoul  after Goldman Sachs cut South Korean shares to
“market weight.” The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.8
percent as higher Chinese food prices fueled concern inflation
will quicken and money-market rates rose to a record high.
Russia’s Micex Index slid 1 percent, and the Jakarta Stock
Exchange Composite Index lost 0.9 percent.  Oil futures in New York declined 72 cents to $98.93 a
barrel, paring the 1.5 percent gain in the previous two
sessions. Wheat advanced after falling 8.9 percent in the
previous three sessions. The S&P GSCI index of 24 raw materials
dropped 0.3 percent, the first decline in three days.  The franc appreciated 0.6 percent against the euro and rose
0.5 percent versus the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at   psillitoe@bloomberg.net  