-- 
Asian Currencies Decline, led by Malaysia’s Ringgit, on Greek Debt Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-16T08:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-malaysia-s-ringgit-on-greek-debt-concern.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and  Singapore ’s dollar, as demand for
emerging-market assets declined on concern Greece’s debt crisis
will worsen.  The ringgit fell to its weakest level in almost two months
and the  Singapore dollar  retreated to a one-month low after
President Barack Obama said failure to raise the U.S. government
debt ceiling by early August might disrupt the global financial
system and plunge the world’s largest economy into another
recession. Greece will plead today for a boost in its 110
billion-euro ($155 billion) financial lifeline from European
governments and the  International Monetary Fund .  “It’s certainly a risk-off environment,” said  Sean Callow ,
a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“There are too many jitters over what might eventuate over the
finance ministers’ meeting starting tonight on  Greece . We’re
into a phase where America hasn’t come to an agreement on the
debt limit. That’s not a very helpful thing either.”  The ringgit slid 1 percent to 3.0390 per dollar as of 4:13
p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Singapore dollar fell 0.7 percent to S$1.2487, India’s rupee
retreated 0.5 percent to 45.0750 and South Korea’s won weakened
0.4 percent to 1,091.18. The Philippine peso declined 0.4
percent to 43.295.  Europe ’s donor countries, led by Germany, are demanding
deeper budget cuts in exchange for granting Greece extra aid or
giving it more time to pay back official loans, and are weighing
whether to make bondholders share the costs.  Recession Warning  If investors “around the world thought the full faith and
credit of the U.S. was not being backed up, if they thought we
might renege on our IOUs, it could unravel the entire financial
system,” Obama said on a segment taped for yesterday’s “Face
the Nation” program on CBS. The government projected this month
that its $14.3 trillion debt limit may be reached as early as
today.  Losses in the ringgit may have been limited by expectations
economic growth accelerated in the first quarter, helped by a
surge in commodity exports. A central bank report due May 18
will show  Malaysia ’s economy grew 4.9 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 4.8 percent in the
three months through December, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey.  The rupee declined after data showed wholesale prices
increased 8.66 percent in April from a year earlier, more than
the 8.50 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. India’s
economic growth may slow to “around 8 percent” in the year that
began April 1 from an estimated 8.6 percent in the previous 12
months, the  Reserve Bank  of India said this month.  Korean Rate Surprise  “Rising inflation and economic growth are a concern for the
rupee,” said Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in Singapore.  The won fell after the central bank unexpectedly left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3 percent last week. Twelve
of fourteen economists surveyed forecast a quarter of a
percentage point increase, with only two predicting no change.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis is increasing
uncertainty for global economies,” said Seo Jeong Hun, a
currency analyst at  Korea  Exchange Bank in Seoul. “The Bank of
Korea’s decision to hold off from raising rates last week is
also keeping the won from rising.”  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.2 percent to 8,573
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China ’s
yuan fell 0.13 percent to 6.5062, the biggest drop in three
weeks, while Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.4 percent to NT$28.888.
Financial markets in  Thailand  are closed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  