-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Grains, Soybean Futures Surge on Adverse Weather

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-18T22:16:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/asia-commodity-day-ahead-cotton-jumps-most-in-five-months.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Grain, Soybeans Surge on Adverse Weather From U.S. to  Europe   Corn futures rose the most in six weeks, wheat had the
biggest gain in two months, and soybean and rice prices surged
as adverse weather from North Dakota to  Louisiana  to Europe
threatened to erode crop production.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Glencore Buys Iron-Ore Cargoes for China From Ferrous (1)  Glencore International Plc, the commodities trader seeking
as much as $11 billion in an initial public offering, bought
five iron-ore shipments from Ferrous Resources Ltd. as it
expands trading of the raw material.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Has Longest Rally in Three Months on China Metal Outlook  Copper rose in New York, capping the longest rally in three
months, on bets that demand will climb in  China , the world’s
biggest consumer of industrial metals.  MINING:  Tungsten Processing at U.K. Mine to Start in 2013, Wolf Says  Processing of tungsten ore is scheduled to start in 2013 at
a U.K. mine that holds the world’s fourth-biggest reserve of the
metal, according to Australian exploration company Wolf Minerals
Ltd.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold, Silver Gain as Commodity Rally Spurs Inflation Concern  Gold futures rose the most this month as grain and energy
prices surged, boosting the appeal of the precious metal as a
hedge against inflation. Silver jumped almost 4 percent.  Gold Trading Rose 18% in April, Silver Gained 23%, LBMA Says  Gold trading rose 18 percent to an average of 22.5 million
ounces a day in April, the London Bullion Market Association
said today in an e-mailed statement.  AGRICULTURE:  Deere Raises Forecast Less Than Estimated on  Japan , Costs (1)  Deere & Co., the world’s largest farm-equipment maker,
raised its fiscal 2011 earnings forecast less than analysts
estimated as the effects of Japan’s earthquake lowered profit
and costs rose.  Hogs Drop as Energy Costs Curb Consumer Demand; Cattle Decline  Hog futures fell to a 10-week low on signs that U.S. pork
demand is slumping as high energy costs curb  consumer spending .
Cattle prices slipped for a fourth straight session.  Coffee Rises as Rain May Hurt  Colombia  Crop; Sugar, Cocoa Climb  Coffee rose the most in more than a week on concern that
rains will hurt crops in Colombia, the world’s second-biggest
grower of the arabica variety. Sugar recorded the longest rally
this year, and cocoa climbed.  U.S. Corn, Soybean Export Sales Fell Last Week, Survey Shows  U.S. export sales of corn and soybeans probably fell in the
week ended May 12 from a year earlier, according to a survey of
three analysts by Bloomberg News. Estimates for wheat, soybean
meal and  soybean oil  ranged from below to above a year earlier.  Wheat at Risk Across Europe From Driest Weather in Decades (2)  Europe’s wheat crop, making up a fifth of global output, is
under threat in the U.K.,  France  and  Germany  from the driest
growing conditions in at least 36 years.  Milk Output Rose 1.5% in April After Prices Gained, USDA Says  U.S. milk production rose 1.5 in April, the Department of
Agriculture said, as higher prices pushed farmers to increase
herds and boost per-cow output.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Exchange Says New Freight-Trading Screen to Start June 8  The Baltic Exchange Ltd., a London-based publisher of
shipping costs, said it will start a freight-derivatives trading
screen June 8.  Baltic Dry Index Declines on Surplus Panamax Vessels for Hire  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping
costs, retreated, led by a surplus of panamax vessels for hire
to haul coal,  iron ore  and grain.  ECONOMIES:  Slowdown Hits Shanghai Index as Bond Spreads Drop: China Credit  Bond yields for China’s top-rated companies are trading at
the lowest level in two months relative to government debt,
reflecting waning appetite for equities as monetary tightening
cools the economy.  Geithner Says U.S. Can’t Use ‘Magical Thinking’ to Fix Deficit  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said budget
deficits threaten to erode the nation’s economy and security and
can’t be reduced with “magical thinking.”  Fed Favors Strategy of Raising Rates Before Selling Assets (2)  Federal Reserve  policy makers began to coalesce last month
on a strategy to reverse record monetary stimulus by first
ending their reinvestment policy and later raising  interest
rates  and selling assets.  Fed’s Bullard Says Fed May Tighten in 2011 by Cutting Assets (1)  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the central bank may tighten policy this year by allowing
its balance sheet to decline even with inflation showing signs
of slowing in recent weeks.  OTHER MARKETS:  Dollar Weakens Versus Commodity Currencies; Sterling Slumps  The dollar dropped against currencies of commodity
exporters including  Norway  and  New Zealand  as raw-material
prices and stocks rose, fueling investor appetite for higher-
yielding assets.  Pound Depreciates as BOE Warns of Risks to  Consumer Confidence   The pound fell as minutes from the  Bank of England ’s May 5
meeting showed the majority of policy makers warned against
raising borrowing costs and a report revealed unemployment
claims rose.  U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Easy Fed Policy as Commodities Rebound  U.S. stocks rose, snapping a three-day drop, as the Federal
Reserve signaled continued low interest rates, commodities
rebounded and earnings at companies including Dell Inc. beat
analyst estimates.  Crude Oil  Climbs Above $100 After Unexpected U.S. Supply Decline  Crude oil climbed above $100 a barrel in  New York  after an
Energy Department report showed an unexpected drop in U.S.
inventories as refineries bolstered operating rates and imports
declined.  SPORTS:  Shane Warne Fined $50,000 After Row Over IPL Game, AFP Reports  Australian bowler Shane Warne was fined $50,000 for his
part in a row with an administrator after a game in cricket’s
Indian Premier League,  Agence France-Presse  reported.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  