-- 
Mass Grave for Protesters Discovered in Syria, Activist Ammar Qurabi Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-16T15:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/mass-grave-for-protesters-discovered-in-syria-activist-ammar-qurabi-says.html
Villagers near the Syrian city of
Daraa, where anti-government protests began, found a mass grave
containing the bodies of demonstrators killed by security forces
since the unrest started in March, a human rights group said.  Authorities cordoned off the area on the outskirts of Daraa
where the bodies were found today, Ammar Qurabi, head of the
National Organization for Human Rights, said by phone. Qurabi
provided Bloomberg News with a video purported to be of the
grave that has also been posted on the YouTube website. It
wasn’t possible to immediately confirm the authenticity of the
video. No one was available to comment when calls were made to
the Interior Ministry.  The suppression of pro-democracy protests in Syria followed
revolts that ousted longtime leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . The
uprising drew initial pledges of reform from President Bashar al-Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and
named a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in
recent weeks as security forces stepped up their assaults.  Syrian authorities have killed about 850 people over two
months of protests, according to Qurabi and Mahmoud Merhi of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights. The death toll has mounted
as authorities extended a violent nationwide crackdown in the
past week.  International Pressure  “I would be surprised if it acts as a game changer and
radically alters the course that the regime has been taking so
far,” Chris Phillips, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit in  London , said by telephone when asked about the report of
the mass grave. “What it might do is increase the international
pressure on leaders to up their rhetoric and condemnation of the
regime.”  The European Union has imposed sanctions including a visa
ban and an asset freeze on 13 Syrian officials and relatives of
Assad. The U.K. summoned Syrian Ambassador Sami Khiyami to the
Foreign Office in London last week and said EU countries will
take further sanctions “targeted at the highest levels of the
regime” if the violence doesn’t stop. The U.S. has applied
sanctions against Syrian officials.  In addition to the mass grave, the bodies of 34 people
killed by government forces over the past five days were found
in Jassem and Inkhel, Qurabi said. The villages are part of the
Daraa governorate. The authorities have said they were chasing
Muslim militants and “terrorist elements” in the area.  Security Forces  At least seven people were killed by security forces
yesterday in the town of Tallkalakh near the border with
Lebanon, Merhi said.  Since the demonstrations began, state television has shown
what it said were confiscated arms and ammunition and the
confessions of members of terrorist or extremist groups.  Assad has rejected United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon’s request to send a humanitarian assessment team to  Syria 
and hasn’t responded to the UN  Human Rights Council ’s call for a
fact-finding mission. Assad agreed May 4 to allow UN aid workers
into the country, and then reneged on that pledge, according to
UN spokesman  Martin Nesirky .  Most foreign journalists have been banned from Syria and
the government has restricted media access.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 