-- 
Astros’ Drayton McLane Agrees to Sell Team to Crane Capital’s Jim Crane

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-05-16T21:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/astros-drayton-mclane-agrees-to-sell-team-to-crane-capital-s-jim-crane.html
Houston Astros owner Drayton McLane
sold the Major League Baseball team to a group led by Jim Crane,
the founder of a transportation logistics company.  McLane, who bought the team for $117 million in 1993,
agreed to sell it to Crane’s group in a deal worth $680 million,
according to the Houston Chronicle.  The agreement, signed today at Minute Maid Park in Houston,
also includes the sale of the club’s share in Comcast Sports Net
Houston, the Astros said in a news release. Financial terms
weren’t disclosed.  The deal still needs the approval of three-fourths of Major
League Baseball owners. Crane also tried to buy the Astros in
2008.  “It was the right moment,” Crane said at a news
conference carried on the team’s website. “Drayton was ready to
sell the team, he made that public, and we certainly always had
the interest in buying the team.”  Forbes estimated in March that the Astros were worth $474
million, 14th among baseball’s 30 franchises in the magazine’s
annual list of major league team valuations.  Crane, who played college baseball at the University of
Central Missouri, is the chairman of Crane Worldwide Logistics,
a global transportation logistics service. He founded it after
losing a bidding war for EGL Inc., a freight-management company
he also started, to Apollo Management LP in 2007.  “I was fortunate enough to be successful,” said Crane,
who is also the chief executive officer of Houston-based Crane
Capital Group. “A business of mine sold that I wasn’t trying to
sell, I got in a bidding war with a big buyout firm, and
actually lost the business. I got paid a lot of money.”  Rangers’ Bid  Crane, 57, lost out on the  Texas Rangers  last year in a
bankruptcy court joint bid with Dallas Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban . The Rangers were sold to a group led by Hall of Fame
pitcher  Nolan Ryan  for $593 million.  “We looked at a number of different teams and were
fortunate enough going through that process to be able to see a
number of the books and look at how other teams were run,”
Crane said. “That gave us a lot of valuable information that
enabled us to really close in and get a deal that worked for
Drayton and a deal that worked for us.”  McLane, 74, revealed his plans to sell the team in
November, hiring Stephen Greenberg of Allen & Co. to negotiate
with potential bidders. Greenberg, who also is advising the  New
York Mets  as they look to sell a minority stake, has represented
the owners of the  Milwaukee Brewers ,  Cincinnati Reds  and  Atlanta
Braves  in past sales.  McLane Co.  McLane bought the team two years after he merged his family
grocery distribution business, McLane Co., with Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  The club made the playoffs six times under his ownership,
reaching the  World Series  in 2005, where it was swept by the
 Chicago White Sox . Houston is 15-25 this season, last in the
National League Central, eight games behind the division-leading
Cincinnati Reds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 