-- 
Australia Home-Loan Approvals Drop to 10-Year Low as Rates Deter Buyers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-16T02:41:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/australia-home-loan-approvals-drop-to-10-year-low-as-rates-deter-buyers.html
Australian home-loan approvals
unexpectedly dropped in March to the lowest in more than 10
years as higher  interest rates  kept homebuyers on the sidelines
and the central bank said the economy may have contracted.  The number of loans granted to owner-occupiers to build or
buy houses and apartments dropped 1.5 percent to 44,968 in March,
from a revised 4.7 percent decline the previous month, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That compares with the
median estimate for approvals to rise 2 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of 20 economists, and was the lowest since February
2001, according to government data.  “Higher interest rates in coming months will keep demand
and price growth in check,” Matthew Circosta, an economist at
Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the report.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens held the
benchmark rate at 4.75 percent this month after boosting
borrowing costs seven times from October 2009 to November 2010
to prevent a property-market bubble from forming in a nation
where more than two-thirds of households own their homes.
Property prices declined in the first quarter by the most since
2008 as floods in the nation’s east coast disrupted the market
and homes listed for sale climbed alongside rates.  The total value of loans fell 0.1 percent to A$19.3 billion
($20.4 billion) in March, today’s report showed.  Owner Occupiers  The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 1.1
percent, the report showed. The value of loans to investors who
plan to rent or resell homes advanced 2.1 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 16 percent of dwellings
that were financed in March, up from 14.9 percent in February
and lower than 16.4 percent a year earlier, the report showed.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities slid 1.7 percent in the
first quarter from three months earlier, the biggest fall since
the third quarter of 2008, a government report showed May 2.
There was a decrease in transactions in Queensland’s capital,
Brisbane, it said.  Prices fell the most in Melbourne and Brisbane, with
declines of 2.5 percent from the prior quarter, while Sydney
dropped 1.8 percent, the report showed. Prices advanced 0.5
percent in Perth and Hobart house prices gained 0.4 percent.  Earlier this month, the RBA said gross domestic product
“is likely to have declined in the March quarter” as flood
damage significantly reduced coal production.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  