-- 
Aviation Carbon Suit to Stir Trade Tension at Durban Talks, Derwent Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-16T17:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/aviation-carbon-suit-to-stir-trade-tension-at-durban-talks-derwent-says.html
A lawsuit by U.S. airlines arguing
against inclusion in the European Union carbon market probably
will stir tension at December climate talks, said  Henry Derwent ,
the International Emissions Trading Association president.  U.S. airlines including  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
and the  Air Transport Association  of America are arguing July 5
in the  European Court  of Justice in Luxembourg that the bloc’s
inclusion of carriers in the market starting next year exceeds
its jurisdiction and amounts to an improper tax or charge,
according to the trade group.  Chinese airlines’ support of the suit shows developing
nations are concerned new climate-related barriers and costs
will hurt their exporters, Derwent said in a phone interview
from Geneva. Developing-nation concern “will be strengthened by
a commission win in the aviation court case,” he said May 13.  EU lawmakers, who have failed so far to lure the U.S. and
other rich nations into pricing greenhouse gases, are already
imposing emission standards on motor vehicles and appliances and
have proposed to ban some  United Nations  credits starting May
2013, slashing revenue in nations including China and  India . The
bloc may expand its market further to include shipping should
international talks fail to cut pollution from that industry, an
official said in March.  “The move to regulate emissions on the basis of trade is
perhaps the worst possible outcome because it sets up all of the
existing unresolved tensions from the World Trade Organization
talks,” said Jerome Whitington, a climate specialist at
 Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  ‘Failures and Postponements’  “The climate should not be a stage for that power
struggle,” Whitington said. “It is a recipe for a further
series of failures and postponements, and it undermines the U.S.
negotiators’ claim that an overarching global deal is
unnecessary,” he said May 13 by e-mail.  At stake is the right of a nation or group of nations “to
insist that a price is paid,” said Derwent, previously an
adviser to former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair . Chinese
officials are already starting to say they are doing a lot to
price carbon, arguing it shouldn’t face new imposts, he said.  Should the EU lose its court case it will look foolish at
talks planned for November and December in Durban,  South Africa ,
Derwent said. Rich and emerging nations have so far failed to
agree how to extend or replace the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which
has greenhouse gas targets for developed nations for the five
years through 2012.  “We are seeing unfolding before our eyes a very important
part of the post-Kyoto world,” he said. The court decision
“will be a significant moment.”  Flight Exemption  The EU is examining whether  China , which opposes the
expansion of the EU emissions trading system to airlines, could
earn an exemption from the program thanks to its domestic plan.  The EU’s emissions cap-and-trade system, the world’s
largest, will from next year cover flights to and from the
bloc’s airports. The European legislation offers an option to
exclude incoming flights from a non-EU country if the nation
implements “equivalent” measures to cut pollution from
aviation.  Airlines will be the second-largest sector in the system,
after power generators. Under the  legislation , 82 percent of the
emission allowances making up the airline-industry cap will be
allocated for free, and 15 percent will be auctioned. The
remaining 3 percent will be put into a special reserve for later
distribution to fast-growing airlines and new entrants.  “With substantial annual growth expected for decades to
come, aviation will increasingly contribute to  climate change 
unless we act,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, an EU climate spokesman,
said May 11. “As most other sectors are already subject to
measures, it is only reasonable that also this sector should
contribute to fight climate change.”  Airlines Lobbied  Six environmental lobbies including the Environmental
Defense Fund and the  Natural Resources Defense Council  last week
asked U.S. airlines to drop the lawsuit.  “If in fact American Airlines is committed to reducing its
environmental impact, it makes no sense to spend your customers’
money on lawyers and lobbyists in an effort to thwart a crucial
anti-pollution program,” the groups said in a letter to  AMR
Corp. (AMR) , the airline’s owner.  “A $10 or $20 increase on a $800 ticket to the EU won’t
destroy the airline industry,” New York-based Jake Schmidt,
international climate policy director of NRDC, said in an
interview on May 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  