-- 
Berlusconi Suffers Election Setback as Milan Poised to Fall to Opposition

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-05-17T14:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/berlusconi-suffers-election-setback-as-milan-poised-to-fall-to-opposition.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
alliance with his key Northern League ally suffered a setback
after losses in Italian local voting, raising the chances of an
early national election.  Milan Mayor Letizia Moratti, Berlusconi’s candidate,
trailed rival Giuliano Pisapia 41.6 percent to 48 percent in the
race to control city hall in the premier’s hometown, preliminary
results showed. The two will face a runoff May 29-30. Piero Fassino, of the opposition Democratic Party, was poised to win
the mayoral seat in Turin, a manufacturing center that is home
to Fiat SpA, while the opposition also won in Bologna. The
ruling bloc failed to avoid a runoff in Naples.  The outcome is “a crushing defeat for Berlusconi and a
clear sign of the rising discontent,” Lavinia Santovetti, an
economist at Nomura International in  London , said in an e-mail.
The League “has implicitly lost along with Berlusconi,” making
it hard for their ruling alliance to “continue as if nothing
has happened” and keep governing until the parliamentary term
expires in 2013.  As Berlusconi grapples with the fallout from corruption
charges and allegations he paid for sex with a minor, the
outcome was seen as a bellwether of his support in battleground
cities such as Bologna, Naples, Turin and his base, Milan. He
staked his personal reputation on the Milan race, putting
himself at the head of his party’s ticket to bolster support for
Moratti.  Runoffs  Pisapia fell short of the 50 percent threshold needed to
avoid a runoff election. Virginio Merola, the  Democratic Party 
candidate, had almost 51 percent of the vote in Bologna, a
center-left stronghold. A Berlusconi-backed candidate fared
better in Naples, where Gianni Lettieri won almost 39 percent of
the vote and will face a runoff against Luigi De Magistris of
the Italian Values party, led by former anti-corruption
prosecutor Antonio di Pietro.  “Turning this into a referendum was a mistake because at
the local level people vote for issues like trash collection and
traffic and don’t appreciate pressure about national issues,”
said Federigo Argentieri, professor of political science at John
Cabot University in Rome. “If he loses Milan and Naples, it’s a
hard blow because he’s head of the ticket in both cities.”  Popularity Polls  Berlusconi’s popularity has been hurt by allegations that
he paid an underage nightclub dancer for sex. He also faces
bribery, fraud and tax-evasion charges in three other trials
related to his management of broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS)  before he
entered politics. The voting also opened two days after  Italy ’s
national statistics office said the economy expanded just 0.1
percent in the first quarter, one of the slowest paces of any
euro country.  The prime minister’s rating among voters has slipped to the
lowest since his re-election in 2008 as the scandals and the
economy sap support. For the  first time , more Italians would
vote against his coalition if general elections were held now,
with 41.5 percent backing the opposition and 41 percent the
ruling group, Rome-based IPR Marketing said in a survey of 1,000
voters conducted April 14-16.  “Berlusconi isn’t concerned about the vote results,”
Denis Verdini, a member of parliament for the premier’s People
of Liberty Party, told a news conference in  Rome  broadcast by
Sky TG24 today. Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa told the
briefing that the ruling coalition remains confident it can
still win in Milan, where it “must quickly demonstrate our
different ideas for society” before the runoff.  League Results  The League failed to win mayoral seats in the first round
ballot across its northern base including in Varese, a party
stronghold. Leader  Umberto Bossi  told supporters last night that
Berlusconi is costing the party votes, Italian newspapers
including la Repubblica said, citing people close to Bossi.  “Berlusconi’s making us lose and it’s just the beginning
if we don’t split from him,” an unidentified reader commented
today on the website of La Padania, the League’s newspaper.
“Politically, he’s sinking like the Titanic and if we don’t
ditch him, we’ll be going down as well.”  Berlusconi, owner of the Italian soccer team AC Milan, had
sought to tap his hometown popularity to boost support for
incumbent Moratti. She campaigned to turn the northern city into
a European financial center, while critics including Pisapia say
its glut of offices dooms the plan to failure.  Business Class  “These results also reflect disaffection toward the
government on the part of the business class of the north,”
Robert Leonardi, a senior lecturer in European politics at the
 London School  of Economics, said by phone.  In the closing moments of a televised debate on May 11,
Moratti accused Pisapia, an attorney, of having been convicted
of stealing a car 26 years ago. Pisapia, who was acquitted of
the charge on appeal, has said he will sue Moratti for slander.  Moratti, in comments carried on Sky TG24 last night,
acknowledged that her campaign may have failed to talk enough
about “concrete issues” that local voters care about, such as
jobs, education and the economy.  Almost 72 percent of the 13 million Italians eligible voted
in the municipal elections and turnout for provincial balloting
was almost 60 percent, the Interior Ministry said on its
website. Those levels were slightly below the previous local
elections in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 