-- 
Blue Oak Energy Sees Future on Roofs of Businesses, Utilities

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-05-16T19:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/blue-oak-energy-sees-future-on-roofs-of-businesses-utilities.html
In 2003, mechanical engineer Tobin Booth quit his job
designing power inverters in  Seattle  to seek his fortune as an entrepreneur in
California’s solar market, the largest in the nation. During  Blue Oak Energy’s  first three
years, business sputtered. Apart from  BP Solar (BP),  relatively few companies hired
Blue Oak to engineer and install the costly photovoltaic systems Booth pitched as long-
term money-savers. “Selling a commercial project back then was difficult,” he says. “It
was a big investment, you didn’t have the same tax incentives, and it was less
commonplace.”  Booth started to live his California dream in 2007, when a new 30 percent federal tax
credit for solar power installations made them more palatable. Since then,  Google
(GOOG),   Wal-Mart (WMT),  and  Whole Foods (WFMI)  have used the 52-employee
Davis (Calif.) company to design or build rooftop solar power systems on their buildings
inside and outside the Golden State. Booth plans to hire 31 new employees this year
and expects revenue to reach $24 million, almost triple that of 2010. “When I look at
Blue Oak Energy’s portfolio, it appears they’ve done a great job of targeting high-profile
customers and leveraging customers that have lots of property or buildings,” says Jon
Fortune, head of energy advisory services for the nonprofit  California  Center for
Sustainable Energy.  Booth, 38, spoke recently to Bloomberg.com contributor Antone Gonsalves about
convincing businesses to try solar, weathering a 60 percent drop in revenue in 2009,
and gauging the industry’s reliance on government subsidies. Edited excerpts of their
conversation follow.  Antone Gonsalves: The U.S. market grew 67 percent last year to $6 billion, with the
nonresidential segment making up 70 percent, according to the trade group Solar
Energy Industries Association (SEIA). Federal and state tax credits can cover up to 65
percent of a solar power system’s cost. Are government incentives driving
nonresidential installations?  Tobin Booth: Absolutely. The federal investment tax credit, along with the accelerated
depreciation that has been enacted and extended, has been driving a significant
amount of growth in commercial and utility projects. Utilities recently became eligible to
take advantage of the federal investment tax [credit] and that really accelerated the
utilities’ entrance into installing solar  power plants .  Q: The influence of the Tea Party movement has led politicians to question the need for
tax incentives for the renewable  energy industry . Would the current boom be derailed
without those incentives?  A: The No. 1 risk we face as an industry is the incentives that make this industry viable
going away or being reduced. We’ve seen this industry threatened a number of times ...
but let’s face it, every energy generation source that we have as a country has some
type of subsidy associated with it. Some are more visible than others.  Q: Will subsidies always be needed to make the solar industry viable?  A: The so-called grid-parity point, or the inflection point, where subsidies are not needed
is five years away or less. Solar module prices continue to [decline], and utility rate
hikes are expected over the coming years. As those two main factors continue to go in
the direction they’re going, there is going to be a convergence here very soon where PV
[photovoltaic] systems in certain locations are competitive with utility [prices] for
electricity.  Q: The average price of solar power systems, including installation, fell more than 20
percent last year, according to the SEIA. What’s driving down prices?  A: Ultimately it’s competition. Solar panels represent 60 percent of the cost of the
system. There have been so many entrants into the manufacturing space in the last five
years, so much additional scale added to worldwide manufacturing of PV systems, and
so much investment by  China  into designing and building solar panels.  Q: How are businesses paying for installations?  A: There’s a huge trend toward no-money-down, power purchase agreements. You rent
your photovoltaic generation system just as you would rent an apartment or office
space. You rent [it] and you receive the benefit of the electricity at a fixed price over a
fixed period of time.  Q: In 2009 the Great Recession hit your business hard. Your revenue was down 60
percent as businesses stopped buying. What did you learn?  A: Had we seen it coming, we would have focused more on a business development
team that could be driving up our pipeline of immediate work. We were looking at
longer-term investment plays and business strategies in 2008 because things were
going great. Then all of a sudden the carpet got pulled out from under the world
economically. You start to fall back on your core business -- what you can do
immediately to bring in revenues. Unfortunately for us, we didn’t have a whole lot of
those short-term prospects in place.  In the first month of 2010, we landed about $3 million of work, which was equivalent to
all of our revenue in 2009. We were just beside ourselves about what happened in the
last 12 months. It looked like all of these projects just got delayed until people started
feeling a little more optimistic about the economy.  Q: The Canadian province of Ontario introduced five years ago  North America ’s first
tariff program that pays businesses for contributing electricity from renewable energy
sources to the  power grid . You opened your first office outside the U.S. in Toronto last
year. How’s it going?  A: [The tariff program] is very promising, but it has numerous delays creating market
challenges. There’s five different permit processes and they’re all backlogged, and
delayed and challenged in various ways.  Germany  continues to be the country that has
done it the best out of anybody in the world on how to implement a feed-in tariff program
and make the transition to renewable energy.  Q: Blue Oak designed a photovoltaic system that Southern California Edison started
installing last year on the rooftops of eight Los Angeles properties owned by warehouse
operator  ProLogis (PLD).  The systems are expected to generate a total of 25
megawatts, enough electricity to power roughly 15,000 households for a year. Do you
see utilities as a major market in the future?  A: Because of the renewable portfolio standards [present in 20 states], utilities are
driving the largest volume of solar project installations in the U.S. today -- far more than
the commercial side. When a utility has to meet, as in California, 33 percent of the
energy production that they consume by renewable energy by 2020, that’s a lot of
growth. Therefore we find that to be an exciting new market segment for us.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  