-- 
BP Deadline for Rosneft Share Swap Passes Without Agreement on TNK Buyout

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-05-16T23:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/bp-deadline-for-rosneft-share-swap-passes-without-agreement-on-tnk-buyout.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s deadline to complete a $7.8
billion share swap with OAO Rosneft passed as talks on buying
out partners in the U.K. company’s existing Russian partners
failed to reach an agreement in time.  The Rosneft plan, announced in January, was halted after
the billionaire partners in TNK-BP, won a legal challenge,
claiming the deal violated their shareholder agreement. BP
attempted to resolve the situation by offering about $30 billion
for the 50 percent of TNK-BP is doesn’t own, three people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday. Talks may continue
between BP, Rosneft and AAR, the group that represents the
billionaires, even after the deadline, two of the people said.  The planned BP-Rosneft alliance included an exploration
agreement that would give the U.K. oil explorer access to 100
billion barrels of potential resources in  Russia ’s Arctic. The
collapse of BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley ’s biggest
deal since taking charge last year would be a setback for the
company as it seeks to recover from last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil
spill.  “The sides will reconsider going back to the negotiating
table, but everyone is a strong negotiator,” Ivan Mazalov,
director of Prosperity Capital Management Ltd., said yesterday.
The billionaires “aren’t willing to get themselves out of the
equation for any low price and they have a good position.”  Dudley has been involved in talks in Moscow during the past
several days, one person said. Rosneft last month pushed back
the swap deadline to the end of May 16 in  London .  Toby Odone, a London-based BP spokesman, declined to
comment, as did the press services for Rosneft and AAR.  Putin Support  BP and AAR set up TNK-BP in 2003 as a 50-50 venture, with
the support of then-President  Vladimir Putin . In 2008, the
billionaires ousted Dudley as head of the venture after a
shareholder dispute about strategy. TNK-BP accounts for about a
quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of reserves.  BP will not offer the billionaires a large shareholding in
the company, Dudley said April 14. AAR rejected offers of cash,
participation in the Arctic and international projects to allow
the alliance to go through, he said at the time.  BP planned to swap 5 percent of its shares for 9.5 percent
of Rosneft. The stakes each had a value of about $7.8 billion
when the deal was announced on Jan. 14 in London. Putin, now
prime minister, met with Dudley earlier that day and praised the
strategic alliance with Rosneft as having a potentially
“serious impact on the global oil and gas industry.”  ‘Corporate Issue’  Putin has said the government won’t interfere in the
shareholders’ conflict. “It’s a corporate issue and it should
be decided on a corporate level,”  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s
spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  Rosneft wants BP, not TNK-BP, for the Kara Sea project, CEO
Eduard Khudainatov has said. TNK-BP doesn’t have Arctic offshore
experience.  Rosneft has an alternative: to walk away from BP and choose
another partner to develop the Arctic, such as  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  or  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Citigroup Inc. analysts Ron Smith, Ildar Khaziev and  Mark Fletcher  said in a note on May 10.  BP remains “optimistic” about reaching a deal, Dudley
said May 13. “I can’t comment about time but I’m sure we’ll see
a deal sooner or later,” he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  