-- 
BP-Rosneft Share Swap Collapses as Billionaires Block Deal

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-17T16:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/bp-deadline-for-rosneft-swap-passes-without-agreement-on-buyout.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s proposed $7.8 billion share
swap and Arctic exploration accord with OAO Rosneft collapsed
after the U.K. producer’s billionaire partners in its existing
Russian venture blocked the alliance.  The failure of the first major cross-shareholding between
an international  oil company  and a state producer marks a
setback for BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley’s efforts to
recover from last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Rosneft will
now consider other  oil companies  for its Arctic project, said a
person with knowledge of its plans.  The share swap, announced in January, was halted after the
billionaire partners in TNK-BP won a legal challenge, claiming
the deal violated their shareholder agreement. The deal to
explore the Kara Sea in Russia’s  Arctic Ocean  would have given
BP access to one of the world’s largest untapped oil and gas
basins, estimated to hold as much as 100 billion barrels.  “Investors were pinning a lot on BP’s Russian
relationships,” said Colin McLean, CEO of SVM Asset Management
Ltd. in Edinburgh, in a telephone interview. “It was assumed
that BP had good high-level relationships in Russia and that’s
under question right now.”  Rosneft and BP failed to buy out the billionaire partners’
half of TNK-BP after offering $32 billion, said a person
familiar with Rosneft’s plan. A 50 percent holding in TNK-BP was
valued at $22 billion at yesterday’s close.  “A solution hasn’t been found at this time, although talks
will continue,” the London-based company said today in a
statement.  Biggest Deal  The Rosneft alliance was Dudley’s biggest deal since he
took the helm in October, charged with rebuilding the company
after the worst U.S. offshore oil spill.  “Investors won’t pass judgement for at least another
year,” said McLean. “It was thought he would be bringing his
experience and relationships in  Russia  to bear and he needs to
prove that he can still do that.”  BP reversed gains, falling 0.8 percent to 434.8 pence in
London. TNK-BP slid 3 percent in Moscow, while Rosneft fell 0.9
percent.  “There is no additional financial burden on BP,” said
Valery Nesterov, an analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow. “It is
not the right moment. BP needs to recover after the Gulf of
Mexico spill.”  BP has sold more than $24 billion in assets since the Gulf
spill after taking a $41 billion provision for cleanup and legal
costs.  Reduce Dependence  Under Dudley, BP has sought to shift exploration toward the
world’s fastest-growing economies and reduce its dependence on
regions like the  Gulf of Mexico . Earlier this year, BP agreed to
pay Reliance Industries Ltd. $7.2 billion to help explore
deepwater fields in  India . Last year, BP signed a deal to
explore off  Brazil  and sealed a partnership with Cnooc Ltd. for
offshore licenses in the  South China Sea .  BP and AAR, which represents the Russian shareholders, set
up TNK-BP in 2003 as a 50-50 venture, with the support of then-
President  Vladimir Putin . In 2008, the billionaires ousted
Dudley as head of the venture after a shareholder dispute about
strategy. TNK-BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s output and
a fifth of reserves.  ‘Corporate Issue’  BP planned to swap 5 percent of its shares for 9.5 percent
of Rosneft. The stakes each had a value of about $7.8 billion
when the deal was announced on Jan. 14 in  London . Putin, now
prime minister, met with Dudley earlier that day and praised the
strategic alliance with Rosneft as having a potentially
“serious impact on the global oil and gas industry.”  Putin has said the government wouldn’t interfere in the
shareholders’ conflict. “It’s a corporate issue,”  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said by phone today.  Rosneft had wanted BP, not TNK-BP, for the Kara Sea
project, CEO Eduard Khudainatov said. TNK-BP doesn’t have Arctic
offshore experience. Rosneft plans to start talks with potential
partners immediately, said the person familiar with its plan.
Until now, talks have been held exclusively with BP.  “BP remains optimistic that a deal will be reached,”
Peter Henshaw, a London-based BP spokesman, said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  