-- 
BP Said to Seek Buyout of TNK-BP Billionaires to Salvage Rosneft Alliance

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-05-16T10:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/bp-said-to-seek-buyout-of-tnk-billionaires-to-save-rosneft-share-swap-deal.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is seeking to buy out its
billionaire partners in  Russia ’s third-largest oil producer, as
a planned share swap with state-controlled OAO Rosneft expires
today, said people with knowledge of the plans.  An agreement hasn’t been reached on buying the
billionaires' half of TNK-BP, said three people, who declined to
be identified before a deal. The new offer may be worth about
$30 billion, according to two people.  Rosneft may participate in a buyout, while the government
will have to agree to any deal, said one of the people. The
billionaires, represented by the AAR group, rejected an offer of
about $27 billion last month.  BP’s planned alliance with Rosneft would give it access to
unexplored reserves in Russia’s Arctic and would be  Robert Dudley ’s biggest deal since becoming BP chief executive officer
after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill last year. AAR won an
injunction to stop the Jan. 14 alliance, claiming the TNK-BP
shareholder agreement gave the venture exclusive rights to
pursue opportunities for BP in Russia.  BP and AAR set up TNK-BP in 2003 as a 50-50 venture, with
the support of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who at the time
was Russia’s president. In 2008, the billionaires ousted Dudley
as head of the venture after a shareholder dispute about
strategy. TNK-BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s output and
a fifth of reserves.  Rejected Offers  A deal may involve cash and BP and Rosneft shares, one
person said. AAR had valued half of TNK-BP at about $35 billion,
two people familiar with their plans, said earlier.  Toby Odone, a London-based BP spokesman, declined to
comment, as did the press services for Rosneft and AAR.  BP will not offer the billionaires a large shareholding in
the company, Dudley said April 14. AAR rejected offers of cash,
participation in the Arctic and international projects to allow
the alliance to go through, he said at the time.  An arbitration panel on May 6 allowed BP to proceed with
the share swap if it ceded its role in the Arctic project to
TNK-BP, subject to Rosneft’s approval. Rosneft last month pushed
back the swap deadline to May 16. It hasn’t commented publicly
yet on today’s deadline.  “We still believe that BP and Rosneft will be developing
the Arctic shelf jointly,” Svetlana Grizan, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow said by phone. “If not, Rosneft will find
another partner.”  ‘Corporate Issue’  Rosneft wants BP, not TNK-BP, for the Kara Sea project, CEO
Eduard Khudainatov has said. TNK-BP doesn’t have Arctic offshore
experience. Under the Jan. 14 agreement, BP planned to swap 5
percent of its shares for 9.5 percent of Rosneft. The stakes
each had a value of about $7.8 billion at the time.  “It’s a corporate issue and it should be decided on a
corporate level,”  Dmitry Peskov , Putin’s spokesman, said by
phone today. Putin previously said the government wouldn’t
interfere in the shareholders’ conflict.  Rosneft has an alternative: to walk away from BP and choose
another partner to develop the Arctic, such as Royal Dutch Shell
Plc or Chevron Corp., Citigroup Inc. analysts Ron Smith, Ildar Khaziev and  Mark Fletcher  said in a note on May 10.  BP remains “optimistic” about reaching a deal, Dudley
said May 13. “I can’t comment about time but I’m sure we’ll see
a deal sooner or later,” he said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  