-- 
Brad Pitt Plays Tough Dad, Pope Goes Mad in Film: Cannes Review

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/brad-pitt-plays-tough-dad-crazed-pope-wants-out-in-cannes-movies-review.html
Brad Pitt  shows his on-screen sons
tough love: He makes them go hungry, bans dinner talk, and
demands that his questions be met with a soldierly “Yes, Sir!”  Pitt is the 1950s dad in Terrence Malick’s long-awaited
epic, “ The Tree of Life .” He advocates a dog-eat-dog approach
to existence, as epitomized by nature itself.  His saintly other half ( Jessica Chastain ) recommends the
opposite: grace and selflessness. Between these two parental
poles, the boys waver.  At a mobbed Cannes Film Festival news conference (the film
is in the competition), Pitt, 47, joked about his own parenting.  “I beat my kids regularly -- it seems to do the trick --
and deprive them of meals,” said the actor, sporting a white
summer suit and goatee.  Pitt said he initially balked at the “oppressive father”
role. He hoped his children with  Angelina Jolie  would “just
think I’m a pretty damn good actor.”  “Tree of Life” tracks the boys’ childhood mostly through
the eyes of the eldest, Jack. Dad is a musician manque. When the
kids are around him, they hear classical records and practice
their punch. When he’s out, they chase Mom around the house and
throw lizards her way.  The story is relived by adult Jack ( Sean Penn ), an
architect reeling from loss and haunted by the mysteries of
creation.  “Why should I be good if you aren’t?” he asks God in one
of many voiced-over interrogations.  Through him, camera-shy filmmaker Malick (who skipped
Cannes) poses the same questions. He does it poetically, with a
requiem-packed soundtrack, never-ending nature shots, and a
chunky section on the birth of the cosmos featuring dinosaurs
(an awkward “Jurassic Park” moment).  Though parts of “Tree of Life” are intoxicatingly slow,
it’s one of the more complete movies at Cannes this year, and
bound to walk away with some kind of award. The acting,
especially Pitt’s, is excellent. Rating: ***1/2.  Pope? Moi?  A Frenchman has just been elected pope, and he doesn’t want
the job.  Nanni Moretti’s “ Habemus Papam ” humorously blends the
sacred and the profane in its portrayal of a reluctant pontiff.
Played by 85-year-old Michel Piccoli, the pope is so angst-
ridden that when his name is about to be read out from the
balcony of St. Peter’s, he emits a feral howl. Though white
smoke has already signaled the election, the name is kept from
the faithful.  A psychiatrist (played by Moretti) is rushed over for
sessions in the papal apartments, with the entire college of
cardinals sitting in. Questions about sex, childhood and parents
are off limits. Later, the pope, dressed in ordinary clothes, is
driven to  Rome , an occasion for more preposterous scenes.  “Habemus Papam” is a clever concept with dazzling
visuals. The sight of crimson-clad cardinals voting in a make-
believe Sistine Chapel is an absolute hoot.  The movie (shot in Italian) drifts at the end, as Moretti
struggles to find new places to take it. Yet his satirical focus
on one of the world’s cagiest institutions offers plenty of
thrill.  Rating: ***.  “The Tree of Life” (a River Road production) comes out in
 France  today and in the U.S. on May 27. Information:
 http://www.twowaysthroughlife.com/   “Habemus Papam” (a Sacher Film/Fandango/Le Pacte/France 3
coproduction) comes out in France on Sept. 7. Information:
 http://www.habemuspapam.it/   The 64th  Cannes Film Festival  runs through May 22.
Information:  http://www.festival-cannes.com .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Cannes at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 