-- 
Pound Weakens Versus Euro as Traders Pare Back BOE Interest-Rate Wagers

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-16T15:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/british-pound-approaches-seven-week-high-versus-euro-as-house-prices-rise.html
The British pound weakened against
the euro as traders scaled back bets on when the  Bank of England 
will raise borrowing costs.  The U.K. currency was within one cent of the lowest level
since April 5 against the dollar as short-sterling futures rose.
A report tomorrow will show inflation accelerated in April,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Minutes from the Bank of
England’s May 5 meeting will be released on May 18 and will show
how policy makers voted as they held rates at 0.5 percent. Home
sellers raised asking prices to the highest since 2008 this
month, data showed today.  “The data this week should continue to paint a picture
that the U.K. is experiencing a persistent inflation overshoot
and very weak activity, and as a result the Bank of England is
in a difficult position,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We
expect one rate hike toward the end of this year.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent against the euro to 87.58 pence
per euro as of 4:56 p.m. in London. It rose 0.3 percent against
the dollar to $1.6237. Sterling reached $1.6147 on May 13, the
weakest since April 5, when it touched $1.6091.  The U.K. currency depreciated more than 1 percent against
the dollar last week amid weak economic data.  Short-sterling futures rose, pushing the implied yield on
the contract expiring in March 2012 down two basis points to
1.22 percent, indicating investors are pushing back betting on a
later rate increase.  Market Moved ‘Aggressively’  “The market has moved already quite aggressively to push
back the timing and the scale of Bank of England rate hikes, so
there’s limited further downside for the pound,” said Hardman.  U.K. consumer prices in April probably rose 4.1 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 4 percent the previous month,
according to the median estimate of 32 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before the data is released tomorrow.  Three of the Bank of England’s nine policy makers voted for
a rate increase in April to tame inflation, while one called for
an increase in the bank’s asset-purchase program from the
current 200 billion pounds. The majority, including Governor
 Mervyn King , voted to leave policy unchanged, minutes of that
meeting showed.  “The most important thing for the market right now is the
timing of the Bank of England rate hikes, so there will be a
focus on the inflation data tomorrow and on the minutes later
this week,” said You-na Park, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Cameron Austerity  U.K. growth is slowing as Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government seeks to reduce a fiscal deficit of almost
10 percent of gross domestic product by raising taxes and
cutting public spending.  Average asking prices for homes rose 1.3 percent from the
previous month to 238,874 pounds ($388,700), London-based
Rightmove Plc, the operator of the U.K.’s biggest property
website, said in a report today. From a year ago, prices are up
0.7 percent. Rightmove said public holidays in April limited the
supply of property for sale.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt up two basis points to 3.38 percent. Two-year yields
were one basis point higher at 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  