-- 
Brown Faces Quandary as Taxes Beat Forecasts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-05-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/brown-faces-quandary-pushing-taxes-as-california-revenue-beats-forecasts.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  today
will unveil his plan to erase a $15.4 billion deficit, as
unanticipated revenue growth undercuts his message that the
state needs higher taxes to offset spending cuts.  Brown, 73, will revise the $84.6 billion general-fund
budget he introduced in January. California governors are
required to update their spending plans in May with new revenue
projections for the fiscal year starting in July. Receipts as of
April 30 were more than $2 billion above forecasts.  Brown, a Democrat who took office in January pledging to
fix the fiscal malfunctions of the most-populous U.S. state, has
sought a five-year extension of $11 billion of expiring income,
sales and vehicle-registration tax increases to prevent more
cuts to schools and public safety. Republicans opposed that plan
and blocked a June statewide vote on the higher levies.  “The increase in revenue is not going to fix this
problem,” said Mike Genest, who was budget director for former
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican. “A billion here
and a billion there isn’t materially changing the situation.”  Brown may announce that he’ll postpone asking for the
higher income-tax rate until next year, making up the difference
with the revenue growth, the Los Angeles Times  reported  May 14,
citing unidentified officials. He would still seek an extension
of the  sales tax  and vehicle-registration fee that are set to
expire by July 1, the report said.  Gil Duran , a Brown spokesman, declined to confirm the
report.  Ask Voters  California, which accounted for close to 15 percent of U.S.
gross domestic product in 2009, will run out of money by July if
lawmakers and Brown can’t agree on a fix, according to
Controller John Chiang. He said that may force him to pay bills
with IOUs for the second time in three years, which may drive
down the state’s credit rating and push borrowing costs higher.  One option Brown has signaled is to get the Legislature to
extend the taxes and then ask voters in November to validate the
move. Spending would then be based on the higher revenue with a
provision that triggers cuts if voters don’t go along.  Such a path doesn’t change the political math Brown faces.
He would still need at least four Republicans, two in the Senate
and two in the Assembly, to gain the two-thirds margin needed to
approve extending the taxes. A handful of Republicans have shown
willingness to compromise, though they have their own demands
that Democrats have found unpalatable.  Pension Overhaul  The Republicans have insisted on an overhaul of public
pensions. One suggestion would replace current plans with a mix
of traditional defined benefits and 401(k)-style  savings
accounts . They also want a spending cap tied to inflation and
population change, as well as easing environmental rules they
say hinder business growth.  Democrats in March approved bills that reduced a $26.6
billion deficit to the remaining $15 billion. Along with
accounting maneuvers, the measures cut spending and shifted some
public-safety costs to  local governments . The state will close a
fourth of its parks to save $33 million over the next two years.  Once tax-referendum talks to get Republican support
collapsed, Brown traveled the state last month warning that
without the revenue he’d have to cut school and public-safety
spending to close the deficit.  This month, the state controller and  Legislative Analyst’s
Office  reported tax receipts for the fiscal year through April
had come in $2.5 billion higher than projected in Brown’s
January budget proposal.  Revenue for Schools  Republicans seized on the cash reports as proof the deficit
can be erased without higher taxes. They argued that $2 billion
of the additional revenue could be used for schools to maintain
spending at the level Brown proposed.  “By dedicating this new revenue to the classroom, there’s
no need for the Draconian education cuts that Democrats have
proposed to justify massive tax hikes,” said Assembly
Republican Leader Connie Conway of Tulare.  Conway proposed a plan to eliminate the deficit that relies
on higher revenue projections, additional spending cuts and
reduced employment costs. The proposal also would siphon cash
from about 400 local redevelopment agencies as well as special-
tax financed programs for children and mental health.  Senator Mark Leno, a  San Francisco  Democrat who heads the
Senate  Budget and Fiscal Review Committee , said the public needs
to understand that the additional receipts won’t come close to
putting the state’s spending and revenue in balance.  All Cuts  “An all-cuts budget, without the additional revenues, will
be very devastating to the state,” Leno said. “I don’t think
anyone’s going to suggest that the additional revenues will
reduce the deficit to anything less than $10 billion.”  A coalition of business organizations, including the
Silicon Valley Leadership Group and local chambers of commerce,
wrote to Brown and lawmakers May 11 urging them to compromise on
what they called a “financial workout plan.”  The group endorsed the governor’s proposal for a referendum
on extending the expiring taxes, as well as Republican demands
for an overhaul of public pensions, a mandated spending cap and
reduced environmental and business regulations.  “That’s what California needs: A workout plan where
taxpayers agree to extend temporary taxes on the condition that
the state government fixes the underlying conditions that got
California in trouble,” the group said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  