-- 
Brown Says California Expects $6.6 Billion Revenue Gain, Trimming Deficit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-16T21:02:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/brown-says-california-expects-6-6-billion-revenue-gain-cutting-bond-need.html
California ’s economy is “on the
mend,” driving revenue $6.6 billion higher than forecast
through fiscal 2012, reducing the deficit of the most populous
U.S. state and trimming the need for higher taxes, Governor
 Jerry Brown  said.  The deficit estimate shrank to $9.6 billion from about
$15.4 billion, Brown said in revising his  budget proposal  for
the year that begins July 1. In addition to balancing the books,
Brown said his plan will increase education funding, take aim at
“gimmickry” that boosted debt to $34.7 billion over the past
decade, and limit borrowing to reduce debt costs.  “This is not the time to delay or evade, but to put our
finances in order,” Brown said today in a Sacramento press
conference.  The 73-year-old Democrat, who pledged to fix the fiscal
malfunctions that left California with the lowest credit rating
of any state from  Standard & Poor’s , previously sought a five-
year extension on $11 billion in expiring income taxes, sales
taxes and fees. Republicans blocked a referendum on the levies.  “They seem to be putting up front in this budget document
the future payment obligations and highlighting the extent to
which the state has borrowed,” said Gabriel Petek, senior
director of credit market services at Standard & Poor’s in  San
Francisco . “The governor’s approach seems to be more 
structurally oriented and that could be favorable for the 
state’s credit.”  Limiting Debt Issuance  Brown’s budget calls for limiting the amount of general-
obligation borrowing by California, the largest U.S. issuer of
municipal bonds.  The state may sell a total of $4 billion of general-
obligation debt in the fall and spring, as well as $2 billion of
lease-revenue bonds, the state budget director, Ana Matosantos,
told reporters at a briefing.  The extra yield that buyers want for 10-year bonds from
California issuers compared with top-rated municipal debt rose
to 116 basis points on May 13, from a one-year low of 107 on
April 15. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Budget proposals don’t really impress the marketplace
very much at this point,” said Bud Byrnes, the chief executive
officer of Encino, California-based RH Investment Corp., which
trades about $100 million par value in bonds each month. “We’ll
take it seriously when and if something gets passed. In the
meantime, traders tend to have a very short time horizon.”  Tax Extensions  California won’t need to extend a 0.25 percentage-point
increase in personal income-tax rates until next year because of
the better-than-expected revenue, Brown said. He also rescinded
plans to scrap blight-fighting enterprise zones.  Brown’s revised budget relies on keeping in place a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25
percent, and a 0.5 percentage point increase in auto
registration fees to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value. It also
seeks to extend a reduction of the annual  child tax credit  to
$99 from $309. All were put in place temporarily in 2009 and are
to expire by July 1.  Brown’s initial plan in January asked lawmakers to put
those tax extensions directly before voters in June. His revised
budget calls for lawmakers to extend the taxes and then ask
voters in November to validate the move. Spending would be based
on the higher revenue with a provision that triggers cuts if
voters don’t go along.  Jim Nielsen, the top Republican on the Assembly budget
committee, said he doesn’t expect Republicans to agree to the
tax extensions. Brown would need at least four Republican
lawmakers to consent. The governor said he’s in discussions with
between four and 10 Republican lawmakers.  ‘Spigot of Spending’  “As far as our caucus is concerned, tax increases are not
something that we would agree to,” Nielsen said at a news
conference today. “Raising taxes only continues the spigot of
spending.”  California’s constitution requires lawmakers to approve a
budget by June 15 and for the governor to sign it into law by
July 1. A new law approved by voters in November allows the
budget to be passed by a simple majority vote and strips
lawmakers of their pay whenever a budget is late.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  