-- 
Bunds Lose to Treasuries on Merkel’s $200 Billion Rescue

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-16T17:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/bunds-lose-to-treasuries-as-merkel-pledges-200-billion-to-help-salvage-eu.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
determination to save the euro is starting to rattle
bondholders, who have driven Germany’s long-term borrowing costs
above those of the U.S. for the first time since 2009.  German 10-year yields rose to almost 8 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries on May 4 amid concern that
Merkel’s 142 billion euro ($200 billion) bill for aiding Greece
and Ireland will make the country’s debt riskier. As recently as
January, bunds yielded about 53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage
point, less than U.S. debt.  Europe ’s benchmark bonds reflect the European Union’s
rising budget deficits and the growing gap between inflation in
the region and the U.S., where the Federal Reserve shows no
signs of increasing borrowing costs from record lows. European
finance ministers meet today to discuss more support to help
 Greece  avoid restructuring its debt after a 110 billion-euro
bailout last year failed to keep the crisis from spreading to
Ireland and Portugal.  The weakness in bunds is “explained by the potential
burden faced by Germany from the  euro-zone  sovereign crisis and
the interest-rate outlook,” said  Steven Major , the global head
of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “Rates
in the euro zone will rise while the Fed does nothing.
Treasuries will outperform German bonds.”  Rising Yields  The rise in German yields has driven down prices, resulting
in a loss to investors of 0.6 percent this year, while
Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Bunds beat Treasuries in 2009 and
2010, gaining 6.2 percent and 1.9 percent, compared with 5.9
percent and a loss of 3.7 percent for  U.S. debt .  U.S. 10-year yields rose two basis points last week, or
0.02 percentage point, leaving the rate on the 3.125 percent
Treasury due May 2021 at 3.17 percent. The yield on the 3.25
percent bund maturing in July 2021 fell nine basis points to
3.08 percent. German bunds have on average yielded 35 basis
points less than Treasuries in the past six years.  Ten-year Treasuries yielded 3.16 percent today as of 1:35
p.m. in  New York . The European benchmark 10-year bund yield rose
four basis points to 3.12 percent.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal have all sought bailouts in
the past year, raising concern that the currency union will
dissolve, a risk highlighted by former U.S.  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Paul Volcker  in a speech a year ago in London and
billionaire investor  George Soros  on Jan. 26 at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  Greek Yields Soar  Investors have driven yields on two-year Greek government
notes above 25 percent from as low as 2.74 percent last year
amid concern the nation’s leaders will require bondholders to
accept losses as part of any restructuring.  A Bloomberg Global Poll published on May 13 showed 85
percent of international investors surveyed said Greece probably
will default. Bondholders demand an extra 12.36 percentage
points in yield to own the nation’s 10-year notes rather than
bunds of similar maturity, up from 2.73 percentage points in
January 2010.  Ten-year German yields began to converge with Treasuries in
January, when Merkel said her country would do “whatever is
needed to support the euro.”  “We see a significant risk of a Greek restructuring,”
Jens Peter Soerensen, chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S said.
“If Greece restructures and the debate on an Irish
restructuring of senior bank debt intensifies, then the market
will soon realize that  Germany  and  France  are the big losers.”  Rescue Package  Germany committed 22.4 billion euros to the 110-billion
euro rescue package for Greece and a further 119.4 billion euros
to the region’s bailout fund, known as the European Financial
Stability Facility. Aggregate euro-area debt levels are
approaching 90 percent of gross domestic product, the level that
economists  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart  say can weigh on
long-term growth prospects.  The economy of the 17-nation EU region is already slowing
because of austerity measures. GDP will likely expand 1.7
percent this year and next, compared with 2.7 percent and 3.1
percent in the U.S., according to separate surveys by Bloomberg
News of more than 90 economists.  While Germany is a bright spot because of rising exports,
its economy is also forecast to lag behind the U.S., growing 2.8
percent this year and 2 percent in 2012, down from 3.6 percent
in 2010.  Recent data show growth may be accelerating. GDP rose 5.2
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since reunification two decades ago. Unemployment fell
below 3 million for the first time in almost 19 years in April.
Exports surged 7.3 percent in March from February.  Deficit Contained  Merkel has been able to keep the  budget deficit  to about
3.3 percent of the world’s fourth-largest economy, compared with
more than 9 percent in the U.S.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, said May
4 that its profit this year will rise at least 75 percent as
companies step up investment in industrial equipment. MAN SE,
the region’s third-largest truck-maker, said the same week its
first-quarter operating income more than doubled on higher
demand from freight transporters and construction companies.  Credit-default swaps on German debt traded at about 37
basis points, less than the 42 points for the U.S., according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Problem Contained?  “The market appears to be taking a view that the debt
problem will be contained to Greece, Ireland and Portugal,”
said Johannes Jooste, senior portfolio strategist at Merrill
Lynch Global Wealth Management, which oversees more than $1.5
trillion. “It doesn’t seem to think at this point it’s
necessary to re-price German bonds. We would prefer to
overweight German bonds to Treasuries over the 12-month
horizon.”  German elections show that the nation’s bailout burden may
increase the political heat on Merkel, whose party lost in
Hamburg in February and Rhineland-Palatine in March. Her
Christian Democratic Union party was also beaten in an election
the same month in Baden-Wuerttemberg, an industrial state that’s
home to Porsche SE and Daimler AG.  Bailout skeptics aim to tap resentment in Germany. Twenty
percent of Germans view Merkel’s decision to help Greece in May
2010 as “right,” according to a poll published May 8 by
consumer survey company GfK SE.  ‘Immense’ Challenges  Another 47 percent of respondents said the decision was
wrong, suggesting Merkel’s coalition may struggle to explain new
aid. The next election will be in the city-state of Bremen on
May 22.  “Political challenges in the euro region are immense,”
said Stephen Lewis, chief economist at Monument Securities in
London. “Merkel’s party appeared to be less popular than in the
previous election, perhaps because of the perception they are
not protecting taxpayers. We can’t rule out risk there could be
changes in governments which could invalidate plans that were
put in place now. The whole thing could degenerate into chaos.”  Less Support  Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partners signaled less
support for bailouts at a convention on May 14 as the party
leadership fought to quash a revolt over granting rescues. While
a motion to eject aid recipients that miss debt-cutting targets
from the euro was defeated, a leading opponent said that as many
as 50 coalition lawmakers are ready to reject the post-2013 euro
bailout fund when it goes to parliament later this year.  “We know that public acceptance of European themes is
dwindling,” Economy Minister Philipp Roesler told FDP members
in the Baltic Sea port of Rostock in his first speech as party
leader. Aid appraisals must be based on “clear conditions with
sanctions for failure to adhere to rules,” he said, pledging
“no taboos.”  Faster inflation is also making German bunds less
attractive to some investors. Consumer prices in Germany rose
2.7 percent in April, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  raised
the main refinancing rate in April to 1.25 percent from 1
percent. The EONIA forward market is pricing in one more
increase this year, to 1.5 percent. Futures traders in the U.S.
expect the Fed to keep its target rate for overnight loans
between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through 2011.  ‘Blockbuster’ Growth  “Germany has been growing at a blockbuster rate, and the
two-speed economy in the region is not going to stop the ECB
from raising rates further,” said Pavan Wadhwa, the global head
of interest-rate strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co, the U.S.’s
second-largest bank by assets. “The Fed is unlikely to signal a
shift in policy stance any time soon, not when the  unemployment
rate  is at 9 percent.”  The difference between two- and 10-year bund yields has
narrowed to 129 basis points from 234 basis points in the past
year, suggesting traders expect more rate increases and slower
growth that may make it harder for Germany to reduce its budget
deficit. The so-called yield curve in Treasuries has held at
about 263 basis points for the past 12 months.  “The sovereign debt crisis is going to be played out over
the next few months and maybe the next few years.” said Mark MacQueen, a partner at Austin, Texas-based Sage Advisory
Services Ltd., which oversees $9.5 billion. “There’s no short-
term solution to the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  