-- 
Camco Gets Funds for North America’s Biggest Dairy Biogas-to-Power Plant

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-16T14:46:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/camco-starts-construction-of-north-america-s-biggest-dairy-biogas-plant.html
Camco International Ltd. (CAO) , a developer
of traded emission credits, said it secured finance and started
building the largest dairy-biogas project in  North America .  The plant in  Idaho , which will cost less than $25 million,
will have a capacity for 4.5 megawatts of power using gas
captured from cow manure, Camco said today in a statement
distributed by the Regulatory News Service.  The project on an unspecified farm with about 13,500 cattle
should be operating by the middle of next year, Yariv Cohen,
Camco’s president, said today in a phone interview. The project
will be owned by Camco and operated by AgPower Group LLC, a
group formed to build and operate renewable-energy projects in
agriculture.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects about 8,000
farms to install anaerobic digesters, needed to capture the gas,
across the nation, London-based Camco said in the statement.
There’s potential for 1,500 megawatts of power.  Camco has about 13 manure-to-gas projects in its portfolio,
Cohen said. “We have a good pipeline of projects,” he said,
declining to be specific.  The U.S. is providing “multiple channels of incentives”
for cutting agriculture emissions, Scott McGregor, Camco’s chief
executive officer, said by telephone. He declined to provide
details of finance provided, citing confidentiality agreements.  Earnings Estimate  The project would probably have annual earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of about $2.5
million after operating expenses of $1 million, said Andrew Shepherd-Barron, an analyst in  London  for Peel Hunt LLP, Camco’s
house broker. Shepherd-Barron rates the shares “buy.”  Camco shares advanced 3.7 percent in London to 17.38 pence
as of 2:50 p.m. local time, valuing the company at 33 million
pounds ($54 million). They’ve risen 10 percent this year.  Revenue of about $3.5 million a year comes mainly from
selling power, Shepherd-Barron said. McGregor declined to
identify the utility with which the project struck a 20-year
power-purchase agreement. There’s also construction finance and
debt, according to the statement.  Other sources of revenue include carbon credits, sterilized
fiber sales and renewable energy certificates, Peel Hunt said.
McGregor declined to comment on Peel Hunt’s estimates. Farmers
benefit from a share of revenue, the removal of the manure and a
reduction in odor. “It’s not just financial,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  