-- 
Cameron’s Austerity Squeezes Pound as Traders Turn Gilts Into Worldbeaters

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-05-16T16:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/cameron-austerity-squeezes-pound.html
The pound, the worst performer after
the dollar over the past three months, shows few signs of
rebounding from a 35-year low as slowing growth keeps the  Bank
of England  from lifting interest rates to curb inflation.  While the central bank said on May 11 that inflation may
accelerate to a 5 percent pace this year, money markets indicate
no boost in borrowing costs until January. As recently as
February, traders were betting on an increase this month.
Currency strategists are cutting forecasts for the pound by the
most since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  is caught between
inflation growing the most in more than two years and an economy
that hasn’t expanded for consecutive quarters since Sept. 30.
The  Confederation of British Industry , Britain’s biggest
employers’ group, cut its growth estimate last week as Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government embarks on the deepest
public spending reductions since World War II.  “It’s much too soon to draw a line under sterling
weakness,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
“We’re probably going to get one rate hike this year, which is
hardly a sea change to more hawkish expectations. The lack of
yield in sterling will persist and that is going to keep the
pound on the back foot.”  Currency Depreciation  The pound fell 1 percent last week to $1.6197 and
strengthened 0.4 percent versus the euro to 87.17 pence. It was
at $1.6239 and 87.60 pence per euro at 12:33 p.m. in  New York .  Sterling has depreciated 2.5 percent over the past three
months, dropping to its weakest level since at least 1975 on May
3, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes of 10
developed-nation currencies. Only the dollar has performed
worse, falling 3.1 percent. The pound reached a quarter century
low of 1.5042 Australian dollars on May 11 and traded within 9
yen of a 40-year low versus the Japanese currency on March 17.  Flagging U.K. growth is boosting  government bonds  as gilts
have returned 4.7 percent the past three months, the most among
26 markets tracked by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  After inflation, U.K. 10-year notes yield minus 0.64
percent, giving international investors less incentive to buy
the pound and invest the proceeds in the nation’s debt. So-
called real yields are minus 0.05 percent in the U.S. and
positive 0.68 percent in  Germany .  Analyst Estimates  Analysts expect the pound to end the year at 86 pence per
euro, according to the median estimate of 35 strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. In February, the prediction was 80.5
pence. About 73 percent of analysts tracked by Bloomberg said
the currency will weaken versus the euro in the next two
quarters, up from 58 percent in November.  The pound is predicted to end 2011 at $1.63 and 2012 at
$1.65, according to a separate survey.  Declines in the pound raise prices for imported goods while
making U.K. exports cheaper, helping to narrow Britain’s trade
deficit to 7.66 billion pounds in March from 9.69 billion pounds
in December. The Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition is
relying on trade and investment to keep the economy growing as
domestic consumption gets hammered by the fallout from the 2008
financial crisis and government spending cuts. U.K. retail sales
by volume in March remained 2.8 percent below the record reached
in 2008, according to the  Office for National Statistics .  Rate Differentials  The Bank of England has had its main interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent since March 2009 to boost the economy.
Along with the U.S. and  Japan , the U.K. is among a dwindling
number of developed economies forecast to leave rates on hold
for most of this year.  Norway’s Norges Bank increased its benchmark rate on May 12
for the first time in a year, to 2.25 percent from 2 percent.
The day before, Poland raised its main rate a quarter percentage
point to 4.25 percent, and may boost it to 5 percent in the next
12 months, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The ECB added 25 basis points to the main refinancing rate
on April 7, to 1.25 percent, and signaled further tightening.
 China  raised its one-year lending rate by 0.25 percentage point
to 6.31 percent in April.  The U.K. government plans to reduce the fiscal deficit to
2.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2015, from 9.6 percent,
or 141.1 billion pounds, in the year through March 2011. The CBI
lowered its growth estimates on May 9, saying the economy will
expand 1.7 percent in 2011, compared with a February prediction
of 1.8 percent.  ‘Biggest Hit’  “Over the next two quarters we’re going to have the
biggest hit from fiscal tightening,” said Adrian Schmidt, a
London-based currency strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets. “As far as the Bank of England is concerned, by and
large they quite like the pound to stay weak because the economy
needs rebalancing.”  Pound bulls say that while spending cuts may slow growth,
they have helped reduce the perceived risk of investing in the
U.K. at a time when  Europe  is struggling to contain its
sovereign debt crisis.  The reductions may have saved the U.K.’s top credit rating.
 Standard & Poor’s  had given British AAA bonds a “negative”
outlook from May 2009 through October 2010. S&P cited government
efforts to put its finances on a “more sustainable footing”
when it revised the nation’s outlook to “stable.”  Among ‘Weakest’ Currencies  “Sterling is one of the weakest currencies and it has some
of the loosest rates in real terms,” said Sara Yates, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in  London , referring
to the yield after inflation. “As those rates adjust we expect
sterling to appreciate. It would be very hard for interest rates
to move and sterling not to move along side that.”  Lower real yields haven’t stopped the pound from climbing
3.7 percent this year against the dollar, the world’s reserve
currency. The greenback has slumped against 15 of its 16 most-
traded peers as the  Federal Reserve  flooded the economy with
cash by purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries and signaled
interest rates will probably remain in a range of zero to 0.25
percent through 2011.  The pound will climb to 80 pence per euro in the next 12
months as the Bank of England raises interest rates twice this
year, said Yates. Sterling may rise to $1.72 in three months and
$1.80 in a year, she said.  Higher interest rates won’t strengthen the pound if it is
at the expense of the economic recovery, according to  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in London.  ‘Economic Killer’  “It would be an economic killer to tighten monetary policy
at the same time that you’ve got severe fiscal tightening going
on,” said Jones. “Higher rates in that scenario are not going
to help the pound.”  South Africa ’s rand slumped 37 percent between June 2006
and December 2008 after the central bank raised rates 10 times,
to 12 percent from 7 percent, in an attempt to curb inflation.  The U.K. economy may also come under pressure from a
slowdown in its largest trading partners.  Euro-region economic data last week was underperforming
median estimates by the most since March 2010, and the U.S. by
the most since September, according to Citigroup Inc. Surprise
Indexes. The measures examine historical standard deviations of
data surprises by comparing releases with Bloomberg median
estimates. Analysts are cutting earnings forecasts for European
companies the most in almost two years, by 3 percentage points
since Dec. 31.  “The growth prospects are not good enough for the rate
hikes to be justified,” said Jonathan Xiong, a senior portfolio
manager and director at Mellon Capital Management Corp. in  San
Francisco , who oversees $18 billion. “The pound is likely to
continue to depreciate. It’s going to be one of the worst
performing” developed-nation currencies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
A. Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  