-- 
Canadian Dollar Drops to Lowest Since March as Commodities, Equities Fall

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-05-16T21:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/canadian-dollar-drops-to-lowest-since-march-as-commodities-equities-fall.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to its weakest
level since March versus its U.S. counterpart as heightened risk
aversion pushed commodities and global stocks lower.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, tumbled versus 15 of the 16
major currencies as crude oil dropped below $97 a barrel. Stocks
and raw materials fell as Greece sought more bailout funds. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said future interest-rate moves
will be “carefully considered.”  “The Canadian dollar is a laggard given the drop in crude
pricing,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. Carney “couched
his guidance by suggesting inflationary risks are likely
transitory and the global backdrop is challenged,” Spitz said.  The Canadian currency depreciated as much as 0.9 percent to
97.71 cents per  U.S. dollar , the weakest level since March 29,
before trading at 97.58 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared
with 96.86 cents on May 13. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0248.  June futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, slid as
much as $2.82 to $96.83 a barrel in  New York . The MSCI World
Index of stocks in developed nations lost 0.5 percent in a
fourth consecutive decline.  European finance chiefs endorsed a 78 billion-euro ($111
billion) bailout for  Portugal . They stepped up the pressure on
Greece to sell assets and deepen spending cuts to win an
increase of its 110 billion-euro aid package and more time to
repay the loans.  ‘Risk-Off Story’  “It’s the usual risk-off story, with equities and
commodities down,” Firas Askari, head currency trader at Bank
of Montreal in Toronto, said via e-mail. “The  Greece  story is
like the relative who won’t leave the room after he’s had too
much to drink. We’ve seen selling of the Canadian dollar on the
crosses,” he said, referring to non-U.S.-dollar trades.  The Canadian dollar will trade “for the next little
while” in a range of parity with the greenback plus or minus 5
cents, Askari said. Traders are waiting for inflation data from
 Statistics Canada  later this week before taking stronger
positions in the currency, he said.  Inflation and job creation have been “modestly stronger”
than forecast, and the consumer price index will be “above 3
percent in the short term,” Carney said in the text of a speech
he gave today in Ottawa. Last month the bank said that inflation
would be “around 3 percent in the second quarter,” and Carney
today repeated inflation will moderate to 2 percent by mid-2012.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank kept its benchmark rate at 1 percent on
April 12, where it has been since September, and Royal Bank of
Canada economists forecast Carney will leave the rate unchanged
at its May 31 meeting before raising it in July.  Trading in overnight index swaps imply a chance of less
than 10 percent the bank will raise its key lending rate from 1
percent at its next gathering, according to Bloomberg data.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on two-year
benchmark notes down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 1.67 percent. The price of the 1.75 percent bond due in March
2013 rose 4 cents to C$100.15.  Inflation accelerated in April, with the  consumer price
index  quickening to an annualized 3.4 percent pace, Statistics
Canada will say on May 20, according to the median forecast of
27 economists.  The loonie reached 94.46 cents per U.S. dollar on April 29,
the strongest level since November 2007, as crude oil climbed
over $114 a barrel. Canada is the largest supplier of crude to
the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.  Canadian factory sales posted a widespread gain in March
led by aerospace. Sales rose 1.9 percent to C$47.5 billion on a
seasonally adjusted basis following a revised decline of 1.8
percent in February, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted a 1.8 percent
increase, based on the median of 23 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  