-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Gains as Wet Ground, Fires Hamper Drilling

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-16T15:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/canadian-natural-gas-gains-as-wet-ground-fires-hamper-drilling.html
Canadian natural gas rose as wet
ground and wildfires in the main producing regions kept drilling
rigs idle.  Spring breakup, when wet weather prevents rigs from working
in marshy western Canadian fields, lasted longer than usual this
year because of late snowfall. The Canadian Association of
Oilwell Drilling Contractors said 126 rigs of the 791 stationed
in western  Canada  were working as of May 6. The U.S. gas rig
count has slipped 4.9 percent this year.  “You’ll probably see a gradual erosion in rig count until
we see sustainably better gas prices,” said  Stephen Smith , an
energy analyst and president of Stephen Smith Energy Associates
in Natchez,  Mississippi .  Alberta  gas for June delivery rose 9.75 cents, or 2.7
percent, to C$3.68 per gigajoule ($3.49 per million British
thermal units) as of 11 a.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a
Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to
users in Canada and the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada
Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange rose 5.5 cents to $4.301 per million Btu.  Wildfires  Wildfires that have swept across northern Alberta, the
biggest energy-producing province, are also slowing drilling.
The community of Slave Lake has been evacuated by a fire that
has destroyed about one-third of the town of 7,000. Fire bans
have been instituted in several counties surrounding  Edmonton ,
limiting construction of new well sites.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.7 billion cubic
feet as of 10 a.m. in New York, 427 million below its target
level.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.69 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.75 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 624 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.36 billion cubic feet today, about 69 percent of its
capacity of 1.98 billion. TransCanada can cut capacity on the
system by shutting compressors or individual tubes. Capacity
last week was 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.92
billion cubic feet at 10:05 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 