-- 
Steve McClaren Turns Down West Ham Coaching Job, Express Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-05-17T09:57:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/carlos-tevez-is-torn-on-manchester-city-future-express-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  West Ham Options  West Ham, which fired coach  Avram Grant  two days ago, may
struggle to bring in an experienced manager after being turned
down by first-choice Steve McClaren,  the Daily Express said.   Martin O’Neill , Neil Warnock and  Sam Allardyce  are among
the Hammers’ choices, the newspaper said, but all have
reservations about working for the board of the relegated team.  Former West Ham player Chris Hughton, ex-West Brom manager
Roberto Di Matteo and Brighton’s Gus Poyet may be named, the
newspaper said.  Hammers’ Party  Police were called to West Ham’s end-of-season party after
a fan, upset that a player declined to sign an autograph, had to
be removed from the 275 pound ($448) a person dinner, the
Guardian said.  The incident at the Grosvenor House hotel in Park Lane
resulted in no arrests, and no punches were thrown, the
newspaper said.  Baines for City?  Manchester City  is planning to sign Everton left-back
Leighton Baines for 25 million pounds,  the Mirror said .  Coach Roberto Mancini talked to club chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak after the F.A. Cup victory last weekend and the pair
agreed that the squad needs to be improved before next year’s
Champions League, the newspaper said.  Everton may want to sell Baines because the Liverpool team
has debts of 45 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Ferguson’s Snub  Manchester United coach  Alex Ferguson  is so angry about
improper conduct charges filed by the Football Association over
his complimentary comments about referee Howard Webb that he
ignored the charge and waived his right to reply, the Telegraph
said.  United have acknowledged the charge in correspondence with
the F.A., but Ferguson hasn’t entered a plea. He’s likely to get
a warning over the charge, the newspaper said.  Gervinho Interest  Everton’s David Moyes and Tottenham’s  Harry Redknapp  were
in France last weekend to look at Lille striker Gervinho, the
 Daily Mail  said.  The player, valued at about 10 million pounds, is Moyes’s
first choice to add to the team’s strikers, although he’s also
looking at Reading’s Shane Long, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 