-- 
Chinese Spreading Wealth Make Vancouver Homes Pricier Than NYC

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-05-16T23:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/chinese-spreading-wealth-make-vancouver-homes-pricier-than-nyc.html
Vancouver ’s Royal Pacific Realty had
such a surge of business during the first two weeks of February
that agents and assistants worked day and night shifts to find
homes for Chinese buyers visiting during the Lunar New Year.  “It was unprecedented,” said  Royal Pacific  Chief
Executive Officer David Choi. “I called them sleepwalkers.”  Sales of detached homes, townhouses and condominiums in
metropolitan Vancouver jumped 70 percent in February from
January, to 3,097 units from 1,819, and were up 25 percent from
a year earlier, according to the  Real Estate Board of Greater
Vancouver . In March, sales climbed 32 percent from February, to
just shy of a record for the month of 4,371 transactions set in
2004. Sales increased by 80 percent from two years ago.  Buyers from mainland  China  are leading a wave of Asian
investment in Vancouver real estate as China tries to damp
property speculation at home. Good schools, a marine climate and
the large, established Asian community as a result of  Canada ’s
liberal immigration policy make Vancouver attractive, said Cathy
Gong, who moved from Shanghai to the Shaughnessy neighborhood on
Vancouver’s Westside about three years ago.  “The schools here are the best and there are a lot of
Chinese people here,” said Gong, whose son is in sixth grade at
Shaughnessy Elementary School. Eastern Canada wasn’t an option
because “I cannot bear cold weather,” Gong said. Vancouver has
the second-largest immigrant Chinese  population  in Canada after
Toronto.  China Curbs Speculation  China, where home prices rose 28 percent in Beijing and 26
percent in  Shanghai  last year, according to the country’s
biggest real estate website owner SouFun Holdings Ltd., has
taken steps to curb property speculation within its borders.
Chinese home prices gained for 19 straight months through
December and climbed in almost all 70 cities tracked by the
government during the first quarter. Premier  Wen Jiabao  placed
curbs on mortgage lending, boosted down-payment requirements and
limited the number of purchases.  “As the Chinese get more and more prosperous, they are
diversifying their assets out of China,” said  Jim Rogers , an
American investor who moved to  Singapore  from New York four
years ago so his daughters could learn Chinese. “Vancouver is
very high on the list.”  Pricier Than  New York   In 2010, Vancouver had the  third-highest  housing costs
among English-speaking cities worldwide, according to Canada’s
Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Only Hong Kong and Sydney,
another magnet of Asian immigration, were more expensive.
Vancouver’s median home price of C$602,000 ($618,000) was 9.5
times the annual median household income of C$63,100, the group
said in a study released Jan. 24. Canada had a 4.6 national
multiple, making it “seriously unaffordable,” while the U.S.
at 3.3 was “moderately unaffordable,” the study showed. To be
affordable, the multiple must be 3 or less.  Vancouver was more expensive than  San Francisco , London and
New York by that measure, the Winnipeg-based center said.  “This makes it all the more difficult for people who are
already struggling to get into the market or businesses who
can’t hire people to come here because of the high housing
prices,” said Peter Ladner, a former Vancouver city councillor
and a columnist for the Business in Vancouver weekly newspaper.
“There are a lot of people who are really frustrated.”  Unlike  London  or New York, “we don’t have enough jobs with
high incomes to justify” the home prices, said Ladner. He noted
 Australia  has placed restrictions on foreign home ownership. The
British Columbia government also could consider an increase in
property transfer taxes for foreigners, he said.  ‘Control the Price’  Cecilia Huang, a Canada resident since 2003, also is
concerned about rising prices.  “I hope the government can do something to control the
price” so younger generations can buy, said Huang, who paid
almost C$1 million for a condo in the Westside’s Kitsilano
neighborhood two months ago so her daughter, now aged 6, could
attend school nearby. She couldn’t afford a house and prefers
apartment living because she doesn’t like yard maintenance. She
also likes the views from her sixth-floor condo.  Holidays in China have been a popular time to look for
houses in Vancouver. Sales picked up in October during China’s
weeklong national holiday, said Winnie Chung, a Royal Pacific
 agent  who represented buyers or sellers in C$285 million of home
sales in 2009 and 2010 combined. Chung employs eight full-time
assistants and travels to China twice a year to meet potential
clients.  50 Sales  Mainland Chinese are buying houses primarily in Vancouver’s
Westside, boosting the median sales price to C$2 million in the
district known for its wide boulevards, beaches, expansive parks
and stucco Tudor mansions. Prime Westside neighborhoods include
Point Grey, Shaughnessy and Dunbar. The University of British
Columbia is at the area’s western end.  “Our office has done 50 sales this year, which is pretty
incredible,” said Vancouver  realtor  Tom Gradecak at his office
in Point Grey, where he has one colleague who speaks Mandarin
and Cantonese and is hiring a second. “Half of those sales are
from mainland China.”  One Chinese buyer paid C$1.7 million in March for a five-
bedroom, three-bath house that the previous owners had
completely renovated in 2003, C$150,000 more than the asking
price, said Gradecak. The buyer plans to tear it down and build
anew.  ‘Cashing Out’  “There’s more value in the land,” he said. “We’re seeing
a lot of empty nesters cashing out.”  Many existing houses were built in the 1940s and ‘50s and
have outdated electrical systems and plumbing and are “much
smaller” than allowed today, said Vancouver architect Loy
Leyland. As buyers prefer to demolish old houses than renovate,
new homes for Asian clients make up two-thirds of his more than
30 current  projects .  “I’ve never been busier” in a 30-year career, Leyland
said.  Leyland’s clients usually stick to traditional styles such
as Villa or Georgian for exteriors. Inside, designs are
changing. Every new house has two kitchens: a large Western-
style one and a small “wok” kitchen with a stove, sink, strong
exhaust fan and door to seal off cooking aromas, said Leyland.  Some buyers acquire multiple homes, one to live in and
others for investment, said Chung, the broker. Her clients made
their money in a variety of businesses, she said, including
mining, stainless steel manufacturing and real estate. About 10
percent of them speak English, she said.  Westside Gains  The Westside, also known as Vancouver West, had the biggest
five-year gain of all 15 areas in greater Vancouver, edging out
Richmond, the municipality just south of Vancouver, according to
the Real Estate Board. Westside home prices rose 77 percent
during the past five years through April amid the housing
collapse in the U.S. People of Chinese or South Asian ancestry
make up more than 60 percent of the residents in Richmond, a hub
of  Hong Kong  immigration during the 1990s.  In 2010, the average home price in greater Vancouver rose
14 percent from 2009, according to the Real Estate Board.
Excluding the three most expensive areas -- the Westside,
Richmond and West Vancouver -- the average price gained 8
percent. West Vancouver is a separate municipality on the north
shore across Lions Gate Bridge from downtown and not to be
confused with the Westside. The three priciest areas usually
account for about one-third of annual home sales in greater
Vancouver.  Third Wave  The current group of Chinese homebuyers in Vancouver is the
third “wave” from  Asia  since 1990, following Taiwanese and
Hong Kong immigration, said Manyee Lui, a  veteran  Vancouver
realtor. “People from mainland China are the new immigrants,”
Lui said.  Vancouver’s Expo ‘86 was pivotal in the city’s growth. In
1988, the Expo site downtown on the shore of False Creek was
acquired by  Concord Pacific Developments  with investors led by
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing . The group developed high-rise
condos and sold them in Asia during the early 1990s. Concord
Pacific Place today is Canada’s biggest master-planned urban
community, comprising about 50 buildings with 10,000 homes,
parks, a school and daycare centers.  “That was like turning on a switch; it’s okay to invest in
Vancouver because Li Ka-shing did,” said Peter Cowley, who grew
up in Vancouver and is director of school performance studies at
the  Fraser Institute , which grades schools in Canada on academic
performance. Chinese immigrants routinely check the Institute’s
website to decide where to buy homes.  Tiananmen Square  Migration to Vancouver also was spurred by the 1989
Tiananmen Square massacre and a flight from Hong Kong in the
years before its return to Chinese rule from British sovereignty
in 1997. Vancouver home prices dropped when some people returned
to Hong Kong after the handover.  British Columbia, the province where Vancouver is located,
gets about 55 percent of Canada’s investor-class immigrants,
people who have a minimum net worth of C$1.6 million, said
Cameron Muir, chief economist of the  British Columbia Real
Estate Association . The province drew a total of 3,779 investor-
class immigrants from China last year, or 69 percent of all
investors moving to British Columbia, said Muir.  Starting about 18 months ago, so many homeowners applied to
change the last two digits of their addresses to remove or shift
the number 4, which in Chinese sounds like the word for death,
or add the numeral 8, which is considered lucky, that Vancouver
began turning down some requests, said Bonnie Lee, addressing
coordinator for the city.  Korean, Taiwanese Buyers  “We used to do eight or nine a month but in March we did
25,” said Lee. “A lot of it is cultural. A lot of it is just
people trying to change it before they list because estate
agents are telling them to.”  It’s not just the Chinese who are shopping for homes, said
Gradecak. Korean and Taiwanese buyers also have been active, he
said.  “Foreign investment in Vancouver residential real estate
is showing no signs of slowing,” said Gregory Klump, chief
economist of the Ottawa-based  Canadian Real Estate Association ,
in a May 9 report. The surge of multimillion-dollar sales in
Vancouver prompted the trade group to revise its forecast for
national home sales. It now expects Canada home sales through
the Multiple Listing Service to fall 1.3 percent in 2011 to
441,100 units, less than the 1.6 percent decline it forecast in
February.  Low Rates  Low  interest rates  inflated home prices and created a
bubble, said Lawrence Wong, an immigration lawyer with many
Chinese clients. Unlike the U.S., Canada has no tax deduction
for mortgage interest.  “There is this psychological fear that ‘Ok, if I don’t get
into the market, I might not be able to get in later on,” said
Wong.  Chinese buyers frequently are absentee owners, wealthy
businessmen who buy second or third houses for their wives and
children while continuing to live in China for work, said Norman
Chow, a fourth-generation Canadian engineer who lives near
Quilchena Park on the Westside.  “You see a lot of these satellite families,” said Chow.
He said it’s not unusual to see college-age kids of wealthy
Chinese parents driving Bentleys, Maseratis and Porsches around
the Westside. “The kids seem pretty nice,” he said.  Forty-one percent of the pupils at the Westside’s Maple
Grove Elementary have English as their second language,
according to the Vancouver-based Fraser Institute, the school-
ranking organization. The institute doesn’t break out
ethnicities for ESL students. The Living Word Chinese Baptist
Church at Arbutus St. and 33rd Avenue West introduced a Mandarin
fellowship last October after 16 years of only Cantonese and
English.  Protecting Savings  While education for children often is the primary goal,
some immigrants just want to move money out of China because
they don’t feel it’s safe, according to one homebuyer who moved
to Vancouver from Wuhan with her son two months ago and asked
that her name not be used. Her husband remains in Wuhan for
work.  Interest is spreading to other parts of Vancouver as prices
on the Westside jump. The latest hot markets are West Vancouver
and the southern bedroom community of White Rock, said Raymond
Wong, a local realtor.  Feng Shui  Because houses in West Vancouver are built on the
mountainside with their backs to the Coast Range, they generally
face south, providing views of English Bay and Burrard Inlet.
This situation conforms to the principles of feng shui, the
proper placement of features within and surrounding a house to
increase wealth and deflect bad luck, said Wong.  In November,  Osaka  Supermarket, part of Canada’s biggest
grocery chain, opened its second Vancouver-area store in West
Vancouver’s Park Royal shopping center. Osaka offers items
ranging from marinated duck wings to a full dim sum bar and
Asian fruits such as mangosteens, rambutans and longans that can
be hard to find in  North America .  “Five years ago, Chinese buyers avoided West Vancouver
because of the Lions Gate bridge -- it just wasn’t convenient,”
said Wong. “Now Osaka makes it much better and Chinese people
are spreading the word.”  By contrast, Richmond has cooled since the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , said Wong. Parts of Richmond
are at or just above  sea level  because of its location in the
Fraser River delta.  Nonstop Flights  Beginning June 15, China Southern Airlines Co. will offer
Canada’s first nonstop flights to China’s most populous
province, Guangdong, with service between Vancouver and
Guangzhou, the province’s capital city.  “Canada is a very attractive country these days for many
reasons,” said Rogers, the investor. “They’ve done a much
better job than the U.S. has over the last 15 to 20 years.”  Canada’s natural resources-based economy has gained from
the economic growth in China and other countries. The Canadian
dollar climbed 70 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since 2002,
reaching parity in 2007 for the first time since 1976 as rising
prices for commodities such as oil and gold boosted Canada’s
export revenue. Nine years ago, one Canadian dollar bought 65
U.S. cents. Today it buys $1.03.  Overseas homebuyers can act much more quickly on a purchase
since their offers often aren’t contingent on the sale of
another residence, said Gradecak, the Westside realtor.  “It’s definitely for real,” Gradecak said. “How long
it’s going to last, that’s an unknown. I get asked the same
question every single day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  