-- 
Chinese State Investment Group Buys Gold One For Its South African Assets

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-05-16T07:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/chinese-state-investment-group-buys-gold-one-for-its-south-african-assets.html
Citic Group,  China ’s biggest state-
owned investment company, and partners agreed to buy  Gold One
International Ltd. (GDO)  for about A$444 million ($469 million),
gaining gold assets in South Africa.  The group is offering 55 cents a share for each of Gold
One’s, 28 percent more than its May 12 closing price, the
Sydney-based company said today in a statement.  China
Development Bank  Corp. and Long March Capital Group are the
other members of the bidding group, which is seeking as much as
a 75 percent stake and plans to keep the company trading in
 Australia  and South Africa, with a potential listing in  Hong
Kong . Gold One climbed 16 percent in Sydney trading.  The deal “gives us a great partner and ready access to
their capital to grow,” Mark Wheatley, chairman of Gold One
said in a phone interview. “Staying listed will make it also
easier to raise future capital.”  Gold One operates the Modder East mine in  South Africa  and
also has projects in Mozambique and Namibia. Gold reached a
record this month, boosting takeovers in the industry with $10.6
billion worth this quarter, the most since the third quarter
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold One, whose board recommended the offer, climbed seven
cents to 50 cents at the 4:10 p.m. market close in Sydney.  The company said in March it was in talks over deals
including a change in control. The company agreed in April to
buy Rand Uranium Ltd., a South African gold producer with
uranium assets, for $250 million.  Citic is bidding through its Baiyin Non-Ferrous Group Co.
unit and China Development Bank through its China-Africa
Development Fund. The group already has agreed to buy a 17.7
percent stake in Gold One, which is being advised by Macquarie
Capital Advisers Ltd. and Hartleys Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  