-- 
China’s Stocks Drop on Concern Over Inflation, Slowing Growth

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-16T08:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/china-stock-index-futures-fall-on-inflation-greece-concerns.html
China’s stocks fell for the third
time in four days as a jump in the nation’s food prices fueled
concern inflation will quicken and  Greece ’s debt crisis boosted
speculation global economic growth will slow.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
biggest bank by market value, led losses for lenders after
money-market rates jumped the most in three months. Anhui Conch
Cement Co., China’s largest cement maker, slid to the lowest
level in two months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said stock
gains for building materials makers may be “muted.” Baoshan
Iron & Steel Co. declined 1.3 percent after Xinhua News Agency
said the company faces power curbs in the next three months.  “The market will continue to face downward pressure amid
tightening and lack of liquidity,” said Chen Liqiu, a
strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “The chance
of a rally is slim this year as companies’ earnings may not be
able to maintain robust growth.”  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 22 points, or 0.8 percent,
to 2,849.07 at the 3 p.m. close. The measure rose 0.3 percent
last week, its first advance in four weeks. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
fell 0.9 percent to 3,100.46 today.  The Shanghai Composite has retreated 6.8 percent from a
five-month high on April 18 amid concern the central bank will
add to four increases in  interest rates  since early last year to
cool inflation. It has also boosted banks’ reserve requirements
five times this year to mop up liquidity. The gauge has advanced
1.5 percent this year.  Tighter Liquidity  China’s money-market rate rose on speculation a jump in
banks’ reserve ratios to a record high will lead to a cash
squeeze in the financial system. The seven-day repurchase rate,
a gauge of interbank funding availability, has surged 224 basis
points in the past two trading days.  ICBC sank 1.5 percent to 4.51 yuan, the biggest drop since
April 19.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the second-largest
lender, lost 1 percent to 5.07 yuan.  China still faces inflationary pressure and consumer prices
haven’t peaked, Shanghai Securities News reported, citing Yu Bin,
director general of the macroeconomic research department of the
State Council’s development research center. The economy faces a
slowdown, the newspaper cited Yu as saying.  Pork prices in China on May 14 increased 44 percent from a
year earlier due to tight supplies, Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. Egg prices have risen 24 percent from a year earlier,
Xinhua reported, citing its own monitoring system.  Inflation Concerns  China’s inflation won’t recede soon and the government will
probably continue to tighten monetary and fiscal policies, the
Shanghai Securities News reported, citing an interview with  John Lipsky , the first deputy managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund .  Anhui Conch plunged 4.3 percent to 35.09 yuan, its lowest
close since March 15. Goldman Sachs said the “short-term return
potential may be muted” for building material and coal stocks.
Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s biggest producer of the metal,
lost 1.9 percent to 32.93 yuan.  Greece today will plead for a boost in its 110 billion-euro
($155 billion) financial lifeline from European governments and
the International Monetary Fund, in talks clouded by the arrest
of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn for attempted
rape. The euro tumbled to a six-week low last week as  Germany 
put up hurdles to an expanded package. The European Union is
 China ’s biggest export market.  Baoshan Iron & Steel slid 1.3 percent to 6.62 yuan, the
lowest close since Jan. 21. The company will face power curbs
from June to September, the official Xinhua News Agency reported,
citing an unidentified official with its parent. Hebei Iron &
Steel Co. slipped 2.7 percent to 4.37 yuan.  --Irene Shen. Editors: Allen Wan, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 Ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  