-- 
Citigroup Readies Expansion in Iraq, Hires Former U.S. Diplomat

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-16T07:20:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/citigroup-hires-former-u-s-diplomat-to-spearhead-bank-s-expansion-in-iraq.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the  U.S. bank  which
earns about a $1 billion in revenue from the Middle East, hired
a former U.S. diplomat to oversee its team in Iraq as the holder
of the world’s fourth-biggest oil reserves rebuilds its economy.  “We are very optimistic about Iraq over the next three to
five years,” Dennis Flannery, who will run the division, said
in an interview from Amman, Jordan yesterday. The country will
have “considerable wealth” from its oil exports and is poised to
invest in the oil and gas industry, power generation and housing
to boost growth, he said.  Flannery, 64, was the financial attache at the U.S. embassy
in Baghdad for a year before joining Citigroup in March. He has
worked at the  Inter-American Development Bank , the U.S. Treasury
and the  World Bank , and will oversee Citigroup’s plan to provide
services to banks, international and state-owned companies in
Iraq, the bank said in a statement. He will be based in Amman.  Iraq, which holds the world’s biggest oil reserves after
 Saudi Arabia , Venezuela and Iran, said exports rose to 2.2
million barrels a day in February, the highest since the U.S.-
led invasion in 2003.  China ,  Egypt , Iraq and Nigeria are among
11 economies that have the most promising growth prospects in
coming decades, according to a report in February by Citigroup
economists led by London-based Willem Buiter.  “Over the last year, Iraq’s security situation has
improved very steadily,” Flannery said. Over a longer period,
the lender may have “branches, a consumer business, a middle-
market business” as well as “full-service bank in the
country,” he said.  Trade Finance  Citigroup already has some operations in  Iraq , where it
provides letters of credit for banks, private banking services
as well as payment and cash-management services to international
corporate clients, Flannery said.  The lender will seek to expand its trade finance and
syndicated lending services to some of the Iraq’s 44 public and
private banks, he said. Citigroup is also in talks with the
government to advise on finance projects in the oil, gas and
power industries, as well as housing developments, he said.  The country has awarded 15 contracts for oil and gas
exploration licenses since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 that
ousted the government of former President Saddam Hussein. Iraq’s
investment in oil facilities in Basra in the south will boost
oil export capacity by 900,000 barrels per day by September 2011
and a further 1.8 million barrels a day by 2012, taking overall
export capacity to 4.5 million barrels a day, Citigroup
economist Farouk Soussa said in a report in April.  Jordan Base  Citigroup will operate from Jordan for the moment, although
it has options to open a representative office in Iraq, Flannery
said. The New York-based lender could apply for a branch license
or buy a stake in an existing bank, he said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, purchased a 75
percent stake in Baghdad-based Dar Elsalam Investment Bank in
2005.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)  SAK,
the Persian Gulf country’s biggest bank, secured licenses to
operate in Iraq in 2004, becoming the first group of overseas
banks to enter the country since nationalization in 1964.  Citigroup has operated in the Middle East for almost 50
years and offers corporate banking services in 11 countries,
including the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Kuwait. It offers
consumer banking services in the U.A.E., Egypt, Bahrain and
Pakistan, and is one of four banks helping the Dubai government
raise $800 million in financing backed by future toll-road
receipts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  