-- 
Copersucar Said to Hire Itau, Morgan Stanley, Bradesco for Brazil IPO

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-05-17T14:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/copersucar-said-to-hire-itau-morgan-stanley-for-ipo-in-brazil.html
Copersucar SA, the Brazilian millers
cooperative that exports more sugar than  Thailand , hired Banco
Itau BBA SA, Morgan Stanley and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  to handle its
initial public offering, according to a person with knowledge of
the situation.  The company plans to list shares in Brazil, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Proceeds will be used to expand a port terminal
and build a ethanol pipeline in Brazil, said the person, who
declined to comment on how much the company is worth.  The Sao Paulo-based cooperative may sell shares as it
speeds up a 1.5 billion-real ($920 million) investment plan,
Chairman Luis Roberto Pogetti told reporters in  Sao Paulo  on
Jan. 20. The company will make a decision by the second half of
this year, he said at the time.  Spokesmen for Itau, Bradesco and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for Copersucar didn’t respond to a call.  Copersucar ’s shareholders crush about 115 million metric
tons a year of sugar cane, the raw material that is turned into
sugar and ethanol. The company owns a terminal at the  Port of
Santos , Brazil’s largest, to export the sweetener and the
biofuel. This year Copersucar plans to trade 8.1 million tons of
sugar. Gross sales were of 7.92 billion reais in the fiscal year
that ended March 31, 2010, the latest figure available.  10-Year Contracts  Shareholders include 48 sugar-cane mills that have agreed
to supply all the sugar and ethanol they produce in the next 10
years for Copersucar to trade, the person said. They may sell
some existing shares in the IPO and use proceeds to expand sugar
and ethanol output capacity.  Sugar production in  Brazil ’s Center South, the world’s
largest producing region, dropped 69 percent in the beginning of
the harvesting season, Sao Paulo-based industry association
Unica said this month.  Output fell to 795,000 metric tons between the start of the
harvest in mid-March and the end of April, compared with 2.56
million tons during the same period a year earlier. The sugar-
cane harvest usually runs from March to December.  There have been seven IPOs in Brazil this year, compared
with 11 for all of last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sugar prices have plunged 37 percent since the end of
January. Futures for July delivery fell 2.2 percent to 21.29
cents a pound as of 10:09 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Brazil is the world’s largest sugar exporter. Copersucar
plans to export 6 million tons of sugar this year, Chief
Executive Officer Paulo Roberto de Souza said in an August
interview. That’s more than the 4.7 million tons that Thailand,
the world’s second-biggest exporter, is forecast to export by
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net 
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 