-- 
Corn Advances Most in a Week as Weather Curbs Crop Prospects; Wheat Rises

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 
2011-05-16T13:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/corn-advances-for-third-day-as-wet-weather-delays-planting-in-u-s-midwest.html
Corn rose the most in a week in
Chicago and wheat gained on concern wet weather will delay
planting in the U.S. Midwest as dry weather in the southern
Plains and  Europe  hurts winter-wheat prospects.  About 40 percent of the U.S. corn crop, the world’s
biggest, was planted as of May 8, below last year’s 80 percent
and the five-year average of 59 percent, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said in a  report  last week. Soil in the north of
 France , the biggest European Union wheat producer, was the
driest in the past 50 years, Environment Ministry data show.  Wet weather along the  Mississippi River  that’s flooding
fields and drought in parts of  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas  are
curbing yield prospects in the U.S., the biggest exporter of
corn, wheat and soybeans, and boosting commodity prices. Food
costs soared to a record in February as prices of raw materials
gained.  “Conditions for grains are looking less than ideal, with
no major change expected,” said Justine White, an analyst at
researcher VM Group in  London . “While corn planting areas
continue to look soggy, major wheat-growing regions are
struggling with drought, which will stress the crop. Dry
conditions in the EU are putting pressure on wheat crops, which
is a concern, as export demand is expected to be high.”  Corn for July delivery added 11 cents, or 1.6 percent, to
$6.93 a bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of
Trade, advancing for a third day. Prices rose as much as 2.6
percent, the most since May 9. The grain fell 0.6 percent last
week, touching the lowest price in almost two months on May 12.  Wheat Climbs  Wheat for July delivery rose 9.5 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
$7.3725 a bushel. The most-active contract declined 4.2 percent
last week, the third straight weekly drop. Milling wheat for
November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris increased 3.25
euros, or 1.4 percent, to 229 euros ($323.83) a metric ton.  Flood warnings are in effect for states along the
 Mississippi  including Iowa and Illinois, the largest U.S. corn
growers, National Weather Service data show. Parts of Kansas,
Oklahoma and Texas, the biggest U.S. producers of winter wheat,
are in an “exceptional drought,” U.S. Drought Monitor data
showed. The USDA will release its weekly crop progress report at
4 p.m. in  Washington .  “The report is likely to confirm continued delays in
planting progress caused by flooding in the Corn Belt, which are
now likely to have an effect on yields,” VM’s White said.
“Corn planted this late also becomes more vulnerable to extreme
heat during the summer pollination phase.”  Survey Results  Sixteen of 23 traders and analysts surveyed from Tokyo to
 Chicago  on May 13 said corn would rise this week, and 16 of 24
respondents forecast a gain for soybeans.  Soybeans for July delivery climbed 4 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to $13.335 a bushel in Chicago. The oilseed gained 40 percent in
the past year on increased demand from  China , the biggest global
importer.  Wet weather in the U.S. northern Plains is delaying seeding
of spring wheat. About 22 percent of the crop was sown, compared
with 65 percent a year earlier and an average 61 percent for the
past five years, the USDA said. Soybean planting was 7 percent
complete, compared with 28 percent last year and the five-year
average of 17 percent.  “After wet weather during the weekend, there are forecasts
for more rainfall this week in the U.S. Midwest,” said
Toshimitsu Kawanabe, an analyst at broker Central Shoji Co. “We
may see another delay in U.S. corn planting in a weekly crops-
planting report later today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at   jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  