-- 
Corn Rises Most in a Week, Wheat Climbs After Rains Curtail U.S. Planting

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-05-16T20:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/corn-rises-most-in-week-soybeans-wheat-gain-as-rains-curb-u-s-planting.html
Corn futures rose the most in a week
and wheat gained as wet weather from  Louisiana  to  North Dakota 
delayed spring planting and threatened U.S. crop yields. Soybean
prices dropped.  Corn  seeding  advanced at half of last year’s pace as of May
8, and soybean and spring-wheat sowing also were behind, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  Rain  in parts of Illinois,
Indiana and Ohio was twice the normal amount in the past month,
the High Plains Regional Climate Center said. Floods are
swamping fields in the Mississippi River delta area.  “We’re losing optimal yield potential on acres from here
on out” because of planting delays, said Greg Grow, the
director of agribusiness at Archer Financial Services Inc. in
Chicago. “There’s also concern about how many acres we’ll be
losing because of flooding in the delta, and how much isn’t
going to get planted.”  Corn futures for July delivery climbed 15.5 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $6.975 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain since May 9. The price
has surged 92 percent in the past year.  Wheat futures for July delivery rose 8.75 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $7.365 a bushel. Last week, the price declined 4.2
percent, the third straight drop. The grain has climbed 56
percent in the past year.  This year, the  Mississippi  River and its tributaries have
flooded almost 2.5 million acres in Arkansas,  Tennessee ,
Missouri, Mississippi and Louisiana, according to state and farm
industry sources. Parts of North Dakota, the biggest U.S. wheat-
growing state, and  Canada  also had floods.  Brazil  Soybeans  Soybean futures for July delivery fell 3 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $13.265 a bushel. The oilseed has gained 39 percent
in the past year.  About 5.149 million bushels of U.S. soybeans were inspected
for export in the week ended May 12, the fewest since July, USDA
data show. Brazil is expected to have record output this year.  “Beans are the weakest link, between corn, beans and
wheat,” said Chad Henderson, a market analyst at Prime
Agricultural Consultants Inc. in Brookfield, Wisconsin. “We’re
swimming in supplies, and we have big crops coming out of  South
America .”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, government figures
show. Wheat was fourth at $13 billion, behind hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  Chicago  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  