-- 
Crude Declines on Concern Over Greek Bailout Talks, U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-16T12:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/crude-declines-on-concern-over-greek-bailout-talks-u-s-economic-growth.html
Oil dropped for the first time in
three days before  Greece  asks for more aid from the European
Union, and on speculation that a faltering U.S. recovery will
curb fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Futures slipped as much as 2 percent before European
governments and the International Monetary Fund debate
increasing Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($115 billion) bailout. In
the U.S., Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said stimulus measures will end only when the recovery
is “more clearly sustainable.”  “Recent macro data has started faltering, coinciding with
fresh fears over Greece’s debt restructuring,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst with VTB Capital in London.  Oil for June delivery on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
slid as much as $1.98 to $97.67 a barrel and was at $98.84 at
1:45 p.m. London time. The contract gained 2.5 percent last
week, the most since the period ending April 8. Prices have
risen 40 percent in the past year.  Brent for June settlement lost 65 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$113.18 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract advanced 4.3 percent last week and
expires today. The more actively traded July futures were down
65 cents at $112.63 a barrel.  Strauss-Kahn Arrest  The European Union and the IMF meet in Brussels today.
Donor countries, led by  Germany , are demanding deeper budget
cuts in exchange for granting Greece extra aid or giving it more
time to pay back official loans, and are weighing whether to
make bondholders share the costs. The talks are clouded by the
May 14 arrest of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn on
sexual-assault charges in New York.  “We have a lot of uncertainty over the extension of aid to
Greece,”  Francisco Blanch , head of global commodity Research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong. “When you put all the factors together,
that doesn’t paint a very rosy picture for the market in the
second half of the year.”  Gasoline prices fell less than crude, dropping 0.7 percent
today as flooding from the  Mississippi River  threatened refinery
operations. Futures for June delivery lost 2.09 cents to $3.0535
a gallon.  Louisiana  opened four of the 25 gates at the Morganza
floodway, allowing the Mississippi River to pour into the
Atchafalaya River basin. The area has 2,264 oil or natural gas
wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of crude, about 10
percent of Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic
feet of gas, according to the state.  Louisiana Refineries  The Mississippi was likely to reach a flow rate of 1.62
million cubic feet per second unless water was diverted,
endangering the levees at Baton Rouge, home to an estimated
229,000 people and industrial areas that include an Exxon Mobil
Corp. refinery, the company’s second largest U.S. facility.  Alon USA Energy Inc.’s refinery in Krotz Springs is in a
zone under a mandatory evacuation order, St. Landry’s Parish
spokeswoman Francine Sias said. Alon spokesman Blake Lewis said
the parish had granted the company an extension. A temporary
levee is being constructed by employees to protect the 83,000-
barrel-a-day refinery and 243 nearby homes.  Oil prices  will head lower in the July-to-December period
amid signs of demand destruction, said Blanch at a media
briefing in  Hong Kong  today. Brent may trade at an average $122
a barrel in the second quarter and $94 in the fourth, he said.  Stimulating Production  Net-long positions in oil by managed-money investors
decreased 13 percent, or 38,110 futures and options combined, to
255,713 in the week ended May 10, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report.  “At the moment, anything seen to adversely impact growth
in the U.S. gets factored into oil prices,” said  Ben Westmore ,
a minerals and energy economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
in Melbourne, who predicted crude in New York will average $113
a barrel in the third quarter.  The U.S. administration will begin stimulating domestic
crude production to blunt rising gasoline prices with measures
including encouraging drilling in  Alaska  and giving  oil
companies  more time to comply with safety regulations, Obama
said in his weekly address.  Brent has climbed 29 percent this year as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to  Libya , Algeria, Bahrain,  Iran , Syria, Oman
and Yemen.  Yemen’s Joint Meetings Party, a coalition of six opposition
groups, says a plan to end the country’s political crisis is
dead following a visit by the chief envoy of Arab Gulf states
seeking to broker a deal.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $14.25 a
barrel to U.S. futures, compared with $14.18 on May 13. The
difference between front-month contracts in  London  and New York
surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76
cents last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  