-- 
Danish Opposition Leader Presents Economic Reform Proposal

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 
2011-05-16T11:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/danish-opposition-leader-presents-economic-reform-proposal-1-.html
Denmark’s two biggest opposition
parties want to raise public spending and offer incentives for
companies to invest more in research and development as the bloc
prepares for elections due to take place by November.  The Social Democrats and the Socialist  People’s Party  want
to raise public spending by 10 billion kroner in their 2020 plan
as part of a plan to generate economic growth before raising the
retirement age, according to a joint statement presented in
Copenhagen today.  “As expenditure will grow more in the Social
Democrat/Social People’s Party’s plan than in the government’s,
there’s naturally also a need for more financing,” said Steen Bocian, chief economist at Danske Bank A/S, in a note. “But the
financing continues to be very uncertain.”  The proposals risk creating higher so-called structural
unemployment in part because the opposition wants to increase
access to jobless benefits to four years from two, Bocian said.
The opposition’s reform proposal comes as a response to the
government’s plan, which targets a higher  retirement age .  The Social Democrats and Socialist People’s Party, which
walked out of talks to raise the retirement age, saw their
support slip to 39.8 percent in a May 15 Gallup Denmark poll
published by newspaper Berlingske today. That compares with 41.1
percent in a May 11 poll. The Liberal-Conservative coalition,
the Danish People’s Party and the Social Liberals saw their
joint backing rise to 52 percent from 49.3 percent, the poll
showed.  The Social Liberals signed the accord with the government
bloc even though the party says it will support Social Democrats
leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt as prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  