-- 
Death Derivatives Emerge From Pension Risks of Living Too Long

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s ,   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/death-derivatives-emerge-from-pension-risks-of-living-too-long.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which bundled and sold
billions of dollars of  mortgage loans , now want to help
investors bet on people’s deaths.  Pension funds sitting on more than $23 trillion of assets
are buying insurance against the risk their members live longer
than expected. Banks are looking to earn fees from packaging
that risk into bonds and other securities to sell to investors.
The hard part: Finding buyers willing to take the other side of
bets that may take 20 years or more to play out.  “Banks are increasingly looking to offer derivative
solutions,” said Nardeep Sangha, 43, chief executive officer of
Abbey Life Assurance Co., a London-based Deutsche Bank unit that
helps pension funds manage the risk of retirees living longer
than expected. “Making the long maturity of the risks palatable
for investors, including sovereign wealth funds, private-equity
firms and specialist funds, is the challenge.”  As insurers reach the limit of how much pension-fund
liability they’re willing to shoulder, companies such as
JPMorgan and  Prudential Plc (PRU)  last year set up a  trade group  aimed
at establishing and standardizing a secondary market for so-
called longevity risks. They’re also developing indexes that
measure mortality rates and securities to let pension funds pay
fixed premiums to investors in return for coverage against major
deviations from projections.  Swiss Reinsurance Co., the second-biggest reinsurer, sold
the world’s first longevity bond in December in what it called a
“test case” to sell risk to the capital markets.  ‘Run Dry’  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , and Deutsche Bank in
Frankfurt have set up insurance companies that promise to pay
pensions if retirees live beyond a certain age. They typically
receive a portion of the pension plan’s assets in return. The
banks, along with  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN) , are looking for ways to offer this risk to investors.  “Ultimately, reinsurance capacity for longevity risks will
run dry, and that’s why it’s imperative that as the market grows
and develops it is able to bring in new types of risk-takers,”
Sangha said. “The obvious channel is the capital markets.”  Medical advances and healthier lifestyles have made
predicting life spans more difficult for pension funds. Life
expectancy in the U.K. is increasing by one to three months
every year, according to Dutch insurer  Aegon NV. (AGN)  Every year of
additional life expectancy typically adds as much as 4 percent
to future pension requirements, Aegon said in a  report  in March.  Aegon reported last week that first-quarter profit fell 12
percent as the company set aside money to cover the risk of
policyholders in the Netherlands living longer than expected.  Glaxo Transfer  Pension funds can hedge against life-expectancy risk by
transferring assets to an insurer or other counterparty that
promises to pay some or all of the future liabilities. Last
year,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, became
the 10th FTSE 100 firm to buy insurance on about 900 million
pounds ($1.5 billion), or 15 percent, of its U.K. obligations.  That means Prudential, the U.K.’s largest insurer, rather
than the pension fund, will pay some GlaxoSmithKline pensioners
should they live longer than expected. Most longevity risk
transferred from pension funds is held by insurers.  Regulators are just beginning to focus on the new products.  “We’re seeing more and more sophisticated mechanisms being
offered,” said Bill Galvin, CEO of the  U.K.’s Pensions
Regulator . “From a regulatory perspective, we are concerned to
ensure that trustees understand the extent to which longevity
risk has been passed from their scheme and the precise shape of
any residual risk.”  ‘Early Days’  The Frankfurt-based  European Insurance & Occupational
Pensions Authority  isn’t reviewing longevity transfers, said
Sybille Reitz, a spokeswoman for the organization, because “the
market is still in its early days.”  The U.K. is the world’s biggest market for insuring pension
liabilities after a change in accounting rules in 2004 forced
companies to include pension plans on their balance sheets,
increasing the volatility of earnings. Since then, 30 billion
pounds of liabilities have been insured, about 3 percent of the
total outstanding, according to  estimates  by  Hymans Robertson
LLP. , a London-based pension consultant.  Banks and insurers completed a record 8.2 billion pounds in
longevity-risk transfers last year. Goldman Sachs-owned  Rothesay
Life Ltd.  sold the most pension-plan insurance in 2010, while
Deutsche Bank’s Abbey Life completed the biggest swaps deal.  Longevity Risks  With  $17 trillion  of the $23 trillion in pension-fund
assets worldwide exposed to longevity risks, according to
Zurich-based Swiss Re, investment banks see this as an
opportunity to create a new market for those willing to bet on
 life-expectancy  rates. If pensioners die sooner than expected,
investors profit. If they live longer, investors must compensate
the pension fund for the additional costs it faces.  Investors may be attracted to such bets because longevity
trends aren’t linked to movements in equities, bonds or
commodity markets, said David Blake, director of the pensions
institute at  Cass Business School  in London, who has worked with
JPMorgan on the derivatives.  The complexity and risk involved in longevity assets with
timelines of more than 20 years means banks are looking to
create bonds that offer 5 percent to 9 percent in annual
returns, according to Guy Coughlan, former head of longevity
structuring at JPMorgan. Returns as high as the “mid-teens”
are possible, he said.  ‘Structural Problems’  Investors remain unconvinced. Not knowing whether a bet on
a group of pensioners’ life spans is correct for decades
prevents hedge funds such as London-based  Leadenhall Capital
Partners LLP  from entering the marketplace.  “There are big structural problems with the longevity
market,” said Luca Albertini, CEO of Leadenhall, which has $120
million under management and invests in insurance-linked
securities such as catastrophe bonds used to help cover
hurricanes and other extreme risks. With clients able to
withdraw investments only every month or quarter, “the only way
I can invest is if the market is truly liquid,” he said. “No
one has proven that to me yet.”  Subprime mortgages sold in the past decade were the genesis
of the biggest financial meltdown since the Great Depression.
Investment banks passed the risk of borrowers defaulting to the
capital markets by packaging, or securitizing, the loans into
bonds and selling them to investors and one another.  ‘Fully Collateralized’  Collateralized debt obligations were created and sold in
such volume that when mortgage holders defaulted, governments in
the U.S. and  Europe  had to bail out the financial system. Banks
are now looking to investors in much the same way to securitize
the risk of pensioners living longer than expected.  Securities based on life expectancy don’t hold the same
risks as those linked to subprime mortgages because they are
“fully collateralized,” minimizing the risk from a
counterparty failing to meet its obligations, Coughlan said.  Cass Business School’s Blake said it’s unfair to compare
the securitization of mortality expectations to the subprime-
mortgage market.  “Subprime was highly leveraged,” Blake said. “This is
different.”  Still, longevity transfers expose investors to the credit
risk of issuers for many years. Once a pension fund agrees to
transfer its assets in return for protection against pensioners
living longer than expected, they are tied into a long-term
contract that can be difficult to unwind, said David McCourt,
senior policy adviser at the U.K.’s  National Association of
Pension Funds . That means the insurer, bank or hedge fund that a
pension plan chooses to deal with is important, he said.  ‘No Going Back’  “There’s a massive counterparty risk,” McCourt said.
“People say insurance companies don’t go bust, but they do.
We’ve seen AIG and investment banks going under like Lehman.
There’s a lot of pressure on the trustees to make sure they’re
comfortable the deal is right because there’s no going back.”  Pension funds outside the U.K. also remain hesitant.  APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV in Amsterdam, which manages
277 billion euros ($396 billion) of assets for seven pension
funds, “will not do transactions to actively hedge longevity
risk,” according to Harmen Geers, a spokesman for the firm.  “The market is unbalanced, since there are no natural
counterparties to take up a risk of that size in absolute
terms,” Geers said.  Life Settlements  There has been less interest in the U.S. because regulatory
pressure on pension funds hasn’t been as intense as in the U.K.,
said Pretty Sagoo, director of structuring at Deutsche Bank in
 London . In the U.S., investors can bet instead on life
expectancy through so-called life settlements.  Rather than exchanging assets and liabilities with a
pension plan, the life-settlement market allows investors to buy
insurance policies from individuals and pay the premiums until
that person dies. Investors then receive the death benefits.  The secondary market for U.S. life settlements began in the
1980s when the AIDS epidemic led some patients to sell their
insurance policies to pay for treatment. The industry was valued
at $2 billion in 2001 and, once it became regulated, quickly
grew to a maturity value of $35 billion by 2009, according to
 Conning & Co. , a Hartford, Connecticut-based research firm.  Goldman Sachs-owned Rothesay Life, started in 2007, was the
biggest pension liability insurer in the U.K. last year after
insuring 1.3 billion pounds of liabilities from the British
Airways Plc pension plan. The largest swaps deal was completed
between Deutsche Bank’s Abbey Life unit and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG’s U.K. pension plan.  Q-Forward Swaps  Rothesay Life CEO Addy Loudiadis was the architect of a
Goldman Sachs deal in 2001 that allowed  Greece  to mask its
indebtedness, according to London-based Risk magazine. Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for the firm in London, declined to
comment on Loudiadis’s involvement in Greece and said she was
unavailable to comment.  Goldman Sachs isn’t part of the new industry group, the
London-based  Life & Longevity Markets Association , preferring to
develop the market alone, according to Tom Pearce, managing
director of Rothesay Life. Pearce said it won’t be easy trading
a security linked to life expectancy.  “Clearly, if there was a capital market solution that
would be helpful for the market generally, but there are some
challenges,” he said. “The biggest challenge is selling these
very long-term risks to shorter-dated investors.”  Mortality Indexes  Unlike Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs, New York-based
JPMorgan doesn’t carry any of the risk of pensioners living
longer than expected. Instead, it arranges swaps, called  q-
Forwards , which allow a pension fund to pay a fixed premium to a
counterparty based on its members living to a specified age. If
members live longer than expected, the counterparty reimburses
the fund; if they die sooner, the counterparty profits.  Credit Suisse and JPMorgan have developed indexes that
measure mortality rates and life expectancy for the U.S.,
 Germany , the Netherlands,  England  and Wales. The indexes act as
a basis for pricing individual swaps and bonds, according to
 Cass Business School ’s Blake, who helped develop them with
JPMorgan in 2007. They will help buyers and sellers price
derivatives more accurately and give them confidence to trade
them, creating a liquid market, Blake said.  Swiss Re sold the world’s first longevity bond in December,
passing the risk from its own balance sheet to investors. The
$50 million bond, named  Kortis , was a “test case,” said Alison
McKie, head of life and health products at the firm.  The bond pays investors a fixed sum from reinsurers for
taking the risk that people live longer than projected. If there
is a large divergence in mortality improvements between British
men aged 75 to 85 and U.S. males aged 55 to 65, investors risk
losing some or all of their money, Swiss Re said in December.
The bond is rated BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s .  BNP,  Munich Re   Previously, Paris-based BNP Paribas SA and the  European
Investment Bank , the European Union’s financing institution in
Luxembourg, created a longevity bond in 2004. A year later they
withdrew the notes, which had a maturity of 25 years, after they
didn’t find a buyer.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, hasn’t
participated in longevity transfers “as the deals we’ve seen
haven’t met our profitability requirements,” said Joachim Wenning, the management board member responsible for life
reinsurance. “The future longevity trend is not easy to
predict. If your assumptions are wrong, the cost is high.”  Nevertheless, the Munich-based reinsurer recently became
the 12th member of the Life & Longevity Markets Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  