-- 
Debt-Ceiling Vote Breeds Flip-Floppers as Lawmakers Eye Deadline

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/debt-ceiling-vote-breeds-flip-floppers-as-lawmakers-eye-deadline.html
Weeks before Republican Senator
 Olympia Snowe  of  Maine  will face a vote on raising the U.S. debt
limit, she’s ready with a pre-emptive defense of her record on
the subject.  The issue has come up 47 times since she arrived in
Congress in 1979, Snowe recites, without missing a beat, when
asked about her checkered history of voting for and against such
measures -- 22 times as a stand-alone, or “clean” vote, and 25
times attached to some other legislation.  “I voted seven times against debt-ceiling increase under a
Democratic president, just in the last 18 years, and five times
against it during a Republican administration -- just to give
you a window,” Snowe, who is facing re-election next year, said
on May 12. “I’ve looked at it. I went back.”  Snowe isn’t alone in Washington. With a vote looming
sometime in the next few months on raising the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt limit, lawmakers in both parties are poring over
their voting records and parsing their arguments, puzzling over
what position to take on a vote that is never pleasant.  When it comes to the debt limit, virtually every member of
the  U.S. Congress  is a flip-flopper. That includes President
 Barack Obama , who as a senator from  Illinois  in 2006 voted
against raising the limit, a move he now calls “a mistake.”  “Nobody likes to be tagged as having increased the debt
limit,” Obama said last month.  Republicans routinely oppose the move when a Democrat is in
the White House, and Democrats regularly say “no” when a
Republican is president.  Divided Government  Yet in an era of divided government -- with Democrats
controlling the White House and the Senate while Republicans
dominate the House -- the two parties must find a way to
compromise. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said May 13 his
department is already using “extraordinary measures” to avoid
hitting the debt limit. Geithner has said he will run out of
options for avoiding a U.S. default on its obligations by about
Aug. 2.  That gives Congress several weeks to negotiate a deficit-
reduction deal to pave the way for a vote to raise the limit.
Vice President  Joe Biden  is holding private talks with senior
Republicans and Democrats.  “The way it had always worked in the past was that the
incumbent party had the obligation to renew the debt ceiling,”
Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York , the third-ranking Democrat,
said at the Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington on May 11. “And
the question now is, you have divided government, so both
parties have an obligation.”  Rarely in Doubt  In the past, votes to increase the debt ceiling were mostly
routine and their outcomes rarely in doubt. This year, with the
nation’s debt soaring and the economy in the midst of a fragile
economic recovery with joblessness still high, Obama and his
administration say a failure to raise the borrowing limit would
be devastating.  In a May 13 letter, Geithner said a failure to increase the
debt limit would “force the  United States  to default on its
obligations” and sketched out dire consequences, from a sharp
drop in U.S. household wealth to the potential for another
financial crisis that could threaten the global economy as well
as millions of American jobs.  “This would be an unprecedented event in American
history,” Geithner wrote in response to an inquiry by
Democratic Senator Michael Bennet of  Colorado . “A default would
inflict catastrophic, far-reaching damage on our nation’s
economy, significantly reducing growth, and increasing
unemployment.”  Bond Market’s View  Concern about the debt-ceiling vote has not been reflected
in bond trading.  U.S. 10-year note yields touched the lowest since December
on May 13 on speculation that inflation may have peaked after
the Labor Department reported the  consumer price index  rose 0.4
percent in April, matching economists’ forecast. The U.S. sold
$72 billion in notes and bonds last week and will auction $11
billion in Treasury Inflation Protected Securities this week.  Most Republicans and a few Democrats have said they won’t
vote to boost the nation’s borrowing limit without action to
rein in deficits and reduce long-term debt. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said the boost must be coupled with
spending cuts that outweigh the borrowing increase.  ‘Worst Message’  “Probably the worst message we could send is if it was
clean and we hadn’t accomplished anything on debt,” Snowe said.  There are lawmakers on both extremes. A letter from 114
House Democrats to their leaders demanded the debt-limit vote be
“clean.” On the other side, a number of House and Senate
Republicans say there’s no need to raise the limit at all.  Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky , a Republican supported by
Tea Party activists, said Obama should “tell the country we
will not default” even if the limit isn’t raised. “Look, they
can’t be trusted with your money up here,” he said May 12 on
Fox Business Network. “They can’t account for what you’ve given
them, so by no means give them any more money.”  The real action is occurring in the middle, where many
Republicans and Democrats regard a debt-limit increase as
necessary though unpleasant.  Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri , a Democrat up for re-
election next year, said she regrets her 2007 vote against
raising the debt ceiling from $9 trillion to $9.8 trillion.  ‘Probably a Mistake’  “It was probably a mistake when I did that, but I was
trying to send a message to my caucus that I wanted us to start
paying closer attention to the spending,” McCaskill said.
“It’s probably a vote that you shouldn’t message with.”  Even when your party holds the presidency, backing a boost
in the debt ceiling is “a challenge,” said Republican
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma . “But if you’re comfortable
with what the spending’s been for, I think that makes it
easier.”  Cole backed raising the limit during former President
 George W. Bush ’s tenure in part, he said, because he supported
the wars and tax cuts that were running up the deficit.  “One of the challenges here from the Republican side is
most of this recent spending we didn’t vote for,” including the
2009 economic stimulus measure, the health-care overhaul and
most of the appropriations bills since Obama took office, Cole
said. “It’s a free vote when you’re in the minority.”  Since 1917  There has been a statutory limit on the national debt since
1917, when Congress passed the Second Liberty Bond Act to
finance World War I, according to a report by the  Congressional
Research Service . Congress has voted to raise the ceiling 10
times since 2001, the report said.  Some lawmakers say their view on the debt limit has evolved
with age and experience. Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of  Iowa 
said that in his early years in Congress during  Jimmy Carter ’s
presidency he often opposed raising the borrowing limit because
of his concern about the debt.  More recently, the five-termer said, “I began to think,
‘Wait a minute, that’s not a responsible thing to do.’ I got
older and I got wiser and began to be a little bit more
responsible,” Harkin said. Still, he mostly opposed raising the
limit during Bush’s presidency. This year he’ll back the move,
Harkin said, though “to this day, it pains me to vote to
increase the debt limit.”  ‘Easy’ to Demagogue  “It’s an easy issue to demagogue,” said Representative
Steve LaTourette, an Ohio Republican. “You can hear the 30-
second ad now -- ‘Steve wants us to borrow a trillion more
dollars’ -- and so if you don’t have to cast that vote, then why
do it?”  LaTourette said he’ll back a debt-limit increase if
Boehner’s conditions are met, yet there are many Republicans,
particularly freshmen, who won’t.  “We have people that ran on, and since they got here have
said, it doesn’t matter how great a package we put together,
they’re not voting for it, so this vote count could be a little
trickier” than those in the past, LaTourette said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  