-- 
DirectBuy Holdings Class-Action Accord Rejected by Judge as Too ‘Meager’

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-16T21:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/directbuy-holdings-class-action-accord-rejected-by-judge-as-too-meager-.html
DirectBuy Holdings Inc.’s settlement
of a nationwide class-action lawsuit over its sales practices
was rejected as being too “meager” by a federal court in
 Connecticut .  The plaintiffs claims were “substantially undervalued,”
U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall in Bridgeport, Connecticut,
said today in a written opinion. The accord would require
DirectBuy to provide as much as $55 million in free memberships
to members to settle claims that the  consumer club  marked up the
supplier and manufacturer prices of its goods.  “The court does not view these claims as so weak that it
would be reasonable to settle claims arguably worth over
$2 billion for, at most, only a hundredth of this amount,” Hall
wrote.  The ruling followed opposition from attorneys general in 37
states who argued last month that the agreement offered no real
benefit to consumers. The settlement’s value is vastly
overstated and the deal should be rejected entirely, Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen said April 12 in court papers.  DirectBuy, based in Merrillville,  Indiana , franchises
stores and charges customers membership fees of $2,900 to $7,000
in exchange for the right to buy appliances and furniture at
wholesale prices.  The company allegedly received millions of dollars in
kickbacks from manufacturers, resulting in members’ paying more
than the discount price, according to court papers.  Company Response  DirectBuy didn’t admit any wrongdoing in the agreement.
Michael Georgeff, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Fewer than 1 percent of the settlement class members
objected to the deal, with those who did complaining
“vociferously,” Hall wrote.  “Many of the objectors view their claims to be worth at
least the value of their membership initiation fees, which cost
them thousands of dollars,” the judge wrote.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs’ failed to take into account the
impact of state consumer protection law claims, which would be
given up as part of the settlement agreement.  “Investigations by state  attorneys general  are under way
in at least a couple states, and, in some states, consumer
protection actions can be brought on behalf of consumers,” Hall
wrote.  Jeffrey Nobel, an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  DirectBuy bonds fell today on news of the ruling. The
company’s $335 million of 12 percent notes due in February 2017
fell as much as 5 cents to a mid-price of 42 cents on the
dollar, according to a person with knowledge of the quotes in
the market, who declined to be identified because the trading is
private.  The case is Wilson v. DirectBuy Inc., 09-00590, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 