-- 
Dish’s Ergen Eyes More Deals in Step Back From Day-to-Day Role

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/dish-network-names-joseph-clayton-as-chief-executive-officer-president.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, may continue its
acquisition spree as Chairman Charles Ergen turns over duties as
chief executive officer and president to Joseph Clayton.  Ergen will focus on Dish’s overall strategy while Clayton
controls the day-to-day operations of the company. Clayton, 61,
who was chairman of Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. from November
2004 through July 2008, was also appointed to the board, Dish
said in a statement yesterday.  Ergen and Clayton have discussed strategies already, some
involving additional acquisitions though there isn’t a set plan,
Clayton said. Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , acquired
 Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) ’s movie-rental business and DBSD North America
Inc. this year to reposition the company against rivals such as
 DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV company. Ergen will work
on integrating recent acquisitions while potentially making “a
few more,” said Clayton.  “I believe that Charlie Ergen is probably talking to
several people, entities, and you’ll see where it goes,”
Clayton said in an interview yesterday. “Watch carefully how
the ones that he’s already acquired fit into the total long-term
strategy.”  Dish rose 9 cents to $28.90 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares have gained 47 percent this year
before today.  Clayton served as CEO of New York-based Sirius from 2001 to
2004 and was president and CEO of Frontier Corp. from 1997 to
1999.  Ergen’s Deals  Ergen, 58, was responsible for spinning off the EchoStar
unit, which sells set-top boxes and satellite service, in 2008
to increase the value of Dish and fund expansion. He had been
CEO of the older, combined company, which he helped found, since
1980.  Ergen, who still serves as chairman of EchoStar, has also
bought assets this year including Move Networks Inc., which
makes technology to stream online video faster, and  Hughes
Communications Inc. (HUGH) , which provides satellite broadband.
Branding Ergen’s assets as a total package with the Dish Network
name is a primary goal, Clayton said.  “I really believe we need to make Dish a household word
more than it is today,” said Clayton. “I’ve done that with
Sirius. Hey, four or five years ago, no one had ever heard of
Sirius.”  Suit Settled  Dish on May 2 reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates. Net income reached $1.22 a share while
analysts had projected 68 cents in a Bloomberg survey. Dish
doubled its bond offering the same day after reporting it
settled a patent lawsuit with Alviso, California-based TiVo for
$500 million. The settlement allows Dish and EchoStar to proceed
with DVR distribution and manufacturing.  “We are investing in technology, we’ll be investing in our
distribution, we’ll be investing in our brand and we’ll be
looking for other possible companies that have capabilities that
we can add to ours,” Clayton said.  Companies worldwide have proposed more than $840 billion in
mergers and acquisitions so far in 2011, on schedule for at
least $2.45 trillion this year. That would be a 10 percent
increase over the $2.3 trillion in deals last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  