-- 
Iconix, Intel, Qualcomm, Wal-Mart Stores: U.S. Equity Movers

-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-17T13:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/domino-s-hewlett-packard-iconix-urban-outfitters-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:50 a.m.  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)   gained 3.9 percent to $5.90.
The lithium-ion battery maker was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at Bank of America Corp., which said the company
should see a rise in shipments in the year’s second half and is
well positioned to win new contracts.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  : Massey Energy Co.
(MEE US) said that it has no opinion and remains neutral toward
the offer by the Abingdon, Virginia-based coal company to
purchase all of Massey’s outstanding senior notes due 2013.  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)   rose 2.4 percent to $23.93.
 Nelson Peltz ’ Trian Fund Management LP said it acquired a 9.7
percent stake in the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based pizza chain.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   dropped 5.3 percent to $37.70.
The world’s biggest personal-computer maker cut a billion
dollars from its sales forecast for the year and said profit is
falling short as consumers hold back buying PCs.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  : The largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer said first-quarter profit rose 12 percent, meeting
analysts’ estimates, as operating expenses fell faster than
sales.  Iconix Brand Group Inc. (ICON)   slipped 3.5 percent to
$23.10. The company which licenses brands such as Joe Boxer and
London Fog to retailers said it intends to offer $275 million of
senior notes that may be convertible to shares in a private
offering.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  : The biggest maker of mobile-phone
chips may replace  Intel Corp. (INTC)   as baseband supplier in
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
analyst Craig Berger said in a note. Intel fell 1.2 percent to
$23.36.  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)   advanced 0.7 percent to
$32.50. The clothing retailer that operates chains including
Anthropologie reported first-quarter revenue of $524 million,
topping the average analyst estimate of $522.5 million.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   lost 1 percent to $55.50. The
world’s largest retailer posted said sales at U.S.  Wal-Mart
stores  open at least a year dropped 1.1 percent, the eighth
decline in a row. Customers are still struggling with economic
uncertainty, buying more generic items instead of their more
costly name-brand counterparts, executives said today on a pre-
recorded call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 