-- 
Donald Trump Announces He Won’t Seek U.S. Presidential Nomination in 2012

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-05-16T21:08:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/donald-trump-announces-he-won-t-seek-u-s-presidential-nomination-in-2012.html
Donald Trump , the real-estate
developer turned reality television star, said today he won’t
run for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012.  “Business is my greatest passion and I am not ready to
leave the private sector,” he said in a statement.  Trump, 64, had been flirting with a presidential bid for
months, traveling to early primary states, including  New
Hampshire , and emerging as a critic of President Barack Obama.  His announcement came as NBC rolled out its fall lineup,
which included another season of his television show “ The
Celebrity Apprentice .” Trump will continue as host of the
program, which got extra boosts of publicity from his recent
public deliberations and his announcement today.  “Until this morning, I wasn’t 100 percent sure” that
Trump would announce he wasn’t running, said Robert Greenblatt,
the chairman of NBC Entertainment. “It’s a great place to
announce it.”  Trump is the second potential Republican candidate to say
no to a bid in recent days. Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  staged a similar announcement -- that he wouldn’t enter
the race -- on May 14 at the end of his Fox News Channel
program, following a two-day media blitz that attracted viewers.  Trump said he had a “strong conviction” that he could
have beaten Obama in the general election, though he recognized
that running for office couldn’t be done “half heartedly.”  He promised to remain politically active and push
politicians to take a tougher stance toward  China  and other
economic competitors.  Voice Opinions ‘Loudly’  “I make you this promise: that I will continue to voice my
opinions loudly and help to shape our politician’s thoughts,”
Trump said in the statement.  A poll released today showed that voters didn’t view Trump
as a viable presidential candidate, with 71 percent of the 1,000
registered likely voters surveyed for the Politico-GW
Battleground Poll saying he didn’t have “any chance” of being
elected. A May 13 Bloomberg Global Poll showed that Trump was
viewed unfavorably by 68 percent of investors internationally
and by 79 percent in the U.S.  Trump gained attention in recent weeks by questioning
whether Obama was born in the U.S. and whether he was eligible
to be president. He also questioned the president’s school
grades, suggesting Obama may have gotten special treatment to
gain admission to undergraduate and graduate programs, including
 Harvard Law School , where the president graduated magna cum
laude.  Birth Certificate  Obama on April 27 released a long form of his birth
certificate that stated he was born in Honolulu. Obama said it
was time to stop being “distracted by sideshows and carnival
barkers.”  Trump had considered a presidential bid several times in
the past, including in 1999 when he formed an exploratory
committee to consider running for the nomination to be a third-
party candidate with the Reform party.  A number of potential Republican candidates are expected to
announce their intentions in the coming weeks. Indiana Governor
Mitch Daniels is expected to make a decision by the end of the
month, and Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann  said she
would announce her plans in June.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has announced his
candidacy, and former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania have filed paperwork with the Federal
Election Commission to raise money for potential runs.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas announced his third White House
bid in New Hampshire on May 13.  Palin, Santorum  Other potential candidates include former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice presidential nominee, and
former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who stepped down as U.S.
ambassador to China at the end of April.  Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour said April 25 he
wouldn’t enter the race because he lacked an “absolute fire in
the belly” to run.  As the Republican race gears up, Obama has opened his 2012
re-election campaign headquarters in  Chicago  and raised millions
of dollars last month at events in Illinois,  California  and  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  