-- 
Doomed Ducks, Cats Find Dignity, Food in Hudson Valley Hospice

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/doomed-ducks-cats-find-dignity-food-in-hudson-valley-hospice.html
The old country house in Saugerties,
 New York , would be the picture of bucolic serenity if not for
the racket raised by ducks, geese, and guinea hens patrolling
the yard.  “Somebody dropped off a box of them here,” says Bruce Van
Bramer, referring to the hens. “I don’t know how many -- ten or
twelve maybe. They roost in the trees.”  Such is life at the  Animal Hospice of NY Inc.  Van Bramer,
60, is the sole occupant here, though he would hate that
characterization, as he shares the place with dozens of dogs,
cats, goats, pigs, and noisy fowl.  A sign by the front door -- “Journey’s End,” inscribed
under the silhouette of a pointer -- expresses the bittersweet
sentiment of this end-of-life hospice. A hand-written note on
the door adds, “We Welcome Strays.”  Like the guinea hens, a lot of the animals were simply
dumped here. Others are pets that outlived their owners and had
nowhere else to go. The hospice is the last stop for the
terminally ill, the neglected and even a few saved from court-
ordered execution.  Last fall Van Bramer took in a female goat. “She was
emaciated,” he says. A couple of months later, he learned she
was also pregnant, but not until she actually gave birth.  “It was 18 below zero at the time,” he says. “The
mother, the kid, even the afterbirth were freezing.” Van Bramer
brought them inside his house until the cold snap passed. Today,
mother and kid, named “Winter,” are both quite hale, greeting
me with incessant nibbling at my jeans and camera bag.  Exotic Element  There is an exotic element here: Muscovy ducks, Chinese and
black African geese, and a magnificent cashmere goat named
Carlos.  The birds may be raucous, but it really is a peaceful spot.
The house, once a Catskill Mountains resort, dates from the
1850s. Vestiges of an earlier time still linger, notably a large
swimming pool, now so decayed it could be a natural pond.  “There are some snapping turtles in there that are
incredibly large,” says Van Bramer. “I watched one pull one of
my geese under and disappear with it.”  That was four years ago. When it happened, Van Bramer
jumped in but couldn’t save the bird. After that atrocity he
fenced off one end of the pool. Besides predator reptiles, the
birds face threats from coyotes, raccoons, foxes, and red-tailed
hawks.  Names, Not Numbers  Inside the house there are somewhere around 40 cats, Van
Bramer estimates, unsure of the total. “They all have names,
not numbers,” he says, introducing me to Gabriella, Socks,
Stevie Ray Vaughan.  On the other side of the walls, “30 or so” dogs are
barking up a storm. Van Bramer is reluctant to take visitors in
there, as some of them are aggressive and not so socialized.
“If they don’t like people,” he says, “that’s fine because
there are no people here.”  He seems oblivious to the odors and unapologetic about the
disheveled space, much of it cluttered with bric-a-brac
collected in his previous life as an antiques dealer. “It will
never look like  Martha Stewart ’s,” he says, holding up a cat.
“It’s their house.”  The indoor animals go through about 15 pounds of dry cat
food and 40 to 60 cans each day; the dogs consume more. The
hospice relies on the largess of Price Chopper, which donates
all the food -- as well as kitty litter, disinfectant, and
laundry soap.  Medical Bills  Van Bramer reckons his operating costs run between $6,000
and $9,000 a year. With two washers and dryers humming nonstop
to keep bedding clean, his biggest expense is the electric bill
-- a price one pays for taking in senescent dogs and cats.
There’s also a substantial veterinary bill, though he gets
special treatment from the nearby Ulster Animal Hospital.
Volunteers also help out with the endless upkeep required of the
two acres here.  The fates of old and infirm animals, even beloved pets, is
not something we think about much. Many languish and eventually
die from neglect; a lucky few end up at places like Van
Bramer’s. If you’d like to help out, donate through the hospice
website.  Though the hospice gets by on donations (just), this year
Van Bramer had to sell his beloved 1977 Harley-Davidson
motorcycle to pay his property taxes.  “My priority is not the Harley,” he says wistfully,
“it’s the animals.”  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 