-- 
Draghi Endorsed by Euro Finance Ministers to Become Next President of ECB

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-16T22:22:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/draghi-endorsed-by-euro-finance-ministers-to-become-next-president-of-ecb.html
Euro-area finance ministers put  Mario Draghi  on track to become the next head of the  European Central
Bank  as the region struggles to contain a debt crisis sparked by
ballooning deficits in southern  Europe .  The ministers from the 17 nations using the euro endorsed
Draghi, 63, to take over the ECB in November, Luxembourg’s Jean- Claude Juncker, who leads the group, told reporters in Brussels
late yesterday. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet’s eight-year
term ends on Oct. 31.  Draghi “is a central banker who has proven throughout his
career that he holds the principles of the euro dear,” Juncker
said. The head of the Bank of Italy is “a man who brings
together all the necessary qualities to be a worthy successor to
 Jean-Claude Trichet , who was an eminent president,” he said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last week praised Draghi as
the right successor for Trichet because he is “very close to
our ideas of a stability culture.” The Rome native became the
ECB frontrunner in February when Merkel’s contender, then-
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , pulled out of the race.  Draghi’s job will be to reverse measures taken under
Trichet to battle the debt crisis that now are fanning inflation
fears. The ECB, the world’s second-most powerful central bank,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve, has flooded markets with cheap
cash and bought  government bonds  to prop up banks from Greece to
Ireland and prevent a sovereign default.  ‘Definitive Decision’  European Union finance ministers will consider Draghi’s
nomination later today in Brussels. If approved, the proposal
will be forwarded to the European Parliament so that EU leaders
can make a “definitive decision” in June, Juncker said.  The appointment would put a second Italian on the ECB’s
six-person board, alongside Lorenzo Bini Smaghi. There was no
immediate announcement whether Bini Smaghi would step down
before his term ends in 2013 to permit more geographic balance.  France  has set its sights on Bini Smaghi’s seat since
Trichet’s departure will leave it without representation on the
board.  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the World Bank and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  