-- 
Draghi Backed by Euro Finance Ministers as Next ECB President

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-05-16T20:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/draghi-backed-by-euro-finance-ministers-as-next-ecb-president.html
Euro-area finance ministers put  Mario Draghi  on track to become the next head of the  European Central
Bank  as the region struggles to contain a debt crisis sparked by
ballooning deficits in southern Europe.  The ministers from the 17 nations using the euro endorsed
Draghi, 63, to take over the ECB in November, Belgian Finance
Minister  Didier Reynders  said after talks in Brussels today. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s eight-year term ends on Oct. 31.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel last week praised Draghi,
head of the Bank of Italy, as the right successor for Trichet
because he is “very close to our ideas of a stability
culture.” The Rome native became the ECB frontrunner in
February when Merkel’s contender, then-Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , pulled out of the race.  Draghi’s job will be to reverse measures taken under
Trichet to battle the debt crisis that now are fanning inflation
fears. The ECB, the world’s second-most powerful central bank,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve, has flooded markets with cheap
cash and bought government bonds to prop up banks from Greece to
Ireland and prevent a sovereign default.  The ministers’ backing paves the way for Draghi’s formal
appointment at a June 24 European summit in Brussels.  The appointment would put a second Italian on the ECB’s
six-person board, alongside Lorenzo Bini Smaghi. There was no
immediate announcement whether Bini Smaghi would step down
before his term ends in 2013 to permit more geographic balance.  France  has set its sights on Bini Smaghi’s seat since
Trichet’s departure will leave it without representation on the
board.  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the World Bank and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Brussels at  ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  