-- 
Dubai Shares Retreat to Month-Low on Greek Debt Risk; Oil Drops

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-16T13:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/dubai-shares-retreat-to-month-low-on-greek-debt-risk-oil-drops.html
Dubai’s shares dropped to the lowest
level in more than a month on concern Greece’s deepening debt
crisis may slow global economic growth, trimming appetite for
riskier emerging-market assets. Oil declined.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
developer by market value, fell to the lowest since March 23.
 Aramex Co. (ARMX) , the largest courier company in the Middle East,
retreated 2.2 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 1.4 percent to
1,562.58, the lowest since April 7, at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate.  “People are getting more cautious about taking risks as
they keep a close watch on this week’s developments in  Europe ,”
said Amro Halwani, a senior trader at  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA)  in
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. “This is weighing on the general market
sentiment.”  Markets from Europe to  Tokyo  retreated as euro-area finance
ministers prepare to discuss the resurgence of the Greek debt
crisis in Brussels today.  Greece  will plead for a boost in its
110 billion-euro ($155 billion) bailout from European
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  in talks clouded
by the arrest of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1 percent. Crude oil
for June delivery slid as much as 2 percent to $97.67 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Dubai Bank Rescue  The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including
Saudi Arabia and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Dubai Bank PJSC, an Islamic lender owned by Dubai Holding
LLC and Emaar Properties, was rescued by Dubai’s government
after loan losses increased. Dubai Holding, a company owned by
the emirate’s ruler, held a 70 percent stake in Dubai Bank,
while Emaar owned the remainder.  “The intervention is designed to ensure that Dubai Bank’s
business continues uninterrupted,” the Dubai government’s Media
Office said in an e-mailed statement today. “Options for the
bank’s future, whether to be run on a stand-alone basis or be
potentially merged with another bank in which the government has
ownership, are being assessed.”  The move to take over Dubai Bank “reiterates Dubai
government’s insistence and commitments to U.A.E.’s key players,
which should bolster confidence amongst investors,” Shuaa’s
Halwani said.  Emaar dropped 2.2 percent to 3.1 dirhams. Aramex declined
to 1.81 dirhams, the lowest since April 5.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped 0.9 percent
and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined 0.5 percent.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index lost 0.4 percent. Qatar’s QE Index
increased 0.2 percent and Kuwait’s measure climbed 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  