-- 
Dubai Rescues Lender Owned by Emaar, Dubai Holding as Loan Losses Increase

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-16T11:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/dubai-bank-gets-government-led-rescue-package-after-loans-losses-spiral.html
Dubai Bank PJSC, an Islamic lender
owned by Dubai Holding LLC and  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , was
rescued by the Dubai government after loan losses mounted as the
emirate grappled with a debt crisis.  Dubai’s government will inject capital “to ensure that
Dubai Bank’s business continues uninterrupted,” the
government’s media office said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Options for the bank’s future, whether to be run on a stand-
alone basis or be potentially merged with another bank in which
the government has ownership, are being assessed.”  Dubai Holding, a company owned by Dubai’s ruler, held a 70
percent stake in Dubai Bank, while Emaar Properties, the  United
Arab Emirates ’ biggest publicly traded property developer, owned
30 percent. The takeover, aimed at protecting depositors’
interests, will “effectively dilute the complete” stake of
Dubai Holding and Emaar, according to the statement.  U.A.E. have been hurt by the global credit crisis, which
weakened lending and investment banking while provisions for bad
loans increased as the economy slowed. Dubai World, one of the
emirate’s three main state-owned holding companies, reached a
deal with creditors to delay payments on about $25 billion of
loans, while Dubai Holding is also in talks with lenders to
delay payments on about $8.5 billion of debt.  “It looks like a sensible step,” said  Raj Madha , a Dubai-
based analyst at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. Dubai Bank’s
“business is quite narrowly focused on Dubai Holding entities
so it doesn’t necessarily make it a good takeover target, but it
certainly reduces the level of risk if another bank like
Emirates NBD would have taken it over,” he said.  Ratings Downgrade  Fitch Ratings  lowered the ratings on Dubai Bank to its
fourth-lowest non-investment grade rating with a negative
outlook, citing its weakened financial flexibility, expectations
of negative 2010 results and holdings in some Dubai companies
whose loans are being restructured.  “We are awaiting further directives and details from the
Dubai government in respect of the takeover,” Emaar said in an
e-mailed statement today. The book value of Emaar’s investment
in Dubai was 172 million dirhams ($47 million) at the end 
of March.  A spokesman for Dubai Bank could not immediately comment,
while Dubai Holding’s spokeswoman could not be reached.  Dubai Bank posted a loss of 291 million dirhams in 2009,
according to its latest  annual report . The bank had total assets
of 17.4 billion dirhams at the end of 2009 and outstanding loans
of 14.1 billion dirhams.  Merger Talks  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets,
isn’t holding any talks about merging its Emirates Islamic Bank
PJSC unit with Dubai Bank, Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner 
said in October. Arabic daily Al Khaleej reported Oct. 24 that
Emirates Islamic and Dubai Bank have reached a preliminary
agreement on the merger, citing people it didn’t identify.
Emirates NBD is 56 percent owned by the Dubai government.  Even if Emirates NBD were to get Dubai Bank for free, its
Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial strength, would
decline by 90 basis points assuming 12.5 percent write-off of
Dubai Bank’s loan book, brokerage Alembic HC Securities said in
a note in March. A basis point is one hundredth of a percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  