-- 
DuPont Wins Support of Danisco Investors to Complete Buyout

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-16T20:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/dupont-to-complete-danisco-deal-after-getting-92-2-of-shares.html
DuPont Co., the third-biggest U.S.
chemical maker, won control of Danisco A/S after getting 92.2
percent of the Danish food-ingredient maker’s shares in its 33.4
billion-krone ($6.36 billion) tender offer.  All conditions for completing the offer of 700 kroner a
share have been fulfilled, Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont
said today in a statement. DuPont will delist the Copenhagen-
based company’s shares next month and incorporate its financial
results effective with the current quarter, Michael Hanretta, a
DuPont spokesman, said by telephone.  The transaction is DuPont Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman ’s first major acquisition since she started in the job
two years ago, giving her the world’s biggest maker of food
additives and the second-biggest industrial-enzymes producer.  Kullman, 55, raised the friendly bid by 5.3 percent on
April 29 after failing to win enough support for the initial
offer of 665 kroner a share. The revised proposal won backing
from Danish institutional investors including pension fund ATP.  “It’s another feather in Ellen’s cap,”  Hassan Ahmed , a
New York-based analyst at Alembic Global Advisers who rates the
shares “neutral,” said today in a telephone interview. “She
showed some discipline and didn’t bow down.”  DuPont Expansion  Kullman, who has exceeded analysts’ profit estimates in
each of nine quarters since becoming CEO, is expanding beyond
such DuPont mainstays as Kevlar bullet-resistant fabric and
titanium-dioxide pigment used in paint. Danisco’s ingredients
business makes sweeteners and cultures for ice cream and cheese,
while its enzymes unit, the second-biggest producer after
 Denmark ’s Novozymes A/S, supplies the biofuels industry.  Danisco and DuPont already share a venture that makes
ethanol from corn cobs and switchgrass. DuPont’s agriculture and
nutrition unit is the second-biggest seed company behind
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  and Danisco will bolster the part of the division
making soy protein and other food ingredients.  “This looks like a smart way to reposition a segment that
needed to be repositioned,”  Mark Connelly , a New York-based
analyst at Credit Agricole SA who has an “overweight” rating
on DuPont, said in a May 13 telephone interview. “It
dramatically distinguishes them in the agriculture segment from
Monsanto.”  Danisco rose 1 percent to 700 kroner at the close of
Copenhagen trading. DuPont gained 1 cent to $52.92 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Bid Premium  DuPont is buying Danisco for 32 percent more than its
closing share price on Jan. 7, the last trading day before the
deal was announced.  DuPont is paying 21 times Danisco’s estimated earnings per
share in the year through April 2012, according to the average
profit projections of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Irish food
company Kerry Group Plc trades at 13 times estimated earnings
this year; London-based  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  trades at
15 times earnings through September; and Novozymes trades at 31
times estimated 2011 earnings.  The deal is DuPont’s largest takeover since the 1999
acquisition of genetically modified seed-maker Pioneer Hi-Bred
International Inc. for $7.7 billion.  While DuPont needed only 80 percent of Danisco shares to
close the transaction, it needed 90 percent to terminate the
Copenhagen-based company’s stock listing and force holdouts to
sell their stock.  Elliott Associates LP, a New York-based hedge fund, argued
that the initial bid was too low in a Feb. 11 letter to
Danisco’s board. Elliott doubled its Danisco stake to 10
percent, Danisco said on May 6. Scott Tagliarino, an Elliott
spokesman, declined to comment today.  DuPont said Jan. 10 it planned to finance the transaction
with debt and $3 billion of cash. The company said at the time
it would assume Danisco’s net debt of about $500 million. The
takeover will add to earnings starting next year, DuPont said.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Exxon Mobil Corp. are the two largest
U.S. chemical makers by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  