-- 
EDF to Rely on Seaside Reactors as Drought Cuts Water Levels

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-16T13:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/edf-to-rely-on-seaside-reactors-as-drought-cuts-water-levels-1-.html
Electricite de France SA will limit
planned maintenance at nuclear reactors near the  English Channel 
and Atlantic Ocean as the driest spring in about 50 years
reduces river water for cooling inland plants.  EDF,  Europe ’s biggest power generator, operates France’s 58
nuclear reactors that provide about three quarters of the
country’s power needs. Most require river water for operations,
prompting the utility and the country’s nuclear safety watchdog
to step up monitoring.  Measures being taken by the utility include the
“limitation of summer outages in seaside nuclear plants,” EDF
said in a  presentation  last week. The dozen French reactors that
rely on seawater for cooling include Gravelines, Penly, Paluel,
Flamanville and Blayais.  EDF schedules planned refueling and maintenance sometimes
years in advance to coincide with a greater need for base
nuclear power during cold winter months and hot summer months.
The utility was forced to reduce output at some riverside
reactors during a 2003 heat wave that left 14,000 people dead.  “We have to pay attention to reactor operations. A decline
in water flow and increase in temperatures have an impact on
cooling,” French Environment Minister Nathalie Kosciusko- Morizet said at a news conference today. “If the water flow
becomes too low, a reactor will be halted.”  Maintain Level  Swiss authorities would like to maintain the water level of
Lake Geneva by adjusting flows into the Rhone River, she said,
adding that this could affect French reactors.  The current dry spell, which has prompted water
restrictions in some areas, hasn’t had an impact on nuclear
output, EDF spokeswoman Jill Coulombez said by telephone. French
law requires plants to reduce output when water levels drop
below a certain level or shut down if temperatures rise too
high.  Dry conditions lowered EDF’s hydroelectric power production
by 2.1 terawatt-hours last quarter, EDF said in a May 12
 statement .  The availability of water for EDF power generation started
to fall below average in the middle of January and remained
through March below the minimum recorded over the past decade,
according to last week’s presentation.  On Record  France  may have “one of the driest” months of May on
record, Michele Blanchard, a researcher at forecaster Meteo
France, said in an interview in Paris today. No significant rain
is forecast for the next two weeks and temperatures will start
rising.  France’s nuclear safety watchdog is reviewing guidelines
that would need to be followed in the event of a drought in the
coming months, Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire, said last week. Reactors that may be affected
include those located on the Loire and Rhone Rivers, he said.  EDF will also carry out weekly “stress tests based on
historical temperature models,” as part of water management
measures as well as “cautious” management of the water in
dams, according to the presentation.  Hydroelectric reserves in France are 9 percentage points
below the same week last year and 11 points lower than in 2009,
according to data on the website of Reseau de Transport
d’Electricite, a unit of EDF. France gets about 20 percent of
its power capacity from running water through turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  