-- 
Ryan Says Medicare Plan Would Empower Seniors to Seek Cost-Cutting Plans

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-05-17T12:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/medicare-plan-would-empower-seniors-to-seek-cost-cuts-ryan-says.html
U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan  said his proposal to overhaul Medicare would fight
rising health-care costs by “empowering” senior citizens to
“deny business to inefficient providers.”  Replacing the current Medicare program with government
subsidies to help seniors buy private health insurance would
force providers to work to meet their needs and drive down
costs, the Wisconsin Republican told the  Economic Club of
Chicago  yesterday.  Ryan, responding to criticism of his plan, sought to shift
the debate to Democrats’ plan to cut Medicare costs through a
board of experts charged with finding savings in the $500
billion program.  “This disagreement isn’t really about the problem -- it’s
about the solution to controlling costs in Medicare,” he said.
“Our plan is to give seniors the power to deny business to
inefficient providers. Their plan, quite to the opposite, is to
give government the power to deny care to seniors.”  The House plan would get “health-care spending under
control by empowering Americans to fight back against
skyrocketing costs,” he said.  Ryan’s speech followed weeks of criticism from Democrats
who say that his plan, included in a budget passed last month by
the Republican-controlled House, would mean ending Medicare.
Some Republicans have backed away from the proposal, including
presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich . In an interview May 16 on
NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Gingrich called Ryan’s plan
“radical” and said it amounted to “right-wing social
engineering.”  Pay More  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  has said that
most seniors would pay more for their care under Ryan’s plan.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, seeking to
elect more party members to the House in 2012, said it is
stepping up its attacks on Republicans who voted for Ryan’s plan
by making automated phone calls targeting 20 lawmakers.  Legislators are debating Republicans’ demands for large
spending cuts as a condition for a vote to raise the
government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The government was
scheduled to reach that limit yesterday, and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said he has taken actions to avoid hitting
the limit until Aug. 2.  Congressional Republicans and Democrats are likely to use
most of the time between now and then to negotiate a compromise
on cutting spending and raising the debt ceiling.  ‘Last Minute’  “This will play through June and July,” Ryan said on CNBC
today. “Knowing Congress the way I kind of do, we usually sort
of get these agreements together near the last minute.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said on Bloomberg
Television that Democrats are willing to consider Medicare
changes, though “one suggestion we’re not open to is the
abolishment of Medicare -- and that’s what the Republicans have
put forth in their budget.”  On the other hand, “considering some changes in funding
and the rest, that’s a different story. You can’t take that off
the table,” said Pelosi, a California Democrat. She said
“every initiative that we have where federal dollars are spent
must be subjected to scrutiny.”  Dozens of protesters gathered outside the Palmer House
Hilton Hotel in downtown  Chicago  where Ryan spoke, chanting,
“Say ‘no’ to Paul Ryan’s budget.”  Ryan said provisions in President Barack Obama’s 2010
health-care overhaul creating a 15-member Independent Payment
Advisory Board to look for cost savings amounted to a “class of
governing elites picking winners and losers and determining our
destinies.”  ‘Up And Up’  “ Government spending  on health care is going to keep going
up and up and up -- and when we can’t afford to borrow or tax
another dollar, we’ll have to give a board of unelected
bureaucrats the power to tell you what kind of treatments you
can and cannot receive,” Ryan said.  His Medicare proposal is modeled on the government’s
prescription-drug program, which has cost less than initially
projected, Ryan said.  “Seniors get to choose which, among competing private
plans, that they will select from for their drug benefit and the
provider knows the senior can fire them if they don’t perform,”
he said. “What we’re saying is, ‘Replicate that kind of
reform.’”  On the debt limit, Ryan predicted that lawmakers will work
out “a mixture of spending cuts measured in the trillions and
caps on spending to lock in those gains.” He said that will
still fall short of a “big, grand global bargain” on the
budget because “we are just so far apart on issues like health
care.”  He said lawmakers will take “wherever it is we don’t have
agreement on” to the voters in the 2012 election. “It’s going
to be a choice between two futures,” he said. “What kind of
country do you want?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  