-- 
Einhorn’s Greenlight Invested in Best Buy, GM Last Quarter

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-05-16T22:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/einhorn-s-greenlight-invests-in-best-buy-cvs-gm-last-quarter.html
David Einhorn ’s Greenlight Capital
Inc. said it bought new stakes in Best Buy Co.,  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , while selling health-care and
financial stocks during the first quarter.  The New York-based hedge fund also built new positions in
HCA Holdings Inc.,  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Amdocs Ltd. (DOX) ,
according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing today.
A purchase of Yahoo! Inc. shares, also shown in the document,
was already announced this month.  Einhorn opened his new position in GM by buying 3.42
million shares of the U.S. automaker, which is 33 percent owned
by the Treasury Department, during the quarter that ended in
March. He acquired 3.28 million shares in CVS Caremark, the
largest U.S. provider of  prescription drugs , and a 6 million
share stake in Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy, boosting the
fund’s equity weighting to stocks relying on consumers’
discretionary spending by 5.9 percent.  The firm increased its position in  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s
biggest drugmaker, to 24.95 million shares, added 1.39 million
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  shares to a total of 9.07 million and doubled
his position in Travelers Cos. to 4.2 million.  Einhorn, who profited from betting against Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, decreased stakes in  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the
commercial lender run by John A. Thain, and Fifth Street Finance
Corp., while exiting  Flagstar Bancorp Inc. (FBC) , the Troy, Michigan-
based lender, and  Everest Re Group Ltd. (RE) , the Bermuda-based
insurer and reinsurer.  Greenlight divested all its 1.14 million shares of Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest fertilizer
producer, in the first quarter. The firm also sold stakes in
health-care companies  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)  and  CareFusion Corp. (CFN) ,
and exited its positions in  Health Net Inc. (HNT)  and  Health
Management Associates Inc. (HMA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  