-- 
Emanuel Working Clout as He Inherits $587 Million Chicago Gap

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-16T17:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/emanuel-working-clout-as-he-inherits-587-million-chicago-gap.html
Rahm Emanuel  completed Chicago’s
first transition of power in 22 years, taking the reins of the
third-largest U.S. city today from Mayor  Richard M. Daley  with a
show of clout as President Barack Obama’s former chief of staff.  Emanuel, 51, was sworn in at Pritzker Pavilion, part of the
gleaming and overbudget  Millennium Park  development that
symbolizes both Daley’s remaking of the city and his failure to
control costs. Emanuel will inherit a projected 2012 budget
deficit of $587 million.  “We simply can’t afford the size of city government that we
had in the past,” he told a crowd that gave his predecessor a
standing ovation. “While we are not the first government to face
these tough questions, it is my fervent hope that we become the
first to solve them.”  Vice President  Joe Biden  attended the ceremony along with
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and White House Chief of
Staff William M. Daley, a younger brother of the outgoing mayor.  “Rahm has a lot of friends in this administration because
he helped many of us get these key posts that we have,” LaHood,
a Republican who served in Congress with Emanuel, said in a
telephone interview from Peoria, Illinois, his hometown.  Filling a Resume  The White House delegation was a fresh reminder of the
political influence that Emanuel brought to the mayor’s race
after leaving his West Wing job in October to return to his and
Obama’s hometown. His new position fills a gap in that resume,
LaHood said.  “This is a different ballgame for him,” he said. “This
is not legislative, this is administrative. The truth is, Rahm
has never had an administrative post before.”  While criticizing the budget-cutting approaches of some
Republican politicians, Emanuel called for a smaller and smarter
city government that would demand sacrifices from everyone.  “I reject how leaders in Wisconsin and  Ohio  are exploiting
their fiscal crisis to achieve a political goal,” he said. Yet
“we will do no favors to our city employees and our taxpayers if
we let outdated rules and outmoded practices make important
government services too costly to deliver.”  Emanuel hasn’t been shy about reminding residents of his
 Washington  ties. When the  Illinois  Supreme Court ruled in his
favor in January on whether he had the proper residency status
to run for mayor, Emanuel made a point of noting his phone calls
in the minutes after the ruling.  Powerful Friends  “I immediately called my wife,” he said. “I also called
my parents, and I took a call from the president of the  United
States .”  Emanuel referred to his spouse, Amy Rule, as he spoke of
his intent to address the quality of the city’s education
system, which Daley took control of during his tenure.  “As some have noted, including Amy, I am not a patient
man,” Emanuel said today. “When it comes to improving our
schools, I will not be a patient mayor.”  Soon after his swearing-in, his transportation advisers
will go to Washington to discuss high-speed rail and other
projects with LaHood’s staff, the transportation secretary said.  “Rahm is going to have some very, very strong and
significant partners in this administration because he wants to
get things done,” LaHood said.  He’ll need the help as he takes over a smaller city,
challenged with the budget shortfall and an unfunded pension
liability of $41,966 per household, according to an October
report by economists at  Northwestern University  and the
University of Rochester.  Credit Downgrade  Daley repeatedly tapped reserve funds from lease deals on
36,000 parking meters and the Chicago Skyway toll road to
balance the budget -- steps that led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut
Chicago’s credit rating on Nov. 5 by one level to A+, the fifth-
highest grade.  “The way to solve the financial problems is to be as
attentive to the structural problem and not approach them with
cosmetic solutions,” said  Gery Chico , a former Daley chief of
staff and one-time president of Chicago Public Schools.  Chico, who placed second in the six-person February mayoral
election that Emanuel won with 55 percent of the vote, said his
former rival is “certainly up to the task of corralling the
finances.”  During the campaign, Emanuel was more vocal than other
candidates in his calls for “shared sacrifice” by those who
work for a city of 2.7 million people that is also home to
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s
biggest airline.  Immediate Cuts  The Daley administration is working with Emanuel’s
transition team to identify $75 million in immediate cuts that
Emanuel has said he wants to make, outgoing Chicago Budget
Director Eugene Munin said May 6.  The city needs a “young, fresh and more energetic
approach,” Laurence Geller, president and CEO of Chicago-based
 Strategic Hotels & Resorts Inc. (BEE) , said in a telephone interview
from Paris.  “He has a chance to take on some of the sacred cows in the
city,” Geller said, pointing to the wage and benefit packages
of public employees.  Daley, 69, Chicago’s longest-serving mayor, chose not to
run for a seventh term. He and his father,  Richard J. Daley , ran
the city for a combined 43 of the past 55 years. The younger
Daley oversaw demolition of public housing high-rises, the
renovation of Navy Pier and the opening of Millennium Park.  Pricey Park  Like the pier, the 24-acre lakefront site has become one of
Illinois’s most popular tourist attractions, though it opened
four years late and at a cost that was $325 million more than
the Daley administration’s original estimate of $150 million.  Emanuel didn’t follow the route that spawned generations of
 Chicago  politicians: through ward organizations like the Daley
family’s power center in an Irish-Catholic enclave on the south
side. Emanuel, who will be the city’s  first Jewish mayor , was
born in the city before moving to its wealthy northern suburbs
as a child. He attended Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville,
 New York , and studied ballet.  He came back to Chicago and in 1989 worked as a fundraiser
for Daley’s first successful mayoral campaign. Emanuel won his
first public office in 2002, becoming a congressman for a
district that includes parts of the city’s north side and
northwest suburbs.  Next Incarnation  Chicagoans are waiting to see what incarnation of Emanuel
they get -- the Washington powerbroker known for his profane
outbursts or the more subdued candidate they saw on the campaign
trail.  The one certainty, LaHood said, is a mayor who exudes self-
assurance, not unlike his predecessor, who once sent backhoes in
the middle of the night to carve X’s into the runway of a
lakefront airport he wanted closed.  “I don’t think he’s losing any sleep about these huge
problems, because he’s such a confident person,” LaHood said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 Jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  