-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop to Eight-Week Low on Greece, Goldman Cuts

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-05-16T22:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/emerging-stocks-drop-to-seven-week-low-on-greece-goldman-sachs-ratings.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to an eight-week low, as concern over
 Greece ’s debt crisis deepened, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered
its rating on South Korean shares, and oil dropped.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.7 percent to
1,136.66 as of 5:17 p.m.  New York  time, the lowest close since
March 24.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slipped 0.8 percent to its
lowest since April 12 and the Shanghai Composite Index dropped
0.8 percent. Russia’s Micex Index slid 0.6 percent as oil fell
in New York.  Emerging-market stocks dropped for a fourth day on concern
the European debt crisis and  China ’s efforts to curb inflation
will slow global growth. European finance chiefs endorsed a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout for  Portugal  in Brussels
today as they stepped up pressure on Greece to do more to win
improved aid terms.  “As far as the peripheral European debt issue is
concerned, it’s a lot more challenging to resolve because it
involves politics as well as economics,” said Khiem Do, Hong
Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset
Management ( Asia ) Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion.  European Finance ministers said the role of  International
Monetary Fund  as the contributor of a third of the bailout money
for Greece, Ireland and Portugal won’t be hampered by the arrest
of the IMF’s Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn May 14 on
sexual-assault charges in New York.  Europe ’s donor countries
tied extra money for Greece to pledges that it deepen spending
cuts and reap more revenue from asset sales.  Oil Slides  Concern over aid for Greece, coupled with speculation U.S.
fuel demand may be slowing, sent oil falling for the first time
in three days. It lost 2.3 percent to $96.37 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
natural gas exporter, slid for the fourth day in a row, losing
1.6 percent in Moscow.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company, overcame the drop in oil and advanced 1.8 percent after
posting first-quarter profit of 10.99 billion reais ($6.72
billion), beating analysts’ estimates. Brazil’s Bovespa index
declined 0.6 percent as most stocks fell on speculation policy
makers will lift  interest rates  for longer than expected to curb
inflation, offsetting an increase in first-quarter earnings.
 Mexico ’s IPC index advanced 0.2 percent.  Copper for three-month delivery added 0.2 percent in New
York. Grupo Mexico SAB, the country’s largest mining company,
climbed 1.3 percent. The real strengthened the most among Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, rising 0.1 percent.  South Korean Stocks  South Korean stocks were downgraded at Goldman Sachs amid
concern inflation isn’t abating and the global economy is
slowing. The brokerage also reduced its recommendation for
Japanese stocks to “underweight,” citing “greater
cautiousness on U.S. growth.”  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co., South Korea’s third-largest
steelmaker, plunged 9.4 percent, the steepest decline since Jan.
15, 2009. The company was cut to “sell” from “neutral” at
Goldman Sachs, which said its earnings growth may slow. Samsung
Electronics Co. retreated 1.6 percent after a U.S. trade panel
ruled Whirlpool Corp., the world’s largest appliance maker, is
being harmed by low-cost refrigerators from Mexico and South
Korea, paving the way for tariffs on those imports.  Money-Market Rates  In Shanghai,  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,
the world’s biggest bank by market value, dropped 1.5 percent
after money-market rates jumped the most in three months.
China’s money-market rate rose on speculation a surge in banks’
reserve ratios to a record will lead to a cash squeeze in the
financial system.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
decreased 1 percent after the commerce ministry reported that
the wholesale-price index rose 8.66 percent in April, exceeding
the 8.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was little changed at 3.02 percentage
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  