-- 
England’s Geoff Thompson Defends Letter Backing Blatter as FIFA President

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-16T17:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/england-s-geoff-thompson-defends-letter-backing-blatter-as-fifa-president.html
The English representative on
soccer’s governing body defended his decision to sign a letter
endorsing Sepp Blatter for a fourth presidential term, saying it
was based on “collective responsibility.”  Some U.K. media have criticized Geoff Thompson, a FIFA
vice-president, for putting his name to the letter issued by
European soccer’s ruling body giving its backing to Blatter. The
75-year-old is being opposed by the head of Asian soccer,
Mohamed  Bin Hammam , in the June 1 presidential election.  Anger in the U.K. toward FIFA has grown since England’s bid
to stage the 2018 World Cup drew just two of 22 votes in the
December vote, which  Russia  won. It followed a campaign that was
overshadowed by corruption allegations against  FIFA  officials.  “It was a collective decision agreed by all of the UEFA
executive committee,” Thompson, who also sits on the decision-
making panel of European soccer’s governing body, said in a
telephone interview about endorsing the letter. “It’s
collective responsibility, so I signed my name.”  Thompson declined to say whether he had any regrets about
signing the document. English Football Association Chairman
David Bernstein last week said his organization may abstain from
voting for Blatter or Bin Hammam, a Qatari who successfully
lobbied for his homeland to win the hosting rights for the 2022
 World Cup .  FIFA, which suspended two voters following an investigation
into alleged vote-selling before the hosting decision, started
another inquiry after former F.A. chairman  David Triesman  last
week accused four panel members of asking for favors in exchange
for votes.  Hours after the decision in December, Thompson was critical
of his FIFA colleagues.  Very Disappointed  “I cannot believe what has happened, and I am naturally
very, very disappointed,” said Thompson, who represents
England, Scotland, Wales and  Northern Ireland  on the executive
committee. “The votes that were promised clearly didn’t
materialize.”  UEFA’s decision isn’t binding on its member associations.
Thompson didn’t explain whether the decision to back Blatter
came from a vote of the 16-member body or after a request from
UEFA President  Michel Platini .  Blatter said he’ll stand down at the end of his term if he
wins the election and Platini has not ruled out standing for the
FIFA presidency in 2015.  African soccer’s ruling body, the Confederation of African
Football, today backed Blatter for re-election at a meeting in
Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 