-- 
EPA to Postpone Boiler Rules Amid Industry Group Complaints

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-16T18:19:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/epa-to-postpone-boiler-rules-amid-industry-group-complaints-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
said it will delay new standards for industrial boilers, giving
the Obama administration time to change the rule opposed by
industry groups such as the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce .  The chamber, the nation’s biggest business lobby, and the
 National Association of Manufacturers  asked the EPA last month
to postpone the air regulations. The agency said in February,
when it issued the standards under court order, that it would
reconsider the rules, aimed at cutting toxic emissions such as
mercury and soot.  The  Council of Industrial Boiler Owners  last year said the
proposal would cost the industry $20 billion and as many as
300,000 jobs. The EPA, which estimated costs at $9.5 billion,
responded by issuing rules it said were 50 percent less
expensive and pledging to make more changes as needed.  The EPA’s delay of the May 21 effective date will “allow
the agency to continue to seek additional public comment before
an updated rule is proposed,” the EPA said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Reconsideration of the rule, which prompted more than 4,800
comments from businesses and communities after being proposed in
April 2010, is in line with President Barack Obama’s January
order that agencies ensure that regulations don’t unnecessarily
hurt U.S. economic growth.  The Washington-based  National Association of Manufacturers 
praised EPA’s decision to rework the boiler rules.  “This will alleviate job creators from burdensome and
costly regulations while the EPA goes through the
reconsideration process,” the group said today in an e-mail. It
“removes a level of uncertainty found among manufactures that
has discouraged future investment and job growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  