-- 
Tepco Says Fuel in 2 Reactors May Have Melted

-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-05-16T12:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/tepco-says-fuel-in-2-reactors-may-have-melted.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said fuel in
other reactors at its damaged nuclear plant may have melted,
after confirming rods in the No. 1 unit had fallen from their
assembly, potentially delaying plans to resolve the crisis.  “The findings at the No. 1 reactor indicate the likelihood
that the water level readings in the other reactors aren’t
accurate,” Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at the utility
known as Tepco, said today. “It could be that a meltdown
similar to that in the No. 1 reactor has occurred.”  Moody’s  Japan  K.K. cut Tepco’s credit ratings and put it on
review for further possible downgrade after today’s news. Tepco
has been struggling to cool reactors and stop radiation leaks to
end the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. The
discovery that fuels rods melted within 16 hours of power being
knocked out means it’s unlikely Tepco can meet its timetable for
containing the leaks, a nuclear engineering professor said.  “Tepco didn’t clearly indicate how much uncertainty and
potential negative scenarios were factored into the road map,”
said Hironobu Unesaki at  Kyoto University . “I don’t think they
gathered enough data before coming up with the plan.”  Tepco fell 7.3 percent today to 420 yen in Tokyo. The
shares are down about 80 percent since the March 11 quake and
tsunami struck, leaving more than 24,000 people dead or missing.  Ratings Downgrade  Moody’s cut senior secured rating by one step to Baa2 from
Baa1 and long-term issuer rating to Baa3 from Baa1, saying that
damage at the plant appears worse than previously indicated. The
agency cut its short-term rating for commercial paper to Not
Prime from Prime-2. It was the third downgrade since the
disaster.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Tepco’s credit rating for a third
time on May 13, to BBB from BBB+. Tepco has 6.99 trillion yen
($86.5 billion) of debt, making it the nation’s second-largest
corporate borrower among members of the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average, behind Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Bloomberg
data show.  The operator of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant said earlier
it believes 35 percent of the rods of reactor No. 2 melted after
cooling systems failed and 30 percent of those in the No. 3
unit. An announcement on the status of the two reactors will be
made later, Matsumoto said, without giving a time frame.  Progress Update  The fuel in the No. 1 reactor started melting about 4 1/2
hours after the magnitude-9 earthquake hit on March 11 when the
water level in the reactor core vessel fell below the base of
the assembly, Tepco said yesterday.  The temperatures in the core rose to about 2,800 degrees
Celsius (5,072 degrees Fahrenheit), the melting point of fuel
rods, after emergency cooling was knocked out by the tsunami
that hit the plant about 45 minutes after the quake, the company
said.  By 6:50 a.m. on March 12, “most of the core” had melted
and fallen to the base of the vessel, Tepco said.  Engineers established the extent of the damage after fixing
gauges in the reactor No. 1 building last week. The building was
damaged by a hydrogen explosion on March 12. Tepco said water
from the reactor has leaked out through the outer chamber and
has filled the building’s basement to a depth of 4.2 meters (14
feet).  Release ‘Unlikely’  The melted fuel has cooled because enough water has
accumulated in the bottom of the inner vessel after being pumped
in, Tepco said. A “large-scale release of radioactive materials
is unlikely,” the statement said.  Fukushima’s No. 1 reactor may have been damaged in the
earthquake before the tsunami hit,  Kyodo News  reported
yesterday. Japan’s nuclear safety commission has said the damage
that caused the meltdown was done by the tsunami, according to
Kyodo.  “We currently haven’t been able to confirm this,”
Matsumoto said today when asked about the report. “In a few
days, when the data is in, we’ll know more.”  The company tomorrow plans to provide an update on its
progress and revisions to the plan for bringing the damaged
reactors and spent fuel pools at Fukushima into a stable state.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said there’s no need to
change Tepco’s timetable.  Cold Shutdown  “In terms of achieving cold-shutdown status within six to
nine months, I believe we should be able to proceed without
changing the timeframe,” Kan said today in parliament. The
government will also provide a schedule for ending the crisis,
Kan said.  Tepco on April 17 set out a so-called road map to end the
crisis in six to nine months. The utility said it expects to
achieve a sustained drop in radiation levels at the plant within
three months, followed by a cold shutdown, where core reactor
temperatures fall below 100 degrees Celsius.  The company expects to meet its timetable, President
Masataka Shimizu said in parliament today. He said the risks of
more hydrogen explosions and leaks of contaminated water remain
at the plant. Shimizu was responding to a question on what risks
are incorporated in the road map.  The utility has made initial payments of 1 million yen to
10,000 households, Shimizu told lawmakers. The company has
received claims from 50,000 households forced to evacuate areas
around the nuclear plant that is about 220 kilometers (137
miles) north of  Tokyo .  “We plan to begin provisional compensation payments for
those who run agricultural, forestry and fishery businesses by
the end of May,” Shimizu said. “We’d like to start discussions
with related organizations immediately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/16/ :18 GMT 