-- 
EU Ministers OK $110.8 Billion Portugal Rescue

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-16T17:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/eu-finance-ministers-approve-78-billion-euro-bailout-package-for-portugal.html
European Union finance ministers
cleared the way for  Portugal  to receive 78 billion euros
($110.8 billion) in aid, making it the third euro-area country
to fall back on official loans.  The EU’s two bailout funds, the European Financial
Stability Facility and European Financial Stabilization
Mechanism, will each provide one-third of the assistance, while
the  International Monetary Fund  will contribute the rest, the EU
said in a statement after a unanimous vote in Brussels today.  Finance ministers called Portugal’s planned budget cuts
“ambitious but credible,” according to the statement. The aid
program will run for three years.  Portugal follows Greece and Ireland in requesting a
bailout from the EU and International Monetary Fund. Politicians
are struggling to convince investors that 256 billion euros in
aid to the three countries will be enough to stamp out  Europe ’s
debt crisis and prevent the euro region’s first restructuring.  Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos
said before the meeting he was confident of approval because
“all the issues that we had to clarify were clarified.” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  had also been upbeat about
Portugal’s aid request.  The meeting was clouded by the May 14 arrest of IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn on sexual-assault
charges in the U.S. A New York judge today ordered Strauss-Kahn
held without bail after prosecutors said they considered him a
flight risk.  ‘Total Continuity’  EU spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said before the talks that the
EU is “entirely confident” that there will be “total
continuity not only in the operations but in the decision-making
process” of the IMF in Strauss-Kahn’s absence.  IMF loans will come at a 3.25 percent interest rate. The
rate on the European portion will be between 5.5 percent and 6
percent, EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said May 10.  The package calls for Portugal to implement the austerity
measures that the government proposed and parliament rejected in
March. Spending reductions for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to
pensions, will amount to 3.4 percent of GDP, while revenue
increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic output. The
plan also earmarks 12 billion euros for Portugal’s banks.  Portugal’s aid package requires approval by all euro-area
governments, with most putting it to parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Brussels at  areis1@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  