-- 
Greece May Delay Payments Under EU Proposal to Extend $156 Billion Bailout

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-17T14:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/eu-ministers-see-possible-greek-debt-reprofiling-in-follow-up-aid-plan.html
European finance ministers for the
first time floated the idea of talks with bondholders over
extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment schedule, saying that last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue has failed to
restore the country to financial health.  Europe would consider “reprofiling” Greek bond maturities
as part of a package including stepped-up sales of state assets
and deeper spending cuts, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late yesterday.  “We’ll have to see whether we can’t proceed to a soft
restructuring of Greek debt,” Juncker, who chaired last night’s
meeting of euro-area finance ministers, said at the Lisbon
Council in Brussels today. “I am strictly opposed to a large
restructuring of Greek debt.”  Introducing that prospect marks a break in Europe’s crisis-
fighting strategy, with governments potentially shifting some
costs to bondholders instead of relying on taxpayer-funded
bailouts to stamp out the debt crisis. The talks were clouded by
the absence of International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who was denied bail in New York
yesterday after being arrested on sexual-assault charges.  Previously, European governments had ruled out writedowns
on privately held bonds before a permanent rescue fund is set up
in mid-2013, and then only as a last-ditch option for countries
deemed insolvent. Juncker last night said a “reprofiling”
would give breathing space for Greek budget cuts to work.  ‘Not Terribly Attractive’  Postponing Greece’s payments is “not terribly attractive
to investors, but probably better than the other alternatives,
in conjunction with further money, further bailout, which I
think will come,” Nick Beecroft, a senior markets consultant at
Saxo Bank A/S, told  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  The euro was little changed at $1.4167 as of 3:10 p.m. in
 London . The currency has slipped from a 17-month high of $1.4940
on May 4 amid concern over the escalating debt crisis. Greek
two-year yields fell 4 basis points to 24.87 percent.  To be sure, striking an agreement with banks to reschedule
Greece’s bond redemptions wasn’t discussed in the meeting, and
finance ministers including  Christine Lagarde  of  France  and
Didier Reynders of  Belgium  voiced opposition.  “Restructuring, reprofiling -- off the table,” Lagarde
told reporters. “We don’t want to do that,” Reynders said.  Germans’ View  That exposed a rift with  Germany , which as the biggest
guarantor of the euro bailouts is at the origin of the
restructuring debate. Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen
said it is first up to Greece to patch its fiscal scars by
cutting deeper into spending and selling more state assets.  A failure of the renewed Greek effort would trigger a
“discussion of measures that don’t only burden the taxpayer but
also involve the private sector on a voluntary basis,” Asmussen
said.  Asmussen defined “reprofiling” -- also dubbed a “soft
restructuring” in European circles -- as “a pure extension of
maturities of existing bonds without changing the principal and
the  interest rates .” Such a setup would be designed to avert a
chain reaction of claims linked to credit-default swaps.  Official creditors in March granted Greece more time to
repay its current loans and are considering another extension to
save it from becoming the first euro country to default.  Germany also hasn’t yet obtained ironclad guarantees that
the post-2013 rescue fund will have senior status with
provisions to force bondholders to share costs, Asmussen said.  Investors’ Survey  After fighting the notion of a Greek insolvency for more
than a year, the Brussels talks suggested that  Europe ’s
financial leaders are moving closer to the view of the 85
percent of international investors who, in a Bloomberg poll last
week, said Greece is likely to default.  “We suggest that Greece is insolvent and that at some
point the can cannot be kicked down the road any further,”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” interview on Bloomberg Television. “Ultimately debt
holders will have to bear some of the burden as well.”  The finance chiefs gave an inkling of a possible strategic
revamp in yesterday’s approval of a 78 billion-euro aid program
for  Portugal , the third country to succumb to the debt crisis.  In addition to promising deficit cuts and the sale of
assets, Portugal will “encourage private investors to maintain
their overall exposures on a voluntary basis,” the ministers
said in a statement. Portugal’s package still needs approval by
all euro-area governments, with most putting it to parliament.  European-IMF Team  The ministers’ next meeting, on June 20, looms as a
deadline to decide on a 12 billion-euro disbursement to Greece
and on the shape of a follow-up aid package. It will be based on
a progress report by a joint European-IMF team now in Greece.  Europe’s richer countries put Greece under pressure to go
beyond current plans to sell 50 billion euros in government
assets, potentially by setting up a new privatization agency.
Faced with the fresh demands, Greece is working on a new savings
plan to be unveiled in coming days, government spokesman  George
Petalotis  said in  Athens .  Greece’s debt will balloon to 157.7 percent of GDP in 2011
while the economy slumps for the third year, the  European
Commission  forecast last week, fueling doubts whether the
country will generate enough growth to pay its bills.  Finance ministers said the IMF’s role as the contributor of
a third of the bailout money for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
won’t be hampered by Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest on sexual-
assault charges in  New York .  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who has denied the charges, was ordered
held without bail by a New York judge. While he didn’t enter a
plea yesterday in Manhattan Criminal Court, his lawyer has said
he will plead not guilty. The Washington-based IMF was
represented in Brussels by Nemat Shafik, a deputy managing
director.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Brussels at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  