-- 
IMF’s Lipsky, EU Naked CDS Ban, Irish Banks, Thor Industries: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-16T12:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/eu-naked-cds-ban-irish-banks-thor-industries-compliance.html
As  International Monetary Fund  chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn awaits his first court appearance on
attempted rape charges in  New York , the IMF has called on  John
Lipsky , who it named acting director yesterday, to guide it
through its own crisis.  Strauss-Kahn gave police permission to examine him for
physical evidence of scratches and DNA from his accuser. The
alleged attack on a 32-year-old female maid at a Sofitel hotel
in midtown Manhattan occurred May 14, according to the New York
Police Department. Strauss-Kahn, who was taken into custody
aboard an Air France flight at John F. Kennedy International
Airport as it prepared to depart, also was charged with unlawful
imprisonment and a criminal sex act. He remains in custody until
an 11 a.m. hearing in Manhattan criminal court.  A potential candidate for the French presidency, Strauss-
Kahn, 62, has denied the charges and will plead not guilty, his
lawyer Benjamin Brafman said. The IMF chief was picked out of a
lineup yesterday by the maid, police said. His arraignment,
during which bail terms may be set, had been scheduled for
yesterday and was delayed after investigators sought a warrant
for a physical examination of Strauss-Kahn.  The IMF “remains fully functioning and operational”
following Strauss-Kahn’s arrest, the Washington-based
organization said in a  statement  yesterday.  Lipsky, 64, was named acting managing director yesterday
after Strauss-Kahn was charged criminally. Lipsky, who has been
first deputy managing director since 2006, takes temporary
leadership of the Washington-based IMF as it tries to stem the
European sovereign-debt crisis and deal with Greece’s request
for a bigger financial lifeline.  Lipsky, who once served as chief economist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Salomon Brothers Inc. in New York and
represented the IMF in Chile, is described by colleagues as a
steady hand who can give the fund some stability in the
aftermath of Strauss-Kahn’s arrest. His promotion came three
days after the IMF said he would be leaving when his term as the
No. 2 official ends on Aug. 31.  European finance ministers will tackle Greece’s financing
needs at meetings in Brussels today. Also on the agenda are the
approval of 78 billion euros ($110 billion) in aid for Portugal
and the nomination of Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi to be
the next president of the  European Central Bank .  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  Schaeuble Said to Push for Ban on Naked Credit-Default Swaps  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  plans to urge
European Union governments to consider a ban on trading of naked
credit-default swaps on sovereign debt, two people familiar with
the discussions said.  Schaeuble will seek an EU-wide ban to be included in draft
EU rules on short selling, said the people who declined to be
identified because the discussions aren’t yet public. He will
raise the issue when finance ministers discuss a possible deal
on the short-selling curbs at a meeting in Brussels on May 17.  Germany ’s move is “part of a wider dirigiste effort to re-
regulate, really micro manage, markets in a way that buries bad
news,” Bob Penn, financial regulation partner at law firm Allen
& Overy LLP in  London , said, referring to centrally controlled
economic measures. “There’s something terribly Big-Brotherish
about the whole thing.”  Politicians including German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy have called for the EU to curb
naked CDS on sovereign debt, as well as naked short-sales of
certain stocks and bonds, because of concerns that such
activities were fuelling the eurozone’s debt crisis. Germany
already has restrictions on using swaps to bet on sovereign
defaults.  Germany’s finance ministry declined to comment, as did
Marton Hajdu, a spokesman for Hungary, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency.  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services commissioner,
proposed the short-selling law in September. While the plans
allowed for emergency CDS bans if financial stability is at
risk, they don’t seek permanent curbs. Governments have so far
refrained from going further in their work to amend the
proposals.  For more, click here.  Banks Push Consumer Bureau to Keep U.S. Complaint Line Private  The new U.S. consumer agency, which has yet to begin formal
operations or write a rule, is already being squeezed between
banks and advocacy groups over how to set up a complaint
hotline.  Under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau must establish a way for banking
customers to submit reports about their problems with products
and services. At issue is what happens after they’re filed.  Nonprofit groups such as  Consumers Union  and the  Sunlight
Foundation  are pushing for an open system that would allow
anyone to scan the raw submissions. Industry groups including
the American Bankers Association argue that making them public
could allow frivolous complaints to damage reputable brands.  The hotline has become a focal point of a philosophical
debate about the bureau’s role -- whether it should aim to
improve consumer financial products primarily by working
directly with companies or by bringing public attention to
unfair practices.  Bureau officials plan to open the hotline by accepting
consumer complaints about credit cards starting on July 21,
according to a person involved in the work.  Dodd-Frank requires the bureau to log complaints in a
database and route them to the appropriate federal or state
agency. A separate provision says the bureau and other
regulators must create procedures to ensure that financial firms
provide “a timely response” to consumers.  The agency is working with five of the largest credit-card
issuers -- JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  American Express Co. (AXP) , Discover
Financial Services,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  -- to make certain they can begin receiving
complaint referrals in July, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the process isn’t public.  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Discover, and Leah
Gerstner, a spokeswoman for American Express, said they welcomed
the chance to work with the consumer bureau. Spokesmen for Bank
of America and Capital One didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  For more, click here  Dodd-Frank Consumer Bureau Changes Approved by House Panel  Republicans on the  House Financial Services Committee 
advanced three bills May 13 to reshape the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, or CFPB, turning the tables on Democrats who
approved the agency in party-line votes last year.  Lawmakers led by Representative Spencer Bachus, the Alabama
Republican who leads the panel, are pushing changes to the Dodd-
Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul they’ve targeted since taking
control of the House in January. The Republicans have proposed
about a dozen bills to revise the new rules, which they were
nearly unanimous in opposing when Dodd-Frank was passed in July.  After more than 10 hours of debate May 12 over the CFPB
measures and a bill to re-authorize the  National Flood Insurance
Program , Bachus put off until May 24 consideration of an 18-
month delay of derivatives rules mandated by Dodd-Frank. The
bill would push implementation of rules for the $583 trillion
over-the-counter swaps market -- many of them due by July -- to
December 2012.  The Republican measures, even if they are approved by the
full House, are likely to face opposition from the Senate, which
remains in Democratic hands, and from President Barack Obama,
who initiated the regulatory overhaul in response to the
financial crisis.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Irish Central Bank Reliance Falls as State Deposits Increase  Irish lenders’ reliance on central bank funding plunged as
much as 21.1 billion euros ($30.2 billion) in April, as the
country’s  National Treasury Management Agency  injected deposits
into the financial system.  Irish lenders may have cut their reliance on emergency
liquidity assistance from the country’s central bank by as much
as 12.7 billion euros to 54.1 billion euros, according to
figures published on the Dublin-based bank’s website May 13.
Borrowings from the European Central Bank fell to 106.1 billion
euros on April 29 from 114.5 billion euros at the end of March.  Part of the decline was due to the NTMA placing money on
deposits with the state-guaranteed banks. The agency said an
aggregate of 19 billion euros was placed with the Irish banks,
pending their recapitalization at the end of July.  The central
bank in March ordered four lenders to raise 24 billion euros in
new capital.  “On or before July 31, the deposits will be returned to
the state to provide the funds necessary for the
recapitalizations,” the Dublin-based agency said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It should be noted that the deposits
have no unusual features and are not restricted in any way.”  Thor Industries to Pay $1 Million to Settle SEC Allegations  Thor Industries Inc. (THO) , the biggest U.S. maker of
recreational vehicles, agreed to pay $1 million to settle a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit claiming one of its
executives underreported company costs.  The proposed settlement was filed in federal court in
 Washington  May 12 along with a complaint that alleges Mark
Schwartzhoff, the vice president of finance at Thor’s Dutchmen
Manufacturing Inc., “engaged in a fraudulent accounting scheme
to understate Dutchmen’s cost of goods sold.”  Schwartzhoff, who was fired in 2007, overstated Dutchmen’s
pretax income by almost $27 million from fiscal year 2003 to the
second quarter of fiscal 2007, according to the SEC.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, Thor
Industries agreed to hire an SEC-approved independent consultant
to evaluate its internal accounting controls at its headquarters
in Jackson Center, Ohio, and at its other units. The agreement
requires court approval.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Orthwein didn’t immediately
return a telephone message seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. Thor Industries, 11-cv-00889, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Rambus Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , the designer, licensor and marketer of high-
speed chip-to-chip interface technology for computers and other
electronic equipment, had its stock halted May 13 by U.S.
circuit breakers.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index (RIY)  companies as well as 
more than 300  exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  For a list of securities that have been halted by U.S.
circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  Almunia Says EU to Probe Control of Financial-Market Data  European Union regulators, who are investigating 16
investment banks over the swaps market, will examine the
“control and dissemination” of financial-market data for
possible antitrust abuses.  The  European Commission  will investigate whether data
providers are engaging in abusive behavior by “attempting to
leverage privileged access to information,”  Joaquin Almunia ,
the EU’s competition commissioner, said in a London speech
today. “I also intend to discuss the legitimate scope of
intellectual property rights claims on such data,” he said.  Almunia is increasing the EU regulator’s scrutiny of
financial markets. Last month, he announced a probe into whether
16 banks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase
& Co., colluded by giving market information to Markit, a
financial-information provider. The commission is also checking
whether nine of the banks struck deals with ICE Clear  Europe , a
clearinghouse for derivatives, that prevent other clearinghouses
from entering the market.  Almunia, who is set to examine separate bids for NYSE
Euronext, said he is also opposed to “essential” market
infrastructure being controlled by a small number of companies.  For more, click here.  Carbon Traders Urge EU to Delay Vote on Trade Security Rules  The  International Emissions Trading Association  urged the
European Union to postpone a vote on a draft proposal to better
protect the bloc’s carbon-registry system from fraud to June
from May.  The  EU Climate Change Committee , composed of national
government representatives, is scheduled to vote on May 19 on
the EU common registry  regulation  presented by the European
Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory arm.  “IETA is content with the level of security envisaged and
welcomes the Commission’s proposal,” it said in a letter to the
commission and member states. “Some modifications are needed in
order to be fully effective and avoid unintended consequences.
We therefore urge the Climate Change Committee to postpone the
vote to the June session.”  Courts  AIG Fights Swaps-Unit Disclosure in Sex-Discrimination Case  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , citing abuse directed
against traders who got bonuses after the company’s bailout, is
fighting to keep pay records private from ex-employees seeking
the data in a sex-discrimination lawsuit.  “Previous disclosures” of such information “resulted not
only in the personal harassment of employees and their families
at their homes, but also threats of physical violence,” lawyers
for AIG said in a filing at U.S. District Court in New Haven,
Connecticut, dated April 29.  Susan Potter, 58, and Deonna Taylor, 63, ex-vice presidents
at  AIG Financial Products , sued the company last year claiming
the firm discriminated against older women. Their lawyer is
demanding to know the salary, bonus and deferred compensation
for each AIG FP employee since 2000, according to court filings
last month.  AIG executives received death threats after the firm doled
out $165 million in bonuses following a federal bailout in 2008,
according to testimony at a March 2009 congressional hearing.  Deborah McKenna, an attorney for Potter and Taylor,
declined to comment, as did AIG spokesman Mark Herr.  The plaintiffs’ requests go too far, AIG said in the April
29 filing. The company has already produced a “substantial
amount” of information and has offered to provide additional
data on an “attorneys’ and experts’ eyes only” basis,
according to AIG’s court filing.  The case is Potter v. AIG Financial Products Corp., 3:10-
cv-00250, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven).  Interviews/Speeches  IMF Says Spain Has Reassured Investors With Policy Overhaul  Spain is less likely to become engulfed in the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis after the government implemented policies
to reassure investors it’s serious about strengthening the
economy, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “A year ago you saw Spain moving very much in sync with
Greece, Portugal or Ireland, with market concerns about Spain
very similar to that for the other countries,” IMF European
Director Antonio Borges told a news conference in Warsaw May 13.
“Today we see very strong decoupling on the part of Spain
relative to the other countries, because the Spaniards have put
in place a whole series of measures which have convinced the
markets they are in a much stronger position than before.”  Spanish economic growth accelerated to 0.3 percent in the
first quarter. The government is overhauling labor and pension
rules to help cut unemployment and counting on higher foreign
sales to counter a drop in consumer spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 