-- 
EU’s Van Rompuy Discusses Trade, Currency With China’s Hu

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-05-16T14:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/eu-s-van-rompuy-discusses-trade-currency-with-china-s-hu.html
European Union President Herman  Van Rompuy  comments on his talks with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in
Beijing today, according to an e-mailed statement from the EU’s
office in China’s capital.  Van Rompuy invited Hu to visit EU institutions at “his
earliest convenience,” according to the statement.  On currency policy:  “I confirmed to President Hu the importance the EU
attaches to the implementation of the agreements reached in
Seoul to move toward more market-determined exchange-rate
systems that reflect underlying economic fundamentals.”  On trade relations:  “One of the key challenges to the development of our
strategic partnership will be to preserve the climate of
openness in our economic and trade relationship.  “The EU upheld its open policies even in times of economic
downturn, and is keen to achieve progress toward establishing a
level playing field in our economic relations, including the
concerns European companies have regarding the business and
investment climate in  China .  “We agreed with President Hu on the vast opportunities in
front of us in technology development. We also discussed the
challenge of sustainable urbanization, and I proposed to work
toward the launch of an urbanization partnership at the next
summit.”  On human rights and stability:  “China’s public image and reputation, as well as its
influence, will be shaped by factors going beyond its economic
performance: benefiting from an open and interdependent world
implies a greater responsibility in contributing to its
stability as well.  “Safeguarding human rights and the rule of law is part of
this. China and the EU have both signed up to the international
instruments that enshrine the universal values of human rights,
and we have a shared responsibility to uphold them.  “This work is among the core values the European Union is
built on. It is of deep concern for European citizens, and it is
reflected in our diplomacy across the world. China’s
contribution to this work will be an important element shaping
its reputation and influence in the future.”  On the Group of 20:  “We discussed how the G-20 could continue to be effective
in ensuring economic and financial cooperation at the global
level. China’s role is essential in this process, as the G-20
and the  Seoul  agreement on the better representation of China in
international financial institutions helped China better
integrate in the global economic and financial governance
network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at   bruceg@bloomberg.net  