-- 
European Inflation Rises to Fastest in 2 1/2 Years

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-16T09:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/european-inflation-rises-to-fastest-in-2-1-2-years.html
European inflation accelerated to the
fastest in 2 1/2 years in April, increasing pressure on the
 European Central Bank  to raise borrowing costs further.  Consumer-price growth in the 17-nation euro region
quickened to 2.8 percent from 2.7 percent in March, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s in
line with an initial estimate on April 29 and the fastest since
October 2008. Euro-area exports rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1
percent in March from February, a separate report showed.  The euro-region economy expanded at a faster pace than
economists forecast in the first quarter, giving companies room
to pass on surging commodity costs. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on May 6 it’s important to remain “extremely
alert” on price developments after policy makers last month
raised the benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent, the first increase in almost three years.  “Inflation data and the strong euro-zone gross domestic
product growth increase the risk that the ECB could tighten
 interest rates  more aggressively,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “July
remains the most likely choice for the next ECB rate hike.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4113 at 11:25 a.m. in Brussels.  Core Inflation  The European Commission on May 13 raised its inflation
forecast for this year to 2.6 percent from a previously
projected 2.2 percent. In 2012, annual consumer-price growth may
slow to 1.8 percent, the Brussels-based commission said. That’s
above the ECB’s March projection of 2.3 percent and 1.7 percent,
respectively.  Euro-region core inflation, which excludes volatile items
such as food and energy, accelerated to 1.6 percent in April
from 1.3 percent in the previous month, the statistics office
said. That’s the fastest since April 2009.  Crude  oil prices  have increased 7.9 percent this year,
breaching $100 a barrel in February for the first time in more
than two years. Crude was at $98.46 a barrel at 10:14 a.m. in
Brussels.  Companies are seeking ways to protect earnings from
increasing costs.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical company,
said on May 6 the outlook has brightened in the last few months,
helping it push through price increases needed to offset higher
raw-material costs. The “good pricing power” seen in the first
three months of the year extended into the second quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Kurt Bock said that day.  ‘Gradual Rise’  With governments from  Spain  to Ireland struggling to reduce
their budget deficits, Trichet signaled earlier this month that
policy makers will keep borrowing costs steady in June. ECB
Executive Board member Juergen Stark said on May 13 that the
bank had indicated a “gradual rise in rates,” depending “on
the situation, on the basis of incoming data.”  The euro-region economy is showing some signs of cooling
after expanding 0.8 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months. Economic confidence weakened in April and
investors also grew less optimistic this month. In  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, sentiment of both executives and
investors declined in April.  While the euro’s 5.7 percent ascent against the dollar this
year has helped soften the impact of higher costs by making
imports more affordable, it’s also undermining export growth.
The region’s seasonally adjusted trade deficit narrowed to 900
million euros ($1.3 billion) in March from 2.1 billion euros in
the previous month, today’s data showed. Imports rose 0.3
percent from February, when they advanced 0.8 percent.  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose 30 percent in the year’s
first two months from a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Shipments to the U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased
16 percent, while sales to  China  advanced 34 percent. Detailed
data are published with a one-month lag.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  