-- 
Yen Falls Most in 3 Weeks as Bank of Japan Says Economy in ‘Severe’ State

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-17T21:13:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/euro-holds-gains-as-european-union-approves-portugal-aid-pressures-greece.html
The yen dropped the most in almost
three weeks versus the dollar after  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said the economy is in a “very severe”
state, fueling bets monetary policy may be eased further.  The euro gained versus most major currencies as stocks and
commodities pared losses, while the Japanese currency weakened
against all of its 16 most-traded counterparts. The pound rose
from almost a one-month low versus the dollar as U.K. inflation
accelerated to the highest level since 2008, increasing pressure
on the Bank of England to raise  interest rates .  “The yen is still trading off from those comments from
Governor Shirakawa,” said John Doyle, a strategist in
 Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.
“The comments today were a good excuse to sell the currency
because the economy there is very much in trouble. The yen is
overbought with all the safe-haven flows we’ve seen recently.”  The yen weakened 0.8 percent to 81.42 per dollar at 5 p.m.
in  New York , from 80.79 yesterday. It fell as much as 1.2
percent, the biggest intraday decline since April 27. The euro
rose 0.6 percent to $1.4237, from $1.4156 yesterday. Japan’s
currency tumbled 1.4 percent to 115.91 per euro, from 114.37.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day little
changed after dropping 0.8 percent earlier. Crude oil for June
delivery rose 0.4 percent to $97.75 a barrel in New York after
dropping earlier as much as 2.4 percent to touch $95.02.  Sterling Gains  The pound rose 0.4 percent to $1.6252, from $1.6192
yesterday, after touching $1.6147 on May 13, the lowest since
April 5. Sterling slipped 0.2 percent to 87.60 pence per euro.  U.K. consumer prices increased 4.5 percent last month from
a year earlier after a 4 percent gain in March, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of
32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was a 4.1 percent rise.  British policy makers have held the official  bank rate  at
0.5 percent since March 2009.  Benjamin R Broadbent, a London-based economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. named to join the Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee, said today he agrees broadly with the bank’s
monetary policy since the financial crisis. Broadbent will
replace  Andrew Sentance  on the nine-member panel next month.
Sentance is one of three members who have called for an increase
in interest rates to tame price growth.  ‘Dovish Comments’  “The person that is going to be replacing Andrew Sentance
made some dovish comments, which means we’re going to be left
with a less-hawkish  Bank of England  at the end of this month,”
said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research  at the online
currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “We had good CPI data,
but it’s not going to be enough to get the BOE to act.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, slipped 0.1 percent after rising earlier as
much as 0.5 percent. The greenback has lost 4.1 percent for the
year in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a measure of
10 developed-nation currencies.  Japan’s economy has been in a severe situation since the
March 11 earthquake and the central bank is committed to ending
deflation, Shirakawa told lawmakers in  Tokyo  today. The
government hoped for “flexible” action by the bank to support
the economy and will also closely watch the currency, according
to a statement approved by Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s Cabinet.  Worst Performer  The yen has slumped 4.5 percent this year, the biggest
decline in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Japan ’s
key interest rate of zero to 0.1 percent compares with 1.25
percent in the euro area and 4.75 percent in  Australia .  Europe ’s common currency earlier fluctuated against the
dollar after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, told reporters in Brussels
that ministers for the first time floated the idea of talks with
bondholders over extending Greece’s debt repayment schedule.  Europe would consider “reprofiling” Greek bond maturities
as part of a package including stepped-up sales of state assets
and deeper spending cuts, Juncker said.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said his government
will take any additional measures needed to ensure the country
meets targets set for this year. He said at a conference in
Athens the country aimed to have a deficit of less that 3
percent of GDP in 2014 and around 1 percent in 2015.  ‘Unsustainable’ Dynamics  “Various euro policy makers say no restructuring is going
to happen, others say it will, so clearly there is a difference
of an opinion on what needs to happen,” said  Aroop Chatterjee ,
a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “The debt
dynamics in Greece are unsustainable. However, we see the
chances of a disorderly restructuring as very low and an orderly
one not happening any time soon.”  The Australian dollar rose for the first time in five days
against the yen and dollar as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said
it may need to raise borrowing costs “at some point” to slow
inflation, according to minutes of its May 3 meeting. The bank
has paused at 4.75 percent after seven increases in the
overnight cash rate target.  The Aussie climbed 1.5 percent to 86.52 yen, from 85.28 yen
yesterday. It gained 0.7 percent to $1.0627.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  