-- 
Euro Climbs From Almost 7-Week Low as Finance Ministers Meet; Franc Rises

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-16T21:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/euro-advances-versus-yen-before-finance-ministers-meet-on-greece-portugal.html
The euro gained from the lowest level
versus the dollar in almost seven weeks as European finance
ministers tackled the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Swiss franc rose against all of its 16 most-traded
peers as investors sought an alternative to the euro while the
ministers backed a bailout for  Portugal  even as they stepped up
pressure on Greece to do more to win an improved aid package.
The dollar fell against currencies of major U.S. trading
partners after manufacturing in the New York region slumped.  “Without any major euro zone-strains showing today, the
euro shorts are covering themselves, driving the euro higher,”
said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive
Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut . A short is a bet an
asset will fall.  Europe’s shared currency strengthened 0.3 percent to
$1.4156 at 5 p.m. in New York, from $1.4119 on May 13. It
earlier dropped to $1.4048, the weakest level since March 29.
The euro gained 0.3 percent to 114.37 yen, from 114.06, and
touched 113.42 yen, the weakest level since March 18. The U.S.
currency was little changed at 80.79 yen, compared with 80.80.  The franc appreciated 0.7 percent against the euro to
1.2522 and climbed 0.9 percent to 88.46 centimes per dollar. It
earlier depreciated 0.3 percent to 89.51 centimes, the weakest
level since April 20.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there
“certainly” won’t be a decision on Greece today, since
European and International Monetary Fund officials have yet to
complete an updated assessment of the Greek economy.  Commodity Currencies  Currencies of commodity-exporting nations such as  Canada 
and  New Zealand  fell as commodities fluctuated. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials was down 0.5
percent after briefly gaining 0.5 percent.  The euro dropped 0.8 percent over the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations. Yields for the region’s
most-indebted nations jumped amid heightened concern they may
struggle to repay their debt. The yen gained 4.6 percent, while
the dollar appreciated 1.4 percent.  The common currency also gained today against most major
counterparts after inflation in the 17-nation currency bloc
accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008, boosting pressure on
the  European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates .  Annual consumer-price growth in the region quickened to 2.8
percent, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today.  Inflation Focus  “The focus may be on inflation this week,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in
Toronto. “The euro-zone inflation is supportive of further ECB
interest rate hikes.”  The ECB raised its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent in April.
The  Federal Reserve  has kept its key rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “The key driver in the foreign-exchange market has been
the divergent policy between the U.S. and the Europeans,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “The ECB is still on track to hike rates in July.”  The U.K. will report inflation data tomorrow and Canada
will report May 20.  European finance ministers, in deliberations clouded by the
arrest in New York of International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn on sexual-assault charges, tied
extra money for Greece to pledges by the nation to sell assets
and deepen spending cuts. Greece seeks an increase of its 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) assistance package.  Portugal Aid  The ministers cleared the way for Portugal to receive 78
billion euros in aid, making it the third euro-area country to
fall back on official loans, following  Greece  and Ireland.  Nemat Shafik, an IMF deputy managing director, was tapped
to represent the institution at the Brussels meeting after
Strauss-Kahn was charged. Strauss-Kahn denied the charges.  “Some reassuring comments that the IMF would continue on
business as usual for the time being took some pressure off the
single currency, and then we had some disappointing U.S. data,”
said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “The
Swiss franc is in the driver’s seat today.”  New York Manufacturing  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to 11.9 in May from a one-year high of 21.7 in
April as the cost of raw materials surged. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey projected it would slip to 19.6.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
gain against the dollar, May 13 figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on an advance in the euro compared with those on a
drop was 61,447 on May 10, compared with so-called net longs of
99,516 a week earlier, the data showed.  South Korea’s won dropped to a one-month low on concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen, dimming prospects for exports.
The currency touched 1,095.20 per dollar, the weakest since
April 13, before trading at 1,091.18, down 0.4 percent.  Canada’s dollar reached the lowest since March versus the
 U.S. dollar  as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, fell 2.8
percent. The currency touched 97.71 cents per U.S. dollar, the
least since March 29, before trading at 97.58 cents.  New Zealand’s dollar, another currency related to
commodities, was the worst performer against the greenback. It
declined 1 percent to 77.96 U.S. cents and touched 77.56 cents,
the lowest level since April 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  