-- 
Most European Stocks Fall Amid Greek Debt Concern; UBI Slides

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-16T16:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/european-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-greek-debt-concern-lse-may-move.html
Most European stocks fell, dragging
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lower for a third day, as officials
met in Brussels to discuss increasing Greece’s bailout.  Greece’s ASE Index sank to a 14-year low as  National Bank
of Greece SA (ETE)  declined. Unione di Banca Italiane SCPA, Italy’s
fourth-biggest bank, retreated 1.8 percent as net income missed
estimates.  Securitas AB (SECUB)  slid 4.1 percent as the world’s largest
guarding company offered to buy  Niscayah Group AB. (NISCB)   BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  led mining companies higher as copper gained in London.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 slipped 0.1 percent to 280.13 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London as two stocks fell for each that
rose. The gauge has retreated for two straight weeks as a
selloff in commodity producers and renewed sovereign-debt
concern in the euro area outweighed company profits that topped
analysts’ estimates.  “There’s nothing close to a resolution” for Europe’s
government debt crisis, Norval Loftus, the chief investment
officer at Allegra Investment Management Ltd., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Francine Lacqua in  London .
“There’s a lot of risk in the system. It’s a very important
time to maintain a slightly risk-averse outlook.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX declined 0.2 percent and
France’s CAC 40 lost 0.7 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped
less than 0.1 percent.  Trail U.S. Shares  Analysts are cutting European earnings forecasts by the
most in almost two years just as equities in the region trail
U.S. shares by the widest margin since the  bull market  began,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Should analysts’ lowest
projections for 2011 prove correct, companies would earn about
24 billion euros ($34 billion) less than expected at the start
of the year, the data show.  Greece  began negotiating for a boost in its 110 billion-
euro bailout from European governments and the  International
Monetary Fund  today in talks clouded by the arrest of IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  Strauss-Kahn has been charged with attempted rape and a
criminal sex act on a 32-year-old female maid in a New York
hotel, police said. He denies the charges.  Also on the meeting agenda, which started at 3 p.m. in
Brussels, is the approval of 78 billion euros in aid for
Portugal and the nomination of Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  to be the next president of the  European Central Bank .  European Union finance ministers are set to approve the
bailout for  Portugal , the nation’s finance minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told reporters before the talks began.  Greek Shares Slide  Greece’s ASE slid 1.9 percent to the lowest level since
March 1997. National Bank of Greece, the nation’s biggest
lender, fell 2.7 percent to 4.68 euros.  UBI declined 1.8 percent to 5.66 euros after saying first-
quarter net income rose 70 percent to 64.6 million euros. That
missed the 67 million-euro average estimate of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Securitas slid 4.1 percent to 64.3 kronor. The company
offered to acquire Niscayah through a share swap that values the
Stockholm-based installer of security systems at about 5.8
billion kronor ($910 million).  Niscayah, which was spun off from Securitas in 2006, jumped
30 percent to 15.9 kronor.  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest mining company, climbed
2.2 percent to 2,392 pence as copper advanced for a third day on
the London Metal Exchange.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  climbed 3.8 percent
to 1,185 pence and Rio Tinto Group increased 1.9 percent to
4,171 pence.  Deutsche Boerse, Nasdaq  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  soared 3.8 percent to 56.40 euros after
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. withdrew
their bid for NYSE Euronext, removing an obstacle to the
Frankfurt-based bourse’s takeover of the owner of the New York
Stock Exchange.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  rallied 6.8 percent to 884
pence amid speculation it may attract attention from Nasdaq OMX.  “It makes the LSE an obvious target,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a
senior trader at ETX Capital in London.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  jumped 6.9 percent to 150.7 pence. The
company may sell units in Spain, Turkey and Italy along with the
U.K. Comet chain to exit units where sales are declining, two
people familiar with the matter said. Rival  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) ,
Europe’s largest electronics retailer, surged 14 percent to
18.42 pence, the biggest increase in two years.  Autonomy Corp. gained 2.7 percent to 1,780 pence after the
U.K.’s second-biggest software company agreed to buy some assets
of Iron Mountain Inc.’s digital division for $380 million in
cash, including archiving and online backup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  