-- 
Teva Seeks Control of Taiyo as Japan Pushes Generic Drugs

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-05-16T20:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/teva-to-acquire-57-of-japanese-generic-drug-maker-taiyo-for-460-million.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s biggest generic-drug maker, agreed to buy a 57
percent stake in Taiyo Pharmaceutical Industry Co. to benefit
from  Japan ’s push to broaden the use of copycat medicines.  The $460 million purchase values closely held  Taiyo ,
Japan’s third-largest maker of generics, at $1.3 billion,
including debt,  Petah Tikva , Israel-based Teva said in a
statement today. Teva will bid for the rest of the Nagoya-based
company, which had revenue of $530 million last year and has
more than 550 copied drugs, including injectable therapies used
in hospitals, according to the release.  The acquisition will help Teva reach its goal of getting $1
billion in sales from Japan sooner than 2015, Chief Executive
Officer Shlomo Yanai said. Japan is the world’s second-biggest
pharmaceutical market after the U.S., valued at $96 billion last
year.  Israel ’s largest company is looking for new engines of
growth as its multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone, which brought in
22 percent of sales last quarter, faces competition.  “This deal should bring Teva to be a leading player in the
generic market in Japan,” said Natali Gotlieb, an analyst at
Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . She estimates
Teva ranks about No. 6 there. “Teva has a large interest in the
Japanese market, because the government there plans to increase
generic use in coming years.”  Cephalon Deal  It’s the second deal valued at more than $1 billion for
Teva this month. The company on May 2 swooped in to outbid
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  for Cephalon Inc. in
a $6.2 billion deal. The Israeli drugmaker will consider more
acquisitions, Yanai told analysts today on a conference call.  “We are strong cash generators and we are underleveraged
so we have the resources,” Yanai said today in an interview.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 16 cents to $49.51
at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Teva’s U.S. ADRs each
represent one regular share. The stock closed up 2 percent at
176 shekels in Tel Aviv trading today.  Teva aims for market share of as much as 20 percent in
Japan, compared with less than 10 percent now, Yanai said in an
interview.  “Japan for Teva is a very important country” that has the
potential to become “a very significant generics market,”
Yanai said at a briefing with reporters in  Tokyo .  Only 23 percent of drug revenue comes from generics in
Japan, compared with about 75 percent in the U.S. and 60 percent
in the U.K., according to a Teva presentation.  Generics Push  The government has said it aims to increase the use of
generics to 30 percent by 2012.  “It’s not going to stop there,” Yanai said. Generic
penetration “could reach 60 percent in a few years. Generics is
one of the few tools to cope with booming health-care budgets
around the world.”  To take advantage of the generics push, Teva also formed a
joint venture with Kowa Co. in September 2008. The company,
Teva-Kowa Pharma Co., bought a stake in Taisho Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. last year.  Teva will offer to buy Taiyo shares from minority investors
under the same terms as the acquisition of the majority stake,
Yanai said. Teva is buying shares from the founding family, and
Taiyo has about 200 shareholders, said Shir Altay, a Teva
spokeswoman.  The transaction will be funded through a combination of
cash and bank debt and Teva said it expects to complete the deal
by the end of the third quarter. Taiyo has about $370 million in
debt, Altay said.  The acquisition will bolster Teva’s earnings within four
quarters after closing, the Israeli company said in the
statement.  The price Teva is paying, at about 2.5 times sales, looks
to be “fair,” according to Gotlieb. “Because it’s a private
company, it’s difficult to know exactly what they’re getting,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  