-- 
Hewlett-Packard CEO Expects ‘Tough Third Quarter,’ Memo Says

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-05-16T23:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/hewlett-packard-girds-for-another-tough-quarter-memo-says-shares-fall.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer  Leo Apotheker  told top executives that he’s bracing for
“another tough quarter” in the July period and urged his
deputies to “watch every penny and minimize all hiring.”  The company’s existing headcount plans are “unaffordable
given the pressures on our business,” Apotheker wrote in the
May 4 memo to deputies including  Todd Bradley , executive vice
president of the personal systems business, and Chief Financial
Officer  Cathie Lesjak . The memo was obtained by Bloomberg.  “Q3 is going to be another tough quarter, one in which we
will be driving hard for revenue and profit,” Apotheker wrote.
“We have absolutely no room for profitless revenue or any
discretionary expenditures.”  Apotheker’s e-mail follows the release in February of a
forecast for the second quarter, which ended in April, that
missed analysts’ sales and profit estimates. Hewlett-Packard
blamed the shortfall on sluggish demand for services and
consumer products. The memo indicates that the company continues
to come under pressure and suggests job cuts are in the offing.  “This is a continuation of what we’ve seen recently from
HP -- weakness on the top line, but better cost controls,” said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , dropped as
much as 5.1 percent to $37.76 in extended trading. It had fallen
61 cents to $39.80 as of 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Earnings Predictions  Following the release of the memo, Hewlett-Packard said it
would move up its second-quarter earnings report to tomorrow
morning, rather than the afternoon of May 18. The company is
expected to report profit excluding certain costs of $1.21 a
share on sales of $31.5 billion, the average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Hewlett-Packard’s disappointing forecast for the April
period cast a pall over Apotheker’s first quarter as CEO and
underscored the dual challenges he faces. Hewlett-Packard’s
reliance on home-computer shoppers leaves the company vulnerable
to a consumer slump, while its services unit is using
acquisitions to take advantage of a shift to cloud computing.  Apotheker is stepping up the company’s emphasis on higher-
margin businesses including servers, storage computers and
software, and lessening its dependence on PCs, said Marshall,
who has a “buy” recommendation on Hewlett-Packard.  Executives led by Lesjak and Tracy Keogh, executive vice
president of  human resources , are “driving a full headcount re-
planning process” aimed at reflecting “the new realities of
the market and our position,” Apotheker wrote. The company had
324,600 employees as of Oct. 31, 2010, a company filing shows.  Apotheker’s Plans  Apotheker, who took over Nov. 1, outlined his strategy for
the first time on March 14, announcing a deeper push into
software and the expanding market for computing delivered via
the Web. The company is starting a cloud-computing service that
will let developers create applications for consumers and
businesses that run on HP servers, Apotheker said at the time.  Hewlett-Packard also plans to put its WebOS mobile software
onto a broader range of products, ramping up output to more than
100 million devices a year, he said. The company also announced
a 50 percent increase in its dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 