-- 
Former-Goldman Prop Trader’s Fund Azentus Said to Run $1.8 Billion by June

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-05-17T02:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/ex-goldman-prop-trader-s-fund-said-to-run-1-8-billion-by-june.html
Azentus Capital Management Ltd. , a
hedge fund run by a former global head of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s principal strategies proprietary trading, may manage
about $1.8 billion by June 1, said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  Azentus started trading on April 1 after raising $1.06
billion, the most by an Asia-based hedge fund startup since at
least 2007, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is private. The Hong Kong-based fund,
which oversees almost $1.4 billion currently, returned 0.3
percent last month, two of the people said.  Investors are singling out proprietary traders like Morgan
Sze, Azentus’s chief investment officer, who left banks to start
their own hedge funds as the U.S. brought in the Dodd-Frank Act,
which restricts banks from making bets with their own money, in
the wake of the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  The estimate for the fund’s June assets takes into account
subscription requests received or expected and performance, said
the people. Roger Denby-Jones, Azentus chief operating officer,
declined to comment.  “There is a decent level of demand for Asian  hedge funds 
from western investors,” said Frederick Ingham, Neuberger
Berman Group LLC’s Hong Kong-based head of hedge-fund
investments in the Asia-Pacific region. “As many of these
investors do not have due diligence staff on the ground in Asia,
they tend to feel more comfortable investing in larger funds run
by managers from globally recognized backgrounds.”  GSPS Investments  Ingham, which declined to comment on Azentus specifically,
said the limited number of large funds in Asia has exacerbated
this effect. Twenty-nine Asia-based hedge funds started in 2010
with on average $15 million at the end of March, according
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies, known as GSPS, at its
peak oversaw $3 billion of investments in  Asia , people with
knowledge of the matter said in March. It ran strategies
including event-driven,  capital structure  and convertible bond
arbitrage, distressed assets, volatility trading, private
securities and equity long/short, they added.  Azentus, a global hedge fund, would be 75 percent invested
in Asia, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
December. It employs similar strategies to GSPS.  There were 1,055 Asia-focused hedge funds at the end of
March managing $88.2 billion of assets, or less than $84 million
each, according to data from Hedge Fund Research. That compared
with industry assets of $2 trillion in the hands of 7,285 funds,
or $277 million each.  Sze, Flamand  Sze, 45, was jointly responsible for the GSPS team with
Pierre-Henri Flamand from 2008, focusing on Asian investments,
the people said. He led the group alone when the latter left in
March 2010 to start his own hedge fund.  Flamand’s Edoma Partners LLP has raised almost $2 billion
from investors, two people with knowledge of the firm told
Bloomberg last month. The London-based event-driven hedge fund
investing in companies going through mergers, bankruptcies and
other corporate events gained about 0.2 percent in the first
three months of this year.  Sze’s GSPS team returned 19 percent a year since 2002, his
first full year with the proprietary trading desk, the two
people said in March. It dropped 8 percent in 2008, its only
annual loss, they said.  Dinakar Singh , a former head of the principal strategies
group, co-founded TPG-Axon in 2004.  Eric Mindich  started New
York-based Eton Park Capital Management LP with $3 billion with
former principal-strategies department co-head Erland Karlsson
the same year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  