-- 
Ex-Harvard Manager Meyer Missed Benchmarks at Convexity Capital

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-05-16T16:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/ex-harvard-manager-jack-meyer-misses-fund-benchmarks-at-convexity-capital.html
Convexity Capital Management LP, the
$12.6 billion fund run by  Harvard University ’s former endowment
head  Jack Meyer , told clients it had a “disappointing” first
quarter as it missed benchmarks by 1.5 percentage points amid
falling volatility.  The Boston firm, whose strategy works best in choppy
markets, saw “lots of smoke, not much fire” in the first three
months of the year as fixed-income markets moved little, Meyer
wrote in a letter to clients last month.  “It’s been a while since we have had a negative quarter,”
Meyer, 65, wrote in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. “After careful consideration we have decided we
do not like it. It will never happen again. OK, ignore that last
statement. Of course it will happen again. But we are confident
that we can continue to add value over the long term and that
these bumps in the road will be … well, just bumps in the
road.”  The shortfall was the first in two years. Meyer exceeded a
group of market indexes by an annual average of 7 percentage
points since he began trading in February 2006. Over the past 12
months, the fund beat the benchmarks by 2.8 percentage points.
Meyer ran Harvard’s endowment, the world’s biggest, for 15 years
before leaving in 2005 with more than 30 employees amid an
outcry over pay.  The firm, which reported performance versus benchmarks
rather than absolute gain, takes its name from a term used by
fixed-income traders in measuring a bond’s sensitivity to
interest-rate movements. Investors stand to win more than they
can lose in trades with “positive convexity.”  Meyer declined to comment.  ‘Not Discouraged’  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a
gauge of U.S. stock-market swings known as the Vix, was little
changed from 17.75 on Dec. 31 to 17.74 on March 31. The
benchmark has plunged from a record high of 80.86 on Nov. 20,
2008, amid the global financial crisis.  “While we are disappointed with our performance for the
quarter, we are not discouraged,” Meyer wrote. “We work to
construct trades that put the odds on our side and protect the
downside. But there will be periods, such as this past
quarter.”  Convexity seeks to track the returns of indexes selected by
its clients while providing an additional gain, known as alpha,
of about 4 percentage points a year at each investment pool.
Investors can pick from a mix of 15 indexes, using different
asset classes for diversification.  ‘Cheap’ Forward Options  The firm is buying “cheap” forward options, while
simultaneously trading “to exploit the steepest part of the
forwards and the relatively flatter longer-term rates,” Meyer
wrote.  Meyer employs 10 strategies centered on options trading and
asset swaps, seeking to take advantage of different market
climates. His team used a similar approach in quintupling assets
at Harvard between 1990 and 2005. The firm, which attracted a
record $6.3 billion from endowments and foundations as a hedge-
fund start-up, got net deposits of $507 million in 2010.  Meyer’s former employees at Harvard Management Co. who
joined him at Convexity included bond traders Maurice Samuels
and David Mittelman, the school’s highest-paid endowment
managers in 2003, earning $35.1 million and $34.1 million,
respectively. Members of the class of 1969 wrote a letter to
then-President  Lawrence Summers , saying the money would be
better spent on scholarships.  Meyer averaged annual gains of 16 percent in his last
decade at Harvard. The endowment rose to $25.9 billion in 2005
from $4.7 billion 15 years earlier, when he became chief
executive officer of Harvard Management. Investments at the
$27.6 billion fund, run by Jane Mendillo since July 2008, gained
11 percent in the past year, rebounding from the record 27
percent loss of 2009 spurred by the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  