-- 
Facebook Spared Appeals Court Rehearing in Winklevoss Case

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-16T23:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/facebook-spared-appeal-review-of-winklevoss-effort-to-undo-2008-settlement.html
Facebook Inc. won’t have to face an
appeals court rehearing on an effort by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss to undo a settlement of their claims company founder
 Mark Zuckerberg  stole the idea for the social networking site.  The Winklevoss twins, former Harvard University classmates
of Zuckerberg’s, will appeal to the U.S.  Supreme Court ,
according to the law firm representing them, Howard Rice in San
Francisco. They had asked for an 11-judge panel at the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  to review an April ruling by a three-judge
panel that rejected their bid to reopen the settlement. That
request was denied today by the court without explanation.  The brothers argued that the three-judge panel erred when
it dismissed their claims that the 2008 settlement should be
voided because it was procured through fraud. They alleged that
 Palo Alto , California-based Facebook didn’t disclose an accurate
valuation of its shares before they agreed to the $65 million
cash and stock settlement. The appeals court ruled that the
accord barred future lawsuits and was “quite favorable” to the
twins.  “Settlements should be based on honest dealing, and courts
have wisely refused to enforce a settlement obtained by
fraudulent means,” Jerome Falk, the Winklevosses lawyer, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The court’s decision shut the
courthouse door to a solid claim that Facebook obtained this
settlement by committing  securities fraud ,” Falk said. “Our
petition to the Supreme Court will ask the high court to decide
whether that door should be reopened.”  Goldman Sachs  In a January interview, Falk said that the 2008 settlement
is worth $100 million more than its original amount after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  invested $450 million in the social
networking site, boosting the company’s valuation to $50
billion. The Goldman Sachs investment was first reported in
January.  SharesPost Inc., an online marketplace for investment in
companies that aren’t publicly traded, today values Facebook at
$55 billion.  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, the world’s most
popular social-networking service, said in an e-mail the company
is pleased with today’s ruling.  The case is The Facebook Inc. v. ConnectU Inc., 08-16745,
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  