-- 
Markets Need ‘Attention’ After Bank Probes, EU’S Almunia Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-05-16T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/financial-markets-need-a-lot-of-antitrust-review-almunia-says.html
Joaquin Almunia , the European Union
antitrust regulator who is already investigating 16 investment
banks, said financial markets still need “a lot of attention”
to aid the continent’s economic recovery.  The European Commission is “trying to avoid that the
financial markets will consolidate abuses or will eliminate the
possibility for new entrants to introduce more competition and
more efficiency,” Almunia, the EU competition commissioner,
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s offices in London.  “The economy will need a more dynamic, more efficient,
more solvent and more stable financial system,” said Almunia,
who was the EU commissioner for monetary and economic affairs
from 2004 through 2010. “We need to improve the functioning of
our markets from the point of view of efficiency.”  Almunia increased scrutiny of financial markets last month
with probes into whether  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other investment banks colluded to shut out
rivals from information on the swaps market. He also reached a
tentative settlement with  Standard & Poor’s  over licensing fees
for securities identification numbers.  ‘Moments of Stress’  “Moments of stress, moments of changes in financial
activity” can give companies the opportunity “to take
advantage of their dominant positions or to try to protect their
own interests,” Almunia said in a separate interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with  Andrea Catherwood .  Almunia, who will also review Deutsche Boerse AG’s bid for
NYSE Euronext, said yesterday that he is opposed to
“essential” market infrastructure being controlled by a small
number of companies. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. yesterday dropped their rival bid
for NYSE after the  U.S. Department of Justice  threatened to file
a lawsuit to block the deal.  “We should prevent that any one entity or group controls
essential infrastructure -- be it a trading platform, a clearing
platform or a pre-trading service -- to the benefit of a
restricted few,” he said in a speech at London’s Cass Business
School.  Regulators will also examine the “control and
dissemination” of financial-market data for antitrust abuses,
Almunia said. They will check whether data providers are
“attempting to leverage privileged access to information” and
the extent to which intellectual-property rights protect data.  Transparency of Data  “The commission is ramping up antitrust enforcement in the
financial services sector,” Suzanne Rab, a partner at King &
Spalding in London, said in an e-mail “An underlying theme is
the transparency of and access to data.”  In his London speech, Almunia urged  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) 
to work with the commission on “a speedy resolution” of a
separate antitrust probe concerning use of identification codes
for real-time market data feeds.  Yvonne Diaz, a spokeswoman for  Thomson Reuters , said the
company is cooperating with EU regulators.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Standard & Poor’s, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., offered to
change its pricing policy in  Europe  to overcome antitrust
concerns over licensing fees for securities identification
numbers, the commission said yesterday. S&P received an
antitrust complaint in 2009 over fees for financial firms and
information-service providers using International Securities
Identification numbers in their databases.  The offer “promises to significantly reduce the cost of
using U.S. ISINs,” Almunia said in a separate statement. The
commission will “market test the commitments received and make
them legally binding on S&P if satisfied with the results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in  London  via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  