-- 
Fortress’s Nationstar Mortgage to Raise $400 Million in Initial Stock Sale

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-16T23:46:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/fortress-s-nationstar-mortgage-to-raise-400-million-in-initial-stock-sale.html
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc., a
Lewisville, Texas-based home finance unit of  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , said it intends to raise as much as $400 million in
an initial public offering.  The plans were filed today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Nationstar serviced 389,000 mortgages with
a face value of $64.2 billion as of Dec. 31, compared with $33.7
billion a year earlier, according to the filing. It was the 17th
largest U.S. mortgage servicer at the end of the first quarter
with $67 billion in loans, according to  Guy Cecala , publisher of
industry trade journal Inside Mortgage Finance.  Nationstar also originates mortgages qualified to be
securitized or insured by government-sponsored enterprises. It
announced its IPO plans as the mortgage industry struggles to
recover from the housing crash, which wiped out $10 trillion in
 home equity , according to Zillow Inc., a Seattle-based provider
of property-value estimates and real estate listings.  U.S. government-sponsored or insured entities, such as
Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the Federal Housing Administration,
have backed about 95 percent of all new mortgage originations
since 2009, according to David Stevens, chief executive officer
of the  Mortgage Bankers Association , a Washington-based group.  Fortress, a New York-based hedge fund and private-equity
firm, said its assets under management fell to $43.1 billion in
the first quarter from $44.6 billion, after the company returned
$2 billion to clients because it failed to find enough buyout
deals, the company said May 5.  Proceeds from the sale of Nationstar shares, which the
company plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange, will be
used for general corporate purposes, according to the filing,
which didn’t list an underwriter, a proposed share price or a
date for the offering.  Fortress’s CEO is  Daniel Mudd , who held the same position
at  Fannie Mae  from 2005 to 2008, when it was brought under U.S.
government conservatorship as mortgage defaults soared.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  