-- 
Fox Says Cowell’s ‘The X Factor’ Will Feature in Its Fall U.S. TV Season

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-16T18:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/fox-says-cowell-s-the-x-factor-will-feature-in-its-fall-u-s-tv-season.html
News Corp.’s Fox will add three
dramas and four comedies to a September schedule that also
includes  Simon Cowell ’s “X-Factor” talent competition.  “Terra Nova,” from  Steven Spielberg , and “Alcatraz”
from  J.J. Abrams  were also picked up, Los Angeles-based Fox said
today in an e-mailed statement. The network will present its
lineup today at the Beacon Theater in  New York .  Fox Broadcasting Chairman Peter Rice is adding “X-
Factor,” a U.K. ratings leader, to its schedule as the network
seeks to widen its lead among viewers aged 18 to 49, a group
prized by advertisers. The show gives Fox, which also broadcasts
“ American Idol ” and “So You Think You Can Dance,” a year-
round talent competition line-up. “Idol,” the most-watched
show on television, returns for an 11th season in January.  “Our goal is to achieve the same incredible level of
success and fandom and spectacle that ‘X-Factor’ gets in the
U.K.,” Kevin Reilly, president of entertainment at Fox, said on
a conference call today.  Broadcast and cable networks are releasing television
schedules this week ahead of meetings with their biggest
marketers that will determine advertising rates.  NBC announced plans yesterday to add six comedies and six
dramas, including the police procedural “Prime Suspect”
starring Maria Bello, to its schedule starting in September.  “X-Factor” features Cowell alongside talent judges
Antonio “L.A.” Reid, Cheryl Cole and Paula Abdul. The winner
of the competition receives a $5 million recording contract with
Syco/Sony Music, Fox said.  ‘Terra Nova’  After Cowell’s departure from “Idol,” producers tapped
 Steven Tyler  and  Jennifer Lopez  as judges and renewed the show’s
focus on music. “Idol” is drawing more viewers than a year
ago, the first gain over a previous season since 2007.  News Corp. (NWSA) , controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 20 cents to $17.25 at 2:35 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares had
climbed 20 percent this year before today.  “Terra Nova” is a special-effects laden drama about a
family who travel back in time to prehistoric Earth as part of
an experiment to save the human race. The hour-long program,
which will air Mondays, stars Jason O’Mara from “Life on Mars”
and Stephen Lang from “Avatar.”  Zooey Deschanel, from the film “500 Days of Summer,” will
appear in a comedy about a woman who decides to move in with
three bachelors after a bad breakup. The tentatively titled
“New Girl” will air Tuesdays between “Glee” and “ Raising
Hope ,” a returning comedy.  ‘Napoleon Dynamite’  “I Hate My Teenage Daughter” features Jaime Pressly, from
“My Name is Earl,” and Katie Finneran as single moms who fear
their privileged and indulged daughters are becoming like the
girls who picked on them in high school.  Fox said the animated comedy “Allen Gregory,” with the
voice of Jonah Hill, and “Napoleon Dynamite,” featuring the
voices of the original film’s cast, will air on Sundays.  In January, Fox said it will air “The Finder,” starring
Geoff Stults from “She’s Out of My League,” about an Iraq war
veteran who helps people “find the unfindable.” “Alcatraz”
centers on the mysterious return of the prison’s most notorious
criminals.  Fox also said it’s making a new program starring Kiefer Sutherland. The show, “Touch,” is from Tim Kring, creator of
“Heroes,” and scheduled to go into pilot production in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  