-- 
France to Require Immediate Rural Coverage in Spectrum Sale

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-16T14:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/france-to-require-immediate-rural-coverage-in-spectrum-sale.html
France ’s government will require
mobile-phone operators to introduce fourth-generation wireless
coverage to rural areas and big cities simultaneously as a
condition of its $3.5 billion sale of frequency spectrum.  A “priority zone” for 4G coverage, which offers much
higher mobile data speeds than existing technologies, will cover
18 percent of the French population and 80 percent of the
country’s land area, Industry Minister Eric Besson said in
prepared remarks for a speech delivered near Paris today.  “This priority zone is that which the 3G operators hadn’t
covered after eight years,” Besson said. “4G will therefore be
the first network that isn’t deployed first in the cities and
then in the country.”  The French state is seeking at least 2.5 billion euros
($3.5 billion) for the spectrum, which operators will be able to
use beginning next year, he said. The auction will also require
operators to cover 90 percent of the population in each of the
96 departements that cover mainland France within 12 years. That
measure, imposed for the first time, is another step to increase
rural coverage.  European countries are opening wireless spectrum vacated by
analog television signals, making faster data transmission
possible and extending high-speed service to new areas. A
planned U.K. auction may raise as much as 2.6 billion pounds
($4.2 billion), communications regulator Ofcom said in March.  More Competition  The French government is also aiming to encourage more
competition among mobile-phone operators as customers in France
pay more than those in most European countries, according to the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  The government granted a mobile license in 2009 to  Iliad
SA (ILD) , a broadband provider that plans to begin wireless operations
next year. Iliad founder Xavier Niel has pledged to drive down
prices in the country, where the mobile-phone market is
dominated by  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR
division and Bouygues Telecom SA.  The current spectrum auction process is designed to
encourage the entry of more wireless operators, Besson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  