-- 
Free-Trade Deals Held for Worker Benefits, Obama Aide Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-16T21:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/free-trade-deals-held-until-worker-aid-renewed-adviser-says-1-.html
Pending U.S. free-trade accords with
 South Korea , Colombia and Panama won’t be submitted to Congress
until lawmakers agree to renew trade-adjustment assistance for
workers, an Obama administration official said.  Bills implementing the accords, reached under President
 George W. Bush , are being drafted and will be withheld unless
Congress agrees to extend benefits for workers who lose their
jobs to overseas competition, National Economic Council Director
 Gene Sperling  said today. The provisions expired this year for
services workers.  “The administration will not submit implementing
legislation on the three pending free-trade agreements until we
have a deal with Congress on the renewal of a robust, expanded”
worker-aid program, Sperling said on a conference call with
reporters.  The  trade-assistance program  augments health and
unemployment benefits for workers who lose their jobs in
response to overseas competition. As part of the 2009 stimulus
bill, it was expanded by $1 billion to include service workers
such as call-center employees, who accounted for more than half
of the 280,000 people who got aid last year, according to Labor
Department data. Those added benefits expired in February.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, called this month for worker-aid renewal to accompany
approval of the trade accords. The U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  and
business groups have joined Democrats in pushing for the
program’s extension.  Republican Complaints  Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, said in a statement today that depriving
American exporters of the opportunity to broaden their reach in
foreign markets while advocating for an expensive government
program “makes no sense” and is “hugely disappointing.”
Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who helped
negotiate the 2009 legislation that extended trade-adjustment
assistance, said last week the program’s cost is unsustainable.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said President  Barack Obama  should reconsider his
decision and urged him to “not allow anything to get in the way
of congressional consideration of these trade agreements and the
jobs they’ll create,” according to a statement.  McConnell asked Obama to work with Congress on extending
trade-promotion authority, which cedes to the president
Congress’s right to set tariffs and regulate commerce,
expediting trade accord negotiations with foreign governments.  The Obama administration is working with lawmakers to
prepare the implementing legislation for the pending accords,
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said. Sperling said the White
House expects bipartisan support for the program and that its
funding and cost will be determined during talks with Congress
and the  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  