-- 
French Farmers Face Worsening Drought; Northern Soil Is Driest in 50 Years

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-16T16:45:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/french-farmers-face-worsening-drought-northern-soil-is-driest-in-50-years.html
Farmers in  France , the European
Union’s largest producer of wheat, barley and sugar beets, faced
more restrictions on water use amid a worsening drought, with no
sign of relief in the next few weeks.  Soils in the country’s northern half, where grains, grapes
and rapeseed are grown, were the driest in 50 years at the end
of April, the  Environment Ministry  said in a report today. The
quantity of water stored as mountain snow was “very inferior”
to the average from 1995 to 2005 as of May 1, it said.  “The situation is truly critical,” Environment Minister
Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet told reporters in Paris today.
“Rainfall in the next few weeks will be decisive. It’s not
looking good. It’ll be dry and sunny in the next two weeks.”  Conditions are “worrisome” for many farmers, Agriculture
Minister Bruno Le Maire said last week. France’s wheat crop,
 Europe ’s largest, is in a “danger zone” as the drought cuts
the potential harvest, the country’s crops office said May 11.  Authorities have implemented the most severe level of water
restrictions in 20 of mainland France’s 96 departments, the
ministry said. That’s up from six as of May 12, according to a
document handed out at a press conference in Paris. Water is
being restricted in 28 departments overall, up from 26 last
week, according to the environment ministry.  This month may be “one of the driest” Mays on record for
the country, Michele Blanchard, a researcher at forecaster Meteo
France, said in an interview in Paris today.  The drought is comparable to 1976, with the exception that
April temperatures were higher this year, Blanchard said at a
press conference in the French capital. France’s soils as of May
1 were as dry as they normally are on July 1, she said.  Meteo France forecast “no significant rain” for the next
two weeks, and temperatures will start rising in the next few
days to reach 28 degrees Celsius (82 degrees Fahrenheit) in the
Paris region by the end of this week, Blanchard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 