-- 
Gabon Grenade Sale Bribery Case Filed With Rajaratnam Wall Street Tactics

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-16T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/gabon-grenade-sale-bribe-case-brought-by-u-s-with-galleon-probe-tactics.html
The U.S.  Justice Department , fresh
from convicting Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam with the
unprecedented use of wiretaps on  Wall Street , leveraged similar
tactics to charge security industry executives in the biggest
prosecution of individuals for foreign bribery.  The four defendants, whose trial begins today in federal
court in Washington, are part of a 22-defendant kickback
conspiracy case resulting from a government sting operation and
a fake $15 million weapons deal. Prosecutors alleged the
defendants sought to provide guns, grenades and uniforms for the
presidential guard of Gabon in violation of the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and laws against money laundering.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded telephone calls and videotaped meetings with FBI agents
posing as representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-
biggest oil producer. The government said the defendants agreed
to pay $3 million in kickbacks for the Gabon business.  “This case shows the government is willing to work at
finding a case they believe is out there rather than having
companies bring voluntary disclosures” to the Justice
Department, said Timothy Dickinson, a lawyer at Paul Hastings
Janofsky & Walker LLP in Washington who specializes in FCPA
cases. Most foreign bribery cases are made through company
disclosures or a whistleblower, Dickinson said.  Biggest Prosecution  Those arrested in what the government said was the biggest
prosecution by number of individuals for foreign bribery include
Amaro Goncalves, a former sales executive for  Smith & Wesson
Holding Corp. (SWHC) , based in Springfield,  Massachusetts , and R. Patrick Caldwell, a former Secret Service official who was chief
executive officer of Protective Products of America Inc., based
in Sunrise, Florida. The two men pleaded not guilty.  Assistant U.S. Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , who oversees
the Justice Department’s criminal division, has cited the Gabon
case, along with the Galleon insider-trading probe, as examples
of the government using wiretaps and other undercover techniques
to pursue white-collar criminals.  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty May 11 of all 14 counts
against him in the largest illegal stock-tipping case in a
generation. Jurors heard 66 taped conversations during the trial.  The four defendants on trial in  Washington  have denied any
wrongdoing. In court papers and in hearings, lawyers for the men
have accused the government of engineering the conspiracy.  “The government did not infiltrate an ongoing organization,
but instead attempted to create its own organization by roping
together targeted individuals who had no reason to cooperate or
work together, and never did,” lawyers for John Wier III, the
former president of SRT Supply Inc. and one of the four
defendants facing trial today, said in court papers.  ‘Shot Show’  The case has been nicknamed the “Shot Show case” because
the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested 21 of the
defendants while they were attending the annual  Shooting,
Hunting, Outdoor Trade Show and Conference  in Las Vegas in
January 2010.  About 150 FBI agents searched locations in  Arkansas ,
 California ,  Florida , Kentucky,  Pennsylvania  and  Virginia  in the
case, the Justice Department said. The U.K.’S City of  London 
Police executed search warrants in connection with
investigations in  England .  Three of the defendants pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate. U.S. District Judge Richard Leon has grouped the
remaining 19 defendants into four trials. The first group
consists of Wier, Andrew Bigelow, Lee Tolleson and Pankesh Patel.  Heavy Metal  Patel, 45, of the U.K., is managing director of
Quartermaster’s Ltd., a company that sells military and law
enforcement uniforms, according to court papers. Bigelow, 42, of
University Park, Florida, was the managing partner and director
of government programs for Heavy Metal Armory, a Sarasota,
Florida, company that sells machine guns, grenade launchers and
other firearms.  Tolleson, 27, of Mountain Home, Arkansas, was director of
acquisitions and logistics for ALS Technologies, a company that
sells law enforcement and military equipment. Wier, 48, sold
tactical and ballistic equipment through his company in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, according to court papers.  They were indicted on one count of FCPA conspiracy, one
count of  money laundering  conspiracy, and 42 counts of violating
the FCPA. The FCPA conspiracy and bribery charges carry maximum
five-year prison sentences. The maximum sentence for money
laundering conspiracy is 20 years in prison.  Defense Lawyers  Wier’s lawyer, Todd Foster of Tampa, Florida, and Bigelow’s
lawyer, Lawrence Jacobs of Bradenton, didn’t return e-mail
messages seeking comment. Tolleson’s lawyer, Dee Wampler of
Springfield, Missouri, declined to comment. Patel’s lawyer, Eric
Bruce of Washington and  New York , didn’t return a telephone
message seeking comment.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty last year to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers.  BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s largest arms company, bought
Armor Holdings in 2007 for $4.53 billion. Bistrong, who said his
conspiracy took place from 2001 to 2006, began cooperating with
prosecutors in 2007, according to court records.  Possible Targets  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, he recorded telephone and in-person meetings with
the defendants. He also introduced them to Pascal Latour, an FBI
agent posing as a representative for Gabon’s defense minister.  The defendants “were invited” to participate in a $15
million deal to outfit Gabon’s presidential guard and agreed
that 20 percent of their contract would be paid as a commission
to Gabon officials, according to the government.  The agreement included two price quotations, one
representing the true price of the product and the other
inflated with the 20 percent commission, according to the
indictment.  Prosecutors alleged Patel agreed to sell uniforms. Wier was
selling laser sight grips. Tolleson agreed to sell grenades and
grenade launchers and Bigelow was selling M4 rifles.  The deal was set up for two phases, the U.S. said. The
first involved a small shipment of the products to test that the
commission would be paid, and the second would supply the larger
contract.  The products were shipped from June to August of 2009. The
defendants, after receiving payment, wired commission payments
into Latour’s U.S. bank account, prosecutors said.  In January 2010, 21 of the defendants traveled to Las Vegas
as part of the second phase of the transaction, according to
the government.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 