-- 
SAC, Galleon, Facebook, Xinhua Finance, Rambus, Deutsche Bank Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-16T11:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/galleon-facebook-xinhua-rambus-deutsche-bank-court-news.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP alleged the
ex-wife of founder  Steven A. Cohen  met with lawyers for  Fairfax
Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  before suing him over claims he cheated
her out of money in their 1990 divorce, Bloomberg News’ Thom
Weidlich reported.  SAC Capital, in a March 2 filing unsealed May 13 in a
Fairfax lawsuit against it and other hedge funds, said that the
Canadian insurer or its lawyers may have been involved in
 Patricia Cohen ’s suit.  “SAC has learned from reliable sources that Patricia Cohen
in fact met with counsel for Fairfax prior to filing that
lawsuit,” SAC said in the filing.  Fairfax, in its 2006 lawsuit in state court in Morristown,
 New Jersey , accuses SAC Capital and other hedge funds of
conspiring to spread negative information about Toronto-based
Fairfax because they were betting its stock price would decline.
The funds, including Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC Capital,
have denied the accusation.  “Neither Fairfax nor its lawyers had anything to do with
Patricia Cohen’s lawsuit, and only learned about it from news
reports,” Michael Bowe, a lawyer for Fairfax at Kasowitz Benson
Torres & Friedman LLP in Manhattan, said in an e-mail.
“Suggestions otherwise sound paranoid.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a SAC Capital spokesman, declined to
comment. SAC Capital has about $13 billion under management.  Howard W. Foster, a lawyer for Patricia Cohen at Foster PC
in Chicago, declined to comment. She has appealed the March 30
dismissal of her suit in federal court in Manhattan.  In the suit, she said SAC Capital was “the product of an
ongoing racketeering scheme” that has engaged in insider
trading, bank fraud, money laundering and other misconduct.  SAC Capital in March 2 motions sought permission to conduct
sworn interviews with a Fairfax representative and Patricia
Cohen about any communications between her and the company.  Stephen M. Orlofsky, the court-appointed “discovery
master” deciding evidence-sharing disputes in the New Jersey
case, denied the hedge fund’s request to interview the Fairfax
representative about Patricia Cohen in a May 11 order. He denied
the request to interview Patricia Cohen on April 1, according to
the order.  SAC Capital appealed the denial of its request to interview
Patricia Cohen, according to Orlofsky, a former federal judge in
New Jersey and a partner with Blank Rome LLP in Princeton. The
appeal is pending.  The case is Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown). Patricia Cohen’s case is Cohen v. Cohen,
11-1390, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( New York )
and 09-cv-10230, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  UBS, Other Banks Ask Court to Reinstate Suit Over MBIA Split  UBS AG (UBSN)  and about a dozen other banks asked New York’s
highest court to reinstate a lawsuit over MBIA Insurance Corp.’s
split in 2009.  The banks filed a so-called reply brief with the New York
Court of Appeals in Albany May 13 that said the court should
reverse a lower court decision dismissing the suit against MBIA.
Oral arguments in their appeal are set for May 31.  Armonk, New York-based MBIA Inc. in January won dismissal
of the lawsuit by banks including UBS and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
that claimed the bond insurer’s restructuring was intended to
defraud policyholders. The financial institutions claim the
restructuring, approved by New York’s insurance department, was
a “fraudulent conveyance” that left MBIA undercapitalized and
possibly unable to pay out future claims.  The banks argued the insurance department’s approval of the
split shouldn’t stop them from suing under creditor and debtor
laws and common law where the agency “provided no notice” to
policyholders before approval, which was issued in an
“informal” process and relied on MBIA’s “self-interested
factual assertions.”  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  last month told the Court of Appeals the lower
court correctly dismissed the suit. According to their brief,
the restructuring was done to help unfreeze the public finance
markets during the financial crisis and was approved by the
insurance department after an extensive review that found MBIA
Insurance would remain solvent and have sufficient resources to
meet claims.  Kevin Brown, an MBIA spokesman, had no immediate comment on
the banks’ brief.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009, New
York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Galleon Defendants Denied Requests on Trial Evidence, Timing  Two former Galleon Group LLC traders accused of insider
trading lost bids to introduce evidence or delay their trial,
which is set to begin today, just days after co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam’s jury conviction.  Emanuel Goffer was denied a motion for a two-week
postponement because of “inflammatory” publicity surrounding
the May 11 conviction of his former boss in Manhattan federal
court.  “The court sees no reason, and Goffer has not offered one,
why potential prejudice resulting from a juror’s familiarity
with Rajaratnam’s trial cannot be identified and addressed
during jury selection,” U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
said in an order dated May 13.  Co-defendant Michael Kimelman was denied his request to
introduce evidence that the U.S. offered him a plea deal on a
count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud in exchange for a
sentence of probation.  Kimelman, who maintains his innocence, said in court papers
they wanted the jurors to know he rejected a plea deal that
would have meant no jail time, his lawyers said in court papers.  “Kimelman’s rejection of the government’s plea deal is of
little probative value,” Sullivan said in the order rejecting
the motion. “Introduction of this evidence would likely distort
the issues and distract the jury from the alleged facts
underlying the crime.”  Michael Sommer , a lawyer for Kimelman, declined to comment.
Michael Ross, a lawyer for Goffer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty on May 11 of all 14 counts
against him. The jury heard evidence that he gained $63.8
million over seven years through trading on inside information
from corporate executives, bankers, consultants and the
directors of public companies.  Another former Galleon trader,  Zvi Goffer , Emanuel’s
brother, is also set to face trial with the two men. Their trial
begins today New York.  The case is U.S. v. Zvi Goffer, 10-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Facebook Must Face Suit Claiming It Gave Advertisers User Data  Facebook Inc., the world’s most popular social-networking
service, must face a lawsuit in which it’s accused of giving
advertisers personal information about users who clicked on ads.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in San Jose, California,
threw out May 12 most of the claims against Facebook, giving the
plaintiffs a chance to refile five of the eight dismissed. Ware
rejected Facebook’s argument that the entire lawsuit should be
dismissed because the users didn’t show an injury sufficient to
bring the case.  “The court finds that plaintiffs have alleged facts
sufficient to establish that they have suffered the injury
required for standing,” Ware wrote in his ruling.  The plaintiffs claim in the lawsuit that, when Facebook
users click on advertisements, their identification or user
names are transmitted to the advertisers. Advertisers can obtain
users’ names, genders and pictures without their consent, the
plaintiffs said.  Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment after regular business hours May 12.  The case is In re Facebook, 10-02389, U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California (San Jose).  Winklevoss Twins Must Face Suit Over Failed Alliance  Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the twins challenging a $65
million settlement with Facebook Inc., must face a lawsuit filed
by a Boston businessman over a failed partnership, a judge
ruled.  The businessman, Wayne Chang, claims in a lawsuit filed in
December 2009 that a former partnership with the Winklevosses’
ConnectU project entitles him to part of the Facebook
settlement.  Superior Court Judge Peter Lauriat in Boston on April 28
denied the Winklevoss twins’ motion to dismiss the case, ruling
that Chang’s prior relationship with the twins gives him
standing to seek a share of the settlement proceeds in
proportion to his ownership interest in ConnectU as determined
by a fact-finder.  “We’re pleased with the court’s ruling,” Alan Rose Jr.,
an attorney for Chang, said May 13 in a phone interview. “The
value of Mr. Chang’s claims are completely intact, and that’s
what we care most about.”  Chang is seeking half of any settlement proceeds with
Facebook, Rose said.  Erin E. Howard, an attorney for the Winklevosses, didn’t
immediately return a phone call May 13 seeking comment.  The Winklevosses sued Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg in
2004 claiming he stole the idea for the social network and
delayed their ConnectU project while they were all Harvard
University students.  A federal appeals court in San Francisco on April 11 upheld
the Winklevosses’ $65 million settlement with Facebook in 2008,
rejecting their claim that it should be thrown out because
Facebook misled them about the company’s value at the time.  The case is Chang v. Winklevoss, SUCV2009-05397,
Massachusetts Superior Court, Suffolk County (Boston).  For more, click here.  Xinhua Finance Ex-CEO Bush Denies U.S. Insider-Trading Charges  Xinhua Finance Inc.’s former chief executive officer,
Loretta Fredy Bush, denies that she was part of a $50 million
insider-trading scheme that defrauded investors and U.S.
regulators, her lawyer said.  Bush, along with former Xinhua Finance board members Shelly
Singhal and Dennis Pelino, were charged May 10 in federal court
in  Washington  with conspiracy, mail fraud and false statements.
Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed
on the Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products
focused on Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
insider trading, according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  “The allegations regarding Ms. Bush are characterizations
of legitimate business transactions by disgraced lawyers who
have pleaded guilty to lying to prosecutors about other matters
and now are trying to curry favor with these prosecutors,”
Bush’s lawyer, Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath in
Washington, said May 12 in an e-mailed statement.  Pelino denies the charges, claiming that lawful business
transactions were “misconstrued” by prosecutors, according to
an e-mailed statement from his lawyer, Atlee Wampler, in Miami.
It is also unlikely the U.S. has jurisdiction over the China-
based company, Wampler said in the statement.  All three remain free pending arraignment scheduled for
tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Barriger, of G&B Partners, Charged by U.S. in Fraud Scheme  Lloyd Barriger, who operated a commercial real-estate
financing fund that collapsed in 2008, was charged May 13 by
U.S. prosecutors in New York with conspiracy and securities
fraud for defrauding investors.  Barriger, who operated Gaffken & Barriger Fund LLC, a
Monticello, New York-based business, was accused of operating a
scheme between April 2005 and September 2008 with an unnamed co-
conspirator who served as the vice president and an owner of an
underwriter of the fund’s loans, the U.S. alleged.  Barriger claimed his fund held real estate assets,
including collateralized commercial mortgage loans, prosecutors
said. The fund raised capital for its operations through sales
of securities to public investors after he obtained a $15
million line of credit in 2006.  In July of that year, Barriger started a scheme to defraud
in which, under false pretenses, he solicited $12.6 million from
more than 70 old and new investors, prosecutors said.  Barriger failed to inform investors that delinquencies on
the fund’s loan portfolio spiked to more than 25 percent in July
2007 and increased to about 34 percent in November 2007, the
indictment alleged.  As a result of these delinquencies and the fund’s failure
of borrowers to repay their loans, the fund experienced what
prosecutors said was “a severe liquidity crunch” and the fund
wasn’t able to support the promised 8 percent return to
investors.  A lawyer for Barriger couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Lloyd Barriger, 11cr416, Southern
District of New York (White Plains).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Conrad Black Should Resume 6 1/2-Year Sentence, U.S. Says  Conrad Black, the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman, should resume serving the 6 1/2-year prison sentence
he received after being convicted for fraud and obstruction of
justice in 2007, U.S. prosecutors said.  “The facts relating to defendant’s crimes have not
changed,” the prosecutors said in a brief filed May 13 with
U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in Chicago. The author and
former newspaper publisher is slated to be resentenced on June
24.  A federal jury found Black, 66, and three other men guilty
in the theft of a combined $6.1 million from the company now
known as the  Sun-Times Media Group Inc. (SUTMQ)  after a four-month
trial. St. Eve sentenced Black to 60 months in prison on three
fraud counts and 78 months for obstructing a U.S. government
investigation.  The U.S. Supreme Court last year narrowed the scope of the
mail-fraud statute under which Black had been found guilty and
returned his case to a Chicago-based federal appeals panel that
had previously upheld the verdict.  That panel last year vacated Black’s convictions on two of
the three fraud counts, leaving the remaining convictions intact
and giving Chicago U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald’s office
discretion to retry him. Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie Porter in
January told St. Eve there would be no retrial.  Black, who was freed on bail in July, shouldn’t be returned
to prison, his lawyers said May 13. Black served about two years
and four months of his term at the Coleman Federal Correctional
 Complex  in Florida while fighting to have the verdict
overturned.  He has asked the Supreme Court to review the second appeals
court ruling. His lead appellate lawyer, Miguel Estrada, on May
9 told St. Eve he believed the high court would make that
decision known on May 31.  The case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Rambus Falls as Micron, Hynix Cases Sent Back to Lower Court  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  fell the most in 16 months after a U.S. appeals
court agreed that the company destroyed documents relevant to
patent infringement cases with Micron Technology Inc. and  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and sent the cases back to a lower court to
determine appropriate sanctions.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington vacated May 13 a lower court  rulings  in the  cases ,
which centered on whether Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus
should be allowed to enforce patents on computer-memory chips
since the company may have destroyed documents needed in the
cases.  As part of the ruling, the appeals court also threw out a
verdict that resulted in a $397 million judgment against Hynix
won by Rambus so the district court can revisit the document-
destruction issue. Questions about the Rambus document-retention
policy have dogged the company for years. Hynix and Micron have
claimed that Rambus misled a board that sets industry standard
for DRAM chips and then destroyed evidence that would prove the
allegations.  “If the district court again concludes on remand that
there was bad faith and prejudice, the record evidence may
indeed justify a dispositive sanction, but the seriousness of
such a sanction warrants an analysis of all of the factors
discussed,” the appeals court panel wrote in the Micron order.  The appeals are Micron Technology v. Rambus, 2009-1263, and
Hynix Semiconductor v. Rambus, 2009-1299, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court cases are
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-00792, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington) and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-20905, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-CSK Auto CFO Pleads Guilty to Earnings Scheme, U.S. Says  Former CSK Auto Corp. Chief Financial Officer Don W. Watson
pleaded guilty in Arizona federal court to fraud charges related
to misstated earnings at the company from 2001 to 2006, the
Justice Department said.  Watson, 55, of Gilbert, Arizona, admitted in court May 13
that he and others claimed tens of millions of dollars in false
vendor rebates as income, the agency said in a statement.  Watson “used his position as CFO to manipulate CSK’s books
and lie about the company’s true worth,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer said in the statement. “He
misled shareholders and the investing public.”  In March, former CSK Chief Executive Officer Maynard
Jenkins settled a U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
lawsuit under undisclosed terms. The suit sought to recover $4.1
million Jenkins received through an accounting fraud he didn’t
orchestrate, according to court filings.  The SEC sued Jenkins after CSK, acquired by  O’Reilly
Automotive Inc. (ORLY)  in 2008, was forced to restate financial results
from fiscal year 2001 through 2005. Company officials said as
much as $89 million in inventory and vendor allowances were
overstated.  Watson and Martin G. Fraser, CSK’s former president and
chief operating officer, were indicted in 2009 on securities-
fraud and conspiracy charges over their alleged use of improper
accounting methods to artificially inflate the company’s
revenue.  Watson’s lawyer, Edward Novak, didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Fraser, 09-cr-00372, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Thor Industries to Pay $1 Million to Settle SEC Allegations  Thor Industries Inc. (THO) , the biggest U.S. maker of
recreational vehicles, agreed to pay $1 million to settle a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit claiming one of its
executives underreported company costs.  The proposed settlement was filed in federal court in
Washington May 12 along with a complaint that alleges Mark
Schwartzhoff, the vice president of finance at Thor’s Dutchmen
Manufacturing Inc., “engaged in a fraudulent accounting scheme
to understate Dutchmen’s cost of goods sold.”  Schwartzhoff overstated Dutchmen’s pretax income by almost
$27 million from fiscal year 2003 to the second quarter of
fiscal 2007, according to the SEC. The executive, who was fired
in 2007, agreed to pay almost $400,000 in penalties, according
to court filings.  “Thor’s failure to maintain accurate books and records and
adequate internal accounting controls violated a 1999 commission
cease-and-desist-order,” the SEC in said court papers,
referring to similar misconduct at a different Thor unit.  Without admitting or denying the allegations, Thor
Industries agreed to hire an SEC-approved independent consultant
to evaluate internal accounting controls at its headquarters in
Jackson Center, Ohio, and at its other units. The agreement
requires court approval.  Richard Riegel, Thor’s senior group president, said the
company looks forward to working with the independent
consultant.  “We’re just pleased the issue has come to a resolution
because we’ve become a much, much, much better company,” he
said.  The case is SEC v. Thor Industries, 11-cv-00889, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Deutsche Bank Mortgage Suit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  The U.S. Department of Justice’s suit against  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , for more than $1 billion, alleging the firm lied while
arranging federal insurance on faulty mortgages, was the most-
read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Deutsche Bank’s MortgageIT unit falsely certified that it
was examining default risks while qualifying loans for FHA
insurance, according to the government’s complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Deutsche Bank AG, 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  