-- 
Gasoline Falls to 8-Week Low as Flood Worries Ease, Growth Slows

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-05-16T20:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/gasoline-falls-to-8-week-low-as-flood-worries-ease-growth-slows.html
Gasoline slid to an eight-week low as
a manufacturing report indicated a slowing economic recovery and
as concern lessened that  Mississippi River  flooding would
significantly disrupt refinery operations.  Futures declined 4.7 percent as manufacturing in the New
York region expanded at a slower pace than anticipated in May as
the cost of raw materials surged. While terminals and docks shut
along the river in  Louisiana , refineries remained open a day
before the river may crest in  Baton Rouge .  “The Empire manufacturing numbers raise fears the  U.S.
economy  is slowing down again and it was a mood changer,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“The market also feels the threat to refineries isn’t that
bad.”  Gasoline for June delivery sank 14.33 cents to settle at
$2.9311 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. It was the
lowest settlement since March 16 and the first below $3 for the
front-month contract since March 21. Prices are up 19 percent
this year.  Prices weakened as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index retreated to 11.9 from a one-year high of
21.7 in April. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected
it would drop to 19.6, according to the median forecast. The so-
called Empire State Index covers New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern  Connecticut .  Flood Concern  Prices also fell on concern that flooding along the
Mississippi River from  Memphis  to New Orleans will reduce demand
as businesses are forced to shut and residents stay home.  “Nobody knows what’s going to happen with the floods, and
there are demand fears,” said Ray Carbone, president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York. “There’s bad weather and
high prices at the pump and people changing their driving
behavior.”  Alon USA Energy Inc. said levees should protect its
refinery near Krotz Springs, Louisiana, from flooding after
spillways were opened to redirect some of the Mississippi
River’s water flow away from Baton Rouge and  New Orleans .  The rising Mississippi threatens operations at 10 Louisiana
refineries that account for about 14 percent of U.S. operating
capacity. The river crested below forecast in New Orleans today
and is expected to miss forecasts when it crests in Baton Rouge
tomorrow, according to the U.S. Mississippi River Forecast
Center’s  website .  Futures climbed May 13 as Exxon Mobil Corp. shut segments
of two Louisiana pipelines in advance of flooding and Magellan
Midstream Partners LP halted barge and vessel operations at two
oil terminals in the state. Those facilities remain closed
today, spokesman for the company said.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories probably rose a second
consecutive week in the period ended May 13, gaining 1 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News.  The Energy Department reported on May 11 that consumption
dropped 1.3 percent in the week ended May 6 to a 12-week low. On
a four-week average, demand, measured by deliveries to
wholesalers, was 2.4 percent below a year earlier, wider than
the 1.9 percent deficit the prior week.  The premium of June futures over July narrowed to 2.94
cents, the smallest backwardation for the two contracts closest
to expiration since April 20.  The June crack spread, or premium of gasoline over crude
oil in New York, fell $3.74 to $25.74 a barrels. It was the
fourth consecutive drop since the spread touched a record
intraday high $40.11 on May 10.  Crisis ‘Averted’  “There’s the perception we’ve averted a flooding crisis
with Gulf Coast refineries, seasonal retracement after the peak
two weeks ago and concern we’ll be seeing a continuation of
weakening demand,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading
and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Gasoline reached an intraday high of $3.48 on April 29, the
highest level since July 14, 2008.  Regular retail gasoline dropped 0.6 cent to $3.955 a gallon
yesterday, AAA said on its website. Prices are 38 percent higher
than a year earlier.  Preliminary volume in electronic trading for gasoline was
173,737 contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York, 38 percent above
the daily average of the past three months. Volume on May 11
reached a record 269,530 contracts.  Stockpiles of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, likely increased 500,000 barrels, according to the
survey.  Heating oil for June delivery dropped 6.78 cents, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $2.8744 a gallon on the exchange. It was
the lowest settlement since May 5 and follows last week’s gain
of 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  