-- 
GE’s New Products Ahead of $6 Billion Health Program Timetable

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/ge-s-new-products-ahead-of-6-billion-health-program-timetable.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  introduced
almost half the new products targeted in its six-year, $6
billion health-care improvement strategy after spending about a
third of the development budget.  GE, which planned to develop 100 new products in its
“Healthymagination” campaign, has released 43, including the
Optima magnetic-resonance imaging device that can scan
individual limbs instead of the whole body, reducing cost and
time. About $1.3 billion of a planned $3 billion in research and
development has been spent, the company said in its annual
report on the initiative, to be released today.  Since announcing “Healthymagination” in 2009, Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has purchased molecular-imaging
diagnostic company Clarient Inc., bolstered employee health
programs such as smoking cessation and boosted access to
exercise and healthy food in the company’s cafeterias.  GE may next pursue ways to target individual diseases from
all possible angles, with resources for patients and hospitals
from across the company, Mike Barber, the executive who oversees
“Healthymagination,” said in an interview. That includes new
resources from the December purchase of Clarient, valued at $580
million.  “The Clarient acquisition clearly fits into the disease
paradigm, and a continuum of care around  breast cancer , for
instance,” Barber said. “So we can look at how we can save
more lives and at the same time reduce the cost as more women
are treated for breast cancer.”  Body Chemistry Analysis  Methods include using products that analyze a woman’s body
chemistry to make sure the most beneficial chemotherapy drugs
are used the first time, rather relying on trial and error to
determine the optimum medication, he said. That would reduce
treatment expense and time for both the patient and the health-
care provider, Barber said.  “Healthymagination,” which Immelt said would invest $6
billion through 2015, planned to spend $1 billion on
partnerships and $2 billion through its GE Capital finance unit,
in addition to product development.  During the past two years, $900 million has been spent on
“Healthymagination” financing and partnerships, GE said. The
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company, which posted $149.1
billion in sales last year, is the world’s biggest maker of
medical-imaging equipment and health-care information-technology
systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  