-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Acts to Avoid Debt Limit Through Aug. 2

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-05-16T15:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/geithner-says-u-s-acts-to-avoid-debt-limit-through-aug-2.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he has taken actions to stave off the federal debt
limit until Aug. 2, using accounting measures that involve two
retirement funds.  Geithner wrote lawmakers today to say he has declared a
“debt issuance suspension period,” a technical measure that
allows him to free up borrowing room from the Civil Service
Retirement and Disability Fund and the Government Securities
Investment Fund. The steps, widely expected as Republicans and
Democrats argue over when and how to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit, won’t affect retirees or government operations.  President  Barack Obama  said failure to increase the debt
limit might disrupt the global financial system and plunge the
nation into another recession, Obama said on “Face the Nation”
in a segment taped May 11 in  Washington  for broadcast yesterday.
Republicans are seeking spending cuts and no tax increases in
exchange for supporting a higher debt ceiling.  Geithner’s letter today indicated he has not changed his
assessment of when his department will exhaust its set of
emergency measures for preserving borrowing room.  “I have determined that a ‘debt issuance suspension
period’ will begin today, May 16, 2011, and last until August 2,
2011, when the Department of the Treasury predicts that the
borrowing authority of the United States will be exhausted,”
Geithner said in the letter to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
and other lawmakers.  ‘Seriously Problematic’  It would be “seriously problematic” if Congress does not
act by Aug. 2 and the Treasury has to pick and choose which of
its payments it is able to meet, said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . He
said the Treasury would have a net cash-flow deficit of about
$230 billion to $300 billion between Aug. 2 and Sept. 30.  “Short of embracing something like a bankruptcy-style
reorganization plan -- or beginning to shut down government
operations preemptively weeks in advance -- we’re not sure how
the Treasury could scale its outlays back to the current level
of revenue,” Crandall said in a note to clients today.  Interest payments would be legally protected, and benefit
payments backed by trust funds would “probably” go out on
schedule, he said. Other payments might need to be put on hold,
including civilian salaries and student loan disbursements.  Medicaid Reimbursements  “The federal government might be able to withhold Medicaid
reimbursements from states, but that would risk bringing
Meredith Whitney’s muni-default forecast one step closer to
reality,” Crandall said in reference to the analyst who
predicted there would be 50 to 100 “sizable” municipal-bond
defaults. “Food-stamp issuance would have to be shut down weeks
in advance to allow time for the existing body of vouchers to
work their way through the system.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  said “it’s clear” the U.S.
must raise its debt limit.  “At some point it’s clear to me that we have to increase
the debt ceiling,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said yesterday
on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, appearing yesterday on  CNN ’s
“State of the Union,” said he wants the extension of the debt
limit coupled with broad fiscal reforms.  The U.S. government can’t sell assets to stay below the
debt limit once it has exhausted its borrowing room, Treasury
assistant secretary  Mary Miller  said on May 6.  Asset sales are a “misguided notion” that won’t postpone
the need to increase the  limit  by any “meaningful” amount of
time, Miller said on the Treasury’s blog. It would also hurt the
economy and threaten international financial stability, she
said.  “A ‘fire sale’ of financial assets would be damaging to
the economy, taxpayers, and financial markets,” Miller said.
“It would harm the interests of taxpayers, and would undermine
confidence in the  United States .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 Rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  