-- 
Gillard Approval Falls to Record Low

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T03:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/gillard-approval-falls-to-record-low-on-australia-s-budget-cuts.html
Australian Prime Minster  Julia
Gillard ’s public support fell to a record low in two opinion
surveys as voters said cuts aimed at returning the budget to
surplus would harm their quality of life.  Gillard’s approval rating fell four percentage points to 34
percent from two weeks ago, the lowest since she became leader
in June 2010, a Newspoll of 1,139 people published in the
Australian newspaper today said. A separate Newspoll of 1,201
voters  showed  41 percent of respondents said they would be worse
off after the budget announced last week. Both surveys had a
margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.  The drop in popularity means Gillard is likely to finish
her full term rather than call an early election, said John Warhurst, a political analyst at the Canberra-based  Australian
National University . Gillard, who must hold an election by the
end of November 2013, yesterday rebuffed opposition Liberal-
National coalition leader  Tony Abbott ’s call for an early vote.  “It’s more bad news for Labor, the government doesn’t seem
to be able to communicate with voters,” Warhurst said of the
poll results. “Julia Gillard isn’t about to march off and call
an election with these ratings. I think she will run the full
term.”  Early Election  Abbott called for an early election, saying the government
had misled voters over its plan to reduce greenhouse emissions.
Gillard said before the 2010 vote that there would be no carbon
tax under her government, then as prime minister said an
emissions trading system due to start next July would work like
a tax before full trading begins. The climate laws need
parliamentary approval.  Australia ’s May 10  budget  toughened rules for family tax
benefits and welfare recipients as the government ended 23 years
of spending growth to achieve a surplus in the year ending June
30 2013. The budget is the first for Gillard’s government, which
was formed with non-party lawmakers after the August election
delivered the closest result in 70 years.  “The trouble with this budget is that it was tough on
families but it wasn’t tough on waste,” Abbott told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “This is a government that
never seems to learn.”  A Nielsen poll published in the Sydney Morning Herald today
showed Gillard’s approval rating falling to a record low 43
percent, down from 45 percent a month earlier. The coalition led
Labor by eight percentage points in the survey, which had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points.  The  Labor party  has promised to deliver a surplus to ease
inflation from the biggest mining boom in history. It has
pledged to create 500,000 new jobs to ease a  skills shortage .  “It’s my job as prime minister to be explaining what we
need for this nation’s future and that’s what I’m doing with the
budget,” Gillard told reporters in Sydney today.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  