-- 
Glenmark Pharma Surges After Selling Drug Rights to Sanofi

-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-05-16T14:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/glenmark-pharma-surges-after-selling-drug-rights-to-sanofi-1-.html
Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GNP)  surged
the most in 10 weeks in Mumbai after selling rights to develop
an experimental multiple sclerosis treatment to Sanofi.  Glenmark will get cash payments totaling $50 million in the
next three months and as much as $613 million if the medicine
achieves development targets, the Mumbai-based company said in a
statement today. It could also get sales royalties if the drug
clears all clinical trials and regulatory hurdles.  The deal will enable Paris-based Sanofi to develop and
market the experimental drug, known as GBR 500, in  North America 
and  Europe . The antibody is designed to block the movement of a
type of white blood cell involved in inflammation, and may treat
conditions such as multiple sclerosis and Crohn’s disease, which
affects the bowels.  Glenmark, the Indian drugmaker developing seven new
treatments for pain, inflammation and metabolic disorders,
surged 11.7 percent, the most since March 1, to 306.1 rupees at
the 3.30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index
declined 0.1 percent. Sanofi stock rose 0.1 percent at 3:14 p.m.
in Paris trading.  GBR 500 is a monoclonal antibody, which belongs to a class
of drugs that are made from living cells and are more difficult
to make than chemical medicines because of their molecular
complexity. They are also sold for higher prices.  Indian Expertise  “This is definitely significant because it’s the first
time an Indian company has developed the expertise” to make
these so-called biologic drugs, Bino Pathiparampil, a
pharmaceutical analyst at IIFL Institutional Equities Ltd., said
in a telephone interview.  The sale comes almost four years after the 34-year old
drugmaker acquired the technology to make the GBR 500 injection
treatment from Chromos Molecular Systems Inc., a biotechnology
company based in British Columbia.  The acquisition from Chromos was “one of the best
investments made by the company,” Managing Director Glenn Saldanha told reporters today. “We anticipate that the drug
could be launched by 2017.”  Multiple sclerosis affects about 2.1 million people in the
world, including 400,000 patients in the U.S., according to the
New York-based National Multiple Sclerosis Society. The chronic
disease attacks the central nervous system and can cause
numbness in limbs, paralysis and vision loss.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s Copaxone and Biogen
Idec Inc.’s Avonex, the world’s two biggest multiple sclerosis
treatments, had combined sales of more than $5.8 billion in
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  