-- 
Glencore Narrows IPO’s Price Range as It Seeks to Raise Up to $11 Billion

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-16T08:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/glencore-narrows-price-range-for-its-planned-10-billion-initial-offering.html
Glencore International Plc, seeking
as much as $11 billion in an initial public offering, narrowed
the price range at which it plans to sell the stock, according
to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  The final sale price for shares in the world’s largest
commodities trader will be between 520 pence and 550 pence
apiece, implying a valuation, excluding funds to be raised in
the sale, of between $50.5 billion and $53.5 billion, the
document shows. The new range compares with previous guidance of
480 pence to 580 pence.  The IPO, the largest since General Motors Co. sold shares
in November, has attracted investors including  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar
Investments PJSC and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Demand has been enough to
sell the shares on offer in the IPO more than twice over, three
people familiar with the transaction said on May 12.  Glencore is offering as many as 1.25 billion shares.
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley are managing
the IPO as global coordinators, along with Bank of America Corp.
and BNP Paribas as joint bookrunners. Barclays Plc, Societe
Generale SA and UBS were appointed co-bookrunners.  Orders will close at 4 p.m.  London  time tomorrow, except
for investors meeting management after this date, according to
the sale document. Glencore expects conditional dealings in the
shares to start on the London Stock Exchange around May 19 and
admission and unconditional trade to begin on May 24.  The company, which trades commodities including coal, oil
and metals, plans to sell about $7.9 billion of new stock while
existing holders may offload an additional $2.1 billion in
shares for tax purposes and to repay loans. The IPO includes an
overallotment option, known as the greenshoe, of 10 percent of
the offer, allowing Glencore to raise as much as $11 billion.  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 