-- 
Global Demand for U.S. Assets Unexpectedly Weakens as China Trims Holdings

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-16T15:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-fell-in-march.html
Global demand for U.S. long-term
financial assets such as  government bonds  slowed in March as
investors shifted into shorter-term securities and  China  trimmed
its portfolio of Treasuries.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$24 billion during the month, compared with net buying of $27.2
billion in February, according to statistics issued today in
Washington. Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $116 billion, compared with net
buying of $95.6 billion the previous month.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities helps
gauge confidence in the  U.S. economy  as well as fiscal and
monetary policy. The data capture international purchases of
government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt and
securities issued by U.S. agencies such as Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  “Foreigners had a little more confidence in the recovery
in March,” and they shifted into swaps, equities and riskier
assets from Treasury securities, said Kevin Chau, a foreign
exchange strategist at IDEAglobal in  New York .  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
Treasuries, after its holdings fell by $9.2 billion to $1.145
trillion in March from $1.154 trillion in February, according to
the Treasury’s statistics.  Japan ,  Hong Kong   Japan, the second-largest holder, increased its holdings by
$17.6 billion to $907.9 billion in March from $890.3 billion in
February. Hong Kong, counted separately from China, reduced its
holdings by $2.5 billion to $122.1 billion in March from $124.6
billion in February.  Before today’s report was issued by the Treasury,
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected long-term U.S.
financial assets would show net buying of $33 billion in March.
Seven economists participated in the survey, and their estimates
ranged from $10 billion to $45 billion.  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$26.8 billion in March compared with purchases of $30.6 billion
in February. Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from companies
such as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac registered net buying of
$9.49 billion in March after selling of $1.49 billion in
February.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $14.7 billion in
March after net purchases of $6.1 billion in February. Investors
purchased a net $3.77 billion in U.S. corporate debt in March
after selling $2.54 billion in February.  Slower Than Forecast  In the first quarter, the U.S. economy grew at a slower-
than-forecast annual rate of 1.8 percent as government spending
declined by the most since 1983, according to Commerce
Department statistics released April 28. In the fourth quarter
of last year, gross domestic product grew at a 3.1 percent
annual rate.  In emerging European economies, public finances have
“sharply deteriorated” and banks are burdened by “large
numbers” of nonperforming loans, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report May 12. The European Union and the IMF
were forced to organize bailouts for Greece and Ireland last
year and are preparing a rescue plan for Portugal.  China and the U.S. remain at odds over foreign exchange
policy. After meetings last week in  Washington , Chinese Deputy
Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said the U.S. and China agree that
the yuan should be allowed to strengthen. However, “the view
from the U.S. side is that the yuan should rise continuously at
a faster appreciation pace,” Zhu said. “We have differences on
the degree of appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  