-- 
Goldman Sachs Said to Promote Gnodde, Dyal in Revamp of Investment Banking

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-16T18:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/goldman-sachs-said-to-promote-gnodde-dyal-in-investment-banking-overhaul.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  bolstered
the leadership of its  investment-banking  and merger-advisory
divisions after the company fell to third place among takeover
advisers this year.  Richard J. Gnodde, a 51-year-old South African based in
 London , will become co-head of investment banking with David M. Solomon and John S. Weinberg, the division’s two New York-based
leaders, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg.
Gordon E. Dyal, 49, will give up his role as global head of
mergers and acquisitions to become co-chairman of investment
banking with Christopher A. Cole, the memo said.  Investment banking, which includes mergers and acquisitions
and stock and bond underwriting, generated $1.27 billion in
first-quarter revenue, less than 11 percent of the New York-
based firm’s total. The bank lagged behind  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and Morgan Stanley in advisory revenue during the quarter, the
first time in a decade that Goldman Sachs’s earnings press
release didn’t mention the company’s ranking among M&A advisers.  “It’s just an effort to refocus on the business,” said
Benjamin B. Wallace, an analyst at Westborough, Massachusetts-
based Grimes & Co., which manages about $1 billion and doesn’t
own Goldman Sachs stock. “They fell in the rankings and they’re
going to have to get more out of that business because their
other divisions are becoming less lucrative.”  Trading Revenue  Revenue from trading, the firm’s biggest source of profit,
dropped 22 percent in the first quarter compared with a year
earlier, after sliding 33 percent last year from 2009. Goldman
Sachs, the top adviser on announced M&A transactions from 2001
through 2008, dropped to third place this year after coming in
second to Morgan Stanley in 2009 and 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Dyal will turn over his global M&A responsibilities to
London-based Yoel Zaoui and Gene T. Sykes, based in Los Angeles,
according to a separate memo.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for
the New York-based firm, confirmed the memos’ contents and
declined to comment further.  Gnodde will continue to serve as co-chief executive officer
of Goldman Sachs International, the firm’s business in Europe,
the Middle East and  Africa , along with Michael S. Sherwood.
Gnodde, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1987, moved to London in
2005 after serving as co-head of investment banking in  Japan  and
working in  Hong Kong  as president of Goldman Sachs  Asia .  “These important changes reflect the continued importance
and growth of the firm’s global client franchise,” said the
memo, which was signed by Chairman and CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein,
56, and by President and Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn,
50.  European M&A  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank, hired Dyal from
Morgan Stanley as a partner in 1998. He was co-head of European
mergers and acquisitions from 1999 to 2001. In 2001 he became
co-head of investment banking in  Europe , and in 2004 assumed his
role as global head of M&A.  Zaoui, 50, and Sykes, 53, will be global co-heads of
mergers and acquisitions, where they will work closely with
Timothy J. Ingrassia and Jack Levy, the M&A division’s co-
chairmen, the memo said.  Zaoui, who joined in  New York  in 1988 before moving to
London in 1989, became co-head of European M&A in 1999 and rose
to head of European investment banking in 2004, the memo said.
Zaoui became a managing director in 1997 and a partner in 1998.
Zaoui, like Gnodde, Solomon, Weinberg, Dyal and Cole, is a
member of the firm’s management committee.  Media, Telecommunications  Sykes, who joined the M&A department in New York in 1984
and moved to  Los Angeles  in 1987, was co-chairman of global M&A
and continues to serve as chairman of global technology, media
and telecommunications investment banking. He became a partner
in 1992 and is a member of the client and business standards
committee.  “Yoel and Gene bring international experience, strong
sector knowledge and deep client relationships to the mergers
leadership team,” said the memo, signed by Gnodde, Solomon and
Weinberg. They will “position the firm to continue to provide
seamless coverage to clients who increasingly operate as cross-
border institutions, seeking advice and execution expertise in
every region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 