-- 
Goldman Said to Plan Blackstone Challenge on Hedge-Fund Startups

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-05-16T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/goldman-sachs-said-to-ready-blackstone-challenge-for-hedge-fund-startups.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is seeking
money to bankroll fledgling hedge funds, its second attempt
since 2008 to break into a business now dominated by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , according to three people with knowledge of the plan.  The bank has spent the past year trying to attract clients
for a seeding fund, which provides managers with startup
investing capital in exchange for a cut of their fees, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the effort is
private. Blackstone recently raised $2.4 billion for its second
seeding fund, the industry’s biggest.  Reservoir Capital Group, Larch Lane Advisors LLC and
PineBridge Investments LLC also are marketing new funds, saying
it’s a good time to back startups because after the financial
crisis investors are reluctant to trust even talented traders
going out on their own. Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , shut a
fund in 2008, underscoring that betting on new managers can be
tricky even for one of Wall Street’s savviest firms.  “Seeding isn’t an easy-money business,” Alexis Graham,
co-founder of Acceleration Capital Group, a New York-based firm
that works with seed investors, said in a telephone interview.
“There are only a small percentage of people out there who can
consistently outperform, build a business and scale assets.”  About half of the 100 or so firms that financed startups
before 2008 have curtailed their investing or quit the industry,
Graham said. Reasons for the shakeout include poor manager
selection and hard-to-navigate financial markets.  Slice of Fees  Seeders generally invest $100 million to $150 million in a
hedge fund, providing a pool of capital to help the manager
begin trading. In return, the seeding fund gets 15 percent to 25
percent of the hedge fund’s fees. Hedge-fund managers typically
charge clients 2 percent of assets and take 20 percent of
investment gains.  The seed money is often locked up in the hedge fund for
three years, and seeders return initial capital to their
investors after about five years. Seeding funds retain their
ownership stake until it’s bought out by the manager or a third
party.  “If you have a 10-fund portfolio and three funds climb
over $1 billion, then the economics work and you have a
winner,” said Eric Weinstein, who runs the $4 billion fund-of-
fund business at Neuberger Berman Group LLC in New York. Seeders
target annual returns of about 12 percent to 15 percent for
their investors, he said.  Blackstone’s Returns  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, jumped
into seeding in 2007 with a $1.1 billion fund that took stakes
in eight managers. While one of the hedge funds failed in 2008,
the New York-based company’s portfolio has returned about 50
percent since inception, according to investors. The remaining
firms collectively manage $7 billion, and three have more than
$1 billion, including Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., run by ex-
Citadel LLC trader Nick Taylor in  Hong Kong .  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, plans
to seed managers through a new venture between its hedge-fund
strategies group, which allocates money to managers for clients,
and its Petershill Fund, which buys stakes in established money
managers, said the people familiar with the matter. They didn’t
disclose how much money Goldman Sachs is seeking for the effort,
which will be led by the firm’s Ali Raissi.  The bank’s seeding effort in 2008 involved financing two
hedge funds, one person said.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for the
bank, declined to comment.  Investor Caution  Demand for seed money tends to be strongest at times like
now, when hedge-fund investors are reluctant to put money into
new managers and instead focus on firms with established
records. When investors are willing to take more risk, startups
can get rolling without giving up equity to seeders.  Institutions have eschewed new managers since the end of
2008, when hedge funds lost an average of almost 20 percent,
their worst performance on record. In 2007, six new managers
started with about $1 billion or more. Last year there were two:
Pierre-Henri Flamand and Morgan Sze, both former heads of
Goldman Sachs’s global proprietary-trading groups. Such in-
demand funds don’t need seed investors.  There’s about $2.6 billion available to seed new mangers,
according to  Acceleration Capital , a unit of Arcadia Securities
LLC. That’s up from $1.3 billion in the second half of 2009. The
number of managers wanting to raise money is on the rise as
banks disband their proprietary trading desks to comply with
U.S. legislation that restricts trading with their own money.  “You have the highest-quality managers coming out of hedge
funds and proprietary desks, yet there is still an aversion from
institutions to invest on Day One,” said Robert Discolo,
managing director of New York-based PineBridge, which farms out
$4 billion in to hedge funds and is partnering with Larch Lane
for its latest fund.  Scaramucci Alters Strategy  While the timing may be good for seeding, SkyBridge Capital
LLC, run by Anthony Scaramucci, is changing its strategy after
losses. The New York-based firm, which has invested in 15
managers since 2006, terminated contracts with six of them, and
only Westport Capital Partners, a real estate fund, has
surpassed $1 billion in assets. SkyBridge’s oldest seeding fund
has lost 5.3 percent since the start of 2006.  “The performance is disappointing,” Scaramucci said. “I
thought seeding was like running a fund-of-funds with an equity
kicker, but it’s a venture capital business.”  Funds-of-funds select money managers for clients. A venture
capital fund invests in companies that are just getting started
or are in the process of developing their first products or
services.  Tiger Cubs  Scaramucci says he will focus on providing so-called
acceleration capital to smaller managers who’ve been in business
for a few years to help get them to a level where they can
attract more investors.  Julian Robertson , founder of Tiger Management LLC, started
seeding managers after he closed his New York hedge fund in
2000. Robertson has used an older model of seeding that gives
managers $25 million in exchange for a 25 percent stake. While
that worked in the earlier years, his newer seeds have had a
tough time climbing beyond $200 million in assets. Of the almost
40 managers he’s seeded, four surpassed $1 billion.  The pitfalls of seeding extend past managers whose returns
or asset growth don’t live up to expectations.  Among those that Robertson seeded is Bill Hwang’s Tiger
Asia Management LLC. The New York-based hedge fund is being
investigated by U.S. and Hong Kong regulators following
government allegations in Hong Kong of insider trading, the firm
told clients in October.  Tiger  Asia , which denied any wrongdoing, told clients it’s
cooperating with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
was fighting an injunction to freeze some of its assets filed by
the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission.  Insider Trading  Protege Partners LP, which was founded by Ted Seides and
Jeffrey Tarrant and oversees $3 billion, has seeded about 40
funds over nine years, of which about a dozen are still in
existence. New York-based Protege, which doesn’t run a dedicated
seeding fund, financed two startups last year and has yet to
invest in a fund this year.  The firm had invested in Barai Capital Management LP, the
New York-based hedge fund that shut this year after its founder,
Samir Barai, was arrested and accused by the government of
 insider trading . He has yet to enter a plea and has been in
talks with the U.S. on whether he will cooperate with the
government, prosecutors said in court papers filed in April.  The appeal of seeding hedge funds is rooted in the track
record of managers such as  Ken Griffin , who got $1 million from
Frank Meyer, founder of Glenwood Capital LLC, to start Chicago-
based Citadel in 1990. Griffin, 42, now manages $11 billion.  Och-Ziff  Daniel Stern, then president of Ziff Brothers Investments
LLC, seeded Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC, the New York-
based firm founded by Daniel Och in 1994. Och now oversees $29
billion. Stern, who later co-founded Reservoir Capital, had also
helped raise money for HBK Capital Management, which was started
by Harlan Korenvaes in 1991 with $30 million. The Dallas-based
firm has $5.7 billion in assets.  “Everyone seeks to replicate the successes of the seeders
during the 1990s when the pool of talent starting their own
hedge funds was smaller and made up of the most entrepreneurial
and innovative traders,” said Simon Irish, principal of New
York-based investment firm SWH Capital LLC, who previously ran
Man Group Plc’s North American seeding business.  “Now one needs better insights to identify the winners,
not the least given the fragility of the current economic
environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  