-- 
Goldman Sachs, BofA Said to Plan Loan Talks With New York Attorney General

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/goldman-sachs-bofa-said-to-plan-talks-with-ny-attorney-general.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley will meet with New York
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  as part of an investigation
into mortgage securitization, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The meetings, which will take place in coming weeks, were
requested by Schneiderman, 56, said the person, who didn’t want
to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.
Schneiderman, who took office in January, is examining mortgage
practices and the packaging and sale of loans to investors, the
person said.  Federal regulators and all 50 state attorneys general are
scrutinizing how the biggest U.S. financial firms handle home
loans. Last month, as states coordinated settlement talks with
banks over foreclosure practices, Schneiderman said that any
joint accord shouldn’t preclude individual states, such as New
York, from continuing their own inquiries.  Lauren Passalacqua, a spokeswoman for his office, declined
to comment on the planned meetings.  Michael DuVally , a spokesmen
for New York-based Goldman Sachs, and Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for Bank of America in Charlotte, North Carolina, also
declined to comment. Mark Lake, a spokesman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
didn’t return e-mails and phone calls seeking comment after
normal business hours.  In April, Bank of America was among 14 of the largest U.S.
mortgage servicers that signed consent decrees with authorities
including the Federal Reserve to improve foreclosure methods.
The firms promised to conduct reviews, overhaul procedures for
loan modifications and refinancing and pay back homeowners for
losses from home seizures that were mishandled.  Last July, Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle civil
fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission
over the 2007 sale of a mortgage-linked investment called
Abacus. The firm said it made a “mistake” by failing to
disclose to investors that a hedge fund was involved both in
structuring the investment and planning to bet against it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York  at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  