-- 
Google Sells $3 Billion of Bonds in ‘Home Run’ Debut Offering

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-16T20:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/google-plans-to-sell-3-billion-of-bonds-in-its-debut-three-part-offering.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  made its first foray into
the  bond market  with a $3 billion sale to pay back short-term
borrowings at relative yields comparable to companies with the
highest credit grade.  The bond sale was “a home run for Google,” said Lon Erickson, a  money manager  at Thornburg Investment Management
Inc. in Santa Fe,  New Mexico , who oversees $9 billion. “The big
pile of cash on the balance sheet and continued cash generation
makes people plenty comfortable to own that debt.”  Google, with total cash and marketable securities of $35
billion at yearend, according a regulatory filing, is tapping
the corporate bond market as investment-grade borrowing costs
tumble to about the lowest since November. Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Page , who replaced  Eric Schmidt  last month, is
ramping up spending to expand in mobile and video advertising
even as U.S. and European authorities mount investigations into
the company’s business practices.  The world’s biggest Internet-search company split the sale
evenly between three-, five- and 10-year notes, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 1.25 percent, three-year notes
yield 33 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the
2.125 percent, five-year debt pays a 43 basis-point spread, and
the 3.625 percent, 10-year securities offer 58 basis points
above benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  AAA Pricing  Mountain View , California-based Google, graded Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service and AA- by  Standard & Poor’s , paid
bond investors less than other AA rated companies have to offer
to sell similar securities. The average spread on AA rated bonds
was 105 basis points as of May 13, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  The  debt market  priced Google’s debt at the level of AAA
rated companies, which pay an average spread of 59 basis points,
the index shows.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker and one of
four non-financial U.S. companies with the top credit grade from
S&P and Moody’s, issued $2.25 billion of bonds in February,
Bloomberg data show.  That sale included $750 million of 2.5 percent, five-year
notes that priced to yield 38 basis points more than similar-
maturity Treasuries, and $500 million of 4 percent, 10-year debt
that paid 48 basis points more than benchmarks.  The offering will give the Internet search provider more
flexibility to spend cash in the U.S., Aaron Zamost, a Google
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. As of March 31,
Google’s foreign subsidiaries held $16.9 billion, or 46 percent,
of the company’s cash and marketable securities, according to
unaudited figures.  Reserves for Investigation  “We plan to use the proceeds to repay outstanding
commercial paper and for general corporate purposes,” Zamost
said.  Google set aside $500 million related to the possible
resolution of a U.S. Justice Department investigation of its
advertising business, resulting in lower first-quarter profit.  The expense trimmed net income to $1.8 billion, or $5.51 a
share, in the first quarter, Google said May 10 in a regulatory
filing.  Until now, Google has relied on a short-term debt financing
program that allowed it to borrow as much as $3 billion by
issuing commercial paper, according to the quarterly filing. The
debt has a weighted average interest rate of about 0.3 percent
and weighted average maturity of about 163 days, it said today
in a filing.  Commercial paper typically matures within 270 days and is
used to finance everyday activities such as payroll and rent.  Yield Levels  The average yield on investment-grade debt sold in the U.S.
fell to 3.78 percent on May 9, the lowest since Nov. 23, before
rising to 3.8 percent at the end of last week, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Google Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette said in a
December conference call that low  interest rates  hadn’t lured
the company into exploring financing through long-term debt.  “My job is to make sure that we have the perfect  capital
structure  that fits our strategic needs,” Pichette said. “If
at the right time we decided that actually more long-term debt
would make sense, right, we’d announce it.”  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. managed today’s bond sale, according to the regulatory
filing.  Texas Instruments Inc., the biggest analog-chip maker, and
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC are
also among a dozen companies marketing or selling at least $7.59
billion of corporate bonds in the U.S. today, Bloomberg data
show. Sales reached $36.3 billion last week, the most since the
period ended April 1, when $36.4 billion was issued.  Google “came with a bunch of other deals and still
attracted as much demand as it did,” Erickson said. “People
are still looking to buy fixed-income products and will pay up
for quality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  