-- 
Google’s Search Tactics Warrant Antitrust Scrutiny: Tom Barnett

-- B y   T o m   B a r n e t t
-- 
2011-05-16T16:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/google-s-search-tactics-warrant-antitrust-scrutiny-tom-barnett.html
The U.S. Justice Department stood up
for consumers last month by requiring  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to submit to
significant conditions on its takeover of ITA Software Inc., a
company that specializes in organizing airline data. The
department’s enforcement action was important. Almost 40 percent
of all online commerce relates to  travel , according to  comScore
Inc. (SCOR) , and ITA provides key flight search technology for Orbitz,
Kayak.com, Expedia Inc.’s TripAdvisor and many other travel
Websites.  According to the  department , without the judicially
monitored restrictions, Google’s control over this key asset
“would have substantially lessened competition among providers
of comparative flight search websites in the  United States ,
resulting in reduced choice and less innovation for consumers.”  While the department’s action goes far to protect online
travel site users, it doesn’t eliminate the threat to
competition posed by Google, both in travel and across the
Internet. Google already has control over an even more powerful
asset than ITA: its dominant search engine.  Google’s search engine has become the central nervous
system that enables users to navigate the hundreds of millions
of sites that exist on the Internet. Google accounts for more
than 70 percent of searches in the U.S. and more than 90 percent
in many other countries, according to  StatCounter Global Stats .
As a result, Google wields enormous power as it directs users
around the Internet.  Competing ‘Vertical’ Services  Initially, Google was only a general search engine and had
incentive to direct users to the sites most likely to answer
their queries. Now Google also offers services that compete with
other sites to provide specialized “vertical” search services
in particular segments (such as books, videos, maps and, soon,
travel) and information sought by users (such as hotel and
restaurant reviews in  Google Places ).  So Google now has an incentive to use its control over
search traffic to steer users to its own services and to
foreclose the visibility of competing websites.  There are numerous indications that Google is making it
difficult for other sites to compete, including the following:  -- Search Manipulation: Multiple companies have filed
 complaints  with the European Commission alleging that Google
improperly lowered their search rankings and essentially made
them disappear from Google’s search results.  Foundem , for example, is a UK-based shopping site that saw
its rankings drop suddenly and that was only returned to
visibility after journalists began asking Google some tough
questions.  Steering Users  -- Search Display: Google has led users to expect that the
top results it displays are those that its search algorithm
indicates are most likely to be relevant to their query. This is
why the vast majority of user clicks are on the top three or
four results.  Google now steers users to its own pages by inserting links
to its services at the top of the search results page, often
without disclosing what it has done. If you search for hotels in
a particular city, for example, Google frequently inserts links
to its Places pages.  -- Use of Content from Others: Google displays content from
other sites without their authorization to keep users on its own
web pages and away from the sites that invested in the creation
of that content.  For example, TripAdvisor has invested millions of dollars
to collect more than 40 million high-quality user reviews on
local hotels and restaurants. Google scrapes these reviews
without authorization from TripAdvisor’s pages and displays them
on its Places pages, in a manner that is often misleading and
even inaccurate.  When TripAdvisor demanded that Google cease and desist,
Google refused and sought to coerce TripAdvisor by tying the
removal of TripAdvisor content from Google’s Places pages to
removal of all TripAdvisor results from Google’s dominant search
engine. Sites such as  Yelp  have  voiced  similar complaints.  Government Attention  All of these activities by Google warrant serious antitrust
scrutiny. There are signs that the federal antitrust agencies --
Justice and the Federal Trade Commission -- recognize the need
to investigate.  The  Justice Department  in its ITA challenge expressly
reserved the question of whether Google’s conduct is unlawfully
maintaining or extending its search dominance, and it’s
requiring Google to report certain allegations of unfair
conduct. For their part, some FTC officials have publicly
expressed a concern over the state of competition in online
search.  It’s important for consumers that antitrust enforcers
thoroughly investigate Google’s activities to ensure that
competition and innovation on the Internet remain vibrant. The
ITA decision is a great win for consumers; even bigger issues
and threats remain.  (Tom Barnett, a partner at the Covington & Burlington law firm,
was assistant attorney general for antitrust at the U.S. Justice
Department from 2005-2008. He is an external counsel to  Expedia
Inc. (EXPE)  The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Tom Barnett at  tbarnett@cov.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rapp at   drapp5@bloomberg.net  