-- 
Gulf Gasoline Drops as Flood Impact ‘Reduced’ on Open Spillway

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-16T17:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/gulf-gasoline-drops-as-flood-impact-reduced-on-open-spillway.html
Gulf Coast gasoline slipped after
gates were opened on the Morganza floodway in  Louisiana  as a
measure to reduce pressure on the Mississippi River system,
whose swelling water levels threaten refinery operations.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is operating after shutting docks at its
Baton Rouge refinery, Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. Placid Refining Company LLC in Port
Allen made some adjustments to barge traffic and is also
operating normally, Rafael Bermudez, an outside spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  “With the opening of the floodgates, the major risk of
impact to the big refineries on the river has reduced,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Lawrence Eagles  said today
in a note to clients.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
 Gulf Coast  widened 3.62 cents to 5.75 cents a gallon at 1:05
p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel was at a
premium of 5 cents May 9. Prompt delivery slipped 16.15 cents to
$2.8917.  Placid’s 58,000-barrel-a-day refinery receives more than 97
percent of its crude supply by pipeline and most of the balance
by truck, and the refinery’s other miscellaneous feedstocks are
delivered primarily by truck, Bermudez said.  The diversion of water to the Atchafalaya River basin has
the potential to impact only one small refinery, which has been
preparing for floodwaters, Eagles wrote.  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  said levees should protect its 83,000-
barrel-a-day refinery near Krotz Springs, Louisiana, from
flooding from the Atchafalaya River.  Regular gasoline in  New York  Harbor widened its discount
1.13 cents to 4.13 cents a gallon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 