-- 
Iceland’s Gudmundsson Says Recovery Weak, Unemployment Near Peak

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-16T14:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/iceland-s-gudmundsson-says-recovery-weak-unemployment-near-peak.html
Mar Gudmundsson, Iceland’s central
bank governor, comments on the country’s economy and borrowing
plans. Gudmundsson spoke at a conference today in Brussels.  On Iceland’s gross domestic product growth and unemployment:  “The recovery is still weak and unemployment is still
close to the peak.”  “We are talking in our latest forecast about GDP growth of
2.5 to 3 percent in the near term and an  unemployment rate  only
falling gradually to 5 percent in 2013.”  On Iceland’s currency and inflation:  “The real  exchange rate  is 20 percent below the 30-year
average for Iceland and hopefully it will stay low for quite
some time. But we know that over time it will then appreciate.
And inflation has been close to the 2.5 percent target
recently.”  On Iceland’s  capital controls :  “We are now starting the process of lifting that, and we
hope that in the process we will stimulate investment.”  The Icelandic central bank’s first auction of foreign
currency against offshore kronur as part of a plan to pave the
way for the eventual lifting of capital controls could get under
way within days.  “I am hopeful that the first auction will be advertised
within two weeks. It could be advertised on Friday even.”  “The final details are being worked out. And then the
investors will get two weeks to bid, at least in the first
auction.”  “We are not talking about big amounts” because “we want to
test-trial the system. But then over time the auctions might
increase in frequency and size.”  Gudmundsson stressed the importance of Iceland returning to
international bond markets and said “that is now on the
agenda.” He said “a very significant accumulation of
reserves” amounting to 46 percent of GDP would help this plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  