-- 
Iceland Sets Sights on Euro Membership Even as Bloc’s Debt Crisis Deepens

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-16T13:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/iceland-sets-sights-on-euro-even-as-bloc-s-debt-crisis-deepens.html
Iceland is determined to join the
euro as soon as it meets the bloc’s criteria for the currency
switch, Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson said.  The Atlantic island, where krona losses helped generate a
 trade surplus  that carried the economy out of its 2008 banking
meltdown, will target the currency switch once it gains  European
Union  membership, Skarphedinsson said in an interview in
Greenland’s capital Nuuk.  Iceland is underlining its commitment to the euro as
European finance ministers meet in Brussels for the latest round
of talks to tackle the currency bloc’s debt crisis. Euro-skeptic
parties in some of the region’s AAA rated nations including
France and  Finland  have won support as voters balk at the
prospect of funding more bailouts that most investors in a
Bloomberg Global Poll say may fail to prevent defaults.  “The top shots in the EU are busy trying to work out these
problems,” Skarphedinsson said in the May 12 interview. “I
have full faith that they will be able to do so.”  Iceland started EU accession talks last year and would need
to wait about six or seven years before euro adoption could be
achieved, Skarphedinsson said. Accession remains attractive even
as the region’s debt crisis deepens because the turmoil is “a
temporary situation,” he said. “I’m not too worried -- by then
they will have sorted this out.”  Krugman Praise  Iceland’s financial collapse more than two years ago sent
the krona tumbling 80 percent against the euro offshore after
the island’s biggest banks were unable to secure short-term
funding. The government took control of the lenders, splitting
the foreign and domestic assets, heaping losses on international
bondholders while maintaining local deposit and payment
facilities.  The  central bank  then imposed capital restrictions to stem
the krona selloff that ensued. The measures were in contrast to
those taken in  Greece  and Ireland, where EU bailout terms
dictated bondholders be protected and euro membership prevented
the trade benefit of  currency depreciation .  Nobel economics laureate  Paul Krugman  has praised Iceland’s
model, calling it “bankrupting yourself to recovery” in a Nov.
24 New York Times column. The island’s currency decline
transformed at least six years of trade deficits into a surplus
one year after its banks collapsed. Unemployment dropped to 8.1
percent in April from 8.6 percent in March, the Directorate of
Labor said on May 12.  Economy, Trade  The krona gained 0.3 percent against the euro today to
trade at 163.17 at 12:58 p.m. in Reykjavik, its highest rate
since April 19.  Still, Iceland might have fared better if it had been
backed by the EU, Skarphedinsson said.  “The hard efforts that the EU is undertaking to shore up
the finances of those countries in dire straits show that it is
better to have the EU as your backbone than not,” he said.  Iceland’s economy will expand 1.5 percent this year and 2.6
percent in 2012, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said in its latest set of forecasts in November.
Ireland’s economy will grow 0.6 percent this year and 1.9
percent in 2012, the European Commission said on May 13.
Greece’s economy will contract 3.5 percent in 2011 and grow 1.1
percent next year, it said.  According to central bank Governor Mar Gudmundsson, Iceland
still needs a weak krona to buoy its economic recovery.  The currency’s real exchange rate is 20 percent below the
30-year average “and hopefully will stay low for quite some
time,” Gudmundsson said at a conference in Brussels today.
“The recovery is still weak and unemployment is still close to
the peak,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net 
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  