-- 
Microsoft Bing Adds Facebook Data

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-16T21:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/microsoft-s-bing-searches-add-facebook-data-to-show-what-friends-like-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is rolling out an
expansion to features on its Bing search engine that display
data from Facebook Inc., such as restaurants, brands and links
friends have recommended, aiming to make results more social.  The company is broadening the scope of a tool that lets
users who are searching for a restaurant, movie or news story
see if their friends have “liked” it on Facebook, the world’s
most popular social network. Searches for places will list
friends who live nearby, while looking for www.amazon.com shows
Amazon items “liked” by friends, as well as popular items
among the Facebook community, said Sean Suchter, general manager
of Microsoft’s Search Technology Center in Silicon Valley.  Since overhauling its search engine and releasing Bing in
June 2009, Microsoft has built the product into a credible
alternative to Google. Including traffic from a search agreement
with Yahoo! Inc., Bing now underpins about 30 percent of
searches in the U.S., according to ComScore Inc. With Google
still dominating, Microsoft is pushing forward with improvements
like social search as a way to gain more share.  “It’s not going to be something that overnight changes
people to Bing,” said Danny Sullivan, who runs the search-
analysis website Search Engine Land. He said Microsoft has
already rolled out some social features since signing an
agreement with Facebook in October. “The social evolution is
important and it is growing. It’s going to be an interesting
thing, but it’s not going to blow the doors off.”  Microsoft fell 46 cents to $24.57 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 12 percent
this year.  Compare With Friends  Bing’s travel site will add features to let customers
compare trips with Facebook friends and get their suggestions.
If a user likes a city on Bing  Travel , Bing will send flight
deals to the user’s Facebook feed. The Bing search tool bar will
now include a “like” button to let users recommend any site
they visit.  Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft already lets users
“friend” someone on Facebook from within search results and
shows searchers things their friends have liked. The company
this week is boosting how much Facebook data Bing scans, meaning
users will see more of these kinds of social results. The
features won’t show users information from friends who have set
up their Facebook accounts to be private, Suchter said.  To promote the social options, Microsoft will sponsor the
 Los Angeles  and New York premieres of the movie  “Hangover 2.” 
The company announced the expansion in a  blog post  today.  Online ‘Packs’  Information on friends’ recommendations can make searches
more useful and help get customers comfortable with researching
and purchasing online, said Chad Stoller, executive vice
president of digital strategy at advertising agency BBDO North
America.  “There’s a reason teenage girls shop in packs in the
mall,” he said. “Anything that can give people greater
confidence shopping online is a good thing, and social search
can give people that level of confidence.”  Having the Facebook data gives Microsoft an advantage over
Google, Stoller said. If  search engines  don’t combine social
data, they could lose one to three searches a day per customer,
because users who are spending more time on social networks like
Facebook will get links and references there and have less need
for search engines, he said.  “This is going to be the next big thing,” said Suchter,
who previously ran Yahoo’s search technology team before joining
Microsoft in December 2008. “This is one of those big sea
changes. We can make it where really your friends are always
with you.”  Google, Twitter  Suchter declined to say whether the deal with Facebook is
exclusive. He said he expects Google to try to match the
Microsoft offerings.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , uses Twitter
data to provide searchers information on what their friends have
shared. That feature is only available to people who use
Google’s Social Circles product, while Microsoft is showing
these search results more broadly, Search Engine Land’s Sullivan
said.  Suchter, who has worked in the Internet search area since
1998, oversees a team of about 130 search experts housed at
Microsoft’s Mountain View campus. The team has largely been
drawn from rivals over the past two years -- when Suchter
started at Microsoft, he was the only one, he said.  To build the product, Suchter said his team worked long
hours with Facebook engineers. Suchter said he’s done late night
software-coding sessions at their offices, and Facebook co-
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  did the same at Microsoft.  Suchter also has to make Microsoft co-founder  Bill Gates 
happy. Search is one of a handful of areas Gates continues to
work on since leaving his day-to-day role, and Suchter had his
first review of the social features with Gates several weeks
ago.  “This is an agenda for us,” Suchter said. “It’s much
bigger than what we are doing here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  