-- 
Tiger Woods Says He’s Likely to be Fit to Play in Next Month’s U.S. Open

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/tiger-woods-says-he-s-likely-to-be-fit-to-play-in-next-month-s-u-s-open.html
Tiger Woods said he expects to be fit
to play in golf’s  U.S. Open  next month.  Woods, 35, said he suffered no new damage when he
aggravated left knee and Achilles tendon injuries during the
Players championship last week. Woods withdrew on the first day
after playing nine holes.  “I’ll do whatever is necessary to play in the U.S. Open,
and I’m hopeful I can be there to compete,” Woods, a three-time
winner of the season’s second major championship, said in a
statement yesterday on his website.  Woods sustained the injuries last month during the third
round of the  Masters Tournament , the year’s first major.  On his opening tee shot at the Players championship, Woods
said he reinjured his sprained knee ligament, leading to the
aggravation of his tendon and left calf.  While there’s no time frame for healing, he said it’s
doubtful he’ll play in the Memorial Tournament, scheduled for
June 2-5 in Dublin,  Ohio , and will instead undergo
rehabilitation and work on strengthening his leg. Doctors have
advised rest, cold-water therapy and soft-tissue treatment.  The U.S. Open is scheduled for June 16-19 at Congressional
Country Club outside  Washington . The last U.S. PGA Tour event
before the tournament is the St. Jude Classic in Memphis,
 Tennessee , from June 9-12.  “Playing prior to the U.S. Open will be a week-to-week
decision,” Woods said on his website.  Woods, who has 14 major championships, hasn’t won a
tournament since November 2009. He’s fallen to No. 8 in the
Official World Golf Ranking after holding the No. 1 spot for a
record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  