-- 
High Court Rebuffs Alleged Torture Victims in Secrecy Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-16T14:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/high-court-rebuffs-alleged-torture-victims.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, refusing to
question the federal government’s power to withhold information
for national security reasons, rejected an appeal by five men
who say the CIA had them shipped to foreign countries to be
tortured.  The court today left intact an appeals court decision
dismissing their suit against a  Boeing Co. (BA)  unit on the grounds
that it would inevitably expose state secrets. The Boeing unit,
Jeppesen Dataplan, allegedly provided planning and logistical
support for the flights as part of the Central Intelligence
Agency’s “extraordinary rendition” program.  Human-rights groups urged the high court to take up the
case, saying the government is increasingly using the so-called
state secrets privilege to block lawsuits. The Bush and Obama
administrations have invoked state secrets in seeking dismissal
of suits over National Security Agency eavesdropping and a
potential effort to kill a U.S. citizen suspected of terrorism.  “A broad range of official misconduct has been shielded
from judicial review after government officials have invoked the
privilege to avoid adjudication,” the five men argued in their
appeal, filed by the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court upheld
dismissal of the lawsuit on a 6-5 vote. President  Barack Obama ’s
top Supreme Court lawyer joined the Boeing unit in urging the
justices to let that ruling stand.  “The government’s interest in national security must be
deemed paramount to the interests of private litigants in
pursuing civil actions,” acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal argued in court papers.  Torture Allegations  The men pressing the suit come from five countries. Ahmed
Agiza, an Egyptian, says he was seized in  Sweden  and flown to
 Egypt , where he was tortured. Abou Elkassim Britel, an Italian
of Moroccan origin, alleges he was arrested in Pakistan and sent
to face torture, including sexual abuse, in Morocco.  Binyam Mohamed, an Ethiopian, says he was seized in
 Pakistan , tortured in Morocco and  Afghanistan  and later sent to
the U.S. base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Bisher Al-Rawi, an Iraqi,
says he was arrested in Gambia, flown to Afghanistan to be
tortured and later sent to Guantanamo. Mohamed Farag Ahmad
Bashmilah, a Yemeni, allegedly was apprehended in Jordan and
sent to both Afghanistan and an unknown country. Some of the men
are still imprisoned while others have been released.  The men sued only Jeppesen, not the U.S. government. The
U.S. intervened in the case and urged dismissal, pointing to a
statement by then-CIA Director Michael Hayden that any further
litigation would risk disclosure of state secrets.  At the  Supreme Court , the five men argued that the state
secrets privilege is designed to shield particular pieces of
evidence, not to justify the dismissal of an entire suit.  The case is Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan, 10-778.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 