-- 
IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Jailed at New York’s Rikers Island in Assault Case

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/imf-chief-strauss-kahn-ordered-held-without-bail-on-sex-assault-accusation.html
International Monetary Fund chief
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , accused of sexually assaulting and
attempting to rape a hotel housekeeper, is being held without
bail at New York’s Rikers Island jail complex while awaiting his
next court appearance on May 20.  A Manhattan judge yesterday refused to release Strauss-
Kahn, two days after he was pulled off an Air France flight as
it prepared to leave  John F. Kennedy International Airport . He
faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of the most
serious charge, said prosecutors, who convinced Criminal Court
Judge Melissa Jackson that he may flee if freed.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, “restrained a hotel employee inside of
the room,” Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Artie
McConnell told the judge at a packed bail hearing in lower
 Manhattan . “He sexually assaulted her and attempted to forcibly
rape her. When he was unsuccessful, he forced her to perform
oral sex on him.”  A potential candidate for the French presidency, Strauss-
Kahn denies the accusations, said his lawyer, Benjamin Brafman.
The IMF chief is charged with criminal sexual acts, attempted
rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching,
according to court papers. He didn’t enter a plea yesterday;
Brafman has said he will plead not guilty. He is scheduled to
return to court on May 20.  ‘No Incentive’  “He has almost no incentive to stay in this country,”
McConnell told the judge, arguing for Strauss-Kahn to be held
without bail. The prosecutor said  France  doesn’t extradite its
own citizens. “If he went to France, we would have no legal
mechanism that guarantees his return,” he said.  McConnell said the international dignitary has
“substantial financial resources” and “an extensive network
of contacts throughout the world.”  Brafman asked the judge to let his client stay with his
daughter, who lives in Manhattan, while awaiting trial. Brafman
told the judge that Strauss-Kahn was prepared to post $1 million
bail from his wife, television journalist Anne Sinclair, who was
flying to New York yesterday.  Strauss-Kahn was on his way to see German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  when he was taken into custody, Brafman said. After the
hearing, Brafman told reporters at the courthouse that he would
review the bail decision.  The alleged attack on a 32-year-old woman at a Sofitel
hotel in midtown Manhattan occurred May 14, according to the  New
York  Police Department. It took place after the woman entered
Strauss-Kahn’s $3,000-a-night suite, where he had been staying
since the day before, police said.  Alleged Attack  Strauss-Kahn is alleged to have emerged from a bathroom
naked, New York Police Deputy Commissioner  Paul Browne  said. The
complaint says the alleged attack occurred around noon.  According to the criminal complaint, Strauss-Kahn “engaged
in oral sexual conduct and anal sexual conduct with another
person by forcible compulsion.” He allegedly closed the door of
the room to keep the woman from leaving, grabbed her breasts and
tried to pull down her pantyhose, according to court papers.  The maid escaped and notified co-workers who called the
police, Browne said. The maid picked Strauss-Kahn out of a
lineup, police said.  “The victim provided very powerful details consistent with
violent sexual assault,” McConnell told the judge. He said her
accounts are corroborated by findings in a hospital exam. He
also said that while results aren’t back yet from the crime-
scene unit’s processing of the hotel room, there may be forensic
evidence supporting her version of events.  ‘Similar’ Conduct  McConnell told the judge there had been a report that
Strauss-Khan had “engaged in conduct similar to the conduct
alleged in this complaint on at least one other occasion”
outside the U.S.  Brafman said in court that he couldn’t respond to
allegations made outside the U.S., adding that there wasn’t any
criminal prosecution.  Strauss-Kahn gave police permission to examine him for
physical evidence of scratches and DNA from his accuser,
according to Brafman.  Every seat in the courtroom was full for yesterday’s bail
hearing as the judge dealt with public-urination and drug-
possession cases. When Strauss-Kahn’s case was called, more
reporters, along with photographers, were allowed to stand in
the room.  Air France Flight  When officers arrived at the hotel, Strauss-Kahn wasn’t
there and his mobile phone was left behind, he said. Strauss-
Kahn was later taken off the Air France flight by Port Authority
police. He was held in a cell in an East Harlem precinct house,
where the NYPD’s Special Victims Unit is located. The unit
handles sex-crime cases.  New York police said Strauss-Kahn doesn’t have diplomatic
immunity. The French Foreign Ministry in Paris said a French
consul visited Strauss-Kahn in detention.  French law doesn’t allow extradition of its citizens to the
U.S., according to Stephane Bonifassi, a white-collar crime
lawyer in Paris. Were Strauss-Kahn to flee, France could offer
to take up the prosecution, he said.  “We have a consistent itinerary where the defendant was,
who he was with all during the succeeding hours, twelve noon
until he arrived at Kennedy Airport,” Brafman told the judge,
adding that the flight had been scheduled for days.  Cell Phone  “When he gets to the airport, he gets a call from the
hotel concerning his cell phone,” Brafman said. “He has more
than one phone and tells them where he is. He makes arrangements
to get the phone. This is not consistent with someone who is
trying to conceal his whereabouts.”  Brafman said the Manhattan District Attorney’s office had
his client’s only passport. The attorney said a laissez-passer
travel document was in Strauss-Kahn’s Washington office and that
William Taylor, his lawyer there, would take possession of it.  “This court’s decision is he is a flight risk and he is
remanded,” Jackson said.  Brafman said he might come back with a bail package for
possible consideration. He suggested an electronic monitoring
ankle bracelet and a requirement that Strauss-Kahn stay in the
U.S. might be included.  Strauss-Kahn will be held in protective custody in a
single-person cell as he awaits trial, and kept away from other
inmates when he’s out of his cell, Stephen Morello, a spokesman
for the  New York City  Department of Correction, said in a
telephone interview.  Turkey Burgers  Morello said Strauss-Kahn was strip-searched and had to
undergo physical and mental examinations before being moved to
the West Facility at Rikers Island. West Facility primarily
houses inmates with contagious diseases and can also be used for
prisoners who need to be separated from others, he said.  Rikers Island , New York City’s main jail complex, lies off
the shore of northern Queens opposite LaGuardia Airport. Its 415
acres house about 10 separate jails, according to the Department
of Correction. There are more than 10,000 inmates on Rikers
Island on a daily basis, Morello said. Detainees are entitled to
three one-hour visits a week, not including attorney and
physician visits.  If Strauss-Kahn arrived in time for dinner, he would have
been served “turkey burgers with mashed potatoes and steamed
carrots,” Morello said.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 