-- 
IMF in Wake of Scandal Turns to Lipsky as Talks Over Greece Remedy Persist

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-16T17:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/imf-in-wake-of-scandal-turns-to-lipsky-as-talks-on-greek-bailout-persist.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
turned to  John Lipsky  when it was ordered to develop an early-
warning system to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial
meltdown. Now, the IMF is calling on him to guide it through its
own crisis.  Lipsky, 64, was named acting managing director yesterday
after the fund’s chief, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, was charged with
attempted rape and a criminal sex act on a New York hotel maid.
Lipsky, who has been first deputy managing director since 2006,
takes temporary leadership of the Washington-based IMF as it
tries to stem the European sovereign-debt crisis and deal with
Greece’s request for a bigger financial lifeline.  Lipsky, who once served as chief economist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Salomon Brothers Inc. in New York and
represented the IMF in Chile, is described by colleagues as a
steady hand who can give the fund some stability in the
aftermath of Strauss-Kahn’s arrest. His promotion came three
days after the IMF said he would be leaving when his term as the
No. 2 official ends on Aug. 31. That could result in an
“awkward period,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “He can carry the ball effectively for the next few
months, but I wouldn’t count on anything more from him,” said
Prasad, who worked with Lipsky as division chief of the IMF’s
financial studies division. Given Lipsky’s plans to leave, he’s
unlikely to push any “major initiatives,” Prasad said.  IMF spokesman William Murray said Lipsky wouldn’t comment
on his new appointment.  Held Without Bail  Strauss-Kahn was ordered held without bail by a  New York 
judge today. He didn’t enter a plea. Strauss-Kahn has denied the
charges and will plead not guilty, his lawyer, Benjamin Brafman,
has said.  European finance ministers will tackle Greece’s financing
needs at meetings in Brussels today. Also on the agenda are the
approval of 78 billion euros ($110 billion) in aid for Portugal
and the nomination of Bank of  Italy  Governor Mario Draghi to be
the next president of the  European Central Bank .  In late 2008, the Group of 20 finance ministers asked the
IMF to develop a so-called Early Warning Exercise. The effort
“assesses low-probability but high-impact risks to the global
economy and identifies policies to mitigate them,” the IMF said
in a fact sheet last month.  Lipsky was a leader of the effort, emphasizing the
importance of specifically identifying potential hazards.  ‘Identifying Vulnerabilities’  “I do not mean that the IMF should enter the crisis-
prediction business -- as this potential role already is filled
with an army of prognosticators -- but rather to undertake a
more focused job of carefully identifying vulnerabilities and
risks, and proposing specific remedies,” he said in a December
2008 speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  For example, special investment vehicles that banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  used to remove risky assets from their
balance sheets “should have been flagged and dealt with before
they caused the crisis,” Lipsky said in the speech.  Lipsky’s experience in crisis management and prevention
“makes him uniquely qualified to help resolve the European
sovereign debt” problems, said Miranda Xafa, a senior financial
strategist with IJ Partners SA in Geneva and a former IMF deputy
executive director. That experience includes his role in coping
with the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980s, Xafa said.  Lipsky was forced to negotiate delicate situations as long
as three decades ago, when he was the IMF’s resident
representative in Chile from 1978 to 1980, during General
Augusto Pinochet’s military dictatorship.  Role in  Chile   “This was a difficult period in Chile and he really
managed things well,” said Claudio Loser, former director of
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the IMF. “The fund was very
involved in the economy and he did well without compromising the
position of the fund.”  Martin Redrado , former president of Argentina’s central
bank, has followed Lipsky’s career since both worked at Salomon
in the 1980s.  “He was and is a very talented economist, probably one of
top in the world right now,” Redrado said in an interview in
Buenos Aires.  Lipsky was Salomon’s chief economist in the 1990s after
working in  London  as head of the firm’s European Economic and
Market Analysis Group.  He worked at the IMF for 10 years before joining Salomon in
1984, and helped lead the fund’s exchange-rate surveillance and
analyzed global capital markets. He received a bachelor’s degree
from  Wesleyan University  in Middletown,  Connecticut , and a
doctorate in economics from  Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,
 California .  Doesn’t Seek Limelight  Unlike Strauss-Kahn, Lipsky is “low-key” and doesn’t seek
the spotlight, said Prasad, who described him as “capable” and
“methodical.”  Tom Block, a consultant and former head of government
relations for JPMorgan, said he found Lipsky to be “very
plugged into senior policy officials at Treasury, IMF and the
Fed” when they were both working at the bank.  When the IMF announced May 12 that Lipsky would be leaving
his post at the end of August, it also said he would stay on as
a “special adviser” through the G-20 summit in November at the
request of Strauss-Kahn, 62.  He was appointed by Strauss-Kahn’s predecessor, Rodrigo de Rato, at a time when the IMF was criticized as irrelevant. That
was before the worldwide financial panic triggered by the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Since then, the fund had its resources tripled by the G-20,
has helped rescue economies from  Ukraine  to  Greece  and was
assigned by leaders a host of new missions that prompted the
institution to raise its budget last month.  “He may not be by nature a politician,” said Loser, the
former IMF official, of Lipsky, whom he has known for at least
35 years. “But this may be a very good thing for the fund at
this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  