-- 
India’s Rupee Falls as Europe Debt Concern Boosts Dollar Demand

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-05-16T04:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/india-s-rupee-falls-as-europe-debt-concern-boosts-dollar-demand.html
India ’s rupee dropped to an eight-
week low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen bolstered
demand for the dollar.  European finance ministers meet today to discuss further
support for Greece, which will plead for a boost in its 110
billion-euro ($155 billion) financial assistance from the
region’s governments and the  International Monetary Fund . India
is expected to revise its economic growth target downward,
Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser to the finance ministry,
said May 12.  “Europe’s debt crisis is one reason” for the weakening
currency, said Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in Singapore. “Rising inflation and economic growth
are a concern for the rupee. The central bank raised  interest
rates  a little more than expected in the last round.”  The rupee dropped 0.5 percent to 45.0898 per dollar as of
9:25 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 45.0975, the weakest level since March 21.  India’s economic growth may slow to “around 8 percent” in
the year that began April 1 from an estimated 8.6 percent in the
previous 12 months, the  Reserve Bank  of India said May 3. The
country’s gross domestic product may grow as much as 9.25
percent this year, the finance ministry said in February.  A report today will show wholesale prices increased by 8.50
percent in April from a year earlier, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compared with
8.98 percent in March. The central bank raised borrowing costs
by half a percentage point on May 3.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.79 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.60
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  