-- 
Iran’s President Ahmadinejad to Run Oil Ministry After Minister Dismissed

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-05-16T12:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/iran-s-president-ahmadinejad-to-run-oil-ministry-after-minister-dismissed.html
Iran  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
said he will oversee the country’s Oil Ministry following the
dismissal of its minister, Masoud Mir-Kazemi, as part of a plan
to shrink government administration.  “I am the caretaker for the Oil Ministry,” Ahmadinejad
said in an interview on Iran state television late yesterday.  The move, part of a plan to improve government efficiency
and reduce the number of ministries to 17 from 21 by 2015, was
in line with an earlier May 9 announcement that the Oil Ministry
would merge with the Energy Ministry.  Oil is Iran’s biggest source of foreign revenue, with the
price of Iran Light crude gaining 22 percent so far this year to
$108.45 a barrel. The ministry oversaw efforts to boost refinery
processing to avoid shortages of gasoline following U.S.
pressure to curb international sales of the motor fuel to Iran.  Two days ago, the president dismissed Mir-Kazemi as well as
Industry and Mines MinisterAli Akbar Mehrabian and Welfare
Minister Sadegh Mahsouli, saying their responsibilities had
ended. Among other ministries, Industries and Mines is to be
combined with Commerce, while Welfare will merge with Labor.  Approval of Parliament  The move drew criticism from parliamentary members who said
the decision had been hasty and that the president had failed to
consult them on details of the mergers. The president should
have sought parliamentary approval for the structural changes as
well as dismissals and appointments, Ahmad Tavakoli, head of the
parliament’s research center, said May 14.  The dismissals weren’t “necessary” or “legal,” senior
lawmaker Mohammad Reza Bahonar said yesterday, according to the
state-run  Press TV  channel. “No new ministry will be
established until the parliament approves its mandate.”  Ahmadinejad rejected the criticisms, saying that his
decision would ensure a swift implementation of the law and was
to the country’s benefit.  “It is in the interest of the country to have a smaller
government,” he said last night, adding that removing ministers
“will not lead to complications in the management of the
ministries.”  OPEC Role  Ahmadinejad yesterday appointed Commerce Minister Mehdi Ghazanfari to oversee the Industry and Mines Ministry and Labor
Minister Abdolreza Sheikholeslami to take over the Welfare
Ministry. He didn’t name a caretaker for the Oil Ministry.  Iran, the second-largest crude producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , currently
holds the group’s presidency, which changes each year. The group
holds its next ministerial conference on June 8 in Vienna.
Traditionally, the formal meeting begins with a speech by the
OPEC President. OPEC officials in Vienna couldn’t immediately
say who would head Iran’s delegation.  Oil revenue accounts for about three-fourths of Iran’s
budget.  Gholamhossein Hassantash, a former president at the  Tehran-
based Institute for International Energy Studies , warned against
such “blows” delivered to the oil industry and economy,
especially given the pressure of international sanctions amid
the government’s insistence on pursuing nuclear activities.  Field Delays  “Top energy officials have warned about a drop in the
country’s oil production, which is partly due to economic
sanctions,” Hassantash wrote in a note posted on his  website 
May 14. In addition, projects related to Iran’s joint fields, in
particular the South Pars natural gas field that it shares with
Qatar, are facing significant delays, he said.  “The interests and rights of the country are at stake,”
Hassantash wrote. “Shouldn’t decisions be such that they don’t
damage even more the country’s rights?”  Nigeria  is another OPEC nation that has, at times, put its
president in charge of the oil portfolio. Olusegun Obasanjo, who
was Nigerian president for the seven-year period ended 2006, was
often nominally in charge of the ministry, which was run by
junior oil ministers and advisers, in part to placate concern
about alleged corruption by previous cabinet-level oil
ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  