-- 
Mitsubishi UFJ Sees 2.9% Profit Boost on Acom, Morgan Stanley Conversion

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 
2011-05-16T09:13:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/mitsubishi-ufj-sees-profit-increase-of-2-9-to-7-4-billion.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest publicly traded bank, targeted a 2.9 percent
profit increase this year after a recovery at its consumer
lending unit and the slated conversion of Morgan Stanley shares.  Net income will climb to 600 billion yen ($7.4 billion) in
the year ending March 2012 from 583.1 billion yen last year, the
Tokyo-based bank said in a statement today. That compares with
the median 585.2 billion yen profit estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi UFJ is set to reap income from its Acom Co.
consumer-lending unit this year and a $2 billion premium related
to the conversion of Morgan Stanley preferred stock, making up
for waning bank loans. Still, the profit outlook for the bank
and its rivals has clouded over remarks last week by a
government official signaling that they should consider
forgiving loans to the operator of a stricken nuclear plant.  “A swing to profit at Acom as well as the  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
shareholding increase will perhaps be drivers for a better
profit scenario at Mitsubishi UFJ,”  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-
based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd., said before
today’s announcement. The risk of writing off loans to  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co. presents a “a new risk to megabanks,” he said.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that it may cut the
debt ratings of  Tokyo Electric  creditors including Mitsubishi
UFJ should they forgive loans made to the utility before a
record earthquake and tsunami crippled its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant.  Tepco Loans  “About 2 trillion yen of loans to Tepco from megabanks and
life insurance companies offered before the March quake would
virtually fall to a default status if the financial institutions
were to write them off,” Moody’s analysts led by Tetsuya Yamamoto, Tokyo-based vice president of the financial
institutions group, wrote in a report.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters on May
13 “people won’t support” using taxpayer money for Tokyo
Electric unless banks waive some loans made before the crisis.
Mitsubishi UFJ and rivals  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  had combined loans of at least
381 billion yen to Tokyo Electric as of March 31 last year.  “Mr. Edano’s comments came out of the blue and seem
unreasonable,” Mitsubishi UFJ Chief Executive Officer Katsunori Nagayasu told reporters in Tokyo today. “It seems that the
government stepped into relations between private businesses.”  Rivals’ Forecasts  Sumitomo Mitsui , Japan’s second-largest bank by market
value, last week forecast profit will drop 16 percent to 400
billion yen this fiscal year on higher costs for soured loans.
Mizuho, the third biggest, said profit will gain 11 percent to
460 billion yen as higher fees and demand for brokerage services
help offset an increase in bad-loan provisions.  Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ have lost 15 percent since the
March 11 quake. They declined 1.6 percent to 377 yen today
before the earnings were released.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s net income declined 82 percent to 31.3
billion yen in the three months ended March from a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg calculations derived from today’s report.
Lending profit fell 0.5 percent to 523.6 billion yen, while
income from trading bonds and other securities surged 51 percent
to 34.7 billion yen.  Acom, the country’s biggest consumer lender and more than
35 percent owned by Mitsubishi UFJ, said last week it will post
42.9 billion yen profit this year after overcharged interest
repayments led to a 202.6 billion yen loss a year earlier. A law
change in 2010 forced Japanese consumer lenders to set aside
cash to refund customers for overcharged interest.  Morgan Stanley Stake  Mitsubishi UFJ last month agreed to exchange $7.8 billion
of convertible preferred stock in Morgan Stanley for common
shares that will give it a 22 percent stake in the U.S.
investment bank, making it the biggest common shareholder.  The Japanese bank is set to get a $2 billion premium on the
share sale in return for giving up a 10 percent dividend on the
preferred shares. Mitsubishi UFJ acquired the stake when it
invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley in October 2008.  Demand for bank loans in Japan rose in the month after the
March 11 earthquake for the first time in two years, a central
bank survey showed last month. Businesses sought 7.5 trillion
yen in loans from the three biggest banks.  Still, a 17-month lending slump is likely to continue as
companies and households hoard cash, said analysts including
Yamanaka at MF Global.  Consumer confidence  tumbled to a two-year
low in April, Cabinet Office figures showed today.  “Megabanks will face sluggish corporate lending demand at
home,” Yamanaka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 