-- 
J.M. Smucker Completes Acquisition of Rowland Coffee

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-05-17T14:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/j-m-smucker-completes-acquisition-of-rowland-coffee-roasters.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous reference to Dunkin’ Donuts
ownership in the first paragraph of a story that ran May 16.)  J.M. Smucker Co., the third biggest
U.S. coffee maker, said it completed the acquisition of Rowland
Coffee Roasters Inc.’s coffee brands and business operations for
$360 million.  The purchase of the Miami-based seller of Hispanic brands
Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon will help J.M. Smucker of Orrville,
 Ohio , expand its coffee business in the northeast of the U.S.
and southern  Florida , where Rowland Coffee’s distribution
channels are concentrated, according to a statement today.  Rowland Coffee is the first company that J.M. Smucker
acquired since it bought Folgers Coffee Co. from  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  in 2008, according to a filing with the Security and
Exchange Commission. J.M. Smucker, led by Co-Chief Executive
Officers Timothy Smucker and Richard Smucker, gained 30 percent
in the past year, compared with 17 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The company fell 22 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$75.22 in New York Stock Exchange trading today.  “The addition of the Cafe Bustelo and Cafe Pilon coffee
brands, each with a rich heritage, provides us with a unique
opportunity to establish a strong presence in coffee with
Hispanic consumers in the U.S.,” said Richard Smucker in the
statement.  J.M. Smucker said the merger will add about 5 cents a share
to fiscal 2012 earnings, excluding the one-time costs of the
transaction, which may reach as much as $30 million, according
to the statement. About $10 million of the one-time costs will
be incurred in fiscal 2012 and the rest through 2014.  Manufacturing Consolidated  Manufacturing operations will be consolidated into J.M.
Smucker’s coffee facilities in  New Orleans  in about three years,
the company said.  Sales at privately held Rowland Coffee surpassed $110
million in 2010, the statement said.  J.M. Smucker started in 1897, when Jerome Smucker opened a
mill and first pressed cider in Orrville, Ohio, according to the
company’s  website . He then began selling apple butter from the
back of a horse-drawn wagon.  Smucker’s sells products such as ice cream toppings, jams
and syrups under its name. The company owns more than 30 brands
in the U.S. and  Canada  and exports its products globally,
according to a  SEC filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  