-- 
Jana Partners Increased Stake in Energy Stocks in 1Q By 26%

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-05-16T21:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/jana-partners-increased-stakes-in-energy-holdings-by-26-in-1q.html
Jana Partners LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that oversees about $3 billion, increased its stake
in energy companies by 26 percent in the first quarter,
according to Bloomberg data based on a regulatory filing today.  Jana, run by Barry Rosenstein, added about 23 million
shares in Houston-based  El Paso Corp. (EP) , making it the firm’s
biggest U.S.-listed holding, according to a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Jana also acquired almost
800,000 shares in  Sunoco Inc. (SUN) , based in Philadelphia.  Today’s filing shows Jana reduced its stakes in financials
and information technology stocks in the first quarter, selling
almost 57,000 shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc.,
and all of its almost 1.6 million shares of San Francisco-based
 Visa Inc. (V)  Jana also sold its stake in Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and 77 percent of its holding in the SPDR Gold Trust
fund, bringing its ownership to 203,531 shares as of March 31.  Jana Partners is an event-driven fund, meaning it generally
invests in companies undergoing changes such as mergers,
spinoffs and bankruptcies. Charles Penner, a Jana spokesman,
declined to comment.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in U.S.
equities must file a  Form 13F  within 45 days of the end of each
quarter to list their holdings in stocks that trade on U.S.
exchanges, as well as options and convertible debt.  Hedge funds  are lightly regulated pools of capital whose
managers can invest in any asset, and share in annual profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 