-- 
Japan Machine Orders Unexpectedly Rose in March, Withstanding Quake Impact

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-05-16T02:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/japan-s-machinery-orders-unexpectedly-rose-in-march-despite-record-quake.html
Japan’s machinery orders unexpectedly
rose even amid factory shutdowns, power shortages and supply-
chain disruptions caused by a record earthquake.  Factory orders rose 2.9 percent in March from February,
when they dropped a revised 1.9 percent, the Cabinet Office said
today in Tokyo. Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in
three to six months, were projected to fall 10 percent,
according to the median forecast of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The report bolsters the view that the world’s third-biggest
economy is regaining momentum after the earthquake and tsunami
that left more than 24,000 dead or missing and caused a nuclear
radiation crisis. Tokyo-based Hitachi Construction Machinery
Co., the world’s biggest maker of giant excavators, said it
expects to be back to full production capacity as early as this
week.  “We thought it was too soon for companies to get their
reconstruction plans in place, but this shows that they were
already preparing to repair their facilities in March,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.
“Japanese manufacturing’s going to be back earlier than we had
expected, and we’ll soon start to see capital spending boosts as
well.”  The yen traded at 81.03 per dollar at 10:57 a.m. in Tokyo,
and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent to 9,592.71.  Restrictions Relaxed  The government is asking companies and households to
restrict power use by 15 percent this summer, less than its
earlier prediction that savings of at least 20 percent would be
necessary. Tokyo Electric Power Co. said on May 13 it plans to
raise its power capacity to 56.2 million kilowatts by the end of
August, 94 percent of last summer’s peak.  Companies surveyed by the government forecast orders will
increase 10 percent in the three months ending June 30, the
report showed, which would be the biggest advance since 1989.
From a year earlier, machinery orders rose 6.8 percent in March,
today’s report showed.  Production at five Hitachi Construction plants in Ibaraki
prefecture, north of  Tokyo , will probably return to 100 percent
capacity this week, Chief Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa
said in an interview. Output in late April dipped to 60 percent
of capacity, he said.  “We still face uncertainties about procurement of some
parts,” Kikawa, 63, said on May 11. “But things are far
better.”  Output Increases  A government report showed last month that companies plan
to increase factory output 3.9 percent in April and 2.7 percent
in May, after a record decline in March.  Nissan Motor Co.’s net income was 30.8 billion yen ($380
million) for the three months ended March 31, beating the 23
billion yen average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan ’s economy probably contracted at an annual 2 percent
pace in the three months ended March 31, according to the median
estimate of 22 economists surveyed by the Bloomberg News. That
would be the first time the economy shrank for two straight
quarters since the global financial crisis. The report will be
released May 19.  “The level of economic activity may already be on the
mend,”  Hiroshi Shiraishi , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
Tokyo, said before the report. “With the outlook for power
supply this summer so much better than before, it now seems
likely that the economy will continue trending higher.”  Better Than Expected  Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  last week
expressed optimism about a turnaround, saying that the
disaster’s effect on output was “smaller than first thought.”  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration plans a second
extra budget to pay for reconstruction, following an initial 4
trillion yen ($50 billion) package that it says may create about
200,000 jobs. The government in March estimated that damage from
the disaster may swell to as high as 25 trillion yen.  Companies said it’s hard to predict how the earthquake will
affect machine orders in coming months, said Minoru Masujima,
head of statistics at the Cabinet Office.  “Given the current state of the economy after the quake,
corporate earnings will likely deteriorate toward the July-
September period and growth expectations are low,”  Hiroshi
Watanabe , an economist at the Daiwa Institute of Research in
Tokyo. “We should stay cautious about the outlook for capital
spending.”  Producer Prices  Japan’s producer prices rose 2.5 percent in April from a
year earlier, the biggest jump since October 2008, a separate
report released by the  Bank of Japan  showed in Tokyo today. The
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 2.1 percent increase.  The central bank will “carefully monitor” whether
sustained gains in oil gains will spur inflation expectations,
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said on April 28. The March 11
earthquake may only have a small effect on Japan’s prices should
longer-term inflation expectations remain stable, the bank said
in a report released last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  