-- 
Paulson Takes $1 Billion Hewlett-Packard Stake, Adds to Gold Bet

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 
2011-05-17T20:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/john-paulson-s-fund-took-1-billion-hp-stake-bought-lubrizol-last-quarter.html
Paulson & Co., the $36 billion hedge
fund founded by  John Paulson , took a stake in  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  and increased its holding of  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , adding
companies undergoing transformations to its bets on gold.  Paulson bought 25 million shares in Hewlett-Packard, valued
at about $1 billion, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.
The New York-based fund added 17.3 million shares of Transocean,
lifting its stake to 7.7 percent and making Paulson the largest
holder of the Vernier, Switzerland-based offshore driller.  The hedge fund has said it expects to make money in the
next two years with the stocks of companies going through
bankruptcy, restructuring or reorganization. Transocean, the
owner and operator of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that
exploded a year ago, was sued by BP Plc last month for billions
of dollars in damages related to the  oil spill . Hewlett-Packard
is pushing deeper into software to try to reverse a 22 percent
drop in its shares in the past year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson, declined to comment
on the stock purchases.  Leo Apotheker , who took over as Hewlett-Packard’s chief
executive officer Nov. 1, outlined his strategy for the first
time on March 14. The company is starting a cloud-computing
service that will let developers create applications for
consumers and businesses that run on HP servers, Apotheker said
at the time.  ‘Another Tough Quarter’  Apotheker told top executives earlier this month that he’s
bracing for “another tough quarter” in the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company’s fiscal third quarter and urged
deputies to “watch every penny and minimize all hiring.” HP
said in February that sales for its second quarter, which ended
in April, would miss analysts’ sales and profit estimates.  Hewlett-Packard fell $2.89, or 7.3 percent, to $36.91 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
Transocean has dropped about 26 percent since the April 20,
2010, explosion of the Deepwater Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico .
It fell 69 cents, or 1 percent, to $67.80 in New York today.  Paulson’s largest fund, Advantage Plus, which bets on
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies, lost 1.7
percent this year through April with its dollar-denominated
shares.  Transocean, the world’s largest offshore driller, this
month reported its biggest first-quarter profit decline in nine
years amid a worldwide surfeit of rigs used to find oil and
natural gas. New U.S. drilling rules enacted after last year’s
disaster increased costs and forced the company to spend more
time carrying out shipyard work during the quarter, Transocean
has said.  Gold Stakes  Paulson also bought 6 million shares in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ) , the
engine-additives maker that  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. agreed in March to buy for about $9 billion. Wickliffe,
Ohio-based Lubrizol said this month its plan to sell itself is
unaffected by disclosures of David Sokol’s investments in the
firm as he pushed for Buffett, his then-boss at Berkshire
Hathaway, to buy the firm. Paulson’s stake in Lubrizol was
valued at about $804 million.  Paulson kept his $4.41 billion holding of shares in the
SPDR Gold Trust unchanged and added to stakes in mining
companies including Johannesburg-based AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
His fund bought 97,540 American depositary receipts in  South
Africa ’s biggest gold producer last quarter, as well as 2
million ADRs in Gold Fields Ltd., its second-largest producer.  Soros Sells  Paulson has been betting on a global economic recovery, and
has purchased gold to protect against inflation. Paulson’s
investors can choose to have their stakes denominated in gold
rather than dollars, meaning the value of their investment rises
and falls with the price of the bullion.  George Soros , the billionaire founder of Soros Fund
Management LLC, sold most of his holdings in the bullion-backed
SPDR Gold Trust and iShares Gold Trust funds in the first
quarter, while buying shares of mining companies  Goldcorp Inc. (G) 
and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  Soros’s fund held 49,400 shares of SPDR Gold Trust as of
March 31, compared with 4.721 million at the end of the fourth
quarter. The New York-based fund sold all 5 million shares it
held in iShares Gold Trust. Soros bought 301,300 shares of
Freeport-McMoRan and 7,600 of Goldcorp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  