-- 
JPMorgan Leads $2.9 Billion of Offerings of U.S. Commercial-Mortgage Bonds

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-16T17:27:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/jpmorgan-plans-1-45-billion-commercial-mortgage-bond-offering.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is leading banks
marketing $2.9 billion of bonds backed by commercial mortgages
as relative yields narrow amid investor demand for debt tied to
skyscrapers, offices and shopping centers.  The JPMorgan deal consists of 42 loans on 84 properties,
said a person with knowledge of the transaction who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t public.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are also selling $1.45 billion
of bonds linked to office, mall and hotel loans.  The securities, which may be sold as soon as next week, are
being offered as issuance in the $700 billion market
accelerates. Banks have arranged $8.6 billion of commercial-
mortgage bonds this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may reach
$45 billion in 2011, according to JPMorgan, as investors seek
out higher-yielding assets with the  Federal Reserve  holding its
benchmark interest rate at record lows.  “We expect demand to remain strong, and upcoming deals to
be generally well-received,” New York-based JPMorgan analysts
led by Ed Reardon wrote in a May 13 report. About $4.5 billion
of new offerings are in the pipeline for the next two weeks, the
analysts said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated
securities linked to commercial real estate has declined to 187
basis points, or 1.87 percentage points, more than Treasuries,
from 228 basis points at yearend, according to a Barclays Plc
index.  Largest Loan  Money managers are turning to commercial mortgage debt as
relative yields on investment-grade corporate debt declined 17
basis points to 149 basis points since Dec. 31, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Spreads last month
declined to 145 basis points, the smallest gap since October
2007.  “New issue CMBS offer attractive all-in-returns when
compared to similarly-rated, duration-matched alternatives,”
the JPMorgan analysts said.  The largest loan in the JPMorgan deal is a $199.8 million
mortgage on the Newport Centre, a 1.5 million square-foot mall
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . Macy’s is the largest tenant,
occupying 229,889 square-feet. Retail properties account for
41.1 percent of the pool, while office buildings make up 35.6
percent, the person said.  Riskiest Slice  The offering by San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and
Edinburgh-based RBS consists of 73 loans on 144 properties, said
a separate person, who also declined to be identified because
the sale isn’t public.  Torchlight Investors purchased the riskiest slice of the
JPMorgan pool, according to deal documents. Selling the so-
called B-pieces is a prerequisite for marketing the rest of the
deal. The pool of B-piece buyers is growing amid surging sales.  BlackRock Inc., Rialto Capital Management LLC and H/2
Capital Partners dominated the market for so-called B-pieces in
2010. Investors in this portion of commercial-mortgage backed
securities can kick out certain loans from the pool if they deem
them too risky, thereby policing underwriting standards.  Sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities are a boon
for property owners that have struggled to refinance maturing
loans amid a dearth of new lending. Sales plummeted to $3.4
billion in 2009, choking off funding to borrowers with maturing
loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A record $234
billion of the debt was issued in 2007, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  