-- 
JSW Steel Profit Rises on Prices, High-Grade Flat Sheets

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-05-16T11:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/jsw-steel-profit-rises-on-prices-high-grade-flat-sheets-2-.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-biggest
producer, reported a better-than-expected 30 percent increase in
fourth-quarter profit after raising prices and output of high-
grade sheets.  Group net income, including that of unit Ispat Industries,
climbed to 7.94 billion rupees ($176 million) in the three
months ended March 31 from 6.11 billion rupees a year earlier,
Mumbai-based JSW said today in a statement. The average estimate
of 10 analysts Bloomberg surveyed was 4.71 billion rupees. Sales
rose 33 percent to 72.1 billion rupees.  JSW’s production of pricier sheets used by makers of
automobile and home appliances rose 36 percent in the quarter.
The price of benchmark hot-rolled coils averaged about 30
percent more in the period, according to the Steel Index.  JSW shares fell 1.4 percent to 922.50 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The benchmark Sensitive Index
of the Bombay Stock Exchange fell 1 percent.  Record rains in  Australia ’s Queensland state, the world’s
largest exporter of coking coal, pushed up global contract
prices as much as 74 percent for the quarter as BHP Billiton
Ltd., Xstrata Plc and other miners lowered output. Cash iron ore
prices at Tianjin port in  China  rose 36 percent on average.  JSW’s raw material costs rose 47 percent to 45.9 billion
rupees in the quarter, according to the statement. Total costs
climbed 35 percent to 60.5 billion rupees.  U.S., Chile  The company, which started shipments of coking coal from
its mines in the U.S. last quarter, currently buys all of its
coal from overseas and about 80 percent of its iron ore from
domestic suppliers. JSW aims to increase coking coal imports
from Australia and the U.S. by as much as 40 percent to about 7
million tons this fiscal year as it raises production at its
factory in southern state of Karnataka, Chief Executive Officer
Vinod Nowal said on Jan. 6.  The company plans to mine 1 million tons of  iron ore  from
its Chile mines during this fiscal year, Vice Chairman Sajjan Jindal told reporters today at the company’s earnings conference
in Mumbai. JSW will require 25 million tons of the raw material
this year. The company will consider listing its overseas mining
assets, JSW Group Chief Financial Officer Seshagiri Rao said at
the conference.  The main Vijayanagar plant has a crude steel capacity of
6.8 million tons, which will be increased to 10 million tons
this quarter, according to the statement. The company today said
it will increase capacity at Vijayanagar to 12 million tons at a
cost of 26.95 billion rupees.  Loans, Accruals  JSW raised 17 billion rupees in overseas loans and will
invest 9.45 billion rupees from internal accruals to fund the
expansion, Rao said.  The company has planned a capital expenditure of 310
billion rupees in the next three years, Rao said. It will invest
160 billion rupees to build the first phase of a plant in the
eastern state of West Bengal, while the balance will fund
expansion at Vijayanagar and other locations.  India ’s steel demand increased 9.9 percent in the year
ended March 31, boosted by record automobile sales and higher
spending on new roads and power plants, according to the steel
ministry. The consumption may grow more than 10 percent in the
year started April 1, G.K. Basak, executive secretary of the
steel ministry’s joint plant committee, said April 29.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  