-- 
Kan Says Timetable to Resolve Nuclear Crisis Hasn’t Changed

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-05-16T03:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/kan-says-timetable-to-resolve-nuclear-crisis-hasn-t-changed-1-.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said there’s no need to change the timetable for Tokyo Electric
Power Co. to resolve the world’s worst nuclear crisis since
Chernobyl in 1986.  “In terms of achieving cold-shutdown status within six to
nine months, I believe we should be able to proceed without
changing the timeframe,” Kan said today in parliament. “Tokyo
Electric will announce a revision to its road map tomorrow and
the government will also issue its view on how to go forward
with the plan.”  The utility known as Tepco has been struggling to cool
reactors and stop radiation leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
station since the power and water circulation was knocked out by
the tsunami. Four of the station’s six reactors were damaged and
yesterday Tepco confirmed the No. 1 fuel assembly melted within
16 hours of the disaster.  The cores of reactors 2 and 3 may also have melted by the
same amount, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at Tepco, said
today. The company will make an announcement on the status of
the two reactors later, he said, without giving a timeframe.  Tepco said earlier it believes 35 percent of the rods of
reactor No. 2 melted after cooling systems failed and 30 percent
of those in the No. 3 unit.  The company’s shares fell as much as 7.3 percent today to
420 yen in  Tokyo  and were at 426 yen at 12:30 p.m. The shares
are down about 80 percent since the quake and tsunami struck,
leaving more than 24,000 people dead or missing.  Tepco on April 17 set out a plan to end the worst nuclear
crisis since the Chernobyl disaster in six to nine months.  The utility said it expects to achieve a sustained drop in
radiation levels at the plant within three months, followed by a
cold shutdown, where core reactor temperatures fall below 100
degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  