-- 
Olympic Marathon Champion Wanjiru Dies After Fall From Balcony at His Home

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-16T14:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/kenyan-olympic-marathon-champion-sammy-wanjiru-dies-at-24-police-say.html
Olympic marathon champion Samuel Wanjiru died after falling from a balcony at his home in  Kenya’s 
Rift Valley, a police official said. He was 24.  Wanjiru jumped from the first floor of his house following
a domestic quarrel with his wife, Triza Njeri Kamau, who had
asked him about a woman he brought home, Jasper Ombati, police
commander for Nyandarua County, said in a phone interview today.  “As an athletics nation, we looked forward to a sterling
performance in the  Olympic Games  in  London  next year,” Prime
Minister  Raila Odinga  said in an e-mailed statement. “Wanjiru
was one of our sure bets for gold in the upcoming contest. His
death is therefore a big blow to our dreams.”  The incident occurred at around 11:30 p.m. yesterday in
Nyahururu, 155 kilometers (96 miles) northwest of Nairobi, the
capital, Ombati said. The unidentified woman had been taken into
police custody, while Kamau and a guard at Wanjiru’s home
recorded statements with local police, Ombati said.  There is no indication of foul play and authorities are
still trying to determine whether Wanjiru committed suicide or
fell from the balcony for another reason, he said.  “We are shocked with his death and we are waiting for full
information as police have launched investigations,” Peter
Agwenyi, the public relations officer of Athletics  Kenya , which
governs the sport in the East African nation, said in a phone
interview today.  Wanjiru became the first Kenyan to win an Olympic gold
medal in the marathon at the Beijing Games in 2008, triumphing
in a Games-record time a year after he suffered a bout of
malaria. He won the  Chicago  and London Marathons the following
year and repeated the feat in Chicago in 2010.  “So sad to hear about Sammy Wanjiru,” U.K. distance
runner Mo Farah, the European 5,000- and 10,000-meter champion, 
said  on Twitter. “He was a legend and still so young.”  Wanjiru went to high school in  Japan  where he also had his
athletics training.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  