-- 
Kenya Shilling Heads for Weakest in 17 Years; Central Bank Boosts Reserves

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-05-16T11:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/kenya-shilling-heads-for-weakest-in-17-years-central-bank-boosts-reserves.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
weakest closing level in 17 years against the dollar as the
central bank of East Africa’s biggest economy stepped up
purchases of foreign currency to boost reserves.  The currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 86.40 per dollar by
1:54 p.m. in the capital, Nairobi. A close at this level would
be the weakest since March 1994.  The Central Bank of Kenya has bought 18 million euros ($25
million) since last week and has sold 4.1 billion shillings ($48
million) of  repurchase agreements , including 1.4 billion
shillings today at 5.696 percent. The transactions are “in
order to align net domestic assets to the extended credit
facility targets” set by the  International Monetary Fund , it
said in its weekly bulletin dated May 13. In a repurchase
agreement an investor agrees to sell a security to another
trader, while at the same time arranging to buy it back at a
future date and at a pre-determined price.  “The shilling has weakened as the central bank builds its
reserve at a time demand for the greenback from oil importers
cannot be matched by inflows,” Steve Lagat, a dealer at
Nairobi-based CfC Stanbic Bank Ltd., said in by phone today.  The IMF’s executive board in January approved the extension
of a $508.7 million credit facility for Kenya. The program
targets an increase in the country’s international reserves to
four months of import cover.  The central bank will “maintain the floating exchange-rate
regime while continuing to purchase foreign exchange as needed
to achieve the foreign reserve target,” according to a
 statement  on the IMF’s website.  Kenya’s usable foreign exchange reserves declined to $3.92
billion in the week to May 13, or 3.8 months’ import cover, from
$3.96 billion in the week to May 6, the Central Bank of Kenya
said in its weekly bulletin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  