-- 
Kirk Asks Trade Panel to Investigate Guatemala Labor Rights

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-16T19:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/kirk-asks-trade-panel-to-investigate-guatemala-labor-rights-1-.html
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk
asked an international commission to investigate  Guatemala ’s
alleged failure to enforce worker protections, the first labor
case brought by the U.S. against a trade-accord partner.  “We expect to see the government of Guatemala take
concrete actions to improve its labor-law enforcement to protect
the rights of workers,” Kirk said today in an e-mailed
statement. “While Guatemala has taken some positive steps over
the past several months, its actions and proposals have been
insufficient to address what we view as systemic failures.”  The U.S. requested consultations on the labor-law actions
in July, and the request for a meeting of the Free Trade
Commission, established by the pact with Central American
nations and the  Dominican Republic , is the next step in the
dispute-settlement process, Kirk said.  The U.S. AFL-CIO labor federation and six Guatemalan unions
asked the U.S. in April 2008 to protest what they said was the
Guatemalan government’s failure to enforce its own labor law.
The AFL-CIO said at the time of its complaint there had been at
least eight murders and one attempted killing related to union
activity since the implementation of the pact.  In July, the U.S. said it found that the Ministry of Labor
failed to investigate alleged violations and courts didn’t
enforce orders in cases involving labor-law violations.  The deaths of 29 people on a dairy ranch yesterday in
northern Guatemala, one of the worst massacres in the nation’s
history, were linked today to the Mexican drug cartel the Zetas,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing Interior Minister Carlos
Menocal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  