-- 
N.Z.’s Key May Cut Pension Benefits in Election-Year Budget After Quakes

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-17T04:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/n-z-may-cut-retirement-subsidies-in-budget-to-pay-quake-costs.html
New Zealand ’s government may cut
pension subsidies and review other social payments in an
election-year budget aimed at returning the nation’s fiscal
position to a surplus and maintaining its  credit rating .  Prime Minister John Key has said he may lower contributions
to a  workplace savings  program and review entitlements to family
payments in the May 19 budget, a four-year plan starting July 1.
New spending on health and education must be funded by
reductions in outlays elsewhere as the  country faces  an
estimated NZ$8.5 billion ($6.7 billion) of costs from two
earthquakes in its second-biggest city, Christchurch.  Standard & Poor’s , which has New Zealand’s sovereign rating
on negative outlook, wants the government to keep a pledge to
return to surplus by 2016 from a projected record deficit this
year. Key, who says tight spending will allow  interest rates  to
stay lower for longer, will try to avoid cuts that are so severe
that they jeopardize his chances of winning a November election.  “Election-year sweeteners will be few and far between, if
not non-existent,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman
Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. “The government
quite prudently has made it clear that returning the accounts to
surplus is a priority.”  RBNZ Rates  Twelve of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard won’t raise
borrowing costs until next year, curbing demand for the  New
Zealand dollar . The so-called kiwi is the second-worst
performing Group of 10 currency this year against the  U.S.
dollar , gaining 0.1 percent.  S&P and Fitch Ratings have negative outlooks on New
Zealand’s long-term foreign currency debt and each give the
country a AA+ rating, the second-highest level. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the debt Aaa, its top grade.  The quakes that hit the  South Island  in September and
February wrecked roads, homes and buildings, killing more than
170 people and shutting the central business district. New
Zealand is the world’s largest dairy exporter and its economy
had been buoyed by surging commodity prices until the disasters
slowed  consumer spending .  ‘Return to Surplus’  “We’re looking for updated estimates on the hit to growth
that has come from the earthquakes,” said Kyran Curry, a
sovereign credit analyst at S&P in  Melbourne . “We will be
looking for this budget to articulate how this government is
responding to some of these other pressures, and what it intends
to do if it’s going to stick to its strategy to return to
surplus.”  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , the nation’s largest construction
company, is one of five companies in an alliance with the New
Zealand Transport Agency and Christchurch City Council for the
rebuilding of earthquake-damaged infrastructure. The repairs are
valued at NZ$2.2 billion to NZ$2.7 billion, Chief Financial
Officer Bill Roest said in a presentation posted on the
Auckland-based company’s website this month.  The government’s share of repair costs, business and
welfare support packages, and the expenses of the state-owned
disaster insurer, mean the operating deficit may be more than
NZ$16 billion in the year ending June 30, Finance Minister Bill
English said last week.  “This budget is a careful balancing act,” Key told
reporters yesterday. “On one hand we must and will show a clear
path back to surplus and lower government debt position over
time. On the other hand, if we were to slash expenditure
irresponsibly it would snuff out our hard fought recovery.”  Re-election Bid  Key’s  National Party  will attempt to win a second term at
the Nov. 26 election. The Nationals had 54 percent support in a
Colmar Brunton  poll  of 1,000 eligible voters for One News in
early April. The main opposition  Labour Party ’s backing was 34
percent.  “It’s not a normal election-year budget,” said Key, 49.
“We aren’t going into that budget process of offering New
Zealanders more in an election year. In fact, we’re offering to
spend no additional money. We’re doing that because we think the
country’s books have to be put back in order.”  Government revenue has also been lower than forecast as
consumers and businesses emerged from the global financial
crisis reluctant to spend, reducing income from sales and
company taxes.  Government Borrowing  English maintained welfare and social spending during the
crisis, allowing the deficit and debt to climb. The government
is borrowing a record NZ$20 billion -- or about NZ$380 million a
week -- through domestic bond sales in the year ending June 30.  The government is “very conscious of the risks of a
downgrade and believe we’re making the right considered choices
to deal with those risks,” English said March 24. The budget
will set a “credible path” to returning to surplus, he said in
parliament on May 3.  Bollard on April 28 kept the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent, a level he said is likely to be
“appropriate for some time.” Bollard cut the rate half a
percentage point in March to bolster confidence after the
February quake.  Weak growth gives him space to refrain from following
counterparts in  China ,  South Korea  and  Singapore  who are
tightening policy to counter accelerating inflation.  Bond Returns  New Zealand’s government bonds returned 4.8 percent this
year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, the best
performance among 20 developed markets. The 10-year yield
dropped one basis point to 5.19 percent as of 3:55 p.m. in
Wellington, the lowest since Oct. 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The economy likely stalled in the first quarter of this
year and most of the growth this year will come from spending
associated with the Rugby World Cup finals which New Zealand
hosts in September and October, the Treasury said.  New Zealand’s economy will grow as little as 0.8 percent
this year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecast on April 27 in the Economic Surveys: New
Zealand 2011. Growth will accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 as
earthquake rebuilding gets under way, the Paris-based OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  