-- 
N.Z. Says Tourist Spending Fell 6.1% in Year Through March

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-16T23:57:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/n-z-says-tourist-spending-fell-6-1-in-year-through-march-1-.html
International visitor spending in  New
Zealand  declined in the year through March as a stronger
currency and earthquakes in the southern city of Christchurch
deterred tourism.  Spending dropped 6.1 percent to NZ$5.6 billion ($4.4
billion) in the year ended March 31 from NZ$5.96 billion a year
earlier, according to Ministry of Tourism figures posted today
on its  website . Average spending per visit fell 8.2 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 7.6 percent against the U.S.
currency in the year through March and also gained against the
euro and British pound, curbing the spending power of foreign
visitors. Tourism also was hurt by a quake in Christchurch in
September, followed by a more damaging temblor in February that
closed the central business district in the nation’s second-
largest city.  “Inbound tourism has struggled to even stand still over
recent years,”  Craig Ebert , senior markets economist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in a report yesterday.
“The  New Zealand dollar  has been on the strong side of average
ever since 2004. That’s cold comfort for the  tourism industry .”  Spending by tourists and provision of services make up
about 9 percent of New Zealand’s economy. Economists predict a
recovery later this year when the nation hosts the finals of the
 Rugby World Cup . Organizers expect about 85,000 foreign visitors
for the tournament in September and October.  The decline in the past year was led by an 18 percent drop
in spending by U.K. tourists, reflecting fewer arrivals, the
ministry said. Spending by Australian visitors, which makes up
29 percent of the total, fell 7 percent as fewer holiday-goers
arrived, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  