-- 
Nasdaq OMX Poised to Win Cheaper LSE Out of Failure to Grab NYSE: Real M&A

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-05-16T22:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/nasdaq-omx-poised-to-win-cheaper-lse-out-of-failure-to-grab-nyse-real-m-a.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s failure to
acquire NYSE Euronext is giving  Robert Greifeld  an opportunity
to succeed at buying the exchange he’s always wanted -- at a
discount of almost 30 percent.  Greifeld, Nasdaq OMX’s 53-year-old chief executive officer,
and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  yesterday dropped their $11.3
billion bid for the operator of the New York Stock Exchange
after U.S. regulators threatened to block the deal. The decision
spurred a 6.8 percent jump in  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
which Nasdaq OMX has tried to acquire three times, and came one
day after LSE’s own offer for Canada’s largest bourse was
trumped by a group of local banks and funds.  While NYSE Euronext’s Duncan Niederauer can cement his own
deal to sell the 219-year-old company to  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and
emerge as head of the world’s largest exchange, Greifeld risks
being left out of the industry’s biggest round of consolidation.
Buying LSE now would be cheaper after the London-based exchange
lost $1.4 billion in value since Nasdaq OMX’s hostile bid failed
in February 2007. LSE closed at 884 pence a share yesterday, 29
percent less than the New York-based exchange’s prior offer of
1,243 pence a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Greifeld has to do something clearly,” said Niki Beattie, CEO of Market Structure Partners Ltd., a London-based
consulting firm that advises brokers and exchanges. “It makes
sense. He’s had a look at LSE before and it would cost him less
possibly to do it now. Everything was looking pretty bad for him
and now actually it looks a bit easier. I’m convinced he will
explore a deal with LSE.”  Exchange Acquisitions  Frank De Maria, a spokesman at Nasdaq OMX, and LSE’s
Victoria Brough didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  Greifeld was counting on a plan to merge Nasdaq OMX’s
 stock-trading  and listings operations with New York-based  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  to eliminate costs in businesses where competition has
cut its profit and market share. Nasdaq OMX would have gained a
monopoly on corporate listings.  The April 1 bid from Nasdaq OMX and ICE of Atlanta for New
York-based NYSE Euronext was part of more than $30 billion in
takeover offers for exchanges in less than six months.  The deals began in October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) 
bid A$8.35 billion ($8.3 billion) for  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  of Sydney. LSE,
run by Xavier Rolet, 51, agreed to buy TMX for about $3.1
billion on Feb. 9, and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse followed
less than a week later with its takeover of NYSE Euronext.
 Singapore Exchange ’s acquisition of ASX was rejected by
Australia’s government last month.  ‘Credible Proposals’  U.S. regulators needed 45 days to block  Nasdaq  OMX and ICE
from acquiring NYSE Euronext. The U.S. Justice Department cited
concern about the potential for monopolies in stock listings,
data services and some areas of trading in rejecting the offer,
saying in a  statement  yesterday it would have sued to block it.  For Greifeld, the rejection is a setback after he told
shareholders his attempt to snatch away NYSE Euronext would
create a trading and listings powerhouse based in the U.S.
Greifeld and ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said on April 10 that they
were confident they would win antitrust clearance because of a
“realistic and actionable” plan to overcome objections.  “They need to be in the position where they can make
credible proposals if they go to acquire,” said  Keith Wirtz ,
who helps oversee $18 billion, including more than 60,000 Nasdaq
OMX shares, as chief investment officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati. Having the NYSE Euronext deal scuttled
“doesn’t relieve Nasdaq of strategic considerations that they
must be having right now. They have got to look at ways to
position the franchise globally and for growth.”  Maple Bid  A day before Nasdaq OMX’s decision, Maple Group Acquisition
Corp., made up of four Canadian banks and five pension funds,
announced an unsolicited C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion) bid for
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  to keep the country’s main stock exchange under
Canadian ownership and block LSE’s takeover.  A deal for LSE would be cheaper than trying to buy NYSE
Euronext and less expensive than Greifeld’s prior attempts to
purchase the exchange that traces its roots back to the  coffee
houses  of 17th century  London .  In February 2007, LSE shareholders rejected Greifeld’s
1,243 pence hostile bid when the LSE was valued at $5.33
billion. It was one of five takeover offers that LSE’s former
CEO Clara Furse fended off in two years. After closing at 884
pence yesterday, LSE is now worth about $3.9 billion.  Nasdaq OMX currently has a market value of $4.6 billion.  Courting LSE  Greifeld first set his sights on LSE about five years ago
to create what would have been the first trans-Atlantic stock
exchange. In March 2006, he offered 2.4 billion pounds ($4.1
billion) for the London-based bourse in what the company called
an “attractive offer.” LSE rejected that bid, which led to
Greifeld’s failed takeover attempt in 2007.  In July 2002, before Greifeld joined Nasdaq OMX, talks
between the two broke down after U.S. and U.K. regulators failed
to agree on how to oversee the combined market.  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and  Europe  including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania.  Combining with LSE would create a company with $8.5 billion
in market value, leapfrogging Singapore Exchange and Australia’s
ASX among the world’s biggest exchanges.  Merger Rationale  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. operator of stock
trading with a 19 percent share, can also reduce expenses from
buying LSE, Europe’s biggest exchange by the value of its listed
companies. LSE had 56 percent of the FTSE 100 market for the
week ended May 13, data compiled by Fidessa Group Plc showed.  Cutting costs has been a focus of Greifeld’s acquisitions
since he joined Nasdaq in 2003, and one of the benefits he
touted as part of his joint bid for NYSE Euronext. Greifeld
reduced expenses to 59 percent of revenue from 68 percent in the
last five years, even as he acquired OMX AB in 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If Nasdaq wants to continue down the path of this premier
world equities exchange and partner with people that are good
listings venues, LSE is perceived as a logical listings place
and would make some sense,” said Jamie Selway, managing
director at New York-based Investment Technology Group Inc.  A deal for LSE would also give Nasdaq OMX a bigger presence
in derivatives. Nasdaq OMX, which competes with Chicago-based
CBOE Holdings Inc. and NYSE Euronext in the U.S. options market,
opened a U.K. electricity trading market this year. LSE operates
two derivatives markets, the EDX London and IDEM.  Falling Behind  Without any deals, Nasdaq OMX and LSE would fall further
behind as their biggest competitors get larger.  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse would have a combined market
capitalization of $25 billion, five times Nasdaq OMX’s equity
value and more than six times larger than LSE, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently the world’s
biggest bourse, and Sao Paulo-based  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator
of Latin America’s biggest securities exchange, are both at
least three times as big as Nasdaq OMX, the data show.  LSE said on May 14 that it remained committed to its merger
agreement with TMX, even after the Toronto-based company said it
received a higher offer from Maple Group.  Nasdaq OMX may also look to combine with Singapore
Exchange. The $6.5 billion equity and derivatives market is run
by the bourse’s former President  Magnus Bocker , 49, and uses
Nasdaq OMX’s technology to match orders, according to  Larry Tabb , founder of Westborough, Massachusetts-based research firm
 Tabb Group LLC .  ‘A Good Idea’  Bocker didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment outside normal business hours.  “In certain ways Singapore’s a good idea,” Tabb said.
“Bocker and Greifeld have a working relationship.”  For  Bruce Weber , a professor of finance at the  London
Business School , taking at shot at the LSE may be worth the risk
for Nasdaq OMX at the current price.  “There’s still a green light for Greifeld to move forward
on sensible acquisitions,” he said. “LSE’s cheaper now than it
was the last time. He might look like a savvy buyer.”  Overall, there have been 9,222 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $908.9 billion, a 23 percent increase from
the $741.4 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 