-- 
Nasdaq Drops $11.3 Billion Bid for NYSE, Clearing Way for Deutsche Boerse

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-05-16T20:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/nasdaq-drops-11-3-billion-bid-for-nyse-clearing-way-for-deutsche-boerse.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  withdrew their bid for NYSE
Euronext after the U.S. Department of Justice threatened a
lawsuit, sending NYSE Euronext down by the most in 2 1/2 years
as the takeover battle for the Big Board ended.  NYSE Euronext agreed to be bought by Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  on Feb. 15, creating the world’s largest
exchange operator. The NYSE Euronext board twice rejected a
rival proposal from Nasdaq OMX and ICE, saying the unsolicited
offer would lead to too much debt and regulatory opposition.  Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  finds
himself without a partner in the global wave of mergers that has
swept the exchange industry. The second-biggest U.S. exchange
operator was counting on its plan to merge its stock-trading and
listings operations with  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  as a way to eliminate
costs in businesses where competition has reduced its profits
and market share. Nasdaq OMX would have gained a monopoly on
corporate listings.  “The surprise is not that listings concentration was a
problem, but rather that Nasdaq got definitive indication so
quickly from the DOJ,” said  Jamie Selway , managing director at
New York-based Investment Technology Group Inc. “With DB-NYSE,
the real antitrust question is for the Europeans, for Brussels.
By combining Liffe and Eurex, it creates one single platform for
fixed-income derivatives in  Europe .”  Splitting Company  NYSE Euronext shares sank 13 percent, the most since
December 2008, to $35.73 in  New York . Nasdaq OMX slipped 2.5
percent to $26.23. ICE advanced 3.3 percent to $122.22.  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , whose merger agreement with  Canada ’s
 TMX Group Inc. (X)  suffered a setback over the weekend, gained 6.8
percent to 884 pence on speculation it may be a takeover target.  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would have broken up NYSE
Euronext, with Nasdaq OMX taking the stock and options trading
and the listings businesses. ICE would have kept the Liffe
futures markets, which competes with Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex in
Europe. NYSE Euronext based its opposition to the proposal on
grounds that concentrating the business of stock listings, in
which companies raise money by selling shares on an exchange,
with a single operator would be blocked by regulators.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE’s withdrawal paves the way for NYSE
shareholders to approve the merger with  Deutsche Boerse  at a
special meeting scheduled for July. NYSE CEO Duncan Niederauer
is free to create an exchange company with operations in 11
countries generating 5.6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) in sales
and 869 million euros in earnings annually. Earnings before
interest and taxes would have been 1.1 billion euros for the
year ending Dec. 31.  ‘Substantial Remedies’  Greifeld said today the U.S. government’s rejection came
after he and ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher proposed remedies.  “It became clear that we would not be successful in
securing regulatory approval for our proposal despite offering a
variety of substantial remedies,” Greifeld said in a statement
today. “We saw a unique opportunity to create more value for
stockholders and strengthen the U.S. as a center for capital
formation amid an ongoing shift of these vital activities and
jobs outside of our country.”  The  U.S. Department of Justice  said in a  statement  on its
website that it would have filed an antitrust lawsuit to block a
purchase of NYSE Euronext by Nasdaq OMX and ICE.  “The acquisition would have substantially eliminated
competition for corporate stock listing services, opening and
closing stock auction services, off-exchange stock trade
reporting services and real-time proprietary equity data
products,” the government agency said.  Canadian Deal  Nasdaq OMX and ICE dropped their bid for NYSE Euronext a
day after a group of Canada’s biggest banks and pension funds
announced an unsolicited C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion) bid for
TMX Group. Their aim is to keep the country’s main stock
exchange in Canadian hands while sacrificing global growth from
a planned merger with the LSE.  The counteroffer may end TMX’s efforts to join in the
biggest round of global consolidation of exchanges, and leave
LSE without a partner as it seeks to expand internationally and
compete with larger rivals. LSE’s bid for TMX was part of more
than $30 billion in takeover offers for exchanges in less than
six months.  ‘Weaker’ Position  “The DOJ’s decision leaves  Nasdaq  in a weaker long-term
position versus the other major exchanges globally,” Daniel Fannon, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in  San Francisco ,
wrote in a note to investors. “Without a major international
footprint, Nasdaq will continue to have difficulty competing
outside the US. The most likely scenario is Nasdaq will continue
to look for a partner to expand with and achieve a more
competitive scale.”  NYSE Euronext’s agreement with Deutsche Boerse has been
subject to virtually no political opposition in the U.S. even as
it would leave Deutsche Boerse’s shareholders with majority
control. Senator  Charles Schumer , a Democrat from New York who
has involved himself in securities-industry regulation, said in
February that he wanted NYSE to come first in the combined
corporation’s name. He wrote a letter to Nasdaq OMX and ICE on
April 25 asking for an estimate of job losses in their plan.  “The merger between NYSE and Deutsche Boerse has the
potential to protect New York jobs and strengthen New York’s
position in the derivatives markets,” Schumer said in a
statement today. “We will be watching events carefully to make
sure New York and the  United States  are not disadvantaged in any
way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 