-- 
Netflix Reaches Multiyear Deal to Stream Miramax Movies

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-17T01:53:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/netflix-says-enters-multi-year-movie-agreement-with-miramax.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  reached a multiyear
agreement with Miramax Films, expanding its movie-streaming
service to include titles such as “Pulp Fiction,” “The
 English Patient ” and “Shakespeare in Love.”  The partnership gives Netflix the rights to several hundred
titles from Miramax’s 700-film library, the companies said in a
statement today.  Netflix gains quality films for its streaming service,
which starts at $7.99 a month, including 83 titles that have
garnered Academy Award nominations from the studio founded by
Bob and Harvey Weinstein. The company, with more than 23 million
subscribers, has agreements to stream programming from the Epix
and Starz cable-television channels.  The Miramax accord is “an important deal for both
companies and for our members,” Netflix Chief Content Officer
Ted Sarandos said in the statement.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , Calif, dropped $9.43, or 3.8
percent, to $237.09 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares have risen 35 percent this year.  Miramax has signed agreements with  Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp. (LGF)  and France’s StudioCanal to distribute its DVDs and Blu-
ray discs in the U.S. and  Europe . Weinstein Co. will develop
sequels to films including “Bridget Jones’ Diary” and
“Swingers.” Added to those earlier agreements, the Netflix
deal puts Miramax on a path to becoming profitable, said the
studio’s chief executive officer, Mike Lang.  “We basically see a path to paying off our investors,”
Lang said in an interview with Bloomberg TV.  More Deals  Miramax, formerly owned by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , was acquired
for $660 million last July by Filmyard Holdings, an investor
group that includes Ronald Tutor and private equity firm Colony
Capital LLC.  The Netflix deal is non-exclusive, and Miramax will seek
out other digital distributors to provide its movies to
subscription and pay-per-view services, Lang said. He mentioned
Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Facebook Inc. as potential partners.  “We hope that our deal will send a signal to other players
in the market to come on in,” Lang said. “It’s important to
have multiple players, not just for Miramax but for the entire
industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  