-- 
New York Mets’ Wright Diagnosed With Stress Fracture, May Miss Two Weeks

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-16T21:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/new-york-mets-wright-diagnosed-with-stress-fracture-may-miss-two-weeks.html
New York  Mets third baseman  David Wright  was tentatively diagnosed with a stress fracture in his
lower back and may spend two weeks on the disabled list, team
General Manager  Sandy Alderson  said.  Wright, 28, had an MRI on his back today at the Manhattan-
based  Hospital for Special Surgery . The five-time All-Star is
seeking a second opinion, Alderson said at a news conference.  Until he receives the second opinion, Wright will remain on
the Major League Baseball team’s roster and be available to
play, though he is not in the starting lineup tonight against
the  Florida Marlins  in New York, Alderson said.  “I felt like I was getting better,” Wright told reporters
today. “Going into that I was preparing for Josh Johnson and
the Marlins and coming out of that my head was spinning. I think
shocked is the right word.”  According to Alderson, the injury can be traced to April
19, when Wright dove to tag Houston Astros outfielder Carlos Lee
at third base.  Wright has a .226 batting average this season, with six
home runs, 18 runs batted in and nine stolen bases.  Mets pitchers Chris Young and Jenrry Mejia had season-
ending operations today, Alderson said. Young had surgery to
repair a torn anterior capsule in his throwing shoulder and
Mejia had so-called Tommy John surgery to repair a torn ligament
in his throwing elbow.  If Wright goes on the disabled list, he would join
outfielder Angel Pagan, first baseman  Ike Davis  and starting
pitchers Young and Johan Santana. He would also miss the team’s
first series against the  New York Yankees  on May 20-22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  