-- 
New Stream Wins Approval to Sell Life Insurance Settlement Portfolio

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-16T23:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/new-stream-wins-bankruptcy-court-leave-to-sell-life-settlement-portfolio.html
New Stream Secured Capital Inc., a
bankrupt company that buys life insurance policies and collects
on them after the seller dies, won court permission to sell its
portfolio for $127.5 million.  U.S. Judge Mary Walrath approved the sale to MIO Partners
Inc. The so-called life settlement portfolio was New Stream’s
main asset.  New Stream and its affiliates “feel confident that they
maximized the value of the life settlement portfolio through
this sale for the benefit of all of the creditors,” Scott M.
Esterbrook, an attorney for the company with the law firm  Reed
Smith LLP , said in an e-mail.  New Stream, based in Ridgefield,  Connecticut , put itself
into bankruptcy after conducting an auction for the policies at
which affiliates of MIO won. Since filing for bankruptcy in
Wilmington, Delaware, in March, the company has battled some of
its investors and creditors in  bankruptcy court . The company is
under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The official committee of unsecured creditors dropped its
opposition to the sale after being satisfied that New Stream’s
pre-bankruptcy auction brought in the best price possible, said
Benjamin I. Finestone, an attorney for creditors, in court
today.  Death Benefits  The company described itself in a court filing as a  fund
manager  specializing in “non-traded private debt.” It invests
in the life settlement market, in which life insurance policies
are purchased for less than the death benefit from owners of
policies on individuals’ lives. The company then pays the
premiums and collects on the policy when the seller dies.  A group of New Stream investors is trying to force a New
Stream affiliate into bankruptcy.  The involuntary bankruptcy case is In re New Stream Secured
Capital Fund (U.S.) LLC, 11-10690. The voluntary bankruptcy case
is In re New Stream Secured Capital Fund (U.S.) Inc., 11-10753.
Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Delaware).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  