-- 
NFL Team Owners Win Bid to Continue Player Lockout While Appealing Ruling

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-17T19:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/nfl-team-owners-win-bid-to-continue-player-lockout-while-appealing-ruling.html
National Football League  team owners
can continue their labor lockout of players while awaiting a
ruling on their appeal of a federal judge’s order that they end
the ban.  The 32-team league is appealing U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson’s order directing it to lift an embargo on player
transactions and access to team facilities. Nelson ruled on
April 25 that the suing players showed they would probably
suffer “irreparable harm” if the lockout continued.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  St. Louis  yesterday granted
the owners’ stay request, enabling them to maintain the player
ban they first imposed on March 12 until the panel rules on the
merits of the NFL’s challenge to Nelson’s order.  “The district court gave little or no weight to the harm
caused to the league by an injunction issued in the midst of an
ongoing dispute over terms and conditions of employment,” the
appellate panel said in its 2-1 decision.  The appeals court will hear argument from both sides on the
merits of the owners’ challenge on June 3.  Ten players led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and  Peyton Manning  sued team owners on March
11 to prevent the anticipated lockout.  Antitrust Laws  The athletes claimed NFL policies are anticompetitive and
violate U.S. antitrust laws. The National Football League
Players Association announced that day that it would no longer
function as a union.  Players’ and owners’ representatives resumed mediation
yesterday with the assistance of U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur J. Boylan in  Minneapolis . The parties had met before him for four
days of talks last month.  The two sides reconvened for a 4 1/2-hour session before
Boylan today. They will meet again on June 7.  “The mediator took it very seriously,” retired Minnesota
Vikings player Carl Eller told reporters after today’s session.
“It’s going to be all progress from here.”  Attorney Michael Hausfeld, who represents the group of
retired players who also sued the league, told reporters after
yesterday’s mediation session ended that the owners had made a
proposal to resolve the dispute.  Declining to offer specifics, the attorney described the
owners’ offer as a “framework” for the operation of the league
and its relationship with the players and the retirees.  “It’s probably not one that is acceptable as is, but it is
a starting point and it opens a dialogue,” Hausfeld said.  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello , in an e-mailed statement, said
the litigation pulled the parties away from the negotiating
table where he thinks the issues should be resolved.  ‘Comprehensive Agreement’  “It is now time to devote all of our energy to reaching a
comprehensive agreement that will improve the game for the
benefit of current and retired players, teams, and, most
importantly, the fans,” Aiello said.  The league spokesman declined to comment on Hausfeld’s
statement, saying Boylan had directed that mediation discussions
remain confidential.  Citing the collapse of negotiations on a new collective
bargaining agreement, the league’s owners locked out the players
at midnight March 12, hours after the players filed their
lawsuit.  The two sides disagree on the division of $9 billion in
league revenue as well as extension of the regular season to 18
games from 16, a salary cap for first-year players and health
care for the athletes.  NLRB’s Jurisdiction  Attorneys for the New York-based NFL maintain the dispute
belongs before the  National Labor Relations Board  and that
Nelson had no jurisdiction to order an end to the lockout.  Ruling in the league’s favor yesterday, appeals court
judges Steven Colloton and Duane Benton said they had
“considerable doubt” about Nelson’s conclusion that the
players’ case could remain in court because they’d disavowed
their union.  “Given the close temporal and substantive relationship
linking this case with the labor dispute between league and the
players’ union, we struggle at this juncture to see why this
case is not at least one ‘growing out of a labor dispute,’”
Colloton and Benton wrote.  U.S. Circuit Judge Kermit Bye dissented.  “Whatever harm may be said to befall the NFL during the
pendency of the expedited appeal stands in stark contrast to the
irreparable harm suffered by the players,” who will lose
opportunities to advance or sustain their careers, he said.  Chamber of Commerce  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business lobbying group,
filed a friend-of-the-court brief with the appellate panel
today, supporting the owners’ efforts to overturn Nelson’s
lockout-lifting order.  “Although this case involves a dispute between an
extraordinarily successful sports league and the well-paid
individuals who play the game,” Chamber of Commerce lawyers
told the court, “multi-employer bargaining most often occurs in
sectors of the American economy that could hardly be further
from the glamorous and highly visible setting presented here.”  A labor lockout is part of a process to move parties from
stalemate to negotiation and not an end unto itself, the
organization said.  “The prospect of self-help forces the parties to make
difficult choices,” according to the chamber’s brief.  The Washington-based organization claims more than 300,000
dues paying members and indirectly represents more than 3
million businesses and organizations that have joined its
constituent groups.  The  National Hockey League  also submitted an appellate
brief in support of the NFL’s owners.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-1898, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  