-- 
NLB Bank Sale Would Hinder Slovenia’s Development, Krizanic Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-16T11:54:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/nlb-bank-sale-would-hinder-slovenia-s-development-krizanic-says.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
Slovenia’s biggest bank, should remain independent because a
sale to a foreign rival risks hindering the country’s economic
development and reducing employment, Finance Minister  Franc
Krizanic  said.  Ljubljana-based NLB is indirectly controlled by the
government, which holds more than 50 percent after a 250
million-euro ($353 million) capital increase in March.  KBC Groep
NV (KBC)  of Belgium holds a stake of just above 25 percent. Krizanic
said he wouldn’t allow KBC to take control of Nova Ljubljanska.  “I would support the idea if KBC were to come to Slovenia
and started opening new branches here, but not taking control of
NLB,” Krizanic said in an interview on May 13 in the capital
Ljubljana. “We fear losing companies that create quality jobs
here and insure the country’s development.”  Slovenia, a nation of 2 million residents that adopted the
euro in 2007, has been among the slowest in central  Europe  to
sell state-owned assets fearing the loss of economic
independence. The country was part of  Yugoslavia  until 1991,
when it declared independence and in 2004 joined the European
Union along with nine other eastern European nations as well as
Malta and Cyprus.  Krizanic said sales of companies such as NLB threaten to
push Slovenia back to the 19th Century, when Slovenia was part
of the Austrian-Hungarian empire. He noted a then-rail link
between Trieste,  Italy , and Vienna that largely left Slovenia
out of a regional industrial development.  ‘Long Term Damage’  “If a competitor would take over NLB this would mean long-
term damage for Slovenia, such damage that would push the
country back into the 19th Century,” Krizanic said.  Nova Ljubljanska returned to profit in the first quarter on
falling bad-loan reserves, when the Ljubljana-based lender
reported net income of 3.9 million euros. Last year, the bank
posted a record loss of 202 million euros on mounting bad-loan
provisions.  KBC,  Belgium ’s biggest bank, reported on May 12 a profit of
821 million euros because of a reversal in some loan-loss
provisions in eastern Europe, rising trading income and growth
in mortgages.  Krizanic said the government may allow its stake to fall to
just 25 percent plus one share once the bank becomes profitable
again. KBC bought a third of NLB in 2002 for 435 million euros
and reiterated it wants to sell the holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  