-- 
Nokia to Drop Ovi Mobile-Services Brand by End of 2012

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-05-16T17:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/nokia-plans-to-eliminate-ovi-services-brand-by-end-of-2012.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  plans to drop the Ovi brand
name from its services by the end of 2012 after the world’s
biggest maker of mobile phones agreed to shift to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 as its main smartphone platform.  The company’s mobile services, including maps, music
tracks, e-mail, contacts backup and downloadable applications
for phones, will be known in future simply as Nokia services,
Chief Marketing Officer Jerri DeVard said on the company’s Nokia
Conversations  website . No further changes to the services are
planned, the Espoo, Finland-based company said.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop turned to Microsoft’s
Windows Phone 7 to restore Nokia’s smartphone prospects after
determining that the company’s own Symbian and MeeGo systems
couldn’t keep up with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, the fastest-growing
smartphone platform, and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. Nokia today said
speculation by blogger  Eldar Murtazin  that the company may sell
its mobile-phone business to Microsoft is inaccurate.  “We typically don’t comment on rumors, but we have to say
that Eldar’s rumors are getting obviously less accurate with
every passing moment,” said James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman.  Nokia rose 3.5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to close at 6.06
euros at the close of trading in Helsinki today, after jumping
as much as 2.2 percent earlier. The shares have fallen 22
percent this year, cutting the company’s market value to 22.7
billion euros ($32.2 billion).  One Brand  Nokia adopted the word “Ovi,” Finnish for “door,” for
mobile services in August 2007, just a few months after Apple
started shipping the iPhone.  The store now has more than 40,000 applications and books 5
million downloads a day, Nokia said in April.  “By centralizing our services identity under one brand,
not two, we will reinforce the powerful master brand of Nokia
and unify our brand architecture,” DeVard said today.  Nokia plans to slash 1 billion euros in expenses at the
handset business by 2013, CEO Elop said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  