-- 
Norilsk, Trafigura May Cooperate on Acquisitions, Sprogis Says

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-05-16T07:52:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/norilsk-trafigura-may-cooperate-on-acquisitions-sprogis-says.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s
largest producer of the metal, may cooperate with Trafigura
Beheer BV to seek acquisitions or develop projects.  “Projects could involve working together in new markets
and regions where Norilsk currently has no presence, as well as
investment in companies where we wouldn’t invest on our own,”
Norilsk Deputy Chief Executive Officer Viktor Sprogis said in a
telephone interview on May 10. “We will only pursue those
projects with Trafigura that would create value.”  Trafigura, a commodities trader, said in December it agreed
to buy 8 percent of Norilsk. The deal was opposed by United Co.
Rusal, which holds a quarter of the nickel producer and is
locked in a dispute with fellow owner billionaire  Vladimir Potanin  over management of the company.  Cooperation with Trafigura may include acquisitions or the
development of assets in countries where the trading company has
experience and Norilsk doesn’t yet operate, Sprogis said.  The two companies may work on developments outside  Russia ,
Potanin said last month. Trafigura won’t get favored treatment
over its trading rivals from Norilsk, Sprogis said. “Norilsk
sells a small part of its output through traders and exchanges
and Trafigura may be one of them,” he said. The company sold
about 6 percent of its nickel output via traders last year.  Trafigura’s press office declined to comment in an e-mailed
response to a query from Bloomberg News on May 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net 
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 