-- 
Northern Trust Agrees to Acquire Omnium Unit From Ken Griffin’s Citadel

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-05-16T20:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/northern-trust-agrees-to-acquire-omnium-unit-from-citadel-1-.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-
largest independent U.S. custody bank, agreed to acquire Omnium
LLC from  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC for at least $100 million to
double the assets it oversees for hedge funds.  Northern Trust, based in  Chicago , may make further payments
tied to the performance of Omnium, Doug Holt, a spokesman for
the firm, said today in an interview. The deal, which will add
$70 billion to its hedge-fund servicing assets, is set to be
completed in the third quarter.  Northern Trust and its biggest competitors, State Street
Corp. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp., are acquiring companies
to boost profit as near-zero  interest rates  erode profits on
money funds,  securities lending  and fixed-income investments.
Northern Trust in December bought investment firm Waterline
Partners LLC, and in February agreed to buy the securities-
servicing unit of Bank of Ireland Plc.  “The hedge-fund industry has changed rapidly in the past
five years, driving the need for increasingly sophisticated
solutions,” Steven L. Fradkin, president of Northern Trust’s
corporate and institutional services group, said today in a
statement.  Northern Trust rose 39 cents to $48.63 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined 12
percent this year, while the 18-member  Standard & Poor’s  index
of asset managers and custody banks is down 1.2 percent.  Deal Parade  BNY Mellon, based in  New York , last year bought BHF Asset
Servicing GmbH and in 2009 acquired Pittsburgh-based PNC
Financial Services Group Inc.’s investment-servicing business.
State Street, based in Boston, last year added the securities-
servicing unit of Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Mourant
International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s Channel
Islands. BNY Mellon and State Street are the biggest and second-
biggest U.S. custody banks.  Griffin, who founded Citadel as a hedge fund in 1990,
started Omnium in 2007 to provide other funds with
administration and monitoring services. He has also expanded the
Chicago-based firm by opening a securities unit to advise
corporations on mergers and acquisitions, underwriting and
trading stocks and bonds. That unit has been subject to 10 high-
level executive departures since it was created at the height of
the financial crisis in 2008.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities to institutional investors such as mutual funds,
pension plans and hedge funds. Northern Trust had $4.36 trillion
in assets under custody as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in  Boston  at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  