-- 
Obama Job Approval Rebounds Amid Discontent, Economic Concerns

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-16T17:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/obama-job-approval-rebounds-amid-discontent-economic-concerns.html
A majority of voters approve of the
job President  Barack Obama  is doing, even as a larger share
express concern about his handling of the economy and the
deficit, according to a Politico-GW Battleground Poll.  The poll shows public backing for boosting the $14.3
trillion debt limit, with 56 percent saying it would be
“disastrous” to the  U.S. economy  if Congress didn’t raise the
limit. Still, almost one-third of respondents, 32 percent, said
failing to raise the ceiling wouldn’t have a serious impact, an
argument made by a growing number of congressional Republicans.  The  survey  found that 52 percent approve of Obama’s overall
job performance -- a seven percentage point increase from its
last measure in October 2010 -- while about six in 10 disapprove
of his handling of the economy and the deficit, and say the
nation is on the “wrong track.”  The poll of 1,000 registered likely voters conducted May 8-
12, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percent,
shows Obama’s popularity has rebounded since the 2010 midterm
congressional elections. Fifty-nine percent of respondents said
they would vote to re-elect him or consider doing so in 2012,
and 38 percent said they definitely wouldn’t.  The numbers also show continuing challenges for the
president, with 65 percent saying they are concerned, frustrated
or angry with the direction of the country. Forty-eight percent
ranked jobs and the economy or spending and deficits as their
top concern; jobs were seen more widely as the most important
issue, cited by 28 percent compared with 20 percent who named
the deficit.  ‘Toxic Combination’  “This economic anxiety and pessimism is a toxic
combination for an incumbent president, and time is running out
for the president to change that dynamic in his re-election
bid,” Republican pollster Ed Goeas of the Tarrance Group, an
author of the bipartisan survey, said in a statement released
with its results.  Fifty-seven percent disapproved of Obama’s handling of the
economy and 61 percent disapproved of his handling of the
deficit.  At the same time, voters gave the president an edge over
congressional Republicans on improving the economy, with more
saying he would do the better job of turning it around -- 48
percent to 42 percent -- and creating jobs -- 47 percent to
Republicans’ 43 percent. On the deficit, voters gave
congressional Republicans the advantage, with 47 percent saying
they could handle it better than Obama, who was backed on the
issue by 44 percent.  Republicans Supported  Republicans had greater support than congressional
Democrats on those issues. Forty-five percent said congressional
Republicans will do a better job both of turning the economy
around and creating jobs, compared with 40 percent who said
Democrats would. On the deficit, 51 percent said Republicans
would do a better job, versus 32 percent backing Democrats.  Celinda Lake of Lake Research Partners, the Democratic co-
author, said while the survey shows voters have “buyer’s
remorse” about electing Republicans last fall, Democrats
“cannot take their eye off the ball; they must present the
American people with a solid economic plan for  job creation  in
order to assuage the public’s chief and longstanding concern --
and the central criterion on which the 2012 elections will be
determined: jobs and the economy.”  Killing  Bin Laden   By a more than 8-to-1 margin, voters said the killing of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden would make no difference in how
they vote in 2012, though three-quarters of those surveyed
approved of Obama’s handling of terrorism. Forty-one percent
said both Obama and former President  George W. Bush  deserve
credit for bin Laden’s death.  There’s a partisan divide on the debt ceiling, with 64
percent of Democrats and 52 percent of independent voters saying
that failing to raise it would have “disastrous” consequences,
while 49 percent of Republicans said so. Yet substantial
minorities believe it wouldn’t have a serious impact, including
27 percent of Democrats, 34 percent of independent voters and 38
percent of Republicans. The number goes up to 44 percent among
those who identify strongly with the Tea Party.  Lake said the numbers in part indicate voters’ poor
understanding of the debt ceiling issue.  “Key for Democrats here is defining what we are talking
about,” she wrote in a Web forum about the poll results hosted
by Politico. She noted that voters give both parties low marks
for their handling of the deficit, with Obama four points behind
congressional Republicans and neither breaking 50 percent.  Won’t ‘Go Away’  Still, Goeas said congressional Republicans have a 19-point
advantage over Democrats on the issue of controlling the
deficit, one he wrote during the forum “is not going to go away
with the debt ceiling vote.”  Obama outpolled two of his prospective 2012 Republican
rivals, former Governors  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and  Tim Pawlenty  of  Minnesota , when voters were asked who they would
vote for if the election were held today. Fifty-two percent said
they would definitely, probably or lean toward voting for Obama
versus 40 percent for Romney and 38 percent for Pawlenty.  The poll, conducted before today’s decision by real estate
executive  Donald Trump  not to seek the presidency, showed voters
didn’t believe he was a viable presidential candidate, with 71
percent saying he didn’t have “any chance” of being elected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  