-- 
Obama Tells Memphis Graduates Education Key to Beating Odds

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-16T18:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/obama-tells-memphis-graduates-education-key-to-beating-odds-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  told students
at Booker T. Washington High School in Memphis,  Tennessee , where
the graduation rate has jumped in the past four years, that they
are a model of success for the U.S. education system.  “Some people say that schools like BTW just aren’t
supposed to succeed in America,” Obama said in a commencement
address today. “We are here today because every single one of
you stood tall and said, ‘Yes we can.’”  Students from the  school  submitted a video to compete in
this year’s Race to the Top Commencement Challenge, with the
prize being a presidential commencement address.  The video highlighted the odds the students overcame to
graduate. The median income in South  Memphis , from which the
school draws its students, is $10,731, and 70 percent of homes
are run by a single parent. “I will not be a statistic,” the
students said in the video.  The school’s graduation rate went from 55 percent in 2007
to 81.6 percent in 2010, according to the White House.  Just a few years ago, Obama said, only about half the
students at the school made it to graduation and only “a
handful” went to college. Today, “many will be the very first
in their families to go to college,” he said.  Spreading Success  “That’s why I came here today -- because if success can
happen here at Booker T.  Washington , it can happen anywhere in
Memphis,” the president said. “It can happen throughout
Tennessee.  And it can happen all across America.”  Obama’s Race to the Top initiative offers money for states
that follow the administration’s prescriptions for raising
standards in grade schools and high schools. Obama proposed $1.4
billion for the Education Department for competitions such as
Race to the Top in his fiscal 2012 budget. The administration
already has doled out $4.35 billion to states in two rounds of
funding.  Before going to the school Obama spent about 35 minutes
meeting with victims of flooding from the  Mississippi River  as
well as rescue workers and local officials.  Obama told them the federal government will be “there for
you,” according to White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  He was accompanied by Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam, the
mayor of Memphis, A.C. Wharton, and the state’s two U.S.
senators, Republicans Lamar Alexander and  Bob Corker .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Memphis at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  