-- 
Tognum Said to Back Raised Offer From Daimler, Rolls-Royce

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-16T11:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/tognum-said-to-back-raised-offer-of-4-8-billion-from-daimler-rolls-royce.html
Tognum AG (TGM)  plans to support a raised
offer from  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  that values the
German engine maker at 3.4 billion euros ($4.8 billion), two
people familiar with the situation said.  Tognum’s management and supervisory boards intend to back
the bid after Daimler and Rolls-Royce offered to increase the
price 8.3 percent to 26 euros a share, the two people said on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  The stock has traded above the initial 24 euro-a-share bid
since Stuttgart-based Daimler and London-based Rolls-Royce made
the offer on March 9. Daimler, the world’s third-biggest maker
of luxury cars, and Rolls-Royce, the second-largest producer of
plane engines, have received acceptances for just 0.02 percent
of Tognum’s shares, excluding Daimler’s 28.4 percent stake.  “With the support of Tognum’s management, the offer has a
realistic chance of succeeding,” even though some investors had
been seeking more, said Yasmin Moschitz, a Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank AG analyst.  Tognum shares, which had been trading above 26 euros
earlier, fell as much as 19 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 25.87
euros and were down 18 cents as of 1:34 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading, valuing the company at 3.4 billion euros.  Initial Offer  The initial offer, which hasn’t yet been formally changed,
was conditional on holders of at least 50 percent of the shares
accepting the bid.  “As soon as there’s something new to communicate, we will
do so as quickly as possible,” Stefan Wortmann, a spokesman for
the Friedrichshafen, Germany-based company, said by phone.
Florian Martens, a Daimler spokesman, said the company had
nothing new to report.  The prospective buyers have until tomorrow to officially
raise the bid under German law. The offer can be amended up to
24 hours in advance of the expiry of the tender on May 18.
Investors including ING Groep NV, First Eagle Investment
Management and Delta Lloyd Asset Management had backed Tognum’s
position not to accept the initial bid. Overall, holders of
about 30 percent of the manufacturer’s shares rejected the
original offer, a person familiar with the situation said on
April 8.  Tognum said on May 13 that Daimler and Rolls-Royce verbally
offered to raise their bid to 26 euros a share and would comment
as soon as a written offer has been submitted. The company said
it “welcomed the willingness” of the bidders to raise the
price. Daimler and Rolls-Royce yesterday made a written proposal
to Tognum, according to people familiar with the matter.  Tognum Value  Tognum is  worth  “significantly more” than 24 euros a
share because the company will benefit from research and
development investments after reducing net debt by 300 million
euros since its July 2007 initial public offering, Chief
Executive Officer Volker Heuer said on May 11.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce started their tender on April 6 to
gain control of the world’s No. 2 manufacturer of high-speed
 diesel engines  for the marine, energy and defense industries,
after Caterpillar Inc. The original offer was 30 percent above
the stock price before the companies expressed interest.  Rolls-Royce, whose engines power Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
planes, plans to sell Tognum its Bergen business, which makes
engines for ships and power generators, if the deal succeeds.
Daimler’s stake in Tognum allows it to block offers by other
potential suitors, because shareholders with more than 25
percent of any German company have the power to veto major
strategic moves.  Daimler Purchase  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, sold
Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros
to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March
2006 to help pay for reorganizing Chrysler, when it still owned
the U.S. carmaker.  After Tognum’s IPO at 24 euros a share, Daimler bought a 22
percent stake for 585 million euros in April 2008, raising the
holding to more than 25 percent three months later.  Daimler ranks third in building  luxury vehicles  after
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volkswagen AG’s Audi division.
The VW brand overtook Mercedes-Benz in deliveries this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  