-- 
Daimler, Rolls-Royce Clinch $4.8 Billion Tognum Takeover With Higher Offer

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-17T09:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/tognum-accepts-increased-rolls-royce-daimler-offer-valued-at-4-8-billion.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) 
clinched a 3.4 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) takeover of German
engine-maker  Tognum AG (TGM)  after raising their offer and gaining the
support of the company’s board.  Tognum board members agreed to tender their combined 5
percent stake after Daimler and Rolls-Royce increased the bid by
8.3 percent to 26 euros a share, the company said. Together with
Daimler’s 28.4 percent stake, the suitors can complete the deal
at the reduced acceptance threshold of 30 percent without the
backing of other Tognum shareholders.  Friedrichshafen, Germany-based Tognum is the world’s
second-biggest manufacturer of high-speed  diesel engines  for the
marine, energy and defense industries, after  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
London-based Rolls-Royce, whose engines power Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. planes, plans to sell Tognum its Bergen business,
which makes engines for ships and power generators, to better
compete with Caterpillar.  “In light of the companies’ liquidity and the fact that
they’re not necessarily seeking control of Tognum, the price is
justifiable” for Daimler and Rolls-Royce, said  Marc-Rene Tonn ,
a Hamburg-based analyst with M.M. Warburg.  Tognum shares slipped 0.1 percent to 25.89 euros at 11:35
a.m. in  Frankfurt . Daimler fell 0.9 percent in Frankfurt and
Rolls-Royce declined 0.3 percent in  London .  “This underlines our commitment to pursue a forward-
looking and long-term strategy,” Daimler Chief Financial
Officer Bodo Uebber said in a statement. “We welcome Tognum’s
pledge to support the offer.”  Blocking Stake  The initial offer was 30 percent above Tognum’s stock price
before the two companies expressed interest.  Tognum has traded above the initial 24 euro-a-share bid
since Stuttgart-based Daimler and Rolls-Royce made the offer on
March 9. Daimler, the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury
cars, and Rolls-Royce, the second-largest producer of plane
engines, had received acceptances for just 0.02 percent of
Tognum’s shares, excluding Daimler’s stake.  The initial offer was conditional on holders of at least 50
percent of the shares accepting the bid. Daimler’s stake in
Tognum allows it to block efforts by other potential suitors,
because shareholders with more than 25 percent of any German
company have the power to veto major strategic moves.  Cash Resources  Tognum Chief Executive Volker Heuer, CFO Joachim Coers and
board member Rainer Breidenbach together owned 5.3 percent of
shares as of the end of 2010. Daimler and Rolls-Royce extended
the acceptance period for their offer until June 1.  Daimler and Rolls-Royce will use “existing cash
resources” to pay for the deal, the companies said in the
 amended offer . Their respective cash holdings “exceed” the
amount required for the transaction.  Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, sold
Tognum, then called MTU Friedrichshafen, for 1.6 billion euros
to Stockholm-based private equity firm EQT Partners in March
2006 to help pay for reorganizing Chrysler, when it still owned
the U.S. carmaker.  After Tognum’s IPO at 24 euros a share, Daimler bought a 22
percent stake for 585 million euros in April 2008, raising the
holding to more than 25 percent three months later. The shares
traded on average at 17.14 euros during this period.  Daimler ranks third in building  luxury vehicles  after
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volkswagen AG’s Audi division.
Audi overtook Mercedes-Benz in deliveries this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  