-- 
Oil Falls on Ebbing Concern the Mississippi to Flood Louisiana Refineries

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-16T19:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/oil-falls-on-ebbing-concern-the-mississippi-to-flood-louisiana-refineries.html
Crude oil fell and gasoline slipped
to a two-month low after the opening of spillways reduced
concern that the  Mississippi River  will flood refineries.  Oil dropped 2.3 percent as Louisiana opened nine of the 125
gates at the Morganza floodway, allowing the Mississippi River
to pour into the Atchafalaya River basin. The move was designed
to save  Baton Rouge  and  New Orleans  from inundation. Louisiana
refineries are the  second-biggest fuel producers  in the U.S.,
following  Texas , according to the Energy Department.  “Worries about the Mississippi River overflowing and
shutting a number of refineries have dissipated with the opening
of the spillway,” said Carl Larry, director of energy
derivatives and research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New
York. “The biggest impact has been in the gasoline market,
which is dragging the rest of the complex lower.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell $2.28 to $97.37 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement since
May 6. Futures have risen 36 percent in the past year.  Gasoline for June delivery tumbled 14.33 cents, or 4.7
percent, to end the session at $2.9311 a gallon in New York. It
was the lowest settlement since March 16.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, slipped
0.9 cent to $3.961 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website.
The price climbed to $3.985 on May 4, the highest level since
July 24, 2008.  The Mississippi floodwaters threatened operations at 10
Louisiana refineries that account for about 14 percent of U.S.
operating capacity, Anna Dearmon, a spokeswoman for the
Louisiana Department of Natural Resources, said last week.  Reduced Risk  “The measures taken by the authorities reduce the risk of
flooding to some significant refineries along the lower
Mississippi,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst with Citi
Futures Perspective in New York.”  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  said levees should protect its
refinery near Krotz Springs, Louisiana, from flooding from the
Mississippi and the opened spillways. The 83,000-barrel-a-day
plant is within a zone that was ordered evacuated yesterday.
Parish officials gave the refinery permission to remain open.  “With the opening of the floodgates, the major risk of
impact to the big refineries on the river has reduced,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by New York-based Lawrence Eagles, said in a report today. “The diversion of water to the
Atchafalaya River Basin has the potential to impact only one
small oil refinery, which has been making preparations.”  The Atchafalaya River basin has 2,264 oil or natural gas
wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of crude, about 10
percent of  Louisiana ’s onshore total, and 252.6 million cubic
feet of gas, according to the state.  New York Manufacturing  Oil also dropped as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
general economic index fell to 11.9 from 21.7 in April, the bank
reported today. The median forecast of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected the factory index would drop to 19.6.  “Everyone is closely following the economic data,” said
 Peter Beutel , the president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy
advisory company in New Canaan,  Connecticut . “Today’s data may
signal that the Fed may need to come up with new stimulus.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said yesterday that it’s too early to consider an exit from
stimulus measures.  Deeper Cuts  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  met
today in Brussels to alleviate the debt crises in  Greece  and
 Portugal .  Donor countries, led by  Germany , are demanding deeper
budget cuts in exchange for granting Greece extra aid or giving
it more time to pay back official loans, and are weighing
whether to make bondholders share the costs. The talks are
clouded by the May 14 arrest of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn on sexual-assault charges in New York.  “We have a lot of uncertainty over the extension of aid to
Greece,”  Francisco Blanch , head of global commodity Research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Hong Kong. “When you put all the factors together,
that doesn’t paint a very rosy picture for the market in the
second half of the year.”  Oil prices will head lower in the July-to-December period
amid signs of demand destruction, said Blanch at a media
briefing in  Hong Kong  today. Brent may trade at an average $122
a barrel in the second quarter and $94 in the fourth, he said.  Brent crude oil for June settlement slipped $1.10, or 1
percent, to end the session at $112.73 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract expired today.
The more actively traded July futures declined $2.44, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $110.84.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 587,925
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 653,297
million on May 13, 11 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.65 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 