-- 
OMV to Raise $1.3 Billion to Finance Turkey, Tunisia Buys

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-05-17T09:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/omv-plans-to-raise-up-to-900-million-euros-in-share-sale-1-.html
OMV AG (OMV) , central Europe’s biggest oil
company, plans to raise as much as 900 million euros ($1.3
billion) in a share sale to finance acquisitions in  Turkey  and
Tunisia.  Shareholders will be offered one new share for every 11
held, the Vienna-based company said in a statement yesterday.
OMV is selling as many as 27.3 million new shares, or 9.1
percent of shares issued, and set its maximum price per share at
33 euros.  The company in October took over Turkey’s biggest fuel
retailer,  Petrol Ofisi (PTOFS)  AS, raising its stake to 96 percent for 1
billion euros, and in January announced that it was buying
 Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD) ’s exploration and production
assets in  Tunisia  for $866 million. This has pushed the gearing
ratio, a measure of indebtedness, to 47 percent at the end of
March, compared with 29 percent a year earlier. OMV has a mid-
term goal of 30 percent gearing.  Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Roiss said on March 31 that
OMV would decide in May or June whether it will issue new stock,
convertible bonds or hybrid capital to finance the deals. He
will speak today at the company’s annual shareholder meeting in
the Austrian capital.  Shares fell as much as 4.2 percent to 28.7 euros, the
biggest intraday decline since March 15. OMV was down 0.9
percent at 11:27 a.m. in Vienna trading, extending this year’s
loss to 4.5 percent.  Hybrid Bonds  OMV also intends to issue a “benchmark” volume of
subordinated hybrid notes, with the issue size, issue price and
coupon to be set “in accordance with demand determined in a
book-building process,” it said in a separate statement.
Benchmark typically means a bond of at least $500 million or 500
million euros.  The notes will have a “fixed interest rate until April 26,
2018, thereafter at a reset fixed rate until April 26, 2023 and
thereafter a floating interest rate with a 100 basis point step
up,” according to the statement. The hybrid notes have no
scheduled maturity date and may be redeemed at the option of OMV
under certain circumstances, with OMV also having the right to
repay the hybrid notes at certain dates.  Hybrid bonds are treated partly as equity because they
typically have no set redemption date and are repaid after
senior creditors. They allow companies to raise capital without
hurting credit ratings and diluting the shares. Investors, who
had shunned them during the credit crisis, began to snap them up
again last year, when sales jumped to a five-year high of at
least 5.2 billion euros in  Europe .  “We understand that IFRS will allow the hybrid to also be
treated as equity although we suspect investors may take a
different view,” Jon Rigby, an analyst at UBS in  London , wrote
in a note to customers.  Major Shareholders  OMV said it expects the prospectus for the share sale to be
approved by the financial regulator on May 18. Investors can
order the stock from May 19 through June 6, with new shares
starting to trade in Vienna on June 8. Shares not subscribed
will be placed in a public offering in Austria and a private
placement to institutional investors. Rights to purchase the new
shares won’t be traded.  Austria ’s state assets agency OIAG, which holds a 31.5
percent stake in OMV, plans to participate in the share sale.
“OIAG plans to continue to be a core shareholder and hold a
controlling state of more than 30 percent,” the Vienna-based
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  International Petroleum Investment Co., an Abu Dhabi
government-backed investor, will also exercise its subscription
rights for the 20 percent it holds in the company, OMV said
today.  OMV is carrying out the measures “in order to maintain its
strong investment grade rating,” it said in the statement.  The company is rated A3 at Moody’s and A- at Fitch, the
fourth-lowest investment grade. The company said it expects a
Baa3 rating from Moody’s and a BBB from Fitch on the hybrid
notes.  BofA Merrill Lynch,  Barclays Capital , Deutsche Bank AG
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  are joint global
coordinators and joint bookrunners on the share sale. Barclays
and JPMorgan are also managing the hybrid bond sale, along with
the other three banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  