-- 
Honeywell to Pay BorgWarner $32.5 Million to End Patent Suit

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T17:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/honeywell-to-pay-borgwarner-32-5-million-to-end-patent-suit-1-.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  agreed
to pay $32.5 million to settle a patent-infringement lawsuit
brought by  BorgWarner Inc. (BWA)  over a titanium wheel used in engine
turbochargers.  The settlement is less than the more than $100 million
sought by BorgWarner and gives Honeywell a license to the
patents, Honeywell said in a statement. A trial on the lawsuit
BorgWarner filed in 2007 was scheduled to begin today in a
federal court in Asheville, North Carolina.  “The settlement resolving the dispute at a fraction of
BorgWarner’s claim was the best solution for Honeywell and its
customers,” the Morris Township, New Jersey-based company said.  Turbochargers , which compress air to improve the power and
efficiency of smaller engines, have become more widely used by
automakers as governments push for stricter fuel-economy
standards. Honeywell said in March it expects use of the devices
to double in new U.S. automobiles by 2015.  The legal dispute with  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
BorgWarner was over a lighter, titanium compressor wheel, which
directs air to the engine’s intake manifold. BorgWarner’s
inventions related to a cost-effective cast titanium compressor
wheel, the design of the wheel and a method for making
turbochargers with the titanium wheel.  Rising Sales  About 20 percent of engines built in the U.S., Canada and
Mexico will  include turbochargers  by 2015, up from an estimated
9 percent this year, Honeywell said in March. Automakers in the
U.S. are promoting turbochargers as they work to meet a
government mandate that manufacturers’ fleets run an average
35.5 miles per gallon of gasoline by 2016, up from 25 miles now.  In  Europe , 67 percent of new engines this year are
projected to have turbochargers, partly because of higher  oil
prices  and stricter carbon-emission standards. About 28 percent
of  India ’s engines and 13 percent of  China ’s will have the
devices this year, according to Honeywell estimates.  Honeywell’s turbochargers work with gas- or diesel-burning
engines in vehicles from Tata Motors Ltd.’s Nano, with its 0.8-
liter engine, to a Caterpillar Inc. mining truck with a 100-
liter engine.  BorgWarner, which gets about 30 percent of its sales from
turbochargers and has a 33 percent share of the market, said in
April that sales sales this year will probably expand as much as
23 percent.  The case is BorgWarner Inc. v. Honeywell International
Inc., no. 07cv184, U.S. District Court for the Western District
of  North Carolina  (Asheville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  