-- 
Orascom Construction Jumps Most Since March After Acquisition

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-16T14:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/orascom-construction-jumps-most-since-march-after-acquisition.html
Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  rose
the most since March after Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
builder said its Dutch subsidiary acquired an ammonia-methanol
plant in  Texas  through a joint venture.  Shares of Orascom climbed 3.3 percent, the most since March
29, to 252.96 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.
That valued the company at 52.3 billion pounds ($8.8 billion).
The company’s global depositary receipts gained 3.3 percent at
2:31 p.m. in  London .  “It’s not a terribly big acquisition, but it gives them
exposure to a new product line in methanol which can play off
their existing competitiveness in natural gas-based
industries,” said Omar Taha, an equity analyst at Cairo-based
Beltone Financial. The acquisition will add 3 percent to 4
percent to Orascom’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 2012, he estimated.  The purchase, the latest by the company in recent months to
expand its fertilizer business, was completed through a joint
venture with Janus Methanol AG, of which Orascom’s Dutch unit
OCI Nitrogen BV owns 50 percent plus one share. Chief Executive
Officer  Nassef Sawiris  said last week he’s still considering
whether to bid for BASF SE’s nitrogen-fertilizer unit.  Orascom is preparing a bid for Burrup Fertilizers Pty, a
person familiar with knowledge of the plans said today. Omar
Darwazah, head of  investor relations , declined to comment on a
possible bid for Burrup.  The investment cost, including the acquisition and
rehabilitation of the plant and planned  capital expenditures 
will reach about $65 million by year-end, the company said in a
regulatory filing today.  The plant will provide Pandora Methanol LLC, the joint
venture company, with the capability of producing 250,000 tons
of ammonia and 750,000 tons of methanol per year, according to
the filing.  The acquisition gives the fertilizer business “a new
production platform in a key market,” Sawiris said in the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  