-- 
Mississippi River Approaches Crest in Historic Towns of Vicksburg, Natchez

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-18T19:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/morganza-opens-nine-gates-as-muddy-water-flows-to-cajun-country.html
The engorged  Mississippi  River is
cresting in the state that bears its name, rising to major  flood
stage  and above in towns famous for Civil War battles, riverboat
landings and antebellum homes.  The river left standing its 1927 record in Greenville,
Mississippi, when it crested there yesterday at 64.2 feet, below
the 65.4-foot mark that helped lead to the creation of the U.S.
 Flood Control Act of 1928  for river management.  A crest of 57.5 feet, more than a foot above the 1927 high,
is expected tomorrow at Vicksburg, while downstream at Natchez
the river is forecast to top out May 21 at 63 feet, 5 feet above
a 1937 record.  “We have the levee there and we’re praying it holds,”
said Beth Hite, 53, bartender at Natchez’s Under-the-Hill
Saloon, which bills itself as a place where thieves and gamblers
roamed in the days when the town was a major riverboat stop.
“We have been sandbagging and now they are building those
artificial levees.”  Farther down the river, in  Louisiana , 16 gates are open on
the  Morganza spillway , diverting the Mississippi’s excess into
the Atchafalaya River basin. The opening of the spillway for the
first time since 1973 eased the threat of flooding for  Baton
Rouge , New Orleans and a major petrochemical zone while sending
the water into Cajun country.  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal said yesterday that the
flow through the spillway appears lower than projected, while
flooding on backed-up tributaries in the northern part of the
state has been less than forecast.  No Quick End  “There’s still an awful lot of water headed our way and
it’s going to be here in many cases for weeks, not just a few
days,” Jindal said at a press conference.  Greenville, site of a devastating levee break during the
river’s 1927 flood, avoided a repeat. The town, once known for
 cotton plantations , lies at the southern end of the Delta region
known as the birthplace of the blues.  In Vicksburg, the site of an 1863 Civil War battle and the
 burial site  for 17,000 soldiers who died in that conflict, the
river reached 57.01 feet yesterday, above the record of 56.2
feet, according to the  National Weather Service .  At least 760 people from 190 homes were evacuated,
Vicksburg Fire Chief Charles Atkins said. The water is rising at
the rate of a foot a day, although it has been slowing as the
crest nears, he said.  “We’re just holding onto what we have and waiting for the
crest,” Atkins said by telephone.  Shoring Up Levees  In  Natchez , which boasts being two years older than New
Orleans, Hite said trucks carrying granite blocks and rocks have
been driving up to the river’s edge and dumping their loads to
shore up the city’s levee. She said the bar hasn’t taken any
precautions “because we’re hoping it doesn’t come up that
high.”  Because of the Morganza diversion, the Mississippi topped
out at about 17 feet in  New Orleans , 2.5 feet below the
forecast, and crested early today at 45 feet in Baton Rouge,
less than a record 47.5 that had been expected by May 22,
according to the U.S. Lower  Mississippi River  Forecast Center.  The levels probably won’t increase much in those cities,
even with the bulge of the Mississippi’s high water still days
away, according to the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  The corps is monitoring the flow at Louisiana’s Red River
Landing to keep the rate at 1.5 million cubic feet per second.
The crest at  Red River  is expected May 22.  In Flood’s Way  About 2,500 people and 2,000 structures are within the
spillway, with 22,500 people and 11,000 buildings vulnerable to
the rising water in tributaries and bayous, according to Jindal.
Farm losses could total hundreds of millions of dollars, he
said.  Also inside the threatened area also are 2,264 oil or
natural gas wells that each day produce 19,278 barrels of crude
oil, about 10 percent of Louisiana’s onshore total, and 252.6
million cubic feet of gas, according to the state.  The water from the Morganza is expected to reach  Morgan
City  near the  Gulf of Mexico  later this week. The Atchafalaya is
forecast to crest at 11 feet in Morgan City on May 25, above the
record 10.53 feet in 1973.  The Mississippi is the  largest river system  in the country
and the third-largest watershed in the world, and drains 41
percent of the continental U.S., according to the corps. The
river’s rising water, caused by heavy rain and snowmelt, has
interrupted coal shipments to  power plants  in  Tennessee , flooded
more than 100,000 acres of Missouri cropland and forced
thousands from their homes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 