-- 
Toronto Exchange Counter Offer Revives Growth Concern That Spurred LSE Bid

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-16T20:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/toronto-exchange-counter-offer-revives-growth-concern-that-spurred-lse-bid.html
A group of Canada’s biggest banks and
pension funds made an unsolicited C$3.6 billion ($3.7 billion)
bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  to keep the country’s main stock exchange
in Canadian hands while sacrificing global growth from a planned
merger with the  London  Stock Exchange.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., which comprises four
Canadian banks and five pension funds, offered to buy the
Toronto Stock Exchange owner for C$48 a share in cash and stock,
topping a friendly stock bid from  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc. (LSE) , according to a statement yesterday. Maple’s offer is 15
percent higher than TMX’s stock price, and 23 percent more than
the LSE bid, based on May 13 prices.  “We’re going back to the old days, and I think that will
not be as positive an outcome for the Canadian economy as the
London one,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of
Caldwell Securities Ltd., which owns shares in global bourses.
“I don’t think it’s going to be as productive for the country
as being part of a significant international alliance.”  The counteroffer may end TMX’s efforts to join in the
biggest round of global consolidation of exchanges, and leave
LSE without a partner as it seeks to expand internationally and
compete with larger rivals. LSE’s bid for TMX was part of more
than $30 billion in takeover offers for exchanges in less than
six months.  “Something would be lost in this country in terms of
potential,” Caldwell said in an interview.  Shares Soar  TMX rose C$2.30, or 5.5 percent, to C$44.05 at 4 p.m.
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest gain in three
months. LSE jumped 56.5 pence, or 6.8 percent, to 884 pence in
London after NASDAQ OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange
said they are withdrawing their joint proposal to buy NYSE
Euronext. The LSE bid for TMX is worth about C$41.80 a share
today.  Canada ’s banks, concerned about the loss of regulatory
oversight in the proposed TMX sale to the LSE, would gain an
ownership stake in the country’s main stock market after a nine-
year absence. Canada’s bank-owned brokerages were among the
owners of the Toronto Stock Exchange before it was demutualized
and taken public in 2002.  “The only possible snags could be whether the Maple
proposal could be completed without undue delay as there may be
anti-competition concerns surrounding the deal,” Stephen Boland, an analyst at GMP Securities, said today in a note.
“Also, whether the growth prospects are sufficiently explained
to outweigh the higher offered price.”  Maple Investors  Maple’s proposal gives TMX shareholders 40 percent of the
company, the pension funds 35 percent and the bank-owned
brokerages 25 percent, the statement said.  “This is about capitalizing on the TMX’s strength to build
a better exchange,” Luc Bertrand, Maple spokesman and vice
chairman of  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said today in a conference
call. “We also believe we’ve made a superior proposal to the
TMX Group and its shareholders.”  Maple’s investors are  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, National Bank,
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Alberta
Investment Management Corp., and Fonds de Solidarite des
Travailleurs du Quebec.  The group doesn’t include Royal Bank of Canada, the
country’s largest lender, and Bank of Montreal, the No. 4 bank,
whose investment banks are advisers to the TMX-LSE transaction.  Bertrand said the Maple Group would welcome other brokers
and investment dealers to participate in the transaction.  Integrate Alpha  The Maple group said it plans to integrate  Alpha Group , a
bank-owned trading system that competes with TMX, and CDS Inc.,
Canada’s clearinghouse for equities, after completing its
takeover of TMX.  “It’s the right move for the country and doubles as a
smart business deal as well,” said Mark McQueen, president and
CEO of Toronto-based Wellington Financial LP, which manages
about C$450 million in assets. “Whatever concerns the
government might have about Alpha being involved, our capital
markets are still better off under this scenario than they are
under the LSE proposal.”  Under the Maple plan, TMX shareholders would get C$33.52 in
cash plus 0.3016 of a Maple share for each TMX share. The group,
which was created for this bid, would pay as much as C$2.5
billion in cash under the offer.  The Maple offer values TMX at 14.6 times analysts’ average
earnings estimate for 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s 5.2 percent below the stock’s average price-earnings
ratio over the last five years, according to Bloomberg data.  Preserve Governance  Maple said it intends to preserve TMX’s current corporate
governance, maintain management and staffing levels while
investing in the growth of derivatives trading and clearing.
Half of the board would be independent, with 25 percent of
directors from  Quebec .  If the Maple offer succeeded, Canadian banks would gain
revenue from their share of TMX’s trading and listing fees. They
would also get reduced costs for trading by integrating Alpha
and CDS.  “I see the banks trying to protect what they have through
this deal,” Alison Crosthwait, director of global trading
research at Instinet LLC, which competes with TMX. “I think
that they’re looking to take control over capital markets in a
way that they don’t have right now.”  The Toronto Stock Exchange owner, which once handled all
trading of Canadian equities, has lost stock trading business to
firms such as Alpha and other alternative trading platforms.
Alpha, founded in 2007, executes about 22 percent of the
nation’s stock volume. TMX had a 66 percent market share at the
end of the first quarter.  ‘Significant Value’  “We believe there is an opportunity to create significant
value by capitalizing on TMX’s strengths to build a stronger
integrated exchange and clearing group, and by doing so, to
secure the future growth and ongoing integrity of the Canadian
capital markets,” Bertrand said earlier in a statement.  Bertrand, 56, was CEO of the Montreal Exchange when it was
bought by the Toronto Stock Exchange owner, and was TMX’s deputy
CEO until he stepped down in June 2009. The Montreal bourse
handles derivatives trading in Canada.  The all-Canadian bid wouldn’t require approval under the
federal government’s Investment Canada Act, since it isn’t a
foreign takeover, eliminating a potential roadblock faced by LSE
in its bid. The Maple deal requires support from two-thirds of
TMX shareholders and regulatory approvals.  Proposal Differs  Maple’s proposal differs from the failed Nasdaq offer for
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , Bertrand said on the call. Nasdaq faced antitrust
issues related to its U.S. listings business, while the Maple
bid for TMX is different because Alpha, which would later merger
with the Toronto exchange, doesn’t offer listings, he said.  “We would caution investors that there is a fair amount of
regulatory/political uncertainty around both acquisition
proposals at this point, making likely outcomes tough to call,”
 Ed Ditmire , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York , said
today in a note.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan, who has been
critical of the LSE bid because it would mean the loss of a
“strategic asset” to a foreign company, said he “welcomed”
the alternative offer for TMX.  “I look forward to Canadians having a chance to look at an
alternative bid that includes Canadians,” Duncan said in a May
14 interview.  Addresses Concerns  The proposal from banks and pension funds “responds to a
number of the concerns that I’ve raised about Canadian
control,” Duncan said “It just shows that the Canadian
financial-services sector can play on the world stage and can
continue to take a leadership role.”  LSE said it remains committed to its bid for TMX, which
would be the largest foreign takeover of a Canadian financial
services firm. Carolyn Quick, a TMX spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  TMX and LSE said in February that they were targeting 35
million pounds or C$56 million in additional revenue in the
third year after the merger closed, rising to 100 million pounds
or C$160 million in the fifth year. The gains would come from
cross-listings and admissions, cross-selling and distributing
products and services and new products.  Profit Growth  Instinet’s Crosthwait said she doesn’t understand the
investment case behind the bid from the Canadian banks and
pension funds.  “I don’t see where the growth is going to come from,”
Toronto-based Crosthwait said. “They would really just be
owning a profitable company, which for the banks may make sense,
but for the pension funds, they do need to show investment
returns. I don’t know if they can compete with what the LSE is
offering in that regard.”  TMX Group is expected to post profit growth of 23 percent
this year and 6 percent in 2012, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with forecast earnings
growth of 33 percent and 16 percent for the S&P/TSX Composite
Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  TMX shareholders will probably take the higher offer even
with LSE’s enticement of having TMX take part in a more
international opportunity, according to Caldwell.  “I think it’s a sad day for Canadian capital markets,
despite the fact that investors even like ourselves will
probably take the money,” Caldwell said. “It’s unfortunate, as
far as I’m concerned. We won’t know what we missed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at +1-
   spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  