-- 
Louisiana Flood Forces Choices on River Family, Threatens Ruin

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/louisiana-flood-forces-choices-on-river-family-threatens-ruin.html
Amy Thomasson, 38 and a single mother
of three, spent her last night on the  Louisiana  land her family
has farmed for more than 45 years packing photographs, furniture
and clothes. A thunderstorm silhouetted the levee across the
street that keeps the  Atchafalaya River  from her front yard.  Herb and Judith, her parents and next-door neighbors, had
pulled the wedding photos of their three daughters from the
dining room wall and quietly wrote off the crops growing in
their fields that form part of the Morganza spillway. The fields
will soon be swallowed by water diverted from the  Mississippi 
River by the  Army Corps of Engineers .  “He just said ‘We’ll grow more,’” said Thomasson of her
68-year-old father as she stood in her kitchen surrounded by her
sister, Amanda Thomasson Dean, 36, friends and children. “He’s
positive, positive, positive.”  The Thomassons are one of the thousands of families along
the Atchafalaya River who were told they should leave their
homes as diverted water from the bulging  Mississippi  swarms the
spillway to save Baton Rouge and  New Orleans .  The  National Weather Service  had forecast the Mississippi
would be passing Baton Rouge at a rate of 1.62 million cubic
feet per second on May 22, according to Colonel Ed Fleming,
commander of the corps’s New Orleans office. The levees in Baton
Rouge are designed to withstand 1.5 million cubic feet, he said.  The extra water is going through the Morganza into the
Atchafalaya basin to spare the state capital and New Orleans,
raising the specter of historic flooding in Cajun country during
the next 10 days, said the weather service.  Lessons of Katrina  Just after the decision to open the spillway was made,
Thomasson’s family got an automated call from Louisiana Governor
Bobby Jindal’s office telling them they should leave.  The lessons of  Hurricane Katrina  have been learned, she
said.  “They didn’t die from Katrina; they died from the flood
afterward,” Thomasson said of those that perished in New
Orleans in August 2005 as the hurricane ripped into the city,
taking an estimated 1,836 lives. “That is so fresh in my mind!
I am not keeping my babies in harm’s way when I have a chance to
get them out and keep them safe.”  Thomasson said she worked as a customer service
representative for Delta Air Lines Inc. in Baton Rouge helping
people during the storm that flooded most of New Orleans. Her
mother, Judith, 64, said Thomasson took a couple in from
 Colorado , who had been stranded at the airport.  Mississippi Rising  Some 2,500 people and 2,000 structures lie within the
spillway and another 22,500 and 11,000 buildings are vulnerable
to the rising water, according to Jindal’s office.  About an hour’s drive north of Melville, under normal
conditions, the  Mississippi River  splits. About 70 percent of
its flow stays in its channel, while 30 percent meanders down
the Atchafalaya, said Jeff Graschel, service coordination
hydrologist for the  Lower Mississippi River Forecast Center  in
Slidell, Louisiana.  As the Mississippi in Louisiana rose, so did the
Atchafalaya. After the corps opened the Morganza on May 14, the
 National Weather Service  forecast the Atchafalaya may rise to
near record levels, breaking them in some places.  So far this year, the Mississippi and its tributaries have
flooded nearly 2.5 million acres in  Arkansas ,  Tennessee ,
 Missouri , Mississippi and Louisiana, according to state and farm
industry sources.  Five Generations  Herb Thomasson said he is about to lose 1,200 acres to the
flood waters. If the levee breaches, he would lose most of what
he owns.  “I put $200,000 in and I expected to get $600,000 out,”
Thomasson. “It’s going to hurt.”  After living on its banks for five generations, the
Thomassons has seen the rage of the Atchafalaya. Herb
Thomasson’s mother, Ruby, swam in the streets of Melville during
the 1927 flood and his aunt, Ruth Herbert, a local
schoolteacher, collected a photo album of the damage. The
pictures include scenes of a washed away railroad bridge, farm
animals clinging to levees and Coast Guard patrol boats moored
in town.  In 1973, the Atchafalaya rose again. The Morganza was
opened and the water licked the top of the levee around the
town, said Judith Thomasson.  On May 14, as the corps was preparing to open Morganza, a
moving van stopped at Thomasson’s house as more than 50 friends,
neighbors and family members drove up to help her pack.  Our
Savior’s , her Christian church in  Opelousas , about 25 miles to
the west, had sent help.  Man of Faith  All of her possessions and many of those her parents’
valued most, such as antique furniture and family crystal, were
packed when the corps opened the first Morganza gate, sending
water into the basin, first at 10,000 cubic feet per second,
then raising the flow to 40,000. The release shook the
structure, sending rabbits scurrying from their holes and fish
through the air. Eight more gates have opened.  The truck headed for Amanda’s home in Opelousas, where
Thomasson and her children will live until the crisis passes.
Amanda stayed with Thomasson for several weeks after Katrina.  Herb Thomasson says he won’t leave unless he has to.  “He’s a man of great faith,” his wife Judith said. “He
just doesn’t think it is going to come up here and get us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Baton Rouge  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 