-- 
Lowe’s Buys Sungevity Stake to Offer In-Store Solar Lease

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-05-16T21:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/lowe-s-buys-stake-in-sungevity-to-offer-in-store-solar-lease-program.html
Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S.
home improvement retailer, purchased a minority stake in
Sungevity Inc. and will offer the rooftop solar company’s
services in its stores.  Lowe’s expects to provide in-store quotes for installing
solar power systems at customers’ homes beginning in mid-2011 at
some  California  stores, the companies said today in a joint
statement. Lowe’s will eventually offer the service at all its
stores in states where Sungevity operates. The companies didn’t
disclose the size of the stake or how much the Mooresville,
North Carolina-based retailer paid.  The agreement shows the growing link between home-
improvement businesses and the consumer solar industry.  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  offers similar services to customers.  “Our goal is to take this solar offering to the masses,”
Sungevity Founder Danny Kennedy said in an interview. “We’re
gearing up for the demand, and that’s part of the reason for the
Lowe’s investment.” About 15 million people a week visit Lowe’s
more-than 1,750 locations, according to the statement.  Sungevity offers solar leasing programs to consumers who
pay a monthly fee to the Oakland, California-based company to
cover the installation of rooftop energy systems. Sungevity owns
the photovoltaic panels. It operates in Arizona, California,
Colorado, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts,  New Jersey  and  New
York .  Home Depot, the largest home improvement retailer partnered
in March 2010 with  San Mateo , California-based SolarCity Inc.,
which installs systems for Home Depot customers in California
and Arizona. The Atlanta-based company also  works with  the San
Francisco-based solar leasing company  SunRun Inc.  in Hawaii,
Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  