-- 
Lowe’s Profit Misses Estimates as Homeowners Cut Spending

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-05-16T20:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/lowe-s-profit-trails-estimates-as-consumers-curb-home-projects.html
Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S.
home improvement retailer, reported first-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates and lowered its 2011 profit forecast
after customers cut back on renovations.  Earnings were unchanged at 34 cents a share, Mooresville,
North Carolina-based Lowe’s said today in a statement, missing
the average of 36 cents projected by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Lowe’s trimmed its profit forecast for the year ending
Feb. 3, 2012, to a maximum of $1.64.  Economic pressures and bad weather trimmed sales and
reduced the number of visits to Lowe’s older stores by 3.4
percent, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said today on a
conference call. Tumbling  home prices  and higher fuel bills
deterred homeowners from undertaking major projects on their
houses.  “Consumers remain cautious when it comes to big ticket,
discretionary spending on their homes,” Niblock told analysts
on the call. Rising fuel and energy costs are the biggest
deterrent to future spending, he said.  ‘Small-Ticket’ Projects  A first-quarter survey of customers found that 84 percent
of spending planned in the next six months will focus on
“small-ticket” projects costing less than $500, said Niblock,
48.  Net income fell 5.7 percent to $461 million from $489
million a year earlier. Sales dropped 1.6 percent to $12.2
billion, also hurt by the absence of tax credits and government
rebates on purchases of energy-efficient appliances that boosted
revenue in 2010.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months declined 3.3
percent, more than the median forecast of a 1 percent drop by
Janney Capital Markets, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and Piper
Jaffray & Co.  “A tough economy continues to keep sales trends in
check,”  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney in  New York , said
today in a note to clients. He rates Lowe’s “neutral.”  Home prices fell in more than three-fourths of U.S. cities
in the first quarter, hurt by foreclosures selling at cut-rate
prices, the National Association of Realtors said May 10.  Lowe’s fell 92 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $24.84 at 4:01
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have slipped
almost 1 percent this year.  Bad Weather  The company projected annual profit of $1.56 to $1.64 a
share and estimated sales will rise about 4 percent in the year
ending Feb. 3. In February, it projected earnings of $1.60 to
$1.72 on revenue growth of about 5 percent.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Sales of lawn and garden items were hurt by bad weather in
April, according to a May 11 report by  Colin McGranahan , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York who rates the shares
as “market perform.”  Heavy rain and severe conditions, including reports of 875
tornadoes, characterized April’s weather, according to the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ’s National
Climatic Data Center in Asheville,  North Carolina . It was the
10th wettest April since 1895.  Economic growth slowed to a 1.8 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the last
three months of 2010, according to Commerce Department figures.
Rising fuel and grocery bills are damping  consumer confidence 
and squeezing the budgets of households, whose spending makes up
70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  