-- 
Toyota Must Face Claims Over Unintended Acceleration, Judge in U.S. Rules

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-05-17T02:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/toyota-must-face-unintended-acceleration-claims-u-s-judge-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lost a bid to
dismiss lawsuits by car owners alleging economic loss related to
unintended acceleration when a federal judge overseeing the
suits made final an order allowing the claims to go forward.  The Toyota owners contend the company drove down the value
of their vehicles by failing to disclose or fix defects related
to sudden acceleration. U.S. District Judge James V. Selna in
 Santa Ana , California, issued a final order May 13 following
last month’s tentative order allowing the lawsuits to move ahead
because the vehicle owners had properly pleaded loss or injury.  “Taking these allegations as true, as the court must at
the pleading stage, they establish an economic loss,” Selna
wrote, using language identical to his tentative ruling. “A
vehicle with a defect is worth less than one without a defect.”  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, recalled millions of
U.S. vehicles, starting in 2009, after claims of defects and
incidents involving sudden unintended acceleration. The recalls
set off a wave of litigation, including hundreds of economic
loss suits and claims by individuals or their families alleging
injuries and deaths.  Most of the federal lawsuits were combined before Selna,
who is overseeing pretrial evidence-gathering.  Selna issued a similar ruling in November that rejected
Toyota’s motion to dismiss an earlier complaint by the vehicle
owners.  ‘Toyota Is Confident’  “At this early stage of the litigation the court is
required to accept as true all of the factual allegations made
by plaintiffs’ counsel in ruling on Toyota’s motion to
dismiss,”  Celeste Migliore , Toyota spokeswoman said in an
e-mailed statement. “The burden is now squarely on plaintiffs’
counsel to prove their allegations and Toyota is confident that
no such proof exists.”  Steve Berman , a lawyer for vehicle owners, said, “We
believe -- and intend to prove -- that Toyota was aware of a
defect and chose not to take action to protect consumers.”  “Judge Selna agreed with many of our underlying arguments
in the case, including our contention that Toyota owners who did
not attempt to sell their vehicle could still bring a claim
because they overpaid for their vehicles, buying cars that were
not worth as much as a car free of these defects,” Berman said
in an e-mailed statement.  California  Law  Selna today held a hearing on a request by lawyers for
vehicle owners to pursue economic claims under California law,
which may give plaintiffs a better chance of recovering damages.
Toyota has asked the judge to find that car owners can’t use
California law on suits brought in other states.  The judge took the request under submission at today’s
hearing without issuing a decision. Selna said last week that he
was likely to rule in the vehicle owners’ favor. Selna said he
didn’t believe Toyota’s rights to due process would be denied by
applying California’s consumer laws.  “Applying California law to plaintiffs who purchased,
drove, and maintained their vehicles outside of the state would
fly in the face of Supreme Court precedent and trample on each
state’s right to create and enforce its own laws,” Migliore
said today in a separate statement. “California simply was not
the epicenter of the events in these lawsuits.”  Marc Seltzer, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said at today’s
hearing that it’s contrary to the law that a state can say that
only its law should apply to its residents.  Recalls  “The plaintiffs get to assert what claims they want to
assert, what way to prosecute them and their choice of
California law to pursue those claims,” Seltzer said.  Toyota’s series of recalls began in September 2009 with an
announcement that 3.8 million vehicles were being recalled
because of a defect that may cause floor mats to jam down the
accelerator pedal. In January 2010, the company recalled 2.3
million vehicles to fix sticking gas pedals.  The carmaker said in February that it was recalling another
2.17 million vehicles in the U.S. for carpet and floor-mat flaws
that could jam gas pedals.  Many of the lawsuits claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle system in  Toyota vehicles  is to
blame. Toyota has disputed any flaws in that system.  In February,  NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said their probe of
possible electronic defects found no causes for unintended
acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals and floor
mats that jammed the pedals.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Callahan in  San Diego  at 
 callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  