-- 
Peru Presidential Candidates Deadlocked 3 Weeks Before Vote

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/peru-presidential-candidates-deadlocked-3-weeks-before-vote.html
A Peruvian presidential poll showed
Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori and ex-army officer  Ollanta Humala 
deadlocked before a runoff vote in three weeks.  Fujimori had 41 percent support in a poll by Ipsos Apoyo,
which is unchanged from a week ago. Humala had 40 percent in the
poll, up from 39 percent a week earlier. In an April 24 poll by
the Lima-based research company, Humala had 42 percent and
Fujimori had 36 percent.  Peru ’s sol surged to its strongest level in three years May
13 and the nation’s bonds and stocks rose as investors bet
Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
will lose the June 5 vote. Humala last week  published  a revised
campaign platform designed to boost his appeal among voters
concerned his proposals, which include renegotiating agreements
with companies and trading partners, may curb private investment
and destabilize the $153 billion economy.  “Humala is sending a more moderate message but he’s losing
momentum and words, documents aren’t going to be enough,” said
Julio Carrion, a professor of Latin American politics at the
 University of Delaware , in a telephone interview from  Newark .
“It’s clear the race is still tight, but Keiko has the
momentum.”  According to the Ipsos Apoyo survey, which was published
yesterday in Peru’s El Comercio newspaper, 19 percent of those
surveyed were either undecided or would cast a blank vote,
compared with 20 percent a week ago. The company contacted 2,005
people from May 7 to May 13 in the nationwide poll, which had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  Fujimori Leads 2nd Poll  Ipsos Apoyo said 35 percent indicated they would never vote
for Fujimori, compared with 40 percent for Humala. Fujimori, the
daughter of jailed former president  Alberto Fujimori , is
considered to be more likely than her rival to respect freedom
for the press and democratic institutions including congress,
the poll shows.  Humala is seen as being better able to clamp down on
corruption, but also more likely to seek immediate re-election
even though presidents are barred from serving two consecutive
terms under the nation’s constitution, Ipsos Apoyo said.  In a separate poll issued yesterday by CPI, Fujimori had 53
percent support and Humala had 47 percent. A CPI poll published
April 28 gave Humala a lead of 3.8 percentage points over
Fujimori.  CPI contacted 4,848 people and the poll had a margin of
error of 2.2 percentage points.  Radio Programas , who published
the poll, didn’t say when it was conducted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 