-- 
Pessina Sees No Hurry for Alliance Boots IPO as U.K. Revenue Growth Slows

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-16T08:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/pessina-sees-no-hurry-for-alliance-boots-ipo-as-u-k-revenue-growth-slows.html
Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd. Chairman
Stefano Pessina said he’s in no hurry to restore the company’s
public stock listing after the largest U.K. drugstore chain
reported slowing sales growth in its domestic market.  An initial public offering is likely in “maybe more than”
one to two years, said Pessina, who led an 11.1 billion-pound
($18 billion) buyout of the company with KKR & Co. in 2007.
Alliance Boots may consider an initial public offering in
 Switzerland , Finanz und Wirtschaft reported last month.  “In reality it’s a matter for KKR,” the Italian
billionaire said in an interview with Bloomberg News, adding
that he personally is a “very long-term investor” with no
desire to sell shares. KKR “have understood that this company
can create a lot of value in the next year and it’s better for
them to stay with the company as it is.”  Alliance Boots today reported a 1.2 percent increase in
annual sales at U.K. stores open at least a year, which Finance
Director George Fairweather said was slower than the previous
year, without giving comparable figures. Growth was hampered by
snowy weather around Christmas, and weaker  consumer spending  as
a result of fuel-price inflation and unemployment, he said.  Full-year revenue at the pharmaceutical wholesale unit
surged 24 percent. Alliance Boots is focusing on international
expansion after buying a majority stake in Turkish drug
wholesaler Hedef Alliance Holding A.S. and  Germany ’s Andreae-
Noris Zahn AG in fiscal 2010. The retailer is selling Boots
health and beauty products through partnerships with  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  in Italy and other distributors across  Europe .  Less Debt  So-called trading profit increased to 1.05 billion pounds
($1.7 billion) in the year ended March 31, from 920 million
pounds a year earlier. Net income declined to 595 million pounds
from 608 million pounds a year earlier after the company had a
tax gain in the previous fiscal year. Net debt was reduced to
7.8 billion pounds from 8.4 billion pounds a year earlier.  The Boots chain in the U.K. increased its share in many
product categories, Pessina said.  Fairweather said he’s cautious on the outlook for consumer
demand this year, with shoppers seeking out customer service and
value, such as its Christmas perfume promotion.  Most international opportunities lie in the wholesale
business, Fairweather said, where the company is seeking
opportunities in  Asia , including  China  and  Latin America .
Extending the sale of its health and beauty ranges like No. 7
skincare overseas also provides a lot of opportunity, he said.  Alliance Boots, which owns more than 3,250 stores globally,
parted company with Chief Executive Officer Andy Hornby in March
after he had spent less than two years in the position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  