-- 
TPG Agrees to Acquire KKR’s Primedia in Transaction Valued at $525 Million

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   B a u m g a e r t e l
-- 
2011-05-16T12:16:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/tpg-capital-agrees-to-buy-kkr-s-primedia-in-a-deal-valued-at-525-million.html
Primedia Inc. (PRM) , a media company
majority-owned by KKR & Co., agreed to sell itself to an
affiliate of TPG Capital, the buyout firm co-founded by  David Bonderman , in a deal valued at about $525 million.  Primedia shareholders will receive $7.10 in cash for each
outstanding common share, 62 percent more than the closing price
at the end of last week, according to a statement today from the
Norcross, Georgia-based company. KKR held a 58 percent stake as
of January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Primedia, which owns the websites ApartmentGuide.com and
NewHomeGuide.com, said in January it retained Moelis & Co. as
financial adviser to explore strategic alternatives, including a
sale of the company. Today’s deal was approved by the board of
directors of Primedia as well as 58 percent of the shareholders
and won’t require additional stockholder action.  “Primedia is a leading resource for consumers in search of
housing,” David Trujillo, a TPG Principal, said in the
statement. “The company will benefit from the continuing
secular transition from print to digital media.”  Primedia has risen 4.3 percent this year in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock advanced 1 cent to $4.38
on May 13.  Moelis acted as financial adviser to Primedia and Lazard
advised and provided a fairness opinion to the independent
directors of the Primedia board. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
served as the company’s outside counsel and Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP served as counsel for Primedia’s independent board
of directors.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  acted as legal counsel
to TPG Capital.  Barclays Capital , UBS AG and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch acted as mergers & acquisitions advisers to TPG.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the third
quarter of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  