-- 
Philippines’ Bill Sale Fails After Second Interest-Rate Increase This Year

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-05-16T10:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/philippines-bill-sale-fails-after-second-interest-rate-increase-this-year.html
The  Philippines  failed to complete a
Treasury bill auction for the first time in two months as demand
cooled after the central bank’s second interest-rate increase
this year.  The government rejected all bids for the 182-day and 364-
day bills today because the yield was too low, the first such
failure since March 15. The Bureau of the Treasury sold 1.4
billion pesos ($32 million) of 91-day notes at 1.889 percent,
compared with a record low 0.568 percent at an auction on May 2.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas raised its benchmark interest
rate for a second consecutive meeting on May 5, increasing the
overnight borrowing rate by a quarter-of-a-percentage point to
4.50 percent.  China  had its first debt sale failure in 2011 last
week after a fifth increase in lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios this year.  “It’s about time short-term rates go up given the
inflation pressures and the possibility of another rate
increase,” said Yvette Marquez-Carlos, who helps manage the
equivalent of $11 billion at BPI Asset Management in  Manila .
“Some  government securities  will probably need to align the
rates accordingly with the central bank,” she said.  The central bank’s special deposit one-month rate pays
4.6875 percent, more than twice the yield on the Treasury’s 91-
day bills.  ‘Loose Change’  Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in April from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 12 months. Consumer-price gains may
breach 5 percent in some months this year, central bank
Assistant Governor Cyd Amador said on May 13. The nation will
assess whether the rate increases have anchored price
expectations in the weeks before the next policy meeting on June
16, she said.  Inflation risks “are tilted to the upside,” Governor
Amando Tetangco said in an interview with ABS-CBN News Channel
last week.  The Treasury rejected bids today to prevent the 182-day
rate and the 364-day rate from climbing to 2.382 percent and to
3.294 percent. Demand for the notes was below the 3.5 billion
pesos and 4 billion pesos of the respective debt on offer.  “If we accepted those, we will be getting loose change,”
Treasurer  Roberto Tan  told reporters after the auction.
“There’s an unsettled view on where the rates should be,” he
said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  