-- 
De Beers Appoints Alstom’s Philippe Mellier as Its Chief Executive Officer

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-16T13:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/philippe-mellier-leaves-alstom-to-join-de-beers-as-group-chief-executive.html
De Beers broke with a tradition of
promoting internally to appoint  Alstom SA (ALO) ’s Philippe Mellier, a
mechanical engineer with a background in cars and trains, to
head the world’s largest diamond producer.  Mellier, 55, vice president for Alstom’s rail equipment and
transportation services, will join De Beers as chief executive
officer in July, the gem producer said in a  statement  today.  “It’s a surprise, he’s from such a different background,”
Des Kilalea, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets Ltd., said from
 London  today. “People might have expected to have somebody from
within De Beers or Anglo, somebody with knowledge of diamonds.
It’s either going to be inspired or it’s not going to work.”  Mellier takes over from Gareth Penny, who was CEO during an
economic crisis that slashed diamond prices, forcing him to idle
mines and restore finances with a $1 billion rights offer. The
hiring echoes a decision by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , part-owner of De
Beers, to appoint  Cynthia Carroll  as CEO in 2006, the first time
in the 89-year history of Anglo it had chosen an outsider.  Mellier, who began his career at Ford Motor Co. in 1980,
will oversee an expansion of mines in Canada and Botswana at
Johannesburg-based De Beers as demand for jewelry recovers.  “We’re looking for Philippe really to shape De Beers to be
relevant for the next generation,” Chairman  Nicky Oppenheimer ,
65, said in a phone interview from London today. “There’s no
doubt that De Beers, when Philippe comes to the end of this
tenure, will be a different company to what it is today.”  ‘Generations to Come’  The Oppenheimer family owns 40 percent of  De Beers , Anglo
has 45 percent and the Botswana government holds 15 percent.  Oppenheimer said in February he would quit as a director of
Anglo after a stint of about 37 years, the first time a family
member hasn’t sat on the board since the business began in 1917.  He won’t “disappear immediately” from De Beers, even as
he’s “nearer my sell-by-date than my start-date,” the chairman
of the gem company said today. The family wants to be involved
“for generations to come,” he said, adding that Jonathan, his
son, was “very much involved” in selecting the new CEO.  Asked about speculation that Anglo may sell or increase its
stake, Oppenheimer said: “As long as the shareholders are happy
with what the management is doing, then I don’t see a great
pressure to change.” Separating the company’s mining and
trading functions is “very unlikely,” he added.  Easier Job?  Mellier, who became president of Alstom Transport in 2003
following his appointment as chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks
and as a member of the Volvo Group executive committee in 2001,
is joining De Beers as profits surge.  The company, producer of about 40 percent of the world’s
rough diamonds, posted  record  2010 earnings after a 57 percent
expansion in its trading arm’s sales to $5.08 billion.  “He’s joining a company that’s much rehabilitated,”
Kilalea said. “His job is made much easier.”  De Beers may raise production to the “high 30” million
carats this year from 33 million last year, Oppenheimer said,
even though the market may consolidate in the July and August
holiday period in  Europe  following “strong growth.”  Alstom, based in Levallois-Perret near Paris, is the
world’s third-largest power-equipment maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  