-- 
Pig Stomach, Dumplings Fill Berliners’ Plates at Earthy Esswein

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/pig-stomach-dumplings-stretch-waistlines-at-earthy-esswein-berlin-dining.html
Visitors to Berlin often seek
recommendations for a typical German restaurant. It’s hard to
know where to send them.  The most authentic option is a beer garden or hall with
sausage and sauerkraut. If they want something more upscale, the
choices are limited. Most gourmet restaurants in  Germany  serve
French, European or international cuisine.  A new restaurant, Esswein, solves the dilemma by offering
hearty Palatinate dishes and attentive service in an elegant
West Berlin setting. It’s the kind of place where Helmut Kohl
might tuck into his favorite Saumagen (pig stomach) in peace.  The former chancellor originates from Palatinate, or Pfalz
in German. The southern region borders  France  and is esteemed
nationally for its cuisine and wines. A few Esswein dishes, such
as escargots, recall France.  Yet most are distinctively Germanic, and that means hefty
and down-to-earth. Forget two-dimensional platters that look
like abstract canvases. Imagine, instead, what you would need
after a day working the fields.  I first arrive fresh from harvesting emails and faxes in
the office; I’m a little daunted by the menu and the dishes
emerging from the kitchen. Even the salads look formidable. Not
only is Saumagen on offer, there is also blutwurst (black
pudding), Maultaschen (panfried pasta pockets), braised ox,
liver sausage, and enough dumplings to clog the Rhine.  Dumpling Diversity  Diners may sample both Knoedel and Kloesse, the southern
and northern German concepts of dumplings. The Knoedel are made
with bread dough and stuffed with cheese and cream. They’re
delicious. You can even have them for dessert with nougat cream
and chocolate mousse.  On one visit, the Kloesse, made with potato, arrive rather
gluey and look a bit indigestible. I find potato dumplings
generally bland and suspect you have to be born German to love
them.  Former British Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  may have
been skeptical when Kohl served her Saumagen at his favorite
local restaurant in 1989. Perhaps it wasn’t the shrewdest way to
win her support for German reunification.  It isn’t as bad as it sounds. The pig stomach is just the
transparent casing: Inside is regular sausage, with potato
chunks, vegetables and herbs. It’s served in big slices and is
inoffensive, not wildly exciting.  Frazzled Ox  Esswein ’s savory Maultaschen are served with a rich,
chutney-like sauce of marinaded onions. A main course of
“Ochsenfetzen” -- literally scraps of ox -- is a casserole
with a sweet, thick reddish raisin sauce and a peppercorn kick.
The English translation on the menu is “frazzle of ox,” a term
I’ve not heard before. In this case, it proves appropriate for
the meat, a little over-braised and dry.  A meaty, filling roulade comes with red cabbage and Kloesse
-- comfort food best fitted for winter. I have to send back a
lamb dish that is overcooked. A second plate arrives with the
meat still perfectly pink inside. It’s the kind of thing you
wish they’d get right first time.  The  wine list  is a treat for those who like Palatinate
whites. There are plenty of decent Rieslings for less than 30
euros ($43) a bottle.  As for red, I can recommend Markus Schneider’s  Black Print 
at 35 euros. It’s an intelligent blend of St. Laurent, Syrah,
Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot that tastes fruitier and more
substantial than most German red wines.  Esswein is at Fasanenstr. 40, 10719 Berlin. For more
information:  http://www.esswein-berlin.de  or telephone
+49-30-8892-9288.  Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Approximately 60 euros a head including wine.  Sound level? Pleasantly quiet.  Date place? Yes, if your date is a builder/farmer.  Special features? Dumplings.  Private room? Yes, and a sealed smoking room.  Will I be back? Yes, when I next have visitors wanting  typical German food.  Rating: **  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 