-- 
Bill Gross Says Greece Insolvent, Top Candidate for Default

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-16T20:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/pimco-s-gross-says-greece-is-insolvent-world-s-top-candidate-for-default.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
 Greece  is the world’s biggest candidate for default.  “We suggest that Greece is insolvent and that at some
point the can cannot be kicked down the road any further,” said
Gross in an “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Ultimately debt holders will have to
bear some of the burden as well.”  European finance ministers stepped up pressure today on
Greece to sell assets and deepen spending cuts to win an
increase of its 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) aid package and
more time to repay the loans. Europe’s rich countries tied extra
money to pledges by Greece to reap more revenue at home and
considered whether to make bondholders share the pain.  “Greece is the No. 1 candidate for default,” Gross said.
“Greece, even with the stringent fiscal measures, can’t get
above the line in terms of real growth. It becomes a question of
solvency, as opposed to liquidity.”  The Mediterranean nation’s bonds have fallen as the euro
region’s economic powerhouses put up hurdles to an expanded aid
package, with public discontent simmering in northern  Europe 
over the costs of propping up high-deficit countries on the
continent’s periphery.  Greece’s Yields  Greek 10-year bond yields increased 17 basis points, or
0.17 percentage point, to 15.44 percent. The extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt instead of benchmark
German bunds rose 13 basis points to 12.49 percentage points.
U.S. 10-year note yields fell one basis point to 3.16 percent.  An overdependence on debt has the global economy in a
period of fundamental transformation that Gross calls the “new
normal.” Gross forecast last year that mounting deficits and
tighter financial regulation will damp growth in the U.S. and
the euro zone.  America’s deficit should be taken seriously in terms of the
credibility of the U.S. and the dollar’s status as the world’s
main reserve currency, he added.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s action to
stave off the federal debt limit until August gives the America
some “wiggle room,” Gross said.  ‘Suspension Period’  Geithner wrote lawmakers today to say he has declared a
“debt issuance suspension period,” a technical measure that
allows him to free up borrowing room from the Civil Service
Retirement and Disability Fund and the Government Securities
Investment Fund. Republicans and Democrats are arguing over when
and how to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  Standard & Poor’s  put a “negative” outlook on the U.S.
AAA credit rating on April 18, saying there’s a one-in-three
chance of a downgrade unless lawmakers agree on a plan by 2013
to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  Gross, 67, noted that when the Fed completes its $600
billion Treasury purchase program under the second round of
quantitative easing in June, a third round will take the form of
language as opposed to debt buying.  “Language will dominate policy going forward, and
investors will take comfort from language that suggests an
extended extended period of time,” he said.  Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund hasn’t shorted
Treasuries and would be attracted to 10-year yields at about 4
percent, Gross said today.  ‘Little Doubt’  The fund had minus 4 percent of its assets in government-
related debt last month and can have a so-called negative
position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting. Shorting
is borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Gross said the firm has a short position in short-term
LIBOR bank-related swaps, one component of the government
related category that also comprises agency bonds, interest-rate
swaps, Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS,
Treasury futures and options and corporate securities guaranteed
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Cash and equivalents, the largest component of the fund,
rose to 37 percent of holdings in April from 31 percent.
Mortgage bonds declined to 24 percent from 28 percent, the
 Newport Beach , California-based company said on its  website 
earlier this month.  The Total Return Fund returned 7.64 percent in the past
year, beating 82 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 1.12 percent in the past
month, better than about 28 percent of its competitors. Pimco is
a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  