-- 
Pimco Sees Financial Repression in U.S. Amid ‘Deteriorating Debt Dynamics’

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-16T15:27:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/pimco-sees-financial-repression-in-u-s-amid-deteriorating-debt-dynamics-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. ,
which runs the world’s largest bond fund, said “deteriorating
debt dynamics” will stoke faster inflation and financial
repression in the U.S. as well as at least one sovereign-debt
restructuring in Europe.  In a report aimed at establishing a worldview for investors
in the next three to five years, Pimco Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian raised the prospect of U.S. policy makers
trying to force savers to accept returns below the rate of
inflation as the government grapples with a  budget deficit  the
White House reckons will reach $1.6 trillion this year.  “It is a world where several governments in advanced
economies, and the U.S. in particular, opt for financial
repression and mild inflation as the major way to accommodate
their deteriorating debt dynamics,”  Newport Beach , California-
based El-Erian wrote in a report published today on the firm’s
website. “It is a world that heals slowly and unevenly and
remains structurally impaired.”  Such tactics are evidence officials will continue to
“hobble” through in their efforts to propel economies from the
aftershocks of the global recession, he said. Europe will remain
plagued by its fiscal crisis with “the virtual certainty of at
least one, and probably more, sovereign-debt restructurings.”  El-Erian, whose firm promulgated the term “new normal” to
describe an economy characterized by slow growth in developed
countries and rapid expansion in emerging markets, made clear
that Pimco is sticking with that outlook.  Inflation Convergence  Advanced economies will face growth of about 2 percent and
persistently high unemployment, while emerging markets will
enjoy expansion of about 6 percent, with their income levels
converging to those of rich nations, he said. Inflation will
settle at “levels that are higher than currently anticipated”
as headline rates mesh with so-called core rates which exclude
energy and food prices, he said.  “The next three-five years will be characterized by the
same multi-speed dynamics we have seen recently,” El-Erian
said. To cope with the growing uncertainties, Pimco will pursue
an approach of “constructive paranoia” in managing its more
than $1.3 trillion in assets.  It expects bond-yield curves will be steeper than
traditionally and said foreign-exchange investors should favor
the undervalued currencies of emerging markets where balance
sheets are strong and  capital controls  tend to be ineffective.
El-Erian added that commodities in short supply or that provide
a store of value should also do well.  Financial Repression  Under a strategy of financial repression, governments often
require banks, pension funds and other financial institutions to
hold government debt, ostensibly for reasons related to the
safety and soundness of the organizations concerned.  Economists Carmen Reinhart and Belen Sbrancia wrote in a
March  study  that financial repression helps keep  interest rates 
low and can help pare debts, identifying the years 1945 to 1980
as an era of financial repression with real interest rates in
advanced nations in negative territory for about half the time.  Such a situation may occur now because almost four years
since the start of the financial crisis, “the world has seen
little meaningful reduction in the size of the excess
liabilities accumulated” beforehand, El-Erian said. “Rather
than be addressed in a convincing manner, most of the excess
liabilities have simply been shifted around the system, and
importantly to public balance sheets and taxpayers.”  ‘Grand Bargains’  El-Erian nevertheless sees “some encouraging signs that
speak to an accelerated healing of the global economy.” He also
said a stronger expansion could materialize if policy makers
begin striking “grand bargains” to tackle challenges such as
 Europe ’s indebtedness and structural needs of the  U.S. economy .  “While the probabilities for these grand bargains have
increased in recent months, they are still far from dominant,”
he said.  Pimco’s outlook was crafted at a three-day forum held last
week at its headquarters and repeats a tradition dating back
almost four decades. The aim of the meeting is to establish the
“guard rails” to observe when investing in coming years.  Among the guests this year were former U.K. Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  and economics author Dambisa Moyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  