-- 
Pinera Signs Bill to Scrap Copper Funding for Chile Military

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-16T16:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/pinera-signs-bill-to-scrap-copper-funding-for-chile-military-1-.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera
plans to send a bill to Congress in the coming days that would
scrap the payment of 10 percent of state copper company
Codelco’s sales to the armed forces.  Pinera, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain and Defense
Minister Andres Allamand signed the bill during a ceremony today
at the presidential palace in Santiago.  Pinera, who unseated the Concertacion coalition that had
governed  Chile  since Augusto Pinochet ceded power in 1990, seeks
to end the law that was created by the late dictator. The
current mechanism creates distortions, Pinera said today.  This bill “leaves aside the armed forces’ dependence on
the price of copper for its revenue,” Larrain told reporters.
“Today we’re in a positive cycle of high prices; we may not
have such a bonanza in the future.”  Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer, had sales of
about $16 billion in 2010 when copper prices averaged $3.42 a
pound, according to central bank data. The metal will average
$4.20 a pound in 2011, the central bank forecasts.  Under the new bill, the armed forces would establish 12-
year strategic plans and operate under four-year budgets. A
contingency fund will be created for extraordinary situations
that may include natural disasters, Pinera said.  The  Finance Ministry  took over management of the military’s
copper fund from the  Defense Ministry  this year. The government
will invest military savings from state copper sales offshore to
help prevent further local currency appreciation, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said Jan. 25.  Pinera’s predecessor,  Michelle Bachelet , also tried to
scrap the law, under which Codelco turns over its profits to the
government after discounting the military’s share of its sales.
Pinera may succeed with the bill in part because the
Concertacion will struggle to block a proposal it previously
promoted,  Patricio Navia , a specialist in Chilean politics at
 New York University , said.  “The Concertacion will not oppose the legislation,” he
said in a telephone interview from  New York  on May 2. “They
will ask for more and try to put more government oversight over
military funds.”  The peso weakened for a second day, declining 0.6 percent
to 470.24 per dollar at 12:22 p.m. New York time from 467.56 on
May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  