-- 
Portugal’s $111 Billion Bailout Approved as EU Prods Greece to Sell Assets

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-17T05:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/portugal-bailout-approved-as-eu-prods-greece-to-sell-assets.html
European finance chiefs endorsed a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) bailout for  Portugal  as they stepped
up pressure on Greece to do more to win improved aid terms.  Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in seeking emergency
loans from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund , bringing to 256 billion euros the aid provided to stamp
out the sovereign debt crisis.  Portugal will receive the first tranche of the loan, 18
billion euros, at the end of the month or beginning of June,
Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos told
reporters late yesterday after a meeting in Brussels.  The backing for Portugal came during deliberations clouded
by the absence of IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.
 Europe ’s rich countries tied extra money for  Greece  to pledges
that it deepen spending cuts and reap more revenue from asset
sales. They also weighed making bondholders share the pain.  “Greece also has a huge privatization potential and the
Greeks should help themselves before calling for more money,”
Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said before the meeting.  Euro-area finance ministers also approved the nomination of
Bank of  Italy  Governor  Mario Draghi  to be the next president of
the  European Central Bank .  Bonds Drop  Greek bonds fell after the euro area’s economic powerhouses
put up hurdles to an expanded aid package, with public
discontent simmering in northern Europe over the costs of
propping up high-deficit countries on the continent’s periphery.  Finance ministers said the IMF’s role as the contributor of
a third of the bailout money for Greece, Ireland and Portugal
won’t be hampered by Strauss-Kahn’s May 14 arrest on sexual-
assault charges in  New York .  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who has denied the charges, was ordered
held without bail by a New York judge. While he didn’t enter a
plea yesterday in Manhattan Criminal Court, his lawyer has said
he will plead not guilty. The Washington-based IMF was
represented in Brussels by Nemat Shafik, a deputy managing
director.  IMF loans to Portugal will come at a 3.25 percent interest
rate. The rate on the European portion will be between 5.5
percent and 6 percent, EU Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on May 10.  Cost of Aid  Rehn told reporters late yesterday that the cost will be
215 basis points over “relevant rates” for funds from the
European Financial Stabilization Mechanism and a premium of 208
basis points for aid from the European Financial Stability
Facility.  Portugal’s dos Santos said today the average interest for
the 7 1/2-year program would be around 5.1 percent.  “According to current market conditions, the average rate
for the 78 billion-euro loan, involving the IMF and the EU
tranches, in the first three years will be around 5 percent and
after that the interest rate will rise on average to around 5.2
percent,” he told reporters.  Asked if Portugal will be able to renegotiate the interest
rate in the future, he said these were the conditions that were
agreed on and that the government “will have to live with.”  “I don’t see, from the discussion we had, that there is
room for those conditions to be revised,” dos Santos said.  Spending Cuts  The three-year plan calls for Portugal to implement the
austerity measures that parliament rejected in March. Spending
reductions for 2012 and 2013, including cuts to pensions, will
amount to 3.4 percent of gross domestic product, while revenue
increases will represent 1.7 percent of economic output. The
plan also earmarks 12 billion euros for banks.  The package still requires approval by all euro-area
governments, with most putting it to parliament.  On Greece, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
there “certainly” won’t be a decision at this meeting, since
European and IMF experts have yet to complete an updated
assessment of the  Greek economy .  Greece, which received a 110 billion-euro loan package last
year, is preparing a new economic-recovery program, including 76
billion euros of asset sales and spending cuts, to persuade
European governments and the IMF to release the next 12 billion-
euro portion in June.  Official creditors in March granted the Athens government
more time to repay its current loans, and are considering
another extension in order to save Greece from becoming the
first euro country to default.  Aid Extension  “We are in favor of extending the time period, of giving
the Greeks more time, but the tranche can only be paid out if
structural reforms are put on track,” Austria’s Fekter said,
referring to next month’s disbursement.  Greece needs to slice more out of the budget, the  European
Commission  said on May 13 after forecasting a deficit of 9.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, above the 7.4 percent
target set when Greece was bailed out last year.  Greece’s debt will balloon to 157.7 percent of GDP in 2011
while the economy slumps for the third year, the forecasts
showed, fueling doubts whether the country will generate enough
growth to pay its bills.  Plans to offload 50 billion euros of state assets “have
top spot on the agenda,” Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
told Italian newspaper Corriere Della Sera on May 14. “We will
show that we’re in a position to keep our obligations on the
debt.”  Investor Concern  Eighty-five percent of international investors surveyed by
Bloomberg last week said Greece will probably default on its
debt, with majorities predicting the same fate for Ireland and
Portugal.  While a debt restructuring -- with options ranging from an
extension of maturities to a write-off of principal -- remains
officially taboo, it has seeped into the public discourse.  European finance officials “discuss all kinds of topics,
including restructuring, but in public we are very reluctant
about discussing restructuring and debating restructuring,”
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  Central bankers are putting up the most vocal opposition.
Bending its mandate to focus on fighting inflation, the
Frankfurt-based ECB has bought 76 billion euros of bonds of
fiscally struggling countries in the past year and would suffer
along with private investors in a restructuring.  Default is “just a nightmare,” ECB council member
 Christian Noyer  said. “It’s the absolutely wrong solution. It
would be a catastrophe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Brussels at  areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  