-- 
Puma Calculates $133 Million Environment Cost of Business

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-16T16:03:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/puma-s-environmental-costs-133-million-in-first-impact-report.html
Puma AG, the sporting-goods brand
known for its leaping cat logo, said the environmental costs of
its business, including supply chain, was 94.4 million euros
($133 million) last year.  Puma, bought by  PPR (PP)  SA in 2007, released initial results
after developing the world’s first environmental profit-and-loss
account to show greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption
across its business. The full  report  will include impacts on
acid rain, smog, and land-use change of the company’s
operations. The analysis identifies areas with the biggest
ecological impact to allow Puma to minimize them, the company
said today in a statement.  “It is an essential tool and a shift in how companies can
and should account for, and ultimately, integrate into business
models the true costs of their reliance on ecosystem service,”
Jochen Zeitz, chief executive officer of Puma, said in London.
The disclosure prepares Puma for future legislation that may
require mandatory environmental reporting, he said.  Manufacturing and transporting products as well as growing
cotton and other raw materials for goods including sportswear
requires energy, which can come from burning fossil fuels. This
emits carbon dioxide and other  greenhouse gases  blamed for
 climate change . Nations may require companies to begin reporting
emissions as part of wider initiatives to curb the gases.  Kenya  Project  Puma offset some of its direct greenhouse gas emissions
last year, accounting for about 43,000 metric tons, by
purchasing credits from Wildlife Works Carbon LLC’s Kasigau
Corridor project in Kenya, Zeitz said. That project protects
500,000 acres of forest over a migration route in the Tsavo
National Parks and provides jobs for people relying on the land.
Those credits were the first of their kind under a United
Nations program called Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and
forest Degradation.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP used a so-called social cost of
carbon of 66 euros a metric ton to calculate the cost of the
emissions as a result of Puma’s business. Greenhouse gas
discharges, including those associated with raw materials such
as cotton and leather, were 718,000 tons, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in  London  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  