-- 
Qatar Unlikely to Benefit as Host of 2022 Soccer World Cup, Citigroup Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-16T15:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/qatar-unlikely-to-benefit-as-host-of-2022-soccer-world-cup-citigroup-says.html
Qatar, awarded the right to host the
2022 soccer  World Cup  last year, won’t see an economic benefit
from hosting the event,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s chief economist for the
Middle East said.  “You do risk having hotel rooms sitting idle for a long
time,” Farouk Soussa said at a conference in Doha, Qatar,
today. “I would not say, from a cost-benefit analysis, the
World Cup is going to be net beneficial to Qatar.”  Qatar will need to increase the number of hotel rooms
tenfold to reach the 90,000 pledged, he said. Existing hotel
occupancy rates hover at about 60 percent in the emirate, he
said. The country, with a population of about 1.6 million
people, will be the smallest to host the tournament since
Uruguay in 1930.  Qatar beat the U.S.,  Australia ,  South Korea  and  Japan  to
win the 2022 World Cup at a ceremony hosted in Zurich in
December. The country will invest about $88 billion in
infrastructure for the World Cup, Qatar National Bank’s
Assistant General Manager and Head of Project Finance Enrico Grino said today.  As part of its bid, Qatar pledged to build nine  new
stadiums  and refurbish three others, each of which will utilize
solar-powered cooling technology in a country where summer
temperatures rise as high as 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees
Fahrenheit).  The emirate’s bid also included building accommodation for
visitors, rail and metro links as well as a bridge to nearby
Bahrain.  The new stadiums will be partly dismantled and shipped
to  developing countries  when the event is over to help mitigate
the problem of unneeded infrastructures.  Most economic benefits from expenditures for the World Cup
won’t come until after 2016, the state-run General Secretariat
for Development Planning said in a March 28 report.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, projects its economy to expand by 20 percent this year in
nominal terms. The country will have the world’s fastest growing
gross domestic, according to International Monetary Fund
projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  