-- 
Queen Visiting Ireland Shows Economy in Crisis Overshadows Bloody History

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-05-17T15:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/queen-visiting-ireland-shows-economy-in-crisis-overshadows-bloody-history.html
The first visit to Ireland by a
British monarch in a century may say more about what unites the
two countries than what divides them.  Queen Elizabeth II’s plane landed at Baldonnel airfield
outside Dublin at noon today and the 85-year-old monarch emerged
wearing green, the Irish national color. She later headed to the
 Garden of Remembrance , a park in Dublin’s north city center
dedicated to those “who gave their lives in the cause of Irish
Freedom.” Tomorrow her schedule includes a trip to Croke Park,
where British soldiers  killed  14 people 90 years ago.  “The symbolism shows the maturity of two countries able to
do their business in a modern way,” Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny said in parliament today.  Ireland is enduring the worst recession since winning
independence in 1922 and economic ties with the U.K. are still
strong. Britain offered 3.25 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) in
aid to Ireland as part of last year’s bailout of the debt-laden
nation. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last
week Ireland is “a special case” for the U.K.  The U.K. still accounts for 15 percent of Irish exports,
while 45 percent of all travelers to Ireland come from its
nearest neighbor. Yet numbers visiting dropped by 20 percent
last year, and the government is hoping for an economic dividend
from the visits of the queen and U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
who is due to arrive in Dublin later this month.  After George  The last British monarch to visit Ireland was George V in
1911, according to the  BBC . The queen, who was crowned in 1953,
will also visit the National Stud in Kildare, the Rock of Cashel
in Tipperary and then finish her tour with a trip to Cork in the
southwest of the country.  “The extent of the queen’s itinerary is surprising and
quite audacious,” said  Diarmaid Ferriter , a historian and
author of “The Transformation of Ireland: 1900-2000.” “The
royals don’t do apologies. Her presence at monuments to Irish
republicans is the nearest thing we’ll get to that.”  The visits are “invaluable” in showcasing Ireland,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on May 10 as he cut sales
taxes on restaurants and accommodation to help tourism.  “It is an extraordinary moment in Irish history,” Irish
President Mary McAleese told broadcaster RTE. Now is
“absolutely the right moment” for the visit, she said.  Britain split Ireland in two in 1921: the 26-county
Catholic-dominated Republic of Ireland, and the six-county
Protestant-majority Northern Ireland, which is still part of the
U.K. About 3,000 people  died  in the three-decade-long Northern
Irish conflict that erupted in the late 1960s and largely ended
with the Good Friday accord in 1998.  Bomb Threat  Some animosity toward the U.K. remains. Dissident Irish
republicans were likely behind a bomb threat in central London
yesterday, the Metropolitan Police said.  There was a “minor public order incident” on O’Connell
Street in central Dublin this afternoon and arrests were made, a
spokesman for the Irish police said by phone. The spokesman, who
declined to be identified, wasn’t able to give extra details. A
British flag was set alight during protests involving around 150
people, the Irish Times newspaper reported.  An explosive device was discovered today on a bus outside
Dublin. That won’t disrupt the queen’s visit, Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  told RTE. Kenny said police had dealt with the
incident “appropriately.”  One organization,  Eirigi , is planning a camp close to the
Garden of Remembrance in a bid to block the visit.  Garden of Remembrance  “The Garden of Remembrance is dedicated to those who have
died fighting the British occupation of Ireland,” the group
said in a statement on its website. “To bring the British head
of state there while Britain continues to occupy the Six
Counties is provocative in the extreme.”  In 2006, a march by Ulster loyalists through Dublin city
sparked riots, in scenes reminiscent of the 1972 burning of the
British Embassy in Dublin and the 1981 violence there as
republican hunger strikers died in prisons in  Northern Ireland .  Yet overall, there’s been little widespread public
opposition to the visit.  Sinn Fein , the main republican political party, is not
planning any big protests. Instead, members laid a wreath at a
memorial of the 33 people killed in the 1974 Dublin and Monaghan
bombings, blamed on loyalist terrorists. The organization also
released 1,000 black  balloons  in Dublin as the queen visited the
Garden of Remembrance.  “Feelings will run high, given the history and the
inconvenience involved for the people of the city,” Shaun Tracey, a Sinn Fein spokesman, said before the visit. “But we
don’t want confrontation. We want to keep people calm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  