-- 
R.R. Donnelley Swaps Rise as Moody’s, S&P, Downgrade to Junk

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-16T14:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/r-r-donnelley-credit-swaps-jump-as-moody-s-fitch-cut-debt-grade-to-junk.html
The cost to protect against a default
by R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. jumped to the highest since
September 2009 after Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut the company’s debt grade to junk.  Credit-default swaps on Chicago-based R.R. Donnelley
climbed 7.8 basis points to a mid-price of 312.8 basis points,
according to data provider CMA.  R.R. Donnelley contracts have soared 98.6 basis points
since it said on May 4 that it will buy back $1 billion of
shares and consider acquisitions. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch put the
company on review for a downgrade to junk, citing the buybacks
and resulting increase in debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “R.R. Donnelley participates in an industry with very poor
supply/demand balance,” Bill Wolfe, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in
a statement today. “This backdrop indicates that business risks
are increasing and that a more conservative financial profile is
required to maintain a given rating.”  Moody’s cut the firm’s senior unsecured rating one level to
Ba1, the highest level of speculative grade, from Baa3. The move
affects $5.7 billion of rated debt. It also assigned a Ba1 grade
to R.R. Donnelley’s proposed $500 million of notes due 2018.  S&P lowered its corporate  credit rating  on the company one
level to BB+ from BBB-. Fitch also downgraded the issuer default
grade to BB+ from BBB-, with a “stable” outlook, the rating
firm said in a statement today.  ‘Leverage Target’  “R.R. Donnelley’s stated leverage target of 2.5 times to 3
times is strong for the ‘BB+’ rating and affords the company
considerable room for acquisitions and balanced shareholder
friendly actions,” Fitch said in the statement.  The contracts are at the highest level since reaching 317.2
basis points on Sept. 7, 2009, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  