-- 
R.R. Donnelley Credit Swaps Jump as Moody’s, S&P, Fitch Cut Debt to Junk

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-05-16T21:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/r-r-donnelley-credit-swaps-jump-as-moody-s-s-p-fitch-cut-debt-to-junk.html
The cost to protect against a default
by R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. jumped to the highest since
September 2009 after Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut the company’s debt grade to junk.  Credit-default swaps on Chicago-based R.R. Donnelley
climbed 7.2 basis points to a mid-price of 312.2 basis points,
according to data provider CMA.  R.R. Donnelley contracts have soared 71 basis points since
May 3, the day before the commercial printer said it would buy
back $1 billion of shares and consider acquisitions. Moody’s,
S&P and Fitch had placed the company on review for downgrades to
junk, citing the buybacks and resulting increase in its ratio of
debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  “R.R. Donnelley participates in an industry with very poor
supply/demand balance,” Bill Wolfe, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in
a statement today. “This backdrop indicates that business risks
are increasing and that a more conservative financial profile is
required to maintain a given rating.”  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Quinlan said earlier this
month that he did not think his company would be cut to junk
status, while swaps and bond prices indicated investors
disagreed.  Moody’s cut the company’s senior unsecured rating one step
to Ba1, the highest level of speculative grade, from Baa3. The
move affects $5.7 billion of debt. It also assigned a Ba1 grade
to R.R. Donnelley’s proposed $500 million of notes due 2018.  ‘Leverage Target’  S&P lowered its corporate  credit rating  on the company one
level to BB+ from BBB-. Fitch also downgraded the issuer default
grade to BB+ from BBB-, with a “stable” outlook, the rating
firm said in a statement today.  “R.R. Donnelley’s stated leverage target of 2.5 times to 3
times is strong for the ‘BB+’ rating and affords the company
considerable room for acquisitions and balanced shareholder
friendly actions,” Fitch said in the statement.  The contracts are at the highest level since September
2009, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose as stocks fell and European leaders worked to
alleviate debt crises in  Greece  and  Portugal .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 0.6 basis point to a mid-
price of 90.1 basis points as of 5:16 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Rescue Packages  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and declines as it improves, is up from
87.8 basis points on April 29.  Portugal won approval of a 78 billion-euro ($111 billion)
bailout, while EU finance ministers stepped up pressure on
Greece to sell assets and deepen spending cuts in exchange for
an increase in its rescue. The Standard & Poor 500 Index slipped
0.6 percent to 1,329.47, extending a two-week slump.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  