-- 
Trader Daniel Corbin Pleads Guilty

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-16T22:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/trader-daniel-corbin-pleads-guilty-in-lehman-related-insider-trading-case.html
Day trader Daniel Corbin pleaded
guilty in federal court in  New York  today to charges that he
conspired to make illegal trades based on confidential tips
gleaned from the wife of a former Lehman Brothers salesman.  Corbin, 35, of  Miami Beach ,  Florida , pleaded guilty to one
count each of  securities fraud  and conspiracy before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman in federal court in  Manhattan ,
making him the last of five people indicted in December 2008 to
plead guilty.  Corbin said that his partner, Jamil Bouchareb, obtained
material non-public information about Veritas DGC Inc. that was
used to buy 2,500 shares of the company for their joint account
on Sept. 1, 2006. The trade earned them $16,000 in profits.
Compagnie Generale de Geophysique SA said four days later it had
agreed to buy the provider of geophysical services to the oil
industry for $3.1 billion.  Corbin told Pitman in court today that he had
“suspicions” that the information that Bouchareb had obtained
wasn’t public. Bouchareb got his tips from a former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. salesman, Matthew Devlin, and told Corbin
about them prior to the trade being made, said Corbin’s
attorney, Ronald Gainor.  “I consciously avoided looking into the situation further
and I turned a blind eye to it,” Corbin said.  Confidential Tips  Corbin and four other people were indicted in December 2008
and accused of making illegal trades based on confidential tips
gleaned from Devlin’s wife, a Brunswick Group public-relations
executive who was involved with corporate deals. She wasn’t
accused of wrongdoing. Devlin admitted to his role in the scheme
in December 2008 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors,
according to a court document. He hasn’t been sentenced.  The three other people named in the indictment pleaded
guilty in May 2009: Bouchareb; former Lehman salesman Frederick Bowers; and Eric Holzer, a tax lawyer who worked at Paul
Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP. Bowers and Holzer were both
sentenced to probation, and Bouchareb is scheduled to be
sentenced in July.  Under an agreement with prosecutors, Corbin faces six to 12
months in prison when he is sentenced before U.S. District Judge
 Victor Marrero . A date hasn’t been set. He remains free on a
$500,000 personal recognizance bond.  The case is U.S. v. Corbin, 09-cr-00463, U.S. District
Judge, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  