-- 
Rajaratnam to Reprise Wiretap Role in Trial of Galleon Deputy Zvi Goffer

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/rajaratnam-deputy-faces-trial-in-second-galleon-group-insider-trading-ring.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading,
will be heard again on recorded wiretaps in the trial of his
former deputy, Zvi Goffer, the judge overseeing the case said.  Rajaratnam, who didn’t testify in his trial, was convicted
of 14 criminal counts last week by jurors who heard him talking
in dozens of wiretapped conversations with employees and alleged
co-conspirators. U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  said
recordings of Rajaratnam will be played in the case of Goffer
and two others whose trial began yesterday with jury selection.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is going to be a factor in this trial,”
Sullivan told lawyers in a hearing yesterday before the start of
jury selection in the same Manhattan courthouse where Rajaratnam
was convicted of directing the biggest illegal stock-tipping
ring since the 1980s. “He’s going to be mentioned or in fact
heard on these tapes.”  Goffer, 34, who left Galleon to work at Schottenfeld Group
LLC and then founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC, is
on trial along with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at Incremental. Their trial begins
a second round of cases growing out of a nationwide insider-
trading investigation.  Referred to by some of his alleged accomplices as
“Octopussy,”  Zvi Goffer  was at the center of the insider-
trading scheme, one of three overlapping rings tied to Galleon,
according to prosecutors. The reference to the 1983 James Bond
movie was due to Goffer’s many sources of information,
prosecutors have said.  Sullivan told lawyers he expects jury selection to be
completed today, with opening statements to follow.  45 Possible Jurors  Yesterday, the judge questioned 45 potential jurors,
seeking to identify biases that would prevent them from serving
on the jury. He told them the trial may take as long as six
weeks.  “Have any of you seen, heard, or read news reports about
the trial of Raj Rajaratnam,” Sullivan asked, one of the 68
items on a questionnaire he read to the panel.  Sullivan and lawyers in the case questioned many of the
people, including 11 who said they’d heard news of the
Rajaratnam case, individually, in a jury room away from the rest
of the panel. Sullivan permitted reporters to attend the
questioning. In the Rajaratnam trial, U.S. District Judge
Richard Holwell barred reporters when individual members of the
jury pool were being questioned.  Rajaratnam Wiretaps  Panel members who said they knew of the Rajaratnam case
were told that Zvi Goffer was a former employee and that the
trial would include the recorded conversations of Rajaratnam
with Goffer and others.  In one wiretap, Kimelman “says some very derogatory things
about risk managers,” ridiculing them as the enemy, his lawyer,
 Michael Sommer , told Sullivan, arguing to bar a  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  risk manager from the panel. Sullivan declined to
exclude the Credit Suisse executive.  The Goffer brothers and Kimelman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud. They face as long as 20 years
in prison if convicted of fraud. Emanuel Goffer last week lost a
bid for a two-week postponement of the trial because of what he
called “inflammatory” publicity from Rajaratnam’s May 11
conviction.  “There’s an appeals issue even before Zvi Goffer crosses
the courthouse threshold, presuming he is convicted,” said
 Anthony Sabino , a professor at the Tobin School of Business at
 St. John’s University  in New York.  “The defendant can claim the publicity in the aftermath of
the Rajaratnam guilty verdict harmed his chances for a fair
trial,” Sabino said. “How can you find an unbiased group of
people who aren’t tainted by what’s in the news?”  Ropes & Gray  Prosecutors allege that Zvi Goffer paid tens of thousands
of dollars to two Ropes & Gray LLP attorneys for information on
transactions the law firm was handling.  The government says Goffer’s sources passed tips on
acquisitions of companies including 3Com Corp., Axcan Pharma
Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  The scheme netted at least $20 million in profit, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission alleged when it filed a
related civil lawsuit. All three men denied wrongdoing.  Their arrest in November 2009, just weeks after Rajaratnam
was detained on  insider-trading  charges, came in a second wave
of cases brought by the FBI and Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Fourteen people were charged originally in Goffer’s
alleged ring. Ten pleaded guilty. One, Deep Shah, is a fugitive.  William Barzee , a lawyer for Zvi Goffer, and  Michael Ross ,
a lawyer for Emanuel Goffer, didn’t reply to voice-mail messages
seeking comment. Kimelman’s lawyer, Sommer, declined to comment.  Cooperating Witnesses  As they did with Rajaratnam, prosecutors will call
cooperating witnesses who allegedly participated in the scheme.
One is Brien Santarlas, a former Ropes & Gray lawyer who pleaded
guilty in 2009 to passing tips about transactions, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told the judge.  The Goffer trial, like that of Rajaratnam, will feature
conversations secretly recorded by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . Fish said at a May 10 hearing that he expects to
play at least 60 recordings, some lasting more 30 minutes.  Prosecutors have said Goffer and his co-conspirators spoke
in code with one another and tried to hide their trades.
Excerpts of wiretaps in court records show the men sometimes
used colorful terms.  In one call, Goffer and a co-defendant discussed whether
one of their sources of inside information was a “rat,”
according to a government summary of the wiretaps.  ‘So Paranoid’  “We have become so paranoid for no reason,” Goffer said.
In another call, he cautioned lawyer Jason Goldfarb, who pleaded
guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud on April 21, about
getting caught.  “Someone’s going to jail, going directly to jail, so don’t
let it be you, OK?” Goffer said, adding, “That’s a ticket to
the big house.”  In another call, Goffer said he was pleased that others
were also trading on the same stock, because it would help him
evade detection by regulators and prosecutors.  “All right then, you know what?” Goffer said, according
to the FBI summary. “All it does is give me more cover. God
Bless America,”  FBI agents followed Goffer and his co-defendants for months
as they traded information at  New York  street corners and gyms,
according to court records.  Sabino said such talk will make it difficult for Goffer’s
defense lawyers to argue he relied on analyst reports instead of
secret tips, as Rajaratnam’s lawyers did at his trial.  ‘Sopranos’ Dialogue  “These guys are allegedly better educated than a mob
defendant, but their conversations sound a lot like ‘Sopranos’
dialogue,” Sabino said, referring to the television show.  “This is blunt conversation where you have one defendant
asking if a guy is a rat,” he said. “Any juror who watches a
lot of TV will know that they sound more like gangsters
committing crimes than real traders.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court At 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  