-- 
Rambus, SAP, Microsoft, Nokia, Apple: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-16T12:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/rambus-sap-microsoft-nokia-apple-intellectual-property.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  fell the most since 2009
on May 13 after a U.S. appeals court agreed that the company
destroyed documents relevant to separate patent infringement
trials with Micron Technology Inc. and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) 
and sent the cases back to a lower court to determine
appropriate sanctions.  A five-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington  vacated lower court  rulings  in the
two  cases , which centered on whether Sunnyvale, California-based
Rambus should be allowed to enforce patents on computer-memory
chips although it destroyed potential evidence.  The decision prolongs legal disputes that date back to 2000
for Rambus, a chip designer that has been suing companies that
refuse to license its technology. The appeals court decision
forces the judge in the Micron trial to reconsider the degree to
which Rambus acted in bad faith and it throws out a $397 million
judgment against Hynix so the court in that case can also
revisit the document-destruction issue.  “Vacating awards or being convicted of spoliation is not
anything anyone wants put out in the financial press,” said
Jeff Schreiner, a Capstone Investments Inc. analyst in San
Diego. “In the end, though, nothing has taken Rambus off the
patent train express, nothing has derailed Rambus’s ability to
collect on these patents.”  Rambus fell $3.44, or 18 percent, to $15.83 at 4:05 p.m.
 New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading May 13, the biggest
percentage drop at the close since January 2009. Schreiner has a
$45 target and a “buy” rating on the shares and doesn’t own
them. Micron fell 2.4 percent to $10.40.  “We are very disappointed with the decisions in these
cases,” Thomas Lavelle, Rambus’s general counsel, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are hopeful when the district courts
reconsider these decisions, they will find, as we believe, there
was no bad faith and no prejudice.”  “Our view is that the district court truly believed that
Rambus acted in bad faith and with sufficient prejudice,” Matt Powers, a lawyer at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP who represents
Boise, Idaho-based Micron, said in a telephone interview. “That
is the result that should happen and will happen.”  Representatives from Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix
declined to immediately comment on the ruling.  The appeals are Micron Technology v. Rambus, 2009-1263, and
Hynix Semiconductor v. Rambus, 2009-1299, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower-court cases are
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-00792, U.S.
District Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington) and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-20905, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Jose).  For more, click here.  Jury Orders SAP to Pay $345 million for Patent Infringement  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of business-applications
software, was told by a jury on May 13 to pay $345 million for
infringing a Versata Software Inc. patent.  The federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , found that SAP owed
closely held Versata compensation for sales of certain SAP
enterprise and customer relationship-management software sold
prior to May 2010. The jury awarded $260 million for lost
profits and $85 million as a reasonable royalty.  The damages are more than the $138.6 million SAP was
ordered to pay Austin, Texas-based Versata in a 2009 verdict
that was thrown out. U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles Everingham
had ordered a new trial because of rulings by an appeals court
specializing in patent law that set new rules on how financial
penalties should be calculated.  The patent covers software that can help sales staff
determine the most recent price for products and services.
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP told jurors that customers weren’t
buying its software for that feature, so any patent royalties
should be low.  Versata will seek an injunction to stop the infringement,
Scott Cole, a lawyer with McKool Smith who represented the
Austin, Texas-based company, said following the verdict.  “This has been four hard fought years, and the evidence
clearly shows that SAP’s use of our intellectual property caused
harm,” Cole said. “It was a valuable invention.”  SAP said it’s disappointed with the judgment and is
considering whether to appeal.  “We have said all along this is a very complex case,”
Andy Kendzie, a company spokesman, said in a telephone
interview. “Our attorneys are reviewing today’s filing and we
will consider all legal options.”  SAP argued in court papers before the trial that Versata
shouldn’t have been able to claim that it lost profit because
the company hadn’t sold any of the software, called Pricer.
Versata claimed it was undercut by SAP and pushed out of the
market.  The case is Versata Software Inc. v. SAP America Inc.,
07cv153, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Teva, Mylan, Anchen Win Patent Ruling Over Amrix Infringement  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , Mylan Inc. and Anchen
Pharmaceuticals Inc. won a case involving their planned generic
version of the muscle-relaxant Amrix.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and  Eurand NV (EURX)  sued for patent-infringement in
2008 in federal court in Delaware. U.S. District Judge Sue
Robinson on May 11 decided that the patents aren’t valid because
the technology would be obvious to a skilled chemist.  “Cephalon is reviewing the court’s opinion and is
evaluating its options, including an appeal,” the company said
May 13 in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Teva, the world’s largest generic-drug maker, said on May 2
it agreed to buy Cephalon for about $6.2 billion.  Cephalon and Eurand filed the lawsuit after the generic
drugmakers applied to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
permission to make low-cost copies of Amrix. The companies had
conceded that their version of the formula infringed and claimed
the patents weren’t valid.  The case is Cyclobenzaprine Hydrochloride Patent
Litigation, 09-2118, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,387,793, 7,544,372.  3M, Andover Healthcare Settle Patent Suit Over CoFlex  3M Co. (MMM)  said it settled its patent-infringement lawsuit over
Andover Healthcare Inc.’s CoFlex compression system for treating
leg ulcers and other wounds.  The settlement prevents Andover from selling its system,
St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M said in a statement May 13. Other
terms weren’t disclosed.  A representative from Andover Healthcare didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Microsoft, Nokia Challenge Apple’s ‘App Store’ EU Trademark  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  are among four technology
companies challenging  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s European Union-wide
trademarks for “Appstore” and “App Store.”  Nokia, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, Microsoft,
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and  HTC Corp. (2498)  all filed
separate requests May 12 with the EU trademark agency in
Alicante,  Spain , seeking to invalidate Apple’s trademark rights.  The companies “are seeking to invalidate Apple’s trademark
registration for ‘APP STORE’ and ‘APPSTORE’ because we believe
that they should not have been granted because they both lack
distinctiveness,” according to a statement from Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker.  A decision by the agency could be appealed all the way to
the EU’s top court in Luxembourg. Apple, which pioneered the
sale of mobile-device applications, accounts for more than
three-quarters of revenue in the industry -- even as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s app sales grow faster. Apple’s App Store offers more than
350,000 apps for iPhones, iPods and iPads. It will bring in
$2.91 billion in revenue in 2011, up 63 percent from last year,
according to researchers at El Segundo, California-based IHS
ISuppli.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  on April 15 opposed Apple’s two EU
trademarks, according to  documents  on the trademark agency’s
website. The dispute over the validity of the Apple rights has
also reached the U.S., where Amazon, after being sued for
trademark infringement by Apple, argued the intellectual
property right was invalid.  Alan Hely, a U.K.-based spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, declined to comment, saying the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Mark Durrant, a spokesman for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia,
and Sony Ericsson spokeswoman Mandy Slater confirmed the
companies also objected to the trademark registration.  The phrase “means just what it says, a store for ‘apps,’
which in itself is a generic term for the services that the
trademark registrations cover,” Durrant said in an e-mail.  Sony Ericsson Says Trademark Litigation With Clearwire Resolved  Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and its U.S. unit
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications Inc. reported on May 13 the
resolution of trademark litigation initiated against  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  and its primary operating unit, Clearwire Communications
LLC.  The litigation involved Sony Ericsson’s contention that
Clearwire was using logos which infringed Sony Ericsson’s
trademark.  For more trademark news, click here.  Privacy  News Corp. (NWSA) , Miller Agree to $162,000 Deal in Hacking Case  Actress Sienna Miller agreed to accept 100,000 pounds
($162,000) from  News Corp. (NWS)  to end her lawsuit against the
company’s News of the World newspaper, which hacked into her
voice mail to get scoops about her private life.  “Miller is proceeding in this way because all of her
claims have been admitted,” Hugh Tomlinson, her lawyer, said in
court May 13. The company had “capitulated” on May 11 by
admitting in court it used hacked voice mails to publish 11
stories about Miller in 2005 and 2006, he said.  Under the deal, News Corp. will also disclose the relevant
contents from about 8,000 e-mails and possibly some journalists’
notebooks. Lawyers for the parties at a hearing in London May 13
agreed to draft a final order and present it to a judge as soon
as next week.  Miller, 29, and her former boyfriend, actor Jude Law, are
among more than 20 celebrities and politicians that sued Rupert
Murdoch’s News Corp. over the scandal that erupted more than
four years ago. Miller had sought as much as 400,000 pounds in
the case. The New York-based company last month apologized and
offered to settle some of the cases after journalists linked to
the paper were arrested.  Michael Silverleaf, the newspaper’s lawyer, declined to
comment on the deal May 13.  The case is Sienna Miller v. Newsgroup Newspaper, No.
HC10C03458 High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  KPN Method to Track Customer Traffic Investigated by Authorities  Royal KPN NV, the largest Dutch phone company, is being
investigated by the country’s government and regulators over the
method it uses to analyze mobile-phone customers’ data traffic.  “They are using a method that is very radical and we think
they should not have gone this far,” said Harriet Garvelink,
spokeswoman for  Opta , the telecommunications regulator. Opta and
the Dutch privacy-protection authority together are looking into
whether KPN violates its customers’ privacy, Garvelink said.  KPN is using “deep packet inspection” as a method to
analyze data traffic of its mobile phone customers, enabling it
to track the use of Whatsapp, an application that allows people
to communicate via Internet on their mobile phones.  KPN, responding to newspaper reports about the practice,
said May 12 it is scanning customers’ mobile data traffic. It
doesn’t look at the content of the messages, it said in a
statement on its  website . KPN concluded after an internal
investigation that the use of deep packet inspection doesn’t
violate privacy laws, it said in a statement May 13. The company
said it will cooperate with regulators’ investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 