-- 
Rand Strengthens, Rebounding from Weakest in Two Months, on Treasury Data

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-16T14:41:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/rand-slips-to-weakest-in-2-months-against-dollar-on-metal-prices-eu-debt.html
The rand strengthened against the
dollar, snapping a five-day decline, after a Treasury report
showed global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets weakened in March.  The rand advanced as much 0.6 percent to 6.9800 per dollar,
and traded 0.5 percent stronger at 6.9875 as of 3:56 p.m. in
Johannesburg, reversing an earlier decline to a two-month low
against the U.S. currency. The rand was little changed at 9.9071
per euro.  The dollar had its biggest decline against the euro in two
weeks, and depreciated against seven of its Group of 10
counterparts, after the Treasury report, which helps gauge
confidence in the  U.S. economy  as well as fiscal and monetary
policy. A separate report showed manufacturing in the New York
region expanded at a slower pace than anticipated in May. The
rand often tracks the euro, the currency of the majority of
South Africa’s foreign trade.  “The rand is still completely tied to the euro-dollar,”
 John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a research note before
the Treasury report was released. “The dominance of the euro-
dollar in driving the market implies there are large two-way
risks” for the rand, they added.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$24 billion during the month compared with net buying of $27.2
billion in February, after  China  trimmed its holdings of
 government securities , the Treasury Department reported. Seven
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected long-term U.S.
financial assets would show net buying of $33 billion in March.  Commodities Drop  Earlier, the rand depreciated as much as 0.5 percent to
7.0587 per dollar, its weakest level since March 18, as
commodity prices fell before a meeting of European finance
ministers to discuss Greece’s financing needs.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
declined for the first day in three as prices of metals
including copper and platinum dropped.  Greece today will plead for a boost in its 110 billion-euro
($155 billion) bailout from European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund  in talks clouded by the arrest of
IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  Europe ’s donor countries, led by Germany, are demanding
deeper budget cuts in exchange for granting Greece extra aid or
giving it more time to pay back official loans, and are weighing
whether to make bondholders share the costs.  Ten-year  government bonds  gained before the release of
consumer inflation data tomorrow. The  consumer price index 
probably rose 4.4 percent in April, from 4.1 percent the month
before, according to the median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 63 cents to
88.51 rand, driving the yield down 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 8.51 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  