-- 
Treasury Bill Rates at Almost Record Low as U.S. Debt Ceiling Is Reached

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-16T21:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/treasury-bill-rates-at-almost-record-low-as-u-s-debt-ceiling-is-reached.html
Treasury bill rates were at almost
record lows as government authorities curtailed short-term debt
issuance to conserve borrowing capacity with the U.S. reaching
its federal borrowing threshold of $14.3 trillion.  Ten-year Treasury notes fell as investors sought safety as
 Greece  sought additional bailout funds. Bills remained near
record lows as Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he
has taken action to stave off the federal debt limit until Aug.
2, using accounting measures that involve two retirement funds.  “There is a lot of cash looking for short-term paper that
doesn’t have anywhere to go, and it’s keeping note yields near
zero,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that
trades with the Federal Reserve. “As bill supply declines,
expect more of the same in the very front end.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.15 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
note maturing in May 2021 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 26/32. The yield fell on May 13 to 3.13 percent,
the lowest level since December. Six-month rates were at 0.07
percent, compared with the record low 0.0305 percent set May 6.
Three-month bill rates were at 0.02 percent, almost the lowest
level since they went negative during the financial crisis.  Treasury bills, notes and bonds fluctuated as Geithner
wrote lawmakers today to say he has declared a “debt issuance
suspension period,” a technical measure that allows him to free
up borrowing room from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund and the Government Securities Investment Fund.  Obama on Deficit  President  Barack Obama  said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” in
a segment taped May 11 in  Washington  for broadcast yesterday
that failure to raise the debt ceiling might disrupt the global
financial system. Republicans are seeking spending cuts and no
tax increases in exchange for supporting a higher debt limit.  “For every dollar the president wants to raise the debt
ceiling, we can show him plenty of ways to cut far more than a
dollar of spending,” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ,
a Republican from  Wisconsin , said in  Chicago  today.  Since the government shut down non-essential services in
1995, the borrowing threshold has been increased 12 times. In
half of those instances, Congress waited until the ceiling had
been reached before it was adjusted.  “It’s hard to imagine a strong selloff in Treasuries given
the dynamics in play,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “This is the day that the
debt ceiling is officially reached, which puts some pause in the
Treasury rally. Even though we technically have until August, it
is a story to pay attention to.”  Bill Supply  Bill supply has slid since February after the Treasury
eliminated $195 billion in short-term debt it sold on behalf of
the  Federal Reserve  to help avoid exceeding the U.S. debt limit.  China  reduced its holdings of Treasuries in March by 0.8
percent, or $9.2 billion, to $1.14 trillion, led by an $8.6
billion reduction in its position in Treasury bills to $5.7
billion, Treasury figures released today show.  Japan  increased its holdings of Treasuries by 2 percent to
$907.9 billion in March, when the largest earthquake in its
history led to a tsunami and nuclear disaster.  Foreign holdings of bills fell for a fifth month to $414.9
billion, the lowest level since October 2008. Overseas holdings
of the shortest-maturity Treasuries decreased by $17.5 billion,
or 4.1 percent.  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought $1.4 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities due from January 2015 to February 2041 today under
its plan to spur the economy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank will likely continue reinvesting maturing debt
after its $600 billion bond-buying program expires in June.  “People are trying to get a handle of what we should be
doing from here,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New
York of government and agency debt trading at RW Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “Rates should be higher, but the commodity unwind
and concern about peripheral  Europe  are underlying the strength
in Treasuries, not to mention that the Fed is still buying
Treasuries. It is a market where you have to be nimble.”  German 10-year yields rose to almost eight basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries on May 4 amid concern that
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s 142 billion euro ($200 billion) bill
for aiding Greece and Ireland will make the country’s debt
riskier. As recently as January, bunds yielded about 53 basis
points less than  U.S. debt .  Yield Spreads  Europe’s benchmark bonds reflect the European Union’s
rising budget deficits and the growing gap between inflation in
the region and the U.S., where the Fed shows no signs of
increasing borrowing costs from record lows. European finance
ministers met today to discuss more support to help Greece avoid
restructuring its debt.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said Greece is the world’s
biggest candidate for default.  “We suggest that Greece is insolvent and that at some
point the can cannot be kicked down the road any further,” said
Gross in an “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Ultimately debt holders will have to
bear some of the burden as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  