-- 
Treasury Yields at Almost 2011 Lows on Concern Economic Recovery Is Weak

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-16T13:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/treasuries-rise-yields-approach-lowest-this-year-before-housing-report.html
Treasury yields were at almost their
lowest levels this year amid concern about the strength of the
recovery as Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said it’s too early to consider an exit from stimulus.  U.S. bonds rose before an industry report that economists
said will show confidence among homebuilders is at recession
levels. Lockhart, speaking yesterday, said bonds indicate
traders are cutting bets on inflation.  “We’ve seen quite a series of weaker data prints, or data
coming in not as strong as expected, and the market’s taken this
as a signal that the recovery isn’t on its way as everyone
expected going into the year,” said  Michael Leister , a
fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany .
“That’s the main driver why we’ve seen this fall in yields.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.18 percent at 9:05
a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 dropped 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32. The yield fell to
3.13 percent on May 13, the lowest since December.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, narrowed to a 12-week
low of 2.32 percentage points on May 13 and was at 2.38
percentage points today.  Manufacturing in the New York region expanded at a slower
pace than anticipated in May as the cost of raw materials
surged.  New York Manufacturing  The New York Fed’s general economic index fell to 11.9 from
a one-year high of 21.7 in April. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected it would drop to 19.6, according to the median
forecast. Readings greater than zero signal gains in the so-
called Empire State Index that covers New York, northern  New
Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index was 17 this month from 16 in April, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
before the figure is released today. Numbers below 50 signal
more respondents view conditions as poor.  “The financial crisis and then the economic crisis kicked
off in the housing market, and given that there are still no
signals that things are really getting better, this is impacting
sentiment,” Leister said.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets weakened in March from a month earlier as  China  trimmed
its holdings of  government securities , the Treasury Department
reported.  Investment Flows  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$24 billion during the month compared with net buying of $27.2
billion in February, according to statistics issued today in
 Washington . Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $116 billion compared with net buying
of $95.6 billion the previous month.  Yields declined earlier after President Barack Obama said
on CBS’s “Face the Nation” in a segment taped May 11 in
Washington for broadcast yesterday that failure to raise the
U.S. debt ceiling might disrupt the global financial system.
Obama is reaching out to Republican and Democratic lawmakers to
win approval of an increase in the debt ceiling after the
government projected this month that the $14.3 trillion limit
will be reached today.  “Nobody thinks this threat is credible that the U.S. would
default,” said  Carl Lantz , Credit Suisse Group AG head of
interest-rate strategy in New York. “The reality is that no
U.S. Treasury Secretary will let the U.S. government default on
his watch so all that happens now is that supply of Treasuries
comes down one way or another.” He spoke on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track” with Erik Schatzker.  Outlook for Yields  Ten-year yields will climb to 3.81 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. The projection dropped from 3.91 last week.  The Fed plans to buy $1 billion to $2 billion of TIPS due
from April 2013 to February 2041 today under its plan to spur
the economy, according to its  website . The central bank said in
November it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries by June 30.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund from  Newport Beach ,  California , is avoiding
Treasuries, said  Mohamed A. El-Erian , the co-chief investment
officer, according to an interview published yesterday on the
USA Today  website .  ‘Biggest Buyer’  “When the biggest buyer disappears and you cannot identify
another buyer, it’s better to look for value elsewhere,” he
said. Pimco’s record $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had bets
against U.S. government and related debt in March and April,
according to figures on its website.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month he’s in no
rush to increase  interest rates , and he will keep reinvesting
proceeds of maturing debt held by the central bank into bonds.  The Fed’s Lockhart said winding down the stimulus measures
is a process that’s likely to begin only when the recovery
becomes “more clearly sustainable.”  “Even if they are a bit premature in my view, questions
are already arising about the specifics of the Fed’s exit
strategy,” Lockhart said yesterday in a speech in Atlanta. A
change in the Fed’s public statements “would actually start the
process” of tightening, he said.  “Following the breach of the prior 3.25 percent range
‘floor,’ the market has been threatening a push down into the
psychologically key 3 percent zone for some time now,” wrote
strategists led by  Charles Diebel  at Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets, in an e-mailed report today. “With supply out of the
way and a Fed seemingly on hold for a still ‘extended’ period,
any further faltering in the risk on trade would likely generate
additional momentum to the downside in yield terms.”  Saving the Euro  Treasuries are outperforming bunds as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s determination to save the euro rattles debt holders.  German 10-year yields rose to almost eight basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries on May 4 amid concern
Merkel’s 142 billion euro ($200 billion) bill for aiding  Greece 
and Ireland will make the country’s debt riskier. As recently as
January, bunds yielded about 53 basis points, or 0.53 percentage
point, less than  U.S. debt .  Europe ’s benchmark bonds reflect the European Union’s
rising budget deficits and the growing gap between inflation in
the region and the U.S. European finance ministers meet today to
discuss more support to help Greece avoid restructuring its debt
after a 110 billion-euro bailout last year failed to keep the
crisis from spreading to Ireland and Portugal.  The increase in German yields has driven down prices,
resulting in a loss to investors of 0.6 percent this year, while
Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  