-- 
Red Sox Complete Three-Game Sweep in New York, Posada Apologizes

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-16T05:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/red-sox-complete-three-game-sweep-in-new-york-posada-apologizes.html
Kevin Youkilis  and  David Ortiz  hit
home runs as the  Boston   Red Sox  beat the New York Yankees 7-5 to
complete their first three-game series sweep at Yankee Stadium
in seven years.  Jarrod Saltalamacchia added his first homer last night for
Boston (20-20), which has a .500 winning percentage for the
first time since starting the Major League Baseball season with
a 0-6 record.  The Yankees have lost a season-high five straight games,
all at home, to fall to 20-18 overall.  “When things are going bad, they’re going bad,” Yankees
manager Joe Girardi said at a news conference. “We’ve got to
turn it around.”  The Yankees took a 4-1 lead after two innings on homers by
Andruw Jones and  Curtis Granderson .  Youkilis tied it with a three-run home run in the top of
the third inning and Ortiz’s homer put the Red Sox ahead in the
fifth. Yankees starting pitcher Freddy Garcia allowed five runs
over 5 1/3 innings and took the loss for the third time in his
past four outings.  Jon Lester allowed four runs over six innings to improve to
5-1 for Boston, which has won five of six meetings this season
with the American League Eastern Division-rival Yankees.  The Red Sox last swept a three-game series in New York on
April 23-25, 2004.  Jorge Posada  walked as a pinch-hitter for the Yankees in
the eighth inning, when he received a standing ovation from the
 New York  crowd. Posada said he apologized to Girardi and Yankees
General Manager Brian Cashman, one day after he was demoted to
the ninth spot in the batting order and then took himself out of
the lineup.  “I just had a bad day,” Posada, who is batting .165 in
his first season as designated hitter, said in a televised
interview. “It’s been a frustrating season so far.”  Girardi said he wasn’t surprised by the reception Posada,
39, received from Yankees fans when he came to bat last night.  “Jorge is loved in our clubhouse, loved by the fans and
has meant a lot to the organization,” he said. “This has been
a great player for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  