-- 
Resourcehouse May Raise $3.6 Billion in Hong Kong IPO, Term Sheet Shows

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-05-17T00:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/resourcehouse-seeks-up-to-3-6-billion-in-hk-ipo-after-shelving-march-plan.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., the Australian
coal and iron-ore company controlled by  Clive Palmer , is seeking
as much as HK$28.2 billion ($3.6 billion) in an initial public
offering in  Hong Kong , according to a term sheet for the sale
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The company plans to sell at least 5.7 billion shares at
between HK$4.48 and HK$4.93 each, implying a market value of
$7.1 billion to $7.8 billion, the terms show. About $2.4 billion
of the money raised will be used to develop a coal project in
 Australia  and $700 million will be allocated to its iron ore
project, the sheet said.  Andrew Crook, a spokesman for Palmer, couldn’t be reached
for comment on his mobile phone this morning.  Resourcehouse shelved an IPO in March because of market
volatility, two people with knowledge of the matter said then.
It was at least the second time that the company’s plans to sell
shares in Hong Kong were postponed.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  and Metallurgical Corp. of China
Ltd. have both agreed to invest about $200 million in the stock,
the terms show. Pricing for the IPO is scheduled for May 31 and
the shares may start trading June 9, according to the document.  The miner may also offer an overallotment option, allowing
it to sell as much as HK$32.4 billion in stock in total.  BOC International Holdings Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale. The
balance of the money raised will go its Cosmos project and loan
repayments.  Resourcehouse started gauging investor demand in an IPO
last week, two people said May 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 