-- 
RIM Recalls 1,000 PlayBooks Due to Operating-System Glitch

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-16T20:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/rim-recalls-1-000-playbooks-tablets-because-of-operating-system-glitch.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  said it is
recalling about 1,000 BlackBerry PlayBook tablets because of a
software glitch a month after the device went on sale, a setback
for the company as it tries to win sales from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The recalled tablets have a problem in the operating system
that may make the software not load properly, the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Most of the
affected 16-gigabyte models are still with distributors, not in
the hands of customers. RIM will replace affected devices and
said customers with faulty software should contact the company.  RIM is banking on the PlayBook to lure users away from the
market-leading iPad and boost sales as growth in demand for its
BlackBerry smartphones slows. The PlayBook earned mixed reviews
from technology columnists who suggested RIM rushed out the
device and criticized its lack of a standalone e-mail program,
network connectivity and shortage of consumer applications.  “Usually product recalls don’t make it into the headlines
when it’s less than about 100,000 devices,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst at MKM Partners LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It shows that people are using a magnifying glass
when looking at RIM.” He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  AT&T Inc. said on the day of the PlayBook’s April 19 debut
it wouldn’t release software right away to customers that allows
e-mail on the device because it had only just received the
software and had to do further tests.  RIM fell 38 cents to $42.86 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 26 percent this
year and plunged 14 percent on April 29 after RIM cut its profit
forecast on slower-than-expected demand for BlackBerry
smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  