-- 
Clemens’s Judge Plans to Question Steroid Probe Lawyers on Witness Notes

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-16T21:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/roger-clemens-s-judge-to-hold-hearing-with-lawyers-from-steroid-probe.html
The judge overseeing the perjury case
against former New York Yankees pitcher Roger Clemens scheduled
a private hearing with lawyers who were hired by  Major League
Baseball  for a report on steroid use in the sport.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington said the
hearing will help him determine whether Clemens should be able
to obtain documents, including handwritten notes, that the
lawyers prepared from interviews with  Brian McNamee , Clemens’s
former trainer and Kirk Radomski, a former clubhouse assistant
for the New York Mets. The hearing is set for June 8.  Walton, last month, ordered DLA Piper LLP, which Major
League Baseball hired to investigate steroid use, to give him
about 20 documents. Walton, who will decide whether the material
is protected by attorney confidentiality rules, said there was
“insufficient information” in that material to make a
decision.  “The court must conduct a further inquiry of all current
DLA Piper attorneys that were present during these interviews
and who played some role in creating the documents at issue,”
Walton said in a ruling today.  Glen Allen  of DLA Piper’s Baltimore office declined to
comment. Clemens’ lawyer, Michael Attanasio in San Diego, also
declined to comment.  Defense Plan  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, argued at a hearing
last month that the materials held by DLA Piper may contain
information showing that that McNamee, a witness for the
government, lied to Congress and to prosecutors. Clemens’s
defense turns on showing McNamee lied, Hardin said.  The steroid report, published in 2007, was written by
former U.S. Senator George Mitchell, who was a partner at
Chicago-based DLA Piper at the time.  Clemens, 48, was indicted in August on one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury. Clemens, who
also played for the  Boston Red Sox , Toronto Blue Jays and
 Houston Astros  over a 24-year Major League Baseball career, has
pleaded not guilty.  Clemens faces a $1.5 million fine and as long as 30 years
in prison if convicted on all charges. Jury selection is
scheduled to begin July 6.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  