-- 
Russian Economic Growth Rate Falls to 4.1% on Outflows, Missing Estimates

-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-05-16T13:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/russian-economic-growth-rate-falls-to-4-1-on-outflows-missing-estimates.html
Russia ’s economic growth slowed in
the first quarter as corporate investment stagnated and the
biggest quarterly gain in oil prices for two years failed to
offset $21.3 billion of capital outflows.  Gross domestic product rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier
after increasing 4.5 percent in the previous three months. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists was 4.2
percent. The Economy Ministry estimated growth at 4.5 percent,
and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  put it at 4.4 percent.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , whose term ends next year, seeks
to boost growth to 10 percent within five years to match the
pace of the fastest-growing developing economies. Capital flight
and slowing domestic demand restrained economic output even as
commodity prices rose, stoked by unrest in the Middle East,
which produces about 35 percent of the world’s oil.  “The GDP number is surprisingly poor and reflects, in our
opinion, the diminishing link between oil prices and Russian
economic growth,” Tatiana Orlova, an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  London , said by e-mail.  The 30-stock Micex Index was little changed after the
report, trading at 1620.04 as of 5:46 p.m. in Moscow, down 0.8
percent for the day. The ruble weakened 0.8 percent to 28.1625
per dollar and gained 0.2 percent to 39.8300 against the euro.  Net capital outflows totaled $21.3 billion in the first
quarter and $38.3 billion in 2010, more than the central bank’s
forecast of $22 billion. That compared with $56.9 billion a year
earlier, central bank  data  show. The country last had a net
inflow in 2007, when it reached $81.7 billion.  ‘Political Uncertainty’  Political uncertainty before parliamentary elections in
December and a presidential poll next year are spurring capital
flight,  German Gref , chief executive officer at OAO Sberbank,
the nation’s largest lender, said in an April 15 interview.  “Persistent” outflows affect growth “via very weak fixed
investment,” Orlova said. “In the atmosphere of political
uncertainty, profits are repatriated and invested into assets
abroad rather than into domestic production.”  Brent crude , the grade that underpins prices for Russia’s
Urals blend, gained 24 percent in the first quarter.  Oil at more than $100 a barrel is no longer stoking
Russia’s economy, the slowest-growing among the so-called BRIC
nations. Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin  said  April 21 that oil
has “exhausted its potential” to serve as a “locomotive for
growth” in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  ‘Sluggish Recovery’  Medvedev, 45, is seeking foreign investors for projects
such as a technology hub outside Moscow as he campaigns to
diversify Russia’s economy and reduce the country’s
“humiliating” dependence on oil and natural gas revenues.  The price of Urals has fallen $12.70 a barrel since peaking
at $122.88 on April 8, further threatening the recovery. It fell
1.8 percent to $109.28 at 10:51 a.m. in London.  Russia’s budget revenue falls by 62 billion rubles ($2.2
billion), or about 1.5 percent of GDP, for every $10 drop in the
oil price, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a May 12
report.  “Russia has experienced only a sluggish recovery from the
recession thus far,” the IMF said in the report, estimating
that GDP will grow 4.8 percent this year. Outflows of capital
“likely reflected investors’ renewed focus, in the wake of the
crisis, on the lack of progress in addressing the economy’s
fundamental underlying problems.”  The faltering expansion hampered first-quarter output of
steelmakers including OAO Novolipetsk Steel and OAO Severstal.
OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest food retailer by market value, saw
profit decline 7.5 percent in the period on higher fuel costs.  ‘Rouse the Economy’  Real wages fell for the first time in 16 months in March
and disposable income dropped 3.4 percent, compared with a 0.6
percent decline in February. Fixed-capital investment shrank in
the first three months of the year after 10 consecutive monthly
gains.  “It’s very difficult to rouse the economy after the credit
crunch,” Nikolai Kashcheev, head of research at the treasury
department of Moscow-based OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, said in an interview before GDP report. “The banking
system is building up reserves and remains very selective when
it comes to lending, favoring the most reliable borrowers.”  The economy grew 4 percent last year after shrinking 7.8
percent in 2009. The Economy Ministry expects GDP to rise 4.2
percent this year before the expansion slows to 3.5 percent in
2012. Growth averaged almost 7 percent from 1999 to 2008.  Cargo Volumes  Rail cargo turnover indicates the economy trails the pre-
crisis level by “slightly more than” 10 percentage points, OAO
Russian Railways Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said
April 25 in an interview in Moscow. Rail shipments are seen as a
proxy for changes in output because railroads carry about 85
percent of the nation’s cargo, excluding products transported by
pipeline, according to VTB Capital.  Metals and energy make up about 84 percent of exports from
Russia, the world’s largest oil producer and the biggest
exporter of natural gas, nickel and palladium. Energy sales
contribute almost half of Russia’s budget revenue.  “Our view is that growth will strengthen this year, led by
a recovery in consumption,” Alina Slyusarchuk, Morgan Stanley’s
London-based economist, said May 13 in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “Economic growth only marginally slowed in the first
quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  