-- 
Russia to Charge Browder With Tax Evasion, May Seek Extradition

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-05-16T11:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/russia-to-charge-william-browder-with-tax-evasion-might-seek-extradition.html
Russian authorities plan to formally
charge Hermitage Capital Management Ltd. founder  William Browder 
with tax evasion as a possible step toward requesting his
extradition from the U.K., an official said.  “He was summoned today to allow us to formally file
charges against him,” Irina Dudukina, a spokeswoman for the
Interior Ministry’s investigative arm, said by phone from
Moscow, adding that Browder was represented by three lawyers.
“To request his extradition, we will need to order his arrest
through a court.”  Browder, 47, was the biggest foreign investor in  Russia 
when authorities stripped him of his visa in 2005, citing
national security concerns. He has been campaigning for the
prosecution of Russian officials he blames for the death of
Sergei Magnitsky, the Hermitage lawyer who died in November 2009
after almost a year in pre-trial detention. Before his death,
Magnitsky said he was abused and denied medical care in an
effort to force him to drop fraud allegations against officials.  “We have been fighting for the last year and a half to
sanction and prosecute the officers who killed him and this
latest action is a clear retaliation against us for doing so,”
Browder said by phone from  London  today.  Swiss Probe, Safra  The action against Browder follows  Switzerland ’s
announcement last month that it had opened a money-laundering
probe at the request of Hermitage, the first criminal
investigation outside Russia linked to the case surrounding
Magnitsky’s death.  Russia in 2009 put Browder on its international wanted
list, seeking to question the investor on suspicion of
conspiring with Magnitsky to evade 500 million rubles ($18
million) of taxes. Browder, a U.S.-born British citizen, started
investing in Russia in 1996 with $25 million from the late
banker Edmond Safra. Hermitage at one point managed about $4
billion, mainly in Russian stocks.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  has made fighting corruption one
of his key objectives as he seeks to attract foreign investors
to help reduce Russia’s reliance on energy exports. Some EU and
U.S. lawmakers are seeking to sanction the 60 officials Browder
is accusing of involvement in the Magnitsky case with visa bans
and asset freezes.  Hermitage says Interior Ministry officials seized documents
from its Moscow offices in June 2007 that enabled them to re-
register ownership of its three Russian funds and fraudulently
claim $230 million in tax rebates in December 2007.  Fabricated Charges  Medvedev’s human rights council, which investigated
Magnitsky’s death, found that the 500 million-ruble  tax evasion 
charges were fabricated by officials from the Interior Ministry
and the Federal Security Service, the Vedomosti newspaper
reported April 16, citing a copy of the council’s preliminary
findings.  Alexander Bastrykin, who heads the federal Investigative
Committee, said in a September 2010 interview with  Rossiiskaya
Gazeta , the government’s official newspaper, that there was “no
reason” to believe Magnitsky’s death was connected to those
prosecuting the criminal case against him.  The Interior Ministry in November made new accusations
against Magnitsky, saying he orchestrated the $230 million tax-
rebate scam on Hermitage’s instructions.  Dudukina said today that Browder until now had only been
considered a “suspect” in the tax evasion case. Filing formal
charges requires either Browder’s physical presence in Moscow or
a Russian court decision, she said.  Browder said his lawyers were informed today that the case
against him had been extended for another three months and that
no formal charges were presented. Even if formal charges are
forthcoming, Interpol is unlikely to act on any extradition
request, Browder said.  “Interpol fully understands that acting on a Russian
request in this case would effectively make them the long arm of
Russian organized crime,” Browder said. “All of these latest
attempts to attack us will in no way stop us from our campaign
to get justice for Sergei.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  