-- 
Russia RTS Index Futures Fall as BP May Miss Rosneft Deadline

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-16T21:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/russia-rts-index-futures-fall-as-bp-may-miss-rosneft-deadline.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
declined, led by OAO Rosneft, on speculation BP Plc may miss a
second deadline for a $7.8 billion share swap with the Russian
company.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
retreated 0.8 percent yesterday, signaling Russian stocks may
extend their decline from the lowest level in more than five
months. Contracts on Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil
producer, sank 0.8 percent while those on OAO Lukoil, Russia’s
second-biggest, fell 0.4 percent. OAO Gazprom, the world’s
biggest gas producer, fell 0.7 percent.  People with knowledge of the plans said yesterday BP was
likely to miss the second deadline for the swap after failing to
agree a buy-out of its partners in Russia’s third-largest oil
producer in time.  “The assumed failure of the BP-Rosneft deal” hurt the
market, Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets,
the  New York  branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said in a telephone
interview. “However, the biggest loser here is BP and the news
should not have any long-term negative impact on Rosneft. The
company should have no problem finding another global partner to
replace BP.”  For the swap to go forward, BP must cede its role in an
Arctic exploration deal to its TNK-BP venture, subject to
Rosneft’s approval, according to an arbitration ruling on May 6.
The swap expires at midnight in  London .  100 Billion Barrels  The planned BP-Rosneft alliance would have given the U.K.
oil explorer access to 100 billion barrels of oil equivalent
resources in Russia’s Arctic, as well as a stake Rosneft.  BP and AAR company set up TNK-BP in 2003 as a 50-50
venture, with the support of then-President  Vladimir Putin . TNK-
BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of
reserves.  AAR had valued half of TNK-BP at about $35 billion, two
people familiar with their plans said earlier.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
fell 0.5 percent in New York yesterday. Russia is the world’s
largest energy exporter and a producer of metals including
nickel, palladium and aluminum. Oil and natural gas account for
a quarter of economic output.  “A falling oil price didn’t help the futures either,”
Gloukhovsky said.  Crude oil for June delivery fell $2.28, or 2.3 percent, to
$97.37 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since May 6. Futures have risen 39 percent in the
past year.  Economic Risk  “Russia’s dependence on global  oil prices  poses the
greatest risk to the economy,” Danske Bank analysts including
St. Petersburg-based Mikko Pitkanen, Vladimir Biserov and Darji
Kounina said in a report e-mailed on May 16.  The bank forecasts that oil price will average more than
$110 per barrel through 2012, because of uncertainty over
supplies from Middle East and North Africa amid civil unrest in
the region, according to the report.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 0.4 percent. Lukoil’s American
depositary receipts rose 0.3 percent. Gazprom’s ADRs fell 2
percent. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel’s ADRs fell 0.4 percent.  The Micex dropped 0.6 percent to 1,622.98 by the 6:45 p.m.
end of trading in Moscow, its lowest level since Dec. 1. The
ruble-denominated 30-stock gauge fell as oil declined the first
day in three and metal prices dropped. The Micex pared an
earlier loss of as much as 1.7 percent in yesterday’s trading.  Oil producer OAO Gazprom Neft and Gazprom both slipped by
1.6 percent. Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest miner, dropped 1.7
percent.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index decreased 1.1 percent to
1,846.32.  Oil, Russia’s chief export revenue earner, slid after
President  Barack Obama  said failure to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling may unravel global finances and threaten growth in the
world’s biggest crude consumer. Oil also fell after the opening
of spillways reduced concern that the  Mississippi River  will
flood refineries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  