-- 
Russia Targets African Resources as Reserves Run Out, AFDB Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-16T16:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/russia-targets-african-resources-as-its-reserves-are-depleted-afdb-says.html
Russian companies are increasingly
looking to tap  Africa ’s mineral wealth, as reserves in their
home market become depleted and more expensive to extract,
according to a study by the African Development Bank.  “Africa’s underexploited mineral reserves, which account
for about 30 percent of global resources, will be strategic
complementaries to  Russia ’s depleting natural-resource base,”
the lender, based in the Tunisian capital, Tunis, said in an e-
mailed copy of the study today. “The costs of exploration and
production are much lower” in Africa than in Russia.  Russian companies such as OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Gazprom
OAO and Severstal OAO already have operations in Africa. New
investments may increasingly focus on the  energy industry , with
Africa accounting for about 9.7 percent of the world’s 1.2
trillion barrels of proven oil reserves and about 7.8 percent of
global gas deposits of 181.5 trillion cubic feet, the bank said.  India  also wants to get more oil from Africa to reduce its
reliance on the Middle East, which currently supplies 75 percent
of its crude, the bank said in a separate report released today.  “India is increasingly engaging with African oil-producing
countries, namely  Nigeria , Sudan, Cote d’Ivoire, Equatorial
Guinea,  Ghana , and Angola,” it said.  The bank highlighted burgeoning economic ties between India
and Africa, with annual two-way trade having grown to about $36
billion from about $1 billion in 1990.  “The soaring trade volumes reflect a positive trade
balance for Africa, as it exports more goods to India than it
imports,” the bank said.  Founded in 1984, the African Development Bank is controlled
by 53 African and 24 non-African countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  