-- 
Rwanda’s Central Bank Is Targeting Inflation at Below 7.5%, Governor Says

-- B y   H e a t h e r   M u r d o c k
-- 
2011-05-16T11:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/rwanda-s-central-bank-is-targeting-inflation-at-below-7-5-governor-says.html
Rwanda ’s central bank will aim to
keep inflation below 7.5 percent this year, lower than a
previous estimate of 8 percent, newly appointed Governor Claver Gatete said.  The inflation rate in the East African nation climbed to 5
percent in April from 4.1 percent a month earlier as food and
fuel prices increased. Last month, former Governor Francois Kanimba said inflation may reach 8 percent this year. Gatete,
who was appointed as Kanimba’s replacement on May 6, said the
official estimate is that inflation will reach 7.5 percent by
the end of the year.  “We don’t want it to go that far,” he said in an interview
after his swearing-in ceremony on May 13 in Kigali, the capital.
“We are fighting inflation.”  The  National Bank of Rwanda  kept its key lending rate
unchanged at 6 percent last month, after three reductions in the
past year, to help boost lending and support the economy’s
expansion. Rwanda’s  Finance Ministry  has forecast economic
growth in the coffee-growing country will slow to 7 percent this
year from 7.5 percent in 2010 as poor rains curb agricultural
production.  The central bank hasn’t decided whether it will raise
 interest rates  to curb inflation, Gatete said.  Rwanda’s national budget will increase to 1.12 trillion
Rwandan francs ($1.85 billion) in the 2011-12 fiscal year, from
984 billion francs a year earlier, according to the Ministry of
Finance. The increase has been accounted for in the central
bank’s inflation projection, Gatete said.  Food, Fuel Prices  Inflation advanced last month largely because of higher
food and fuel costs, he said.  While food prices are still rising, the rate of increase
has slowed, he said. In April, food prices climbed 6 percent,
after jumping 8 percent in the previous month. Higher fuel
prices are mainly due to political instability in the Middle
East and are beyond the bank’s control, he said. Gasoline prices
in Rwanda increased 14 percent between January and April,
according to industry regulators.  “We can only control the effects,” Gatete said.  Gatete, a former ambassador to the U.K. and previously a
deputy governor at the central bank, replaced Kanimba after his
predecessor was named as the new minister of trade.  Gatete said he plans to focus on modernizing communication
systems, training staff and improving research capabilities at
the bank during his tenure as governor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Murdock in Kigali via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 