-- 
S&P Offers to Settle EU Probe Into Securities Identification

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-16T15:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/s-p-offers-to-settle-eu-probe-into-securities-identification.html
Standard & Poor’s  offered to change
its pricing policy in  Europe  to overcome antitrust concerns over
licensing fees for securities identification numbers.  “S&P is committing to address our competition concerns by
limiting its price for the distribution of identification
numbers for U.S. securities and by abolishing charges altogether
for those indirect users that get the numbers from other
companies,”  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust
commissioner,  said  in a statement today.  The European Commission sent an antitrust complaint to S&P
in 2009 over the fees it charges financial firms and
information-service providers for using International Securities
Identification numbers in their databases. The 27-nation EU’s
antitrust regulator opened the probe after the Brussels-based
 European Fund and Asset Management Association  said that S&P’s
fees were unfair.  The offer “promises to significantly reduce the cost of
using U.S. ISINs,” said Almunia. He said the commission will
“market test the commitments received and make them legally
binding on S&P if satisfied with the results.”  S&P’s offer is “not of sufficient substance to settle the
case,” Efama said in an e-mailed statement today.  S&P should allow “free usage” of identification numbers
“in all internal and external databases and applications
without any contractual commitment to the end user,” said
Efama, which brings together national associations representing
fund managers.  CUSIP Global Services, a provider of securities
identification data run by S&P, said it welcomed the commission
decision to start the market testing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  