-- 
Cohen’s SAC Buys Newmont, CenturyLink While Selling Plains

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-16T21:35:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/sac-purchases-newmont-centurylink-shares-while-selling-plains.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the hedge
fund founded by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , boosted stakes in
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ,  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)  and  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  during
the first quarter, according to a regulatory filing.  SAC cut its  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  stake by 45
percent last quarter, according to the filing today. The fund
increased its equity weighting to the energy and materials
industries by 1.2 percent each and lowered consumer
discretionary and technology weightings by 1 percent in the
period that ended March 31.  Cohen increased energy and materials during a time when the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials was rallying to
a high. The index reached a peak in April and commodities are
now extending the biggest rout since December 2008, with
investors cutting holdings in oil, silver and industrial metals
on concern that economic growth will slow. Cohen said May 11
that the selloff in commodities meant it was a good time to buy
energy companies, calling the industry an “interesting
sector.”  “I think that energy stocks are discounting  oil prices 
much lower than where we are trading today,” he said at the
SALT, or SkyBridge Alternatives, Conference in Las Vegas.  Newmont Mining, the largest U.S. gold producer, was the
biggest position increase by market value, followed by
CenturyLink, based in Monroe, Louisiana.  SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut, brought the stake in
CenturyLink to 5.1 billion shares -- making it one of the fund’s
top holdings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
CenturyLink is the biggest company in telecommunications without
a wireless unit and may be the most likely buyer of  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  if AT&T Inc. buys T-Mobile USA Inc., according to
the analysts.  The fund bought new stakes in insurer Ace Ltd. and Swift
Transportation Co. and sold out of Omnicare Inc., the largest
U.S. pharmacy for nursing home patients, and Temple-Inland Inc.,
a producer of corrugated packing and building products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  