-- 
Salzburg Says ‘Not Fair’ as Berlin Philharmonic Quits Festival

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T11:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/salzburg-says-not-fair-as-berlin-philharmonic-quits-fraud-stuck-festival.html
Salzburg’s regional government said
it is surprised and disappointed at the  Berlin Philharmonic ’s
decision to quit the scandal-struck  Salzburg Easter Festival ,
and the festival said it may take legal action against the
orchestra.  The Berlin Philharmonic’s former chief conductor Herbert von Karajan founded the festival as a showcase for the orchestra
in 1967.  Simon Rattle , the current chief conductor, is artistic
director of the 10-day Austrian event. The orchestra announced
on May 13 that it will end its cooperation with Salzburg and
found a new event with  Baden-Baden’s Festspielhaus  in 2013.  Gabi Burgstaller, the governor of Salzburg province, said
the decision is “not very fair,” according to Austrian
broadcaster ORF. Peter Alward, the director of the Easter
Festival, said he couldn’t rule out legal action if the
orchestra breaches an agreement to play Richard Wagner’s
“Parsifal” in 2013, ORF reported.  Alward was appointed last year after a fraud scandal that
had cost Salzburg as much as $5 million. His predecessor and a
second employee were charged with misappropriation of public
funds.  Salzburg’s regional government said its reaction to the
Berlin Philharmonic’s decision was one of “incomprehension and
disappointment,” in a May 14 statement on its website.  “The impression we get from this in Salzburg is that
economic aspects gained the upper hand over cultural
interests,” Burgstaller said in the  statement . “We have to
accept this even though it’s bitter.”  ‘Not Easy’  Olaf Maninger, an orchestra spokesman, said in the May 13
statement that the decision was not an easy one. “For our opera
and concert activities at Easter, we need the kind of long-term
security that the Baden-Baden Festspielhaus is able to offer.”  Baden-Baden’s Festspielhaus, a privately funded institution
in a south German casino and spa town, said in a statement on
its website that the decision is “a milestone for the
development of the young Festspielhaus.”  Eliette von Karajan, the Salzburg Easter Festival founder’s
widow, said in a statement on its website that she was
“astonished and disappointed” at the Berlin Philharmonic’s
departure.  “Together with the Salzburg Easter Festival team, I will
work with all the strength and energy I have left to find a way
to continue the Easter Festival in a way that will please both
Salzburgers and its loyal audiences,” von Karajan said.  In an e-mailed response to questions, Easter Festival
spokesman Martin Riegler said the team is “working intensively
on shaping the future of the Salzburg Easter Festival.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 