-- 
HSBC to Hire 2,000 Workers in China, Singapore to Tap Rising Asian Wealth

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-05-17T10:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/hsbc-to-hire-2-000-staff-in-china-singapore-to-tap-asian-wealth.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the U.K. bank that
gets more than half of its profit from Asia, aims to add 2,000
employees in China and Singapore as it accelerates expansion in
faster-growing economies, while cutting costs globally.  The London-based bank plans to add at least 200 staff in
China annually through 2016, and expand its Singapore workforce
by about 1,000 people as wealth migrates there from  Malaysia ,
 Indonesia , the  Philippines  and China, said  Peter Wong , chief
executive officer for the Asia-Pacific region.  “Opportunities for growth are many in China because all
the foreign banks combined only account for 2 percent of the
market share,” he said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday.
“It depends on how open the Chinese financial market is going
to be.”  Stuart Gulliver , who became CEO in January, plans to lower
costs by as much as $3.5 billion over the next two years and
reinvest proceeds in the bank’s fastest-growing markets, like
South and East  Asia . Assets held by rich Asians will more than
triple to $16 trillion by 2015 as growing economies add
millionaires, according to Swiss bank Julius Baer Group Ltd.  The U.K. bank plans to offer more wealth management
products in China, including insurance and equity services to
customers with minimum deposits and investments of 500,000 yuan
($77,000), Wong said.  “This will be the main focus,” he said. “We forecast
that the combined middle-class population of  India  and China
will exceed the population of the U.S. by 2025.”  Gulliver’s Cuts  The bank now employs more than 5,000 people at its Chinese
outlets, with additional staff at processing centers, Wong said.  HSBC shares fell 0.5 percent to 639.3 pence as of 11:13
a.m. in London trading. The shares have risen 1.3 percent this
year, compared with a 0.6 percent gain for the 48-member the
Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index.  Gulliver, 52, said last week the bank plans to reduce costs
by $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion by 2013. The bank, Europe’s
biggest, wants to reduce its cost efficiency ratio to between 48
percent and 52 percent by 2013 from 60.9 percent in the first
quarter of this year.  “There’s growth in Asia’s savings pool, notably in
mainland  China  where wealth is being created and the savings
rate is very high. This is also an untapped market,” Paul Lee,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong International Securities
Group, said.  Indian Growth  It had total operating expenses of $37.7 billion last year.
HSBC will cut head office jobs and may sell its U.S. credit card
division as it seeks to exit unprofitable units among
subsidiaries in 87 countries, the bank said May 11.  “Over the past decade, HSBC has invested a lot of
resources in U.S. and Europe, only to see a pileup of bad
debts,” said Haitong’s Lee. “They are now shifting the
strategy to add investment in emerging markets and eventually
revenue will come through.”  Its India and  Singapore  units reported pretax profit of
$679 million and $524 million last year, respectively, according
to presentation materials released May 11. Profit before tax in
Indonesia was $219 million and in Malaysia totaled $401 million.  “We will continue to hire in India,” Wong said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. He declined to comment on
how many staff are being hired in the Southeast Asian nation or
how quickly.  ‘Toward Overheating’  Wong also warned today that Hong Kong is “marching toward
overheating” as its economy expanded a more-than-forecast 7.2
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier as the
government wrestles with accelerating inflation and the threat
of a property bubble.  “I think that if unchecked, if property prices continue to
go up, there will be a bubble,” he said. “But the government
recognizes that and you see there is more release of land
lately.”  The city last week sold three residential sites for more
than analysts expected, suggesting confidence in the  property
market .  Home prices  in March were 3 percent higher than their
peak in 1997, the year the Asian financial crisis started, the
government said May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  