-- 
Singapore April Private Home Sales Rise to Five-Month High on Haven Status

-- B y   A l a n   S o u g h l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T06:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/singapore-april-private-home-sales-rise-to-five-month-high-on-haven-status.html
Singapore ’s private home sales jumped
29 percent to a five-month high as the city offers what analysts
say is a safe haven following events from Japan’s worst
earthquake to political turmoil in some Middle East nations.  Developers sold 1,788 homes in April from 1,386 in March,
the highest since 1,915 units were bought in November, according
to data on the Urban Redevelopment Authority’s  website . The
figure dropped from 2,208 a year earlier, the data showed.  “It shows that confidence is still there, not just locally
but internationally, because of the stable economic and
political landscape,” said Donald Han, Singapore-based managing
director at  Cushman & Wakefield , the world’s largest closely
held real estate services company. “It’s a safe haven with the
calamities in the Middle East and  Japan , and Singapore is deemed
as a jewel among investment destinations.”  Singapore’s economy grew at an annual rate of 23.5 percent
in the first three months, driving  home prices  to a record. The
government in January raised the down-payment on second
mortgages and extended the  sales tax  for home sales to four
years from three as it added more rules to curb speculation.  In Hong Kong, the government sold three residential sites
above analyst estimates last week, highlighting developers’
confidence that property measures in November haven’t damped
demand in the city.  Investors are still seeking Singapore properties because
most are holding them for more than three years, while the
curbs, similar to those in  Hong Kong , were aimed at short-term
buyers, Han said. “People are not just looking into buying
properties for a quick flip,” he said.  The number of homes sold in Singapore also increased in
February and March following the measures, according data on the
website of government’s urban planning agency. More curbs may be
introduced if the second-quarter home prices exceed the 2.2
percent increase in the first three months, Han said. The
advance was the smallest as prices rose for seven quarters.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Alan Soughley at 
 asoughley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  