-- 
Singapore Exports Unexpectedly Fall on Electronics Shipments

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-05-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/singapore-exports-unexpectedly-fall-on-electronics-shipments.html
Singapore’s exports unexpectedly fell
in April as manufacturers shipped fewer electronics goods and
sales to customers in the U.S. and  Hong Kong  declined.  Non-oil domestic exports dropped 1.8 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 9.9 percent gain in March, the island’s
trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for an
increase of 7.9 percent.  Singapore’s exports are forecast by the government to grow
in 2011 at about a third of the pace last year, when overseas
shipments jumped the most since 2003. The March 11 earthquake
and tsunami in Japan has also clouded the outlook for overseas
sales for exporters from the  Philippines  to  Thailand .  “Demand weakness as well as supply chain disruption due to
the calamity in  Japan ” likely manifested in the export sales
data,  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
Singapore, said before the report. “On a broader perspective,
the U.S. recovery has not been impressive thus far.”  Electronics shipments by companies including Venture Corp.,
Singapore’s biggest publicly traded electronics contract
manufacturer, dropped 10.4 percent in April from a year earlier,
after declining 13.8 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 2.8 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
added 47.6 percent after advancing 4.4 percent in March.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore ’s non-oil exports dropped a seasonally adjusted
3.6 percent last month from March, when they fell a revised 3
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  