-- 
Sister of Fugitive Ex-Premier Thaksin Chosen as Leader of Opposition Party

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-16T09:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/sister-of-fugitive-ex-premier-thaksin-chosen-as-leader-of-opposition-party.html
Thailand’s opposition Pheu Thai party
chose the sister of fugitive ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  as its
top candidate for a July 3 election, a move that might inflame
adversaries who want to prevent him from returning to power.  Yingluck Shinawatra, 43, will be Thailand’s first-ever
female leader if Pheu Thai forms a government. Thaksin’s allies
have won the past four elections, only to see the last three
results overturned through legal challenges and a military coup.  “I will do my best as I want to see reconciliation,”
Yingluck, the youngest of Thaksin’s nine siblings, said today in
Bangkok. “I want our nation to move forward. I will play by the
rules. I hope all parties will give me a chance.”  The choice may trigger a repeat of scenes in 2008, when
Thaksin’s opponents, who wore yellow shirts to show allegiance
to  Thailand ’s monarchy, seized Bangkok’s airports in a bid to
oust his allies. Thaksin fled a jail sentence for abuse of power
the same year and has directed anti-government protests and
party affairs from overseas ever since.  Moves to have Thaksin return “would certainly invite a
backlash from the yellow shirts or a dedicated anti-Thaksin
faction,” Jun Trinidad, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Manila , said in a May 11 report. “A Pheu Thai party
regurgitating the same old political themes could pave the way
for more political conflict, setting the stage for another
military intervention.”  Economic Growth  Further turmoil may hurt economic growth that reached a 15-
year high of 7.8 percent last year and stocks that have been
among Asia’s best performers over the past 12 months. Foreign
investors have bought a net $871 million of Thai stocks this
year, the second-most in  Southeast Asia  after  Indonesia .  “Everybody knows that she’s not a seasoned politician,”
said Kiat Sittheeamorn, Thailand’s trade representative and a
member of Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s party. “It will be
difficult not to imagine that many people would understand that
she’s also acting on behalf of someone else."  From 2002 to 2006, Yingluck served as president of  Advanced
Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , a mobile-phone company founded by Thaksin that
is now Thailand’s biggest.  She stepped down in 2006 shortly after Thaksin’s family
sold its stake in holding company Shin Corp. to  Singapore ’s
Temasek Holdings Pte for 73 billion baht ($2.4 billion), a deal
that netted Yingluck 985 million baht and fueled protests that
led to Thaksin’s overthrow in a coup later that year.  Master’s Degree  Since then, Yingluck has been president of Bangkok-based
property developer SC Asset Corp., controlled by Thaksin’s
children. Pintongta Shinawatra, Thaksin’s daughter, was
appointed to SC Asset’s board on May 12, the company said in a
regulatory filing.  In Yingluck’s time running the company, SC Asset shares
have risen 101 percent, compared with a 45 percent increase in
Thailand’s benchmark SET Index. The SET has gained 41 percent in
the past 12 months, the best performance among  Asia ’s 15 biggest
markets.  Described as ‘‘an attractive and successful young woman”
by the Nation  newspaper , Yingluck has a master’s degree in
business administration from Kentucky State University.  Her brother’s stint as prime minister had “pros and cons”
for her personally, Yingluck told the Nation in a 2005 interview
while she was president of Advanced Info.  “Many people think that my status as president of the
company did not come from my own abilities,” she was quoted as
saying. “I use that. It inspires me to work even harder to
produce results that everyone can accept.”  The July 3 election will pit Yingluck against Abhisit, 46,
who was born in the  United Kingdom  and graduated from Oxford
University. He took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote after a
court disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for election fraud,
a move that coincided with the airport takeover.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/16/ :16 GMT 