-- 
SK Telecom May Win Brazil Mobile-Phone Permt to Expand Outside South Korea

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-05-17T10:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/sk-telecom-may-become-brazil-s-sixth-telephone-operator-bernardo-says.html
SK Telecom Co. may win a permit to
operate services in  Brazil , the nation’s communications minister
said, as South Korea’s largest mobile-phone company seeks to
expand abroad.  SK Telecom will aim to offer fourth-generation mobile phone
services in Brazil,  Paulo Bernardo  said in an interview in
Brasilia. The South Korean company would become the sixth
service provider in the country, he said.  Brazil may offer SK Telecom an opportunity to tap demand
for faster networks in emerging markets and help offset slowing
revenue growth at home. The company said yesterday it will
invest an additional 50 million ringgit ($16.4 million) in
Packet One Networks (Malaysia) Sdn, after making $100 million
investment in July last year.  Shares in SK Telecom fell 0.3 percent to 163,500 won at the
3:00 p.m. close of trading in  Seoul , while the benchmark Kospi
index slipped 0.1 percent.  SK Group , the parent of SK Telecom, has been exploring
business opportunities in Brazil since another of the group’s
units, SK Networks Co., bought a stake in MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA, the mining company controlled by billionaire  Eike
Batista , Irene Kim, a spokeswoman for the Seoul-based phone
operator, said by telephone today. She didn’t provide a
timeframe for the company’s Brazil plans.  SK Networks’ $700 million investment last year was then the
largest investment in iron ore by a South Korean company.  SK Telecom plans to start a fourth-generation wireless
service based on long-term evolution technology, known as LTE,
in Seoul in July before rolling it out it nationwide by 2013.  The carrier invested $60 million in LightSquared, a U.S. 4G
wireless network backed by billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s
Harbinger Capital Partners, Lauren Kim, an SK spokeswoman, said
on Feb. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Stringer at 
 rstringer@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  