-- 
Soccer Player’s Lawyers Seek to Search Newspaper Worker E-Mails

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-16T13:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/soccer-player-s-lawyers-seek-to-search-newspaper-worker-e-mails.html
A U.K. soccer player who reportedly
had a 6-month affair with a reality-TV star sought a court order
to search e-mails and text messages of all employees of  Rupert Murdoch ’s Sun newspaper to see if they have broken the terms of
a privacy injunction.  Hugh Tomlinson, lawyer for a married footballer referred to
in court by the randomly chosen initials CTB, told a hearing he
had evidence that Sun employees had disclosed his client’s name
in breach of the order.  “It is important to know to what extent those working for
News Group Newspapers have been involved in the breaking of the
order,” Tomlinson said. News Group is the Murdoch-owned U.K.
unit that publishes the Sun and the News of the World.  On April 14, Justice David Eady granted an order stopping
the paper from naming the person with whom the former Big
Brother star Imogen Thomas says she had a relationship. Privacy
rulings have been on the rise since Formula One President Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his  privacy rights  were
violated by a story in Murdoch’s News of the World about a Nazi-
themed sex party.  Tomlinson said today that former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie revealed in a recent radio interview that he
sometimes, if asked, discloses the names of famous people who
have won privacy orders stopping their names from being linked
to newspapers stories. MacKenzie hasn’t been editor for 17
years.  Sun lawyer Richard Spearman said the order shouldn’t be
granted. “The order sought is unnecessary and
disproportionate,” he said. A search of all e-mails and texts
would be “wholly unprecedented,” he said, adding that
Tomlinson is engaging in a “fishing expedition.”  Justice David Eady said he would consider the application.
He didn’t indicate when he planned to rule.  Gagging orders, sometimes referred to as “super-
injunctions” typically bar U.K. media from writing about extra-
marital affairs or identifying celebrities involved.  The flurry of rulings brought opposition from Prime
Minister  David Cameron , who said Parliament, and not the courts,
should set U.K. privacy law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  