-- 
Solar-Cell Prices Fall on Subsidy Cuts, New Energy Finance Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-16T12:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/solar-cell-prices-slump-in-may-on-subsidy-cuts-new-energy-finance-says.html
The price of solar cells, the main
component of photovoltaic panels, dropped in May as additional
supply hit the market and demand was curbed by European cuts to
solar power subsidies, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Monocrystalline cell prices slumped 7.5 percent to $1.14
per watt from the previous month and multicrystalline cells were
down 8.7 percent at $1.09 per watt, according to a report by
Martin Simonek, an analyst at the London-based research company.
With the spot price of the raw material polysilicon posting a
smaller decline of 5.1 percent to $74.4 per kilo, many cell
manufacturers have seen their profit margins wiped out, he said.  “The cost of materials is much higher than they were
expecting,” Simonek said in a telephone interview.
“Polysilicon prices are killing a lot of cellmakers.”  The squeeze on margins may force smaller producers out of
business or to seek a takeover from a bigger rival, Simonek
said. Evergreen Solar Inc. last week said it may run out of cash
unless it can find more investment and restructure its debts
after sales slumped 55 percent in the first quarter.  Spectrawatt Inc. , the cell maker backed by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., last month closed its Hopewell Junction,  New York ,
plant, laying off 117 workers.  China ’s JA Solar Holdings Co. and Suntech Power Holdings
Co., the world’s biggest solar-panel manufacturers, are leading
an expansion by a number of producers that together will add at
least 9.5 gigawatts of new manufacturing lines this year,
raising global capacity to 41.5 gigawatts compared with demand
of no more than 28 gigawatts, New Energy Finance forecast.  German Subsidies  German Chancellor Angel Merkel last week said  Germany  may
have to consider additional cuts to its subsidized solar tariff,
which swallows half the country’s financial support for
alternative energy. Italy this month passed a law which will
progressively lower subsidies through the end of next year.  While competition is increasing in the market for solar
cells, polysilicon production is still controlled by a handful
of companies, such as Oslo-based Renewable Energy Corp., Munich-
based  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  and  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  of  Hong
Kong .  New Energy Finance is forecasting a shortage of polysilicon
this year, with global production set to reach about 24
gigawatts. Additional demand for solar cells will likely be met
by thin-film panels that generate power from other substances
such as cadmium telluride.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  