-- 
Somalia’s al-Shabaab Militia Warns Djibouti Against Deployment of Troops

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-05-16T16:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/somalia-s-al-shabaab-militia-warns-djibouti-against-deployment-of-troops.html
Somalia’s rebel al-Shabaab militia
warned neighboring Djibouti against sending troops to the war-
torn country on a day it claimed at least 20 pro-government
soldiers were killed in an attack in the capital, Mogadishu.  “We have already dragged the bodies of invaders like
Ugandans and Burundians in the streets of Mogadishu and in case
the Djiboutian troops arrive in our land, they will be dealt
with in the same manner we have treated the invaders,” Sheikh
Ali Mohamud Rage, al-Shabaab’s spokesman, told reporters today
in Mogadishu.  Djibouti plans to send troops to Somalia later this month
or early in June, Voice of America reported on May 14, citing
Foreign Minister Mahamoud Ali Youssouf. It didn’t say how many
soldiers would be deployed.  Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. accuses of having links to al-
Qaeda, has been battling Somalia’s government since 2007 as it
seeks to establish an Islamic state. Uganda and Burundi have
more than 6,200 soldiers in the country to support the Western-
backed administration, which is trying to establish the first
functioning government since the ouster of Mohamed Siad Barre,
the former dictator, in 1991.  Earlier today, al-Shabaab carried out a mortar attack in
Hodan in the south of Mogadishu, killing at least 20 members of
the pro-government Ahlu Sunnah Waljamaah militia, an al-Shabaab
official said. The official spoke on  Radio al-Furqaan , a
Mogadishu-based broadcaster, which didn’t identify him.  “At least half a dozen mortars landed at Hodan district and
I saw two battle wagons carrying casualties from the soldiers’
side,” Mumin Omar Abukar, a resident of Hodan, said by phone
from the area today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 