-- 
Soros Sells Most of Gold ETP Holdings During First Quarter

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-16T23:06:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/soros-sold-most-of-his-gold-etp-holding-during-first-quarter-filing-shows.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
sold most of his holdings in the bullion-backed SPDR Gold Trust
and  iShares Gold Trust (IAU)  funds in the first quarter and bought
shares of mining companies Goldcorp Inc. and  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , a government filing shows.  Soros Fund Management  LLC held 49,400 shares of SPDR Gold
Trust as of March 31, compared with 4.721 million at the end of
the fourth quarter, the filing today with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission showed. The New York-based fund sold all
5 million shares it held in iShares Gold Trust. Soros bought
301,300 shares of Freeport-McMoRan and 7,600 shares of Goldcorp.  The decade-long surge in gold attracted investors seeking
better returns than equities or bonds and an alternative to
currencies, helping boost holdings in exchange-traded products
backed by bullion to a record in December. Accelerating
inflation,  Europe ’s debt crisis, a weakening dollar and fighting
in Libya boosted the spot price of the metal to an all-time high
of $1,577.57 an ounce on May 2. ETP holdings have slipped 3.6
percent from the peak.  “While backward looking, it is the best available
indicator of investors’ precious-metals exposure,”  Edel Tully ,
an analyst at UBS AG in London, said on May 9.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, declined to comment
on the sale. Soros Fund Management manages about $28 billion.  Investors in 10 gold-backed exchange-traded products owned
2,041 metric tons of metal as of May 13 valued at $98 billion
with gold at $1,493.60, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Gold futures settled today at $1,490.60 in  New York .  ‘Asset Bubble’  Soros described gold in January last year as “the ultimate
asset bubble.” In a Nov. 15 speech, the 80-year-old investor
said that conditions for the metal to keep rising were “pretty
ideal,” and in January this year, he said the boom in
commodities may last “a couple of years” longer.  “As the precious metals rally ends, you’ll get transition
toward related equities,” said James Dailey, who manages about
$200 million at TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. “You don’t see any speculative
appetite for gold stocks yet.”  The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index has
dropped 14 percent this year. Gold futures have climbed 4.9
percent.  Investor demand for precious metals accelerated after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 and
as governments and central banks pumped trillions of dollars
into the world financial system.  Fed Policy  The  Federal Reserve  has held  interest rates  close to zero
percent since December 2008. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said
he’s in no hurry to raise borrowing costs and that he will keep
reinvesting proceeds of maturing debt held by the central bank
in bonds.  The  European Central Bank  last month raised rates for the
first time in almost three years to cool accelerating consumer
prices. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said May 9 that the
world’s central bankers are united in fighting inflation. Some
investors buy bullion as an inflation hedge, while higher
interest rates increase the opportunity cost of holding the non-
interest-bearing metal.  Paulson & Co., the U.S. hedge fund run by  John Paulson ,
maintained 31.55 million shares in the SPDR Gold Trust, a filing
showed today.  ‘Switched Exposure’  In the first quarter, gold ETP holdings declined 3.3
percent, the first decline in a year. Silver holdings rose 1.9
percent, palladium assets fell 1 percent, and platinum holdings
gained 12 percent.  “Some of the ETF liquidation in the quarter was not
actually outright gold selling,” UBS’s Tully said. “In some
cases, investors switched their gold exposure from ETP-based to
allocated, and so this somewhat distorts the ETP ownership
picture.”  Eric Mindich’s Eton Park Capital Management LP reduced its
stake in the SPDR Gold Trust by 48 percent during the first
quarter, according to a government filing. Eton sold 2.165
million shares, cutting its holdings to 2.328 million, according
to an SEC filing.  Touradji Capital Management LP, founded by Paul Touradji,
sold all of its assets in the SPDR Gold Trust in the first
quarter. The fund had 173,000 shares at the end of the fourth
quarter. Touradji also reduced its holdings of  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F with the SEC within 45 days of
each quarter’s end to show their U.S.-listed stocks, options and
convertible bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or
how much cash the firms hold.  ETPs trade on exchanges with each share representing metal
held in a vault.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 