-- 
South Korea Won Falls to One-Month Low on Europe Debt Concern; Bonds Gain

-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-05-16T06:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/south-korea-won-falls-to-one-month-low-on-europe-debt-concern-bonds-gain.html
South Korea ’s won dropped to a one-
month low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen dimmed the
outlook for exports and bolstered demand for dollars.  Government
bonds  gained, pushing three-year yields to a two-month low.  The greenback strengthened against all 16 major currencies
before European finance ministers meet this week to discuss
further support for Greece, one of three nations to have sought
bailouts. South Korea’s won also fell after the central bank
unexpectedly left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3
percent last week.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis is increasing
uncertainty for global economies, prompting investors to
withdraw funds from emerging markets to invest in safer assets
like the dollar,” said Seo Jeong Hun, a currency analyst at
 Korea  Exchange Bank in Seoul. “The Bank of Korea’s decision to
hold off from raising rates last week is also keeping the won
from rising.”  The won declined 0.4 percent to 1,091.18 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, retreating for a third day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 1,095.20, the weakest
level since April 13.  European officials are working to prevent the region’s
first default as Greek ministers plead for terms to be relaxed
on 110 billion euros ($155 billion) of aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union in a debt crisis
that has also engulfed Ireland and Portugal. Any extension of
the maturities of Greek bonds would have to involve private
investors, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an
interview with ARD television in Berlin yesterday.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds gained, pushing
their yield to the lowest level since March 15. The rate on the
3 percent note due December 2013 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.62 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  