-- 
South African Coal Price Slips to Six-Week Low as Buyers Opt For Indonesia

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-16T11:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/south-african-coal-price-slips-to-six-week-low-as-buyers-opt-for-indonesia.html
The price of coal shipped from  South
Africa ’s Richards Bay Coal Terminal, the continent’s largest
export facility for the fuel, fell to the lowest in six weeks as
buyers opted for Indonesian supplies.  Prices fell 2.4 percent last week to an average $120.90 a
metric ton, data from Petersfield, England-based IHS McCloskey
show. That’s the lowest since the week ended April 1. They’ve
risen 36 percent in the past 12 months. South Africa has boosted
exports to  Asia  as the Chinese and Indian economies expand,
firing demand for power. That’s weakened recently, according to
Amrita Sen, an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in London.  “The Indians and Chinese are not buying Richards Bay
coal,” Sen said by phone today. “They prefer the lower-quality
Indonesian supply and  Richards Bay  prices will trend lower over
the next couple of weeks unless Indian buying emerges.”  India ’s imports of South African coal fell 18 percent to
1.21 million tons in April compared with March, Kolkata-based
trader mjunction Services Ltd. said on May 11. Shipments from
Richards Bay terminal fell to 4.81 million tons last month from
5.36 million tons in the month earlier, according to a statement
on the port website. India accounts for a quarter of the
exports.  Indonesia is the world’s biggest exporter of coal burned to
generate power. The country’s association of coal companies aims
to export 340 million tons this year, AsiaPulse News reported on
May 10, citing Chairman Bob Kamandanu. The government’s target
is 236 million tons, it reported.  Indonesian Coal  Buyers are turning to Indonesian coal because it is cheaper
than material sourced from Richards Bay, Barclay’s Sen said. The
country cut the reference price for coal sales in May to the
lowest since January, tracking a decline in the regional market,
the energy ministry said on May 9.  “Investors, in our opinion, remain positive on the
Indonesian coal sector,” Isnaputra Iskandar, a Jakarta-based
analyst with  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , said in a note today. They
“agree with our view of the potential tight coal market
situation over the next five years on a combination of strong
demand in India and  China  and potential supply disruption in
South Africa,  Australia  and Indonesia.”  Richards Bay Coal Terminal’s owners include Anglo American
Plc, BHP Billiton Ltd., Xstratra Plc and Total SA. Shipments to
the terminal, which can export 91 million tons of coal annually,
have been constrained by freight-rail accidents.  Power-station coal  prices  at Australia’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, declined 3.2 percent to $118.74 a ton in the
week to May 13, according to the  globalCOAL NEWC Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in  London  at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  