-- 
South African Wineries Will Face Grape Shortage in 5 Years, Producer Says

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-16T10:10:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/south-african-wineries-will-face-grape-shortage-in-5-years-producer-says.html
The South African wine industry will
face a shortage of grapes within five years as growers reduce
the acreage they cultivate, according to  Distell Group Ltd. (DST) , the
country’s biggest wine and liquor producer.  The country’s industry has oversupplied the market,
particularly with red grapes and wine, for the last five years,
said Erhard Wolf, Distell’s general manager for grape and wine
supply. During the peak of vineyard planting, a “very
optimistic view” of potential markets was taken, resulting in
more vineyards being cultivated than were required, he said.  “Vineyards are being removed and not renewed,” Wolf said
in a phone interview on May 13 from Stellenbosch, in South
Africa’s main wine region. “At this stage, even though we have
a slight oversupply, in a period of five years we will probably
be going into a shortage of supply.”  South Africa  had 101,016 hectares (249,509 acres) of
vineyards in 2010, compared with 102,146 hectares in 2006,
according to South African Wine Information Systems, which
represents all the country’s wine producers. Since 2005, the
country’s industry has failed to replace about 5,000 hectares of
existing vineyards annually, according to Sawis.  Oversupply is affecting other wine-producing countries,
Wolf said.  Australia  should remove about a quarter of its
vineyards to balance supply and demand, he said.  Climate change may also affect some parts of South Africa
now considered ideal for grape production, like Darling and
Elgin in the country’s Western Cape Province, Wolf said.  Distell, which produces about a third of South Africa’s
wines and sparkling wines, reaped a grape crop this year that
was 8 percent smaller than a year earlier because of higher-
than-average temperatures in February and March, he said.  Climate Change   “Climate change is something that we’ve been positioning
ourselves for, for at least a good five years since the very
early indications,” Wolf said.  Based on studies of weather patterns and long-term climatic
data, Distell has selected “non-traditional areas” where new
vineyards could be planted, he said. The company is also
evaluating new cultivars, including varieties of the white grape
 pinot gris  and the purple grape  malbec , which are enjoying
“substantial” popularity both locally and abroad, Wolf said.  Additional measures are being taken to breed grapes that
are resistant to fungal diseases caused by damp weather. South
Africa’s wine producers expect flooding, fungus and disease to
cut the grape crop this season,  SAWIS , representing all the
country’s wine producers, said in a February statement.  Distell is collaborating with a German research institute
to test about 20 varieties of naturally disease-resistant grapes
that don’t have to be sprayed with pesticides, Wolf said.  South Africa is the world’s seventh-largest wine producer,
accounting for 3 percent of world production, according to
SAWIS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in Cape Town Nef at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  