-- 
Wal-Mart May End Massmart Bid If Supply Terms Forced

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-17T12:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/south-africa-s-antitrust-body-wants-wal-mart-massmart-conditions-imposed.html
(Corrects to say jobs won’t be cut for two years in story
published yesterday.)  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, may abandon efforts to buy control of  Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  if  South Africa  forces local procurement
conditions on the retailers, the companies said.  Wal-Mart offered to buy 51 percent of Johannesburg-based
Massmart for 16.5 billion rand ($2.45 billion) in a bid opposed
by the South African government and labor unions concerned about
jobs and protecting local manufacturers and suppliers. As many
as 4,000 jobs could be lost should Massmart shift just 1 percent
of its procurement to imports, the government said.  “The parties may reluctantly walk away from the deal if
there are conditions on local procurement,” Jeremy Gauntlett,
senior counsel for the two companies, said at antitrust hearings
held in  Pretoria  today. Imposing conditions that Wal-Mart buy
South African goods will contravene international trade accords
and give competitors an unfair advantage, he said.  Wal-Mart and Massmart offered not to cut jobs for two years
and pledged to uphold existing labor agreements for as long as
the Competition Tribunal sees fit, Gauntlett said. While the
companies still maintain no conditions should be imposed, it
also offered to establish a 100 million rand supplier
development fund if the transaction is approved, he said.  Recommendation Change  The  Competition Commission , which in February recommended
to the Tribunal that the transaction should be approved without
any conditions, changed its stance on the transaction after
hearing evidence it didn’t previously have the chance to
consider, said Patric Mtshaulana, senior counsel for the
Pretoria-based commission.  The  commission  wants 503 Massmart workers who were fired
last year to be reinstated, Mtshaulana said at the hearings. The
commission also wants the Tribunal to rule that Massmart’s
existing labor agreements to be honored for the next three
years, he said.  “The merging parties’ commitment not to retrench any
workers is not enough,” said Paul Kennedy, senior counsel for a
group of labor-union organizations, including the Congress of
South African Trade Unions. “The merging parties remain vague
about the various labor issues and local procurement.”  The acquisition is Wal-Mart’s second-biggest after the $11
billion takeover of U.K. retailer Asda in 1999. Wal-Mart aims to
use Massmart to pilot its expansion in the sub-Saharan region.  The Competition Tribunal concluded its hearings on the
proposed deal today and must deliver its ruling within ten
working days.  Massmart shares fell 25 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 139.75
rand in Johannesburg today, giving the company a market value of
28.5 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  