-- 
South African Local Elections May Show ANC’s ‘Stranglehold’ Is Weakening

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-16T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/south-african-local-elections-may-show-anc-s-stranglehold-is-weakening.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  is at risk of losing control of a second key
city in  local elections  tomorrow, weakening its 17-year grip on
power.  The southern coastal city of Port Elizabeth, the biggest in
the home province of former ANC leaders Nelson Mandela and  Thabo Mbeki , may fall to the main opposition  Democratic Alliance , said
analysts including the University of Johannesburg’s Adam Habib.
The ANC’s share of the city’s vote slipped almost 30 percentage
points to just over half in general elections in 2009 from 2004.  Losing Nelson Mandela Bay municipality, which contains Port
Elizabeth, means “the stranglehold the ANC has on the
electorate is broken,” said Habib in an interview in
Johannesburg yesterday. “We know  Nelson Mandela  Bay is up for
grabs. It would be an amazing slap in the face.”  After securing an end to white minority rule in Africa’s
largest economy in 1994, the ANC has won a clear majority in
every election since then. Its support though is waning as
unemployment climbs and inequality persists. Electoral losses
may tempt the ANC to weaken its business-friendly policies, said
 Razia Khan , head of Africa research at  Standard Chartered Plc. (STAN)   Labor unions have pushed the ANC to increase spending to
help find work for the one in four without a job, while the ANC
Youth League is lobbying for greater state control of the
economy, such as nationalizing mines operated by companies such
as  Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the world’s biggest platinum producer.  When Push Comes to Shove  “At the back of a lot of people’s minds has always been
the idea that if push comes to shove, when the ANC finally found
itself more pressured in a political sense, then maybe that
adherence to market-friendly policy will give a little,” Khan
said in a May 6 interview in  Cape Town .  After a stock market and currency rally last year, South
Africa’s rand lost 5.9 percent against the dollar in the year
through last week. The stock exchange in Johannesburg has fallen
0.5 percent in the same period.  Zwelinzima Vavi , general secretary of the Congress of South
African Trade Unions, the country’s biggest labor federation,
said there was a “real danger” the ANC may lose control in
Port Elizabeth, the  Sowetan newspaper  reported on April 6.  The ANC’s share of the national vote may drop to 59 percent
from 66 percent in 2006, according to a survey from polling
company  Ipsos (IPSOF)  released yesterday. Of the 2,050 likely voters
surveyed from mid-April, 19.3 percent said they’d vote for the
Democratic Alliance. The DA won 14.8 percent five years ago.  ‘Lost Trust’  Party leader and Western Cape provincial head Helen Zille
is betting the DA’s track record in Cape Town, which it has
controlled since 2006, can win it more votes.  “I’m going to vote for the DA, 100 percent,” said Zoleka
Ngetu, a 38-year-old maid in Port Elizabeth. “I voted for the
ANC for a long time, but I’ve now lost trust. There is a lot of
corruption; housing is very poor; they don’t fix anything; the
roads are terrible. People are very, very tired.”  The ANC has been dogged by allegations of corruption. The
Johannesburg-based  Sunday Times  reported on April 10 that Sicelo
Shiceka, the minister in charge of local government, spent
hundreds of thousands of rand of taxpayers’ money on luxury
hotels, flights for his family and visits to a girlfriend in a
Swiss jail. He hasn’t commented on the allegations and ministry
spokeswoman Vuyelwa Qinga didn’t respond to messages left on her
mobile phone.  Meanwhile, many township dwellers feel their lives haven’t
improved since the end of apartheid, with residents in Ermelo in
the eastern Mpumalanga province, blocking roads with burning
tires in demonstrations in February.  South Africa  had a record
111 such protests last year, according to Johannesburg-based
 Municipal IQ , an independent local government research group.  Inequality  South Africa’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , is 0.68, according to the Treasury, one of the
highest in the world and higher than at the end of apartheid. A
reading of zero means income equality, while a reading of one
means complete inequality.  A dip in ANC support won’t threaten the party’s national
majority, which stood at almost two thirds in 2009, according to
Habib.  President  Jacob Zuma  on May 9 said the DA are
“daydreamers,” when asked if they had a chance of winning Port
Elizabeth or any other city.  Many black  South Africans  remain loyal to the ANC because
of its decades-long struggle against apartheid and the racial
nature of politics in the country, according to Steven Friedman,
director for the Johannesburg-based  Centre for the Study of
Democracy.   Race Card  “Politics in this country is very much about identity;
that you’re voting for someone who has a similar background to
you,” Friedman said in an interview.  Zuma on May 15 told tens of thousands of ANC supporters
that every vote for his party says “we don’t want to go back to
the era of racism.”  In a country where almost 80 percent of the population is
black, only one member of the DA’s 10-person leadership is
black, while 66 of its 77 lawmakers are white or mixed-race. The
DA is trying to promote blacks within the party to woo more
voters.  Regardless of the outcome in  Port Elizabeth , “the ANC will
have been served notice: in future, service delivery failure
will be punished by the voters,” DA leader Zille said in a May
8  statement . “There will no longer be a free ride for any party
in South Africa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 