-- 
Speculators Cut Bets on Higher Commodity Prices by 15% in Week to May 10

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-05-16T11:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/speculators-make-15-cut-in-bets-on-higher-commodities-after-market-rout.html
Funds cut their bets on higher
commodity prices by 15 percent in a week after the worst rout in
two years, reducing positions in everything from copper to oil
on mounting concern that global growth is slowing.  The funds held a net 1.23 million contracts across 18 U.S.
commodity futures as of May 10, the lowest since July, data from
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The net-long
position in crude oil slumped 13 percent in a week, while for
copper it fell 59 percent and in silver 23 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell 11
percent in the week ended May 6, the biggest drop since December
2008, as investors fretted about the end of monetary stimulus in
the U.S., higher  interest rates  worldwide and  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crises. At least two dozen nations and the  European Central
Bank  raised rates this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The “pressures that have been building in emerging markets
in terms of inflation and rapid interest rate hikes, coupled
with the end of the quantitative easing program in the U.S. plus
what’s going on in Europe, we have a lot of uncertainty around
the extension of aid to  Greece , you put all that together, that
doesn’t paint a very rosy picture,” said  Francisco Blanch  from
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.  “It’s not the end of the commodity bull market but it
could take some of the steam off for a few months,” the bank’s
global head of commodity research said in an interview with
Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Commodity Slump  The slump in commodities in the first week of May still
left the S&P GSCI index where it had been in March, and the
gauge rose 1.4 percent last week, taking its advance this year
to 8 percent. Commodities had beaten stocks, bonds and the
dollar for five consecutive months through the end of April, the
longest stretch in at least 14 years, on forecasts for demand
exceeding output in everything from oil to copper to corn.  The GSCI dropped 0.6 percent by 12:46 p.m. in  London , led
by declines of 2 percent in silver futures and 1.4 percent in
 New York  crude oil. Copper futures fell 0.6 percent.  The net-long position in crude-oil futures traded in New
York retreated to 255,713 contracts, the lowest since February,
the CFTC data show. The position in copper futures declined to
6,076 contracts, the lowest since July, and in silver to 19,228
contracts, the lowest since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  