-- 
Sprint’s Likely Buyer May Be CenturyLink After AT&T Deal

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-16T20:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/sprint-s-most-likely-buyer-may-be-centurylink.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s Dan Hesse told
Congress last week the third-largest U.S. wireless operator may
end up being acquired if  AT&T Inc. (T)  purchases T-Mobile USA Inc.
The most likely buyer is CenturyLink, the biggest company in
telecommunications without a wireless unit, analysts said  AT&T’s proposed deal would create the largest U.S. mobile-
phone company, combining the second- and fourth-largest carriers
to surpass Verizon Wireless. Sprint Chief Executive Officer
Hesse said in a Congressional hearing the merger would pressure
his much-smaller company to sell and result in a “duopoly.”  CenturyLink, based in Monroe,  Louisiana , is the most
logical acquirer because it has the financial resources, it’s
shown an appetite for big deals and it needs a wireless
business, say analysts including  Chris Larsen  of Piper Jaffray
Cos. Though there are other potential buyers, such as  Verizon
Wireless  or cable companies, they’re less likely because of
regulatory hurdles or integration risks, he said.  “CenturyLink is a company with a really good balance sheet
and looking for areas to invest its capital, its free  cash flow 
in growth,” said Larsen, who is based in New York. “If Sprint
can stabilize and then begin to grow its customer base, it
becomes a growth vehicle for them.”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, Debra Peterson, a
spokeswoman for CenturyLink, and  Tom Tauke , a Verizon spokesman,
declined to comment.  Sprint rose 1 cent to $5.11 on the New York Stock Exchange
at 4 p.m. and has gained 21 percent this year.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns its wireless business with
Vodafone Group Plc, fell 29 cents to $36.97. CenturyLink lost 15
cents to $42.27.  Litmus Tests  AT&T’s $39 billion deal to buy the  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
unit, subject to approval from the  U.S. Federal Communications
Commission  and the  Justice Department , would give the company
about 137 million customers. Verizon Wireless has about 104
million, leaving Sprint a distant third with 51 million.  Regulators are now considering whether to allow two
companies to control about three quarters of the market. They
probably wouldn’t let Verizon or AT&T buy Sprint, which would
result in almost all the market in the hands of two companies,
said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s  Craig Moffett .  “Any of the litmus tests that they use in  Washington 
would, by definition, mean that the second deal would be harder
than the first,” said Moffett, who is based in New York and has
an “underperform” rating on Sprint shares.  CenturyLink’s Deals  CenturyLink has become the third-largest U.S. landline
company through several recent deals. The company bought Embarq
Corp. in 2009 for about $12 billion and completed the purchase
of Qwest Communications International Inc. this year for more
than $20 billion. It cut a $2.5 billion deal for  Savvis Inc. (SVVS) 
last month to expand its cloud-computing services.  CenturyLink could use a mobile service to boost sales as
customers abandon home-phone lines and growth in demand for
Internet services tapers off. The company may be ready to
acquire Sprint in the next couple of years, according to both
Larsen and Moffett.  “If CenturyLink imagines itself as a long-term player in
the enterprise segment, they may need to add wireless,” said
Moffett. “You have to put them as perhaps the most likely long-
term acquirer” for  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint.  CenturyLink’s market value was about $25 billion, compared
with about $15 billion for Sprint, before today’s trading. The
company bought both Embarq and Qwest with stock. A deal for
Sprint would reunite the wireless company with Embarq, a
landline operator that spun off from Sprint in 2006 and was run
by Hesse at the time.  CenturyLink completed the Qwest deal in April and may want
to finish absorbing the new customers and assets before taking
on another large merger, Larsen said.  Cable Combo  Cable companies such as Comcast Corp. might also explore
buying Sprint to add wireless to their service bundles, said
Sergey Dluzhevskiy, vice president at Gamco Investors Inc.,
which owned about 13 million shares of Sprint at the end of last
year according to regulatory filings.  Comcast and its peers are increasingly competing with phone
companies, such as Verizon Communications, which can offer
discounted packages of TV, Web, home-phone and wireless service.
Sprint, which has resold air time to cable companies in the
past, would provide a nationwide wireless network.  A cable bid is unlikely given their track record though,
said Larsen.  “Keep in mind, cable has flirted in and out of wireless
for a long time,” he said. “They haven’t proved it to be a
successful quad-play.”  D’Arcy Rudnay, a spokeswoman for Comcast, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Worth Waiting?  Sprint’s Hesse could decide to bulk up, rather than wait to
be acquired, said Gamco’s Dluzhevskiy. Two possible targets are
Leap Wireless International Inc. or  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , which use the same technology as Sprint, he said. The
carriers offer prepaid mobile-phone service, which is seeing a
surge in demand as consumers seek lower-priced monthly plans.  Sprint could also buy the shares in partner Clearwire Corp.
it doesn’t already own, analysts said, though Sprint said in
December it had no plans to do so. Clearwire’s stock had dropped
22 percent this year before today, pushing its market value down
to $4 billion.  In any case, a potential acquirer such as CenturyLink would
likely want to wait several quarters before making a move,
Larsen said. The time would give Sprint the chance to finish
making investments to upgrade its network and resolve other
financial obligations, he said.  “You’d rather have Sprint spend the money to upgrade its
network on its own nickel than yours,” Moffett said. “That
creates another incentive for potential partners to wait and see
if they can get a better deal in Sprint if it’s in significant
distress a year or so down the road.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  