-- 
Strauss-Kahn Case Bolsters Push for Change in IMF Selection

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-16T17:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/strauss-kahn-arrest-bolsters-emerging-nations-push-to-change-imf-selection.html
The arrest of International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  may bolster a
drive by  Brazil  and other emerging markets for a greater voice
in the selection of the IMF and World Bank chiefs.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was charged with attempted rape in  New
York , and his lawyer said he would plead not guilty. The former
French finance minister was chosen in 2007 to a five-year IMF
term in keeping with an informal agreement dating to the end of
World War II, under which a European heads the Washington-based
fund while an American leads the World Bank.  Policy makers such as Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega say the arrangement sacrifices merit to diplomatic deal-
making and doesn’t recognize the rising economic clout of
developing markets, which are set to grow at more than twice the
pace of their developed counterparts this year. The arrest will
give them added ammunition, said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow
at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  “This event is likely to put into play the leadership and
governance structure of the IMF in a dramatic and unanticipated
manner,” said Prasad, a former IMF official. He said it’s
“untenable” for Strauss-Kahn to keep his job, and that
Europeans may be unable to make a strong case to maintain
control of the post.  Prasad said potential candidates for the top IMF job
include  Singapore  Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam,
former South African Finance Minister Trevor Manuel and Kemal Dervis, who was Turkey’s minister of economic affairs at a time
his country got aid from the IMF.  ‘Frantic’ Agitation  “There’s going to be pretty frantic diplomatic agitation”
if Strauss-Kahn resigns, said Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at
Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research group. “It’s the
first time that the competition is so internationally open.”  The IMF’s No. 2 official,  John Lipsky , last week said he
would leave when his term expires Aug. 31. Lipsky is acting
managing director during Strauss-Kahn’s absence from  Washington .  Strauss-Kahn appeared in  Manhattan  criminal court today to
face charges that he tried to rape a New York hotel maid and was
ordered held without bail. He has denied the charges.  Lipsky’s position of first deputy managing director has
been traditionally held by a U.S. citizen. The two other deputy
managing directors now are Japanese and Egyptian. A Chinese
citizen was named special adviser to Strauss-Kahn last year.  ‘Extraordinary’ Candidate  For Europe, “only a truly extraordinary candidate now has
any chance,” Jacob Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington,
said in an interview. He named French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  as one such person, saying she might be “brought into
play not as another European candidate but as the first female
head of the IMF.”  Even so, “the ball is in the court of the emerging markets
because they really have to come up with a strong candidate that
they can unify behind, and that’s going to be very tricky,” he
said.  Germany prefers having a European as head of the IMF if
Strauss-Kahn quits,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today. There
are “good reasons” for  Europe  to keep the post amid the euro
area’s debt crisis, even as the role of developing nations
grows, Merkel told reporters in Berlin.  Another possible candidate to replace Strauss-Kahn is Zhu Min, 59, a special adviser to the IMF and a former deputy
governor at  China ’s central bank, said Shen Jianguang, a former
IMF economist now at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  Currency Reserves  Emerging markets argue that having a greater say in the
187-member IMF would make them less prone to accumulate foreign
currency reserves as insurance against a crisis and turn to the
IMF for help instead, said Bessma Momani, a professor in the
department of political science at the University of Waterloo in
 Canada , who specializes in the IMF and its policies.  “The fund had been reviewing its governance structure,
particularly with respect to providing greater representation
for the developing economies,” Philippine central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “The
recent incident should hopefully not be a significant
distraction.”  Established in 1945 to help oversee the construction of a
new international monetary system, the fund has evolved into a
lender of last resort to cash-strapped nations. Recipients of
IMF aid ranged from the U.K. in 1976 to  Mexico  in 1982.  During last decade’s economic expansion, emergency lending
plummeted from $66.4 billion in 2002 to just $58.7 million in
2006, when Paraguay and Albania were the only borrowers.  Global Panic  The global financial panic triggered by the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 restored the
IMF’s relevance as emergency loans soared to a record of $91.7
billion last year.  Strauss-Kahn played a key role in efforts to stem the
European debt crisis that started last year in  Greece , with a
pledge to contribute about a third of future bailouts in the
region by the European Union. The IMF has co-funded aid packages
to Greece and Ireland and has negotiated aid for  Portugal .  Emerging markets have also seen their clout grow under
Strauss-Kahn. Last year, IMF nations agreed to rule changes that
will give China the third-largest percentage of votes. In 2010,
the U.S., as the largest contributor to the IMF’s resources, had
16.7 percent of the  votes , followed by Japan and  Germany  with
about 6 percent each.  Yi Gang, deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China,
last month urged the fund to “continue to make substantive
progress in reforming other parts of its governance, including
the merit-based selection of the management.”  ‘Strong Pressure’  “It is very clear that after Strauss-Kahn’s mandate ends
there will be strong pressure for the next IMF director to be
picked based on qualifications,”  Martin Redrado , former
president of Argentina’s central bank, said in an interview.
Strauss-Kahn’s term ends in October 2012.  European countries will probably fight to maintain their
hold on the managing director’s job, said Oh Jong Nam, who
served at South Korean executive director at the IMF from 2002-
04 and is now a professor at Seoul’s National University.  “They understand that their role is declining as time goes
by and because of that very reason they may want to hold on to
the top leadership even more,” Oh said in an interview. “It’s
not something they can give up easily.”  The Washington-based  World Bank , which finances development
projects, is headed by Robert Zoellick, a former U.S. trade
representative whose term ends next year.  Steering Committee  Changes in the leadership of the IMF steering committee
already reflect the growing influence of emerging markets, said
Miranda Xafa, a former IMF board member from Greece. The 24-
member group of finance ministers and central bankers meets
twice a year to discuss the global economy and provide guidance
to the fund.  In 2008  Italy ’s Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa was succeeded by
Egypt’s Youssef Boutros-Ghali. The post is now occupied by
Singapore’s Shanmugaratnam.  “The time of the emerging markets has arrived,” said
Xafa, now a senior strategist for IJ Partners, a Geneva-based
investment firm, in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  