-- 
Strauss-Kahn Tumbles From Front-Runner to Rikers Inmate

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-17T14:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/strauss-kahn-tumbles-from-front-runner-to-rikers-inmate-as-french-look-on.html
Less than two weeks ago, French
bookstores began carrying a campaign biography intended to boost
the front-runner for next year’s presidential election. It was
entitled “The Real Story of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .”  Now, Strauss-Kahn’s political prospects are in ruins as he
was ordered held without bail yesterday by a New York judge and
sent to the city’s Rikers Island jail complex after being
charged with sexually assaulting and trying to rape a hotel
housekeeper. Images of the head of the  International Monetary
Fund , looking wan and haggard, being escorted handcuffed by
police -- in what is popularly known to New Yorkers as the
“perp walk” -- played endlessly on French television.  “Yesterday, this man was a leader, he had the bearing of a
president,” Michel Taubmann, the 54-year-old author of the
book, said in an interview. “Now? I saw images of him in court;
destroyed face, amid delinquents. Most likely his career is
over. The next book could be ‘The Tragedy of Strauss-Kahn.’”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who has topped the list in every election
poll in the last six months, was taken off an Air France flight
about to leave  John F. Kennedy International Airport  for Paris
on May 14 and charged with attempting to rape the maid in his
$3,000-a-night suite at a Sofitel hotel in midtown  Manhattan . He
will be pleading not guilty, his lawyer Benjamin Brafman has
said. He faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted of the
most serious charges.  “One thing is certain: Dominique Strauss-Kahn will not be
the next president,” editorialist Paul-Henri du Limbert wrote
in the Paris-based newspaper  Le Figaro  yesterday. “In the space
of 15 days, the new idol of the French left has exploded. Such a
swift disintegration has rarely been seen.”  Bumps in Career  Strauss-Kahn, or DSK as he’s popularly known in  France , has
had bumps during his 25-year political career.  In November 1999, he resigned as France’s finance minister
after magistrates began an investigation into irregularities at
Mutuelle Nationale des Etudiants de France, a French student-
insurance group based in a suburb of Paris. The probe centered
on allegations that the company had paid him about $100,000 from
1994 to 1996 for legal work on a property deal that he never
performed. Strauss-Kahn denied wrongdoing and was cleared by a
Paris court in November 2001.  In 2008, a year into his IMF job, he had an affair with
Piroska Nagy, a female economist at the fund. An IMF board
investigation, released in October 2008, concluded that while
the Strauss-Kahn had made a “serious error of judgment,” he
shouldn’t be fired. He apologized to his staff and family.  ‘I Like Women’  Strauss-Kahn was aware that his personal background
contained political liabilities.  Liberation  newspaper reported
yesterday that at an April 28 meeting with its editors in Paris,
Strauss-Kahn listed “wealth, women and my Judaism” as the main
obstacles to his presidential bid. “Yes, I like women, so
what?” he told the newspaper.  His past had done little to dent his popularity. In a poll
released April 10 by Liberation, 45 percent of the respondents
said they’d like to see Strauss-Kahn as president, almost double
the 23 percent who picked President  Nicolas Sarkozy , 56. The
two-round presidential elections will be held April 29 and May
6, 2012.  With Strauss-Kahn’s latest troubles, his Socialist Party
has supported him, with its leader  Martine Aubry  calling for
“presumption of innocence” until the allegations are verified.
His wife Anne Sinclair, an American-born journalist and the
granddaughter of Paul Rosenberg -- France’s biggest art merchant
in the first half of the 20th century -- is standing by him.
Sinclair, who inherited paintings by Picasso, Matisse and Degas,
said she believes he’s innocent.  In Limbo  Still, whatever the outcome of the investigation, there is
recognition in France that Strauss-Kahn’s political ambitions
will need to be put on hold.  “Everything is suspended, everything now depends on the
U.S. courts,” said Stephane Rozes, founder of Paris-based Cap
Institute, an political advisory firm. “Strauss-Kahn is in
limbo.”  Born in the wealthy Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine to a
tax adviser father and a journalist mother, Strauss-Kahn spent
most of his youth in Morocco and  Monaco , where his father
worked. In 1972, he received a law degree from the  University of
Paris , and in 1975 he got a doctorate in economics from the same
institution.  He spent the next two decades juggling parallel careers as
an economics professor, lawyer and aspiring Socialist
politician. In 1986, he was first elected to the National
Assembly, representing the Alpine Haute-Savoie department.  IMF Record  He served as industry minister from 1991 to 1993 under
successive Socialist premiers Edith Cresson and Pierre Beregovoy. In 1997, he returned to office as finance minister
under Premier Lionel Jospin.  France’s gross domestic product grew 3.5 percent in 1998,
the fastest pace that decade. He took advantage of the growth to
cut the  budget deficit  to below 3 percent of GDP in 1999, the
level required for euro membership, from 4 percent in 1996.  In his first attempt at the presidency, Strauss-Kahn was
beaten by Segolene Royal in the Socialist Party’s primaries in
2006. Sarkozy, who won the presidential election in 2007,
lobbied for Strauss-Kahn to become head of the IMF, a job
traditionally held by a European.  Strauss-Kahn’s IMF tenure coincided with the international
financial crisis, giving renewed importance to the Washington-
based institution. IMF emergency lending had plummeted from
$66.4 billion in 2002 to just $58.7 million in 2006, when
Paraguay and Albania were the only borrowers.  Relevant Again  Less than a year later, in September 2008, the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the deepest
international recession since World War II. Amid the turmoil,
the IMF became relevant again. Emergency IMF loans soared to a
record $91.7 billion last year from $1.1 billion in 2007.  For many in the political class in France, where police
rarely parade suspects in front of TV cameras, pictures of the
country’s most prominent international statesman led in
handcuffs by police officers to a waiting car was hard to watch.  “I was distressed by the images I saw,” Socialist Party
leader Aubry said. “They are profoundly humiliating.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who was
among the first European leaders to endorse Strauss-Kahn for the
IMF job, said last night: “To see Dominique Strauss-Kahn in
handcuffs on television deeply saddened me. I have the feeling
of being in a bad movie.”  ‘Destroyed Image’  Sarkozy today asked lawmakers from his Union for a Popular
Movement party to refrain from exploiting Strauss-Kahn’s woes.  “After what happened this weekend, we must show we are
solid,” he said, asking his government and party members to
“focus on people’s daily lives.”  The allegations in the case, meanwhile, have given even
Strauss-Kahn’s biggest supporters pause.  According to the criminal complaint, Strauss-Kahn “engaged
in oral sexual conduct and anal sexual conduct with another
person by forcible compulsion.” He allegedly closed the door of
the room to keep the woman from leaving, grabbed her breasts and
tried to pull down her pantyhose, according to court papers.  Strauss-Kahn’s next court appearance was set for May 20.  “He was France’s most prominent person abroad, a powerful,
policy making figure,” Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the
Political Sciences Institute in Paris, said in a telephone
interview. “His image is now destroyed. The books, the
marketing will be of no help now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  