-- 
Street Stunned by How Fast U.S. Blocked Nasdaq

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-16T19:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/street-stunned-by-how-fast-u-s-blocked-nasdaq-bid.html
Regulators needed 45 days to block
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  from
acquiring NYSE Euronext, shocking analysts with the speed of
their decision and leaving Robert Greifeld without a partner.  The U.S. Justice Department cited concerns about the
potential for monopolies in stock listings, data services and
some areas of trading in rejecting the unsolicited offer, saying
in a  statement  it would have sued to block it. That leaves NYSE
Euronext Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  free to
combine with Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , a proposal that
has almost no overlap in American equities.  For  Nasdaq  OMX CEO Greifeld, rejection is a setback after
he told shareholders his attempt to snatch away NYSE would
create a trading and listings powerhouse based in the U.S.
Greifeld and ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said on April 10 that they
were confident they would win antitrust clearance because of a
“realistic and actionable” plan to overcome objections.  “The timeline of events calls into question Greifeld’s
leadership style, which was to jump first and ask questions
later,” said Tim Hoyle, director of research at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which manages $6 billion and
owns shares of  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)  “It is very much a win for
Niederauer. He stuck to his guns and comes out ahead.”  Ignoring Nasdaq  Niederauer pursued his union with Deutsche Boerse while
refusing to meet with Nasdaq OMX-ICE since they announced their
offer on April 1. While the trans-Atlantic combination faces its
biggest regulatory test in Europe, where it will dominate
derivatives trading, analysts saw less chance competition
authorities will rule against it.  They cite the merger of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and
the Chicago Board of Trade, announced in 2006. The $11.3 billion
deal created the largest U.S. exchange for futures contracts on
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  “With DB-NYSE, the real antitrust question is for the
Europeans,” said  Jamie Selway , managing director at  New York- 
based Investment Technology Group Inc. “By combining Liffe and
Eurex, it creates one single platform for fixed-income
derivatives in Europe. And what people say around that is that
CME and the Board of Trade did the same thing in the States and
that passed antitrust muster.”  ‘Substantial Remedies’  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would have broken up NYSE
Euronext. Greifeld said he failed to win regulatory approval
“despite offering a variety of substantial remedies,”
according to a statement today. One solution Greifeld proposed
was selling the “NYSE SRO and related businesses,” meaning the
 New York  Stock Exchange and NYSE Euronext’s corporate listings
business.  That would have left NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and NYSE’s
European operations and technology-services division. ICE
planned to keep the Liffe futures markets, according to the
April 1 bid from Nasdaq OMX and ICE for NYSE Euronext.  “It would be highly unlikely that it could be remedied,”
said  Christine Varney , assistant attorney general in charge of
the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division, on a conference
call. “One wonders what it is they’re going to divest and how it
will compete and what is the business rationale for the
transaction.”  Market Risk  Antitrust regulators said the risks to U.S. capital markets
were too great to let the Nasdaq OMX-ICE transaction go through.
In announcing it would have sued to block the rival bid, the
Justice Department cited concern that joining NYSE Euronext with
Nasdaq OMX would eliminate competition in corporate listings.  “It was surprising how quick the Justice Department came
to their conclusion,” said Michael Wong, a Chicago-based
analyst at Morningstar Inc. “We thought this could drag out for
a while and were somewhat concerned for NYSE shareholders having
to vote not knowing how antitrust was going to go in the U.S. or
 Europe . Now they can concentrate on European antitrust issues,
which should still not be disregarded.”  While NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX have seen the share of
trading in stocks they list drop from more than 80 percent a
decade ago to about 30 percent now, they still dominate the
business of listing, in which companies sell shares to the
public and venues provide services such as market intelligence.  ‘Only Compeitors’  “The department’s investigation revealed that NYSE and
Nasdaq are the only competitors in several businesses vital to
the success of U.S. equity markets,” the department said in a
 statement  on its website. “The acquisition would have removed
incentives for competitive pricing, high quality of service, and
innovation in the listing, trading and data services these
exchange operators provide.”  The Justice Department cited less competition in listings,
auctions at the start and end of the trading session, and real-
time data feeds.  Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said
today in a statement that the combination of NYSE and  Deutsche
Boerse  has more potential to keep jobs in New York and
strengthen New York’s position in the derivatives markets. NYSE
Euronext’s agreement with Deutsche Boerse has been subject to
virtually no political opposition in the U.S. even as it would
leave Deutsche Boerse’s shareholders with majority control.  Christine Varney, head of the Justice Department’s
Antitrust Division, said in an April 14 interview in  Washington 
that her unit is reviewing the NYSE Euronext-Deutsche Boerse
deal. Regulators focused on competition in Europe are also
looking at that deal since it creates a monopoly in fixed-income
derivatives trading by combining NYSE Euronext’s Liffe business
and Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex futures operation.  “The challenge with exchanges is that they are thought of
as national treasures and they’re thought of as very intertwined
with the local economy and with the local government,” said
 Larry Tabb , founder of New York-based research firm Tabb Group
LLC. “It’s very problematic to try and all of a sudden say,
‘Our national exchange, our national treasure, is going to be
owned by an outside third party.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  