-- 
Sweden Wants Bail-In Model to Target Senior Bank Creditors

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-16T08:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/sweden-wants-bail-in-model-to-target-senior-bank-creditors.html
Sweden ’s financial regulator wants to
copy a bail-in model first tested in neighboring Denmark to
ensure that senior bondholders share losses in insolvencies.  The Stockholm-based  Financial Supervisory Authority  wants
bank insolvency rules in Sweden and the rest of  Europe  to
discourage risk-taking by driving home the message that
creditors will no longer be bailed out by taxpayers, said Martin Andersson, the regulator’s director-general.  The Feb. 6 failure of Denmark’s Amagerbanken A/S forced a
41 percent loss on unsecured senior bonds and prompted Moody’s
Investors Service 10 days later to cut ratings on five Danish
lenders, including Danske Bank A/S, as it factored out state
protection. The insolvency was the first to test rules  Denmark 
put in place in October and set a European Union precedent for
senior creditor losses amid a region-wide debate on burden
sharing.  “The development in Denmark is a good one. It illustrates
that you take risks when you put money into a bank and you can
lose money,” Andersson said in an interview in  Stockholm . “I
think this is what we need in the future and what we will
hopefully see on the EU side and what we will definitely argue
for in Sweden. Owners should definitely be wiped out and
creditors should bear losses” in bank insolvencies.  Andersson said banks aren’t likely to see their funding
costs rise as a consequence of such measures as stricter winding
down rules will encourage more responsible behavior. That will
affect funding markets and keep wholesale borrowing costs down,
he said.  Danske Bank  Denmark’s example may yet prove him right. Just under four
months after Amagerbanken’s failure, Danske Bank, the country’s
largest lender, says it isn’t paying too much to borrow. Spar
Nord Bank A/S, which in February cancelled a bond auction on
concern funding costs would be too high, was able to return to
the market on May 12.  “Danske Bank can approach the markets for funding at
relatively attractive prices,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Straarup said in a May 10 interview. Any increase in borrowing
costs following Amagerbanken’s failure has been “marginal,” he
said. The lender’s credit default swaps have widened because of
concern about its Irish units, Straarup said.  “Our sense is that Danske Bank has been able to approach
the markets even though our CDS spreads have been elevated. I
don’t think our CDS spreads are so elevated because of
Amagerbanken,” he said.  Beyond ‘Panic’  At Spar Nord, Denmark’s fourth-largest bank, the road back
to wholesale funding has been a bit tougher, Ole Madsen, the
lender’s spokesman, said by phone on May 13.  “We were planning a larger issue for the day after the
Amagerbanken collapse. We had to postpone it then,” Madsen
said. “We did the preparation. We did the pan-European road
show. We had investors lined up and then all of a sudden it
wasn’t feasible.”  Spar Nord has since focused on Scandinavian investors “who
know the bank and were able to see past the panic that’s been
directed at Danish mid-sized banks after what happened in
Amagerbanken,” he said. “We’re hoping the Scandinavian issue
will help pave the way to a broader European issue later this
year.”  The bank paid 180 basis points over three-month Euribor to
borrow 200 million euros ($282 million) this month, compared
with about 150 basis points before Amagerbanken’s collapse,
Madsen said.  Competitive Advantage  “To have strict regulation, a strong supervisory regime,
is not a competitive disadvantage as some claim, I think it’s a
competitive advantage in a global financial system,” the
Swedish FSA’s Andersson said. “So far, we haven’t seen anything
that says our view is the wrong one. Funding costs are not going
up. That’s what we expected.”  Nordea’s shares dropped 0.9 percent as of 10:32 a.m. to
69.90 kronor. Danske stock lost 2.7 percent to 107.20 kroner.  Sweden’s commitment to pushing through some of the world’s
toughest capital adequacy rules has yet to hurt lenders’ funding
access,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s Chief Executive Officer Christian Clausen said in a May 12 interview.  Though Clausen, who heads the Nordic region’s biggest bank,
in February called Sweden’s goal of exceeding capital standards
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  “not
realistic,” he in an interview this month said “we are in much
better shape than the average in Europe” when it comes to
funding access.  Not Helpful  Still, Danish lawmakers on May 13 started debating a
proposal from Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen that will make it
easier to sidestep Europe’s toughest winding-down rules. The
bill would promote consolidation by allowing healthy banks to
tap cash in the country’s depositor guarantee fund to finance
acquisitions of troubled lenders.  The move could help Denmark weather any funding disruptions
that may yet hit the country while it waits for others in the
region to copy its model. According to Jesper Berg, senior vice
president at Nykredit A/S, as long as Denmark is an outlier with
its bail-in precedent, its banks face a potentially inhospitable
funding environment.  “The impact of Amagerbanken on the funding situation of
Danish banks was not helpful,” Berg said in an interview.
“Denmark is still ahead in Europe in its implementation of bank
resolution schemes at a time when financial markets are very
nervous about these. Other countries will follow, but until
then, Danish banks will have a funding disadvantage.”  BankNordic P/F, based in Torshavn on the  Faroe Islands ,
said today it submitted a binding bid for the healthy parts of
Amagerbanken, without disclosing a price. Jyske Bank A/S,
Denmark’s second-biggest lender, on May 2 said it was also
considering making an offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net .
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  