-- 
Syncrude Gains Amid Alberta Fires; Gulf Crudes Slip on Flooding

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-16T19:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/syncrude-gains-amid-alberta-fires-gulf-crudes-slip-on-flooding.html
The premium for Syncrude rose as
fires in northern  Alberta  forced crude oil producers to shut
output and Plains All American Pipeline LP to close a pipeline
section.  Plains shut the southern portion of its damaged Rainbow
pipeline in Alberta yesterday and evacuated workers doing spill
clean-up on the northern section because of approaching fires,
according to a company statement. Exall Energy Corp. shut its
Marten Mountain plant which produces 1,750 barrels per day, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Syncrude’s premium versus West Texas Intermediate gained $1
to $14.25 a barrel at 2:09 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Syncrude is a light, low-sulfur synthetic
oil derived from the  tar sands  in Alberta.  Cenovus Energy Inc. said it may have to shut 22,000 barrels
a day of production at its Pelican Lake site if the pipeline
remains shut. The company has sufficient storage to keep
producing until late tomorrow, Rhona DelFrari, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  The discount for Western Canada Select narrowed 25 cents to
$16.75 a barrel.  While the Morganza spillway in  Louisiana  has been opened to
relieve rising pressure from the  Mississippi River  that
threatened refinery operations, crude deliveries by barge may be
delayed for weeks, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
led by  Lawrence Eagles .  “Even with the diversion of substantial water flows, we
expect the flow of crude and products along the Mississippi
river to be restricted for a couple of weeks as the peak water
levels head downstream,” Eagles said today in a note to
clients.  Heavy Louisiana Sweet’s premium to WTI fell 25 cents to
$14.75 a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet’s premium dropped 25
cents to $16 over the benchmark.  Among Gulf Coast sour, or high-sulfur, grades, Mars Blend
weakened 15 cents to $8.45 a barrel over WTI, and Poseidon’s
premium fell 15 cents to $8.55.  Southern Green Canyon’s premium dropped 35 cents to $6.25 a
barrel. Thunder Horse’s premium rose 35 cents to $13.75 a barrel
over WTI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 