-- 
U.K. Manufacturers Say Climate Goals Will Damage Industry, Competitiveness

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-16T10:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-k-manufacturers-say-climate-goals-will-damage-industry-competitiveness.html
Britain’s plans to cut greenhouse gas
output in half by 2027 risk damaging the country’s
competitiveness, crimping growth and curbing investment, a lobby
group representing 6,000 companies said.  The government’s global warming adviser, the Committee on
 Climate Change , recommended the U.K.  limit  emissions to an
average of 390 million tons a year from 2022 through 2027, or
half the 1990 level. If adopted, the target would harm the
economy because other countries are yet to make similar
commitments, EEF, the Manufacturers’ Organization, said today.  Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  is due to
announce the so-called carbon budget in Parliament tomorrow. The
British Broadcasting Corp. today said the government will accept
the committee’s recommendations, which include pressing the 27-
nation European Union to boost its 1990 through 2020 reduction
target to 30 percent from 20 percent. A spokeswoman for Huhne’s
department declined to comment.  “Plowing a lone furrow without international agreement
will damage our economy,” EEF Chief Executive Terry Scuoler
said today in an e-mailed statement. “There is little if any
appetite across the EU for any further move toward a higher
target when there is so much economic uncertainty and government
must continue to seek international consensus.”  International efforts to craft a climate change treaty to
replace the  Kyoto Protocol  when its current emissions limits
expire next year have so far stalled amid disputes between
developed and developing nations over the scale and pace of
greenhouse gas cuts.  If adopted, the U.K.’s fourth “carbon budget” is a
victory for Huhne, who pushed for the goals in the face of
opposition from Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a fellow Liberal
Democrat in the Conservative-led coalition. It also comes just
over a year after Prime Minister  David Cameron  pledged his
government would be the “greenest ever.”  While Huhne had recommended the government adopt the
committee’s advice, Cable said in an April 19 letter to Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  that he had “a number of concerns” about supporting
the target of 1,950 megatons because assessments showed it “may
not be technically feasible” in the U.K.  “Agreeing on too aggressive a level risks burdening the
U.K. economy with extra costs which would be detrimental,”
Cable wrote in the letter, which was published May 10 on the
Financial Times’s Westminster blog.  A spokeswoman for Cable’s  department , who declined to be
named per government policy, said she couldn’t confirm or deny
whether the letter is genuine. She said Cable is committed to
the need to reduce emissions, while at the same time raising the
concerns of energy-intensive businesses to other government
ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 