-- 
U.K. Stocks Fall for Fourth Day Amid EU Sovereign-Debt Concern

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-16T11:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-k-stocks-fall-for-fourth-day-amid-eu-sovereign-debt-concern.html
U.K. stocks declined for a fourth
day, sending the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  to a one-month low, as
 Greece  prepared to ask for an increased bailout from the
European Union amid mounting sovereign-debt concern.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  led a
selloff in banks and insurers.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  and  Wolseley Plc (WOS) 
both lost more than 2 percent as Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest
U.S. home retailer, reported earnings that missed estimates.
 African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG)  sank to a record low.  The FTSE 100 dropped 0.9 percent to 5,873.06 at 12:36 p.m.
in  London . The gauge has retreated for two straight weeks, led
by a selloff in commodity producers as oil and metal prices
tumbled. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  slid 0.9 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index declined 0.9 percent.  “Investors are cautious to buy into stocks ahead of the
meeting amongst EU finance ministers to discuss the euro-zone
debt crisis,” said Joshua Raymond, a market strategist at  City
Index  in London. “Traders are awaiting clarity on how they see
the Greek situation progressing.”  Greece will plead for European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund  to boost its 110 billion-euro ($155
billion) bailout today in talks clouded by the arrest of IMF
Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  European finance ministers will also discuss whether to
approve 78 billion euros in aid for Portugal and the nomination
of Bank of  Italy  Governor Mario Draghi to be the next president
of the  European Central Bank . The meetings start at 3 p.m. in
Brussels.  RBS, Lloyds Slide  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, fell 2.1
percent to 41.88 pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, slid 1.7 percent to 53.79 pence and
Aviva, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, lost 1.6 percent to
428.9 pence.  Kingfisher, Britain’s biggest home-improvement retailer,
dropped 2.7 percent to 274.8 pence. Wolseley, the world’s
largest supplier of heating and plumbing products, declined 3.6
percent to 2,033 pence.  Lowe’s fell in early New York trading after the retailer
reported first-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates
as sagging home values crimped demand for large remodeling
projects.  African Barrick dropped 2.1 percent to 487.8 pence, the
lowest price since its initial public offering in March 2010.
The company said it has reduced production capacity at the
Buzwagi mine in Tanzania following a malfunction in a mill
motor. African Barrick forecast a production impact in the
current quarter of about 10,000 ounces of gold.  London Stock Exchange  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  rose 7.9 percent to 893
pence after a group of Canadian banks and pension funds made a
rival offer for TMX Group Inc.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp. offered a combination of cash
and stock at a premium to TMX Group’s current price. LSE said
the rival offer isn’t “formal,” and it remains committed to
its merger with TMX, the operator of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  LSE’s shares extended gains after NASDAQ OMX Group Inc. and
IntercontinentalExchange withdrew their offer for NYSE Euronext,
the operator of the New York Stock Exchange.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  jumped 8.3 percent to 152.7 pence
after the Sunday Times reported that the retailer has considered
delisting its shares from the LSE and selling its unprofitable
U.K. chain Comet.  Dixons Retail  Rival  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) ,  Europe ’s largest electronics
retailer, surged 8.6 percent to 17.56 pence.  Simon Irwin , a
London-based analyst at Liberum Capital, said Dixon’s Currys and
PC World chains would be a “significant beneficiary” if Comet
was downsized.  Autonomy Corp. soared 4.7 percent to 1,816 pence after the
U.K.’s second-largest software company agreed to buy “selected
key assets” of Iron Mountain Inc.’s digital division for $380
million in cash, including archiving and online backup. The
company expects to make annual savings of about $40 million over
the first year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  