-- 
U.S. Airlines Forecast Summer International-Travel Record

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-05-16T19:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-s-airlines-set-for-record-number-of-international-travelers.html
U.S. airlines expect to carry a
record number of international travelers from June through
August, helping soften the effect of higher fuel prices, the  Air
Transport Association  said.  The 26.3 million international travelers forecast for the
period would top last summer’s record of 25.8 million by 1.9
percent, the Washington-based association, which represents
carriers including  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  and  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) , said in a statement today. Total passenger count
will rise 1.5 percent, the group estimated.  “The airlines don’t have the competition with the car or
the bus when you’re talking about trans-oceanic travel,” John Heimlich, the association’s chief economist, said on a
conference call. Lower unemployment rates outside the U.S. will
help bolster travel to the country, he said.  The forecast shows carriers are optimistic about increasing
demand even after raising surcharges and fares to counter higher
fuel expenses. Association figures showed jet-fuel costs climbed
30 percent to $11.4 billion in the first quarter from the same
period a year earlier.  U.S. unemployment, which advanced to 9 percent in April,
also hasn’t hurt business as much as the industry may have
anticipated, according to Heimlich.  “Both segments, the business and the leisure, have
probably held up better than the airlines might have expected,
given the relatively still high unemployment rates,” he said.  International visitors to the U.S. increased 3 percent in
January, the 16th consecutive monthly increase, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department, which posted the most recent data
available on its  Web site .  Visits from overseas increased 9 percent in January,
excluding  Canada  and  Mexico , according to the data. Air arrivals
from Canada rose 7 percent, while air visits from Mexico
increased 2 percent, according to the department.  3 Million Passengers  U.S. airlines will carry 206.2 million passengers from June
through August, up by 3 million from the same period in 2010,
according to the association’s forecast. Summer travel reached a
record of 217.6 million in 2007.  Major carriers have already trimmed capacity-growth plans
for the year and more cuts could come because of fuel costs,
Heimlich said.  U.S. airlines’ fuel tab for the year is forecast at $52
billion, the second-highest after 2008’s $58 billion, Heimlich
said.  “It’s very hard to grow low-fare operations in particular
at a time of rising and uncertain fuel prices,” Heimlich said.
“Just about every carrier has indicated they are open to
further scalebacks should fuel prices rise again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  