-- 
U.S. May Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-05-16T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-s-may-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for New York manufacturers improved in May, but at a
slower pace than in April. The general business conditions index
fell ten points to 11.9. The new orders index declined five
points to 17.2, and the shipments index slipped three points to
25.8. The inventories index climbed to 10.8, its highest level
in a year. The prices paid index rose to 69.9, its highest level
since mid-2008, while the prices received index held firm at
28.0. Future indexes continued to convey a high level of
optimism about the six-month outlook, although prices are widely
expected to rise.  In a series of supplementary questions, firms were asked
about past and expected changes in both their input prices
(prices paid) and selling prices (prices received). Respondents
estimated that the prices they paid rose by 8.1 percent, on
average, over the past twelve months--up from 5.9 percent in
last May’s survey. Looking ahead to the next twelve months,
respondents on average predicted a price rise of 5.6 percent.
Firms reported considerably smaller increases in prices
received: the average respondent cited a 1.9 percent increase in
selling prices over the past year (down from 2.9 percent in the
May 2010 survey) and an expected increase of 3.6 percent for the
year ahead.  Activity Expands, but at a Slower Pace  The general business conditions index was positive in May,
indicating that business activity continued to expand over the
month, but the level of the index fell ten points to 11.9, a
sign that the pace of growth slowed. The change was driven by a
decline in the share of businesses reporting that conditions
improved over the month--from 35 percent in April to 23 percent
in May. The new orders index was also positive but fell five
points to 17.2, indicating that orders expanded at a somewhat
slower pace this month. The shipments index slipped a couple of
points, to 25.8. The unfilled orders index continued to climb,
as it generally has done since November, reaching 9.7 after
rising seven points. The delivery time index rose three points
to 2.2. The inventories index climbed twelve points to 10.8, its
highest level in a year, suggesting that inventory levels rose
in May.  Input Prices Accelerating  The prices paid index rose sharply, indicating that price
increases accelerated over the month. The index advanced twelve
points to 69.9, its highest level since mid-2008, with roughly
70 percent of respondents reporting price increases, and none
reporting price declines. This index has moved up a cumulative
fifty points over the past six months. The prices received index,
at 28.0, was one point higher than in April; its rise over the
past six months has paralleled the upward trend in the prices
paid index. The index for number of employees inched up to 24.7,
indicating that employment levels expanded over the month, and
the average workweek index rose thirteen points to 23.7, a
multi-year high.  Future Indexes Indicate Unwavering Optimism  Future indexes were generally higher in May, and reflected
strong optimism about the six-month outlook. The future general
business conditions index rose five points to 52.7, hovering at
the elevated levels it has held since November. The future new
orders and shipments indexes also climbed, and the future
unfilled orders index rose a sharp twelve points to 19.4, its
highest level in a year. The future inventories index fell ten
points to 4.3. After declining last month, the future prices
paid index rose twelve points to 68.8, while the future prices
received index inched down to 35.5. The index for expected
number of employees remained well above zero, but fell twelve
points to 20.4, while the future average workweek index climbed
six points to 12.9. The capital expenditures index held steady
at 30.1, and the technology spending index rose eleven points to
29.0, its highest level in several years. 