-- 
U.S. Rejects Nasdaq-ICE Bid for NYSE Amid Antitrust Concerns

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-16T15:28:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-s-rejects-nasdaq-ice-bid-for-nyse-amid-antitrust-concerns.html
The  Department of Justice  said it
would have sued to block  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s purchase by  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , saying a deal
might curb competition in the world’s biggest stock market.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE withdrew their unsolicited offer today,
removing an obstacle for Deutsche Boerse AG to complete its
purchase of NYSE Euronext. Antitrust regulators said a combined
NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX would have eliminated competition
in U.S. corporate listings, auctions at the open and close of
the daily trading session, reporting of off-exchange trading and
real-time data feeds.  The decision likely clears the way for Deutsche Boerse to
buy the owner of the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE Euronext
agreed to be bought by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse  on Feb.
15, creating the world’s largest exchange operator. The NYSE
Euronext board twice rejected a rival proposal from Nasdaq OMX
and ICE, saying the unsolicited offer would lead to too much
debt and regulatory opposition.  “The companies’ decision to abandon their bid for NYSE
Euronext eliminates the competitive concerns developed during
our investigation,” Christine Varney, Assistant Attorney
General in charge of the DOJ’s Antitrust Division, said in a
statement today. “The acquisition would have removed incentives
for competitive pricing, high quality of service, and innovation
in the listing, trading and data services these exchange
operators provide.”  Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said
today in a statement that the combination of NYSE and Deutsche
Boerse has more potential to keep jobs in  New York  and
strengthen New York’s position in the derivatives markets.  “The potential takeover of NYSE by Nasdaq had significant
antitrust problems,” he said. “We will be watching events
carefully to make sure New York and the U.S. are not
disadvantaged in any way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 