-- 
Cyber Attacks Ranked With Military Threats Under Obama Security Strategy

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-05-17T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-s-unveils-cybersecurity-plan-urging-tougher-global-standards.html
An Obama administration policy for
tightening global defenses against computer attacks places
cybersecurity on equal footing with military and economic
threats, according to security analysts.  The International Strategy for Cyberspace, unveiled at a
White House event yesterday, calls for the U.S. government to
work with other countries on standards to protect intellectual
property, prevent theft of private information and ensure
cooperation among foreign law enforcement agencies when a
cybercrime is being investigated.  “We as a society should not take it as a fact of life
living in the era of Internet that people are going to
successfully take your identity or your  credit card  or disable
networks,” Howard Schmidt, the top White House cybersecurity
official, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We want nation
states to be unified behind a vision like this so we can send a
clear message to bad actors that there’s going to be no place
for them to operate in the international sphere.”  The plan recommends setting consequences for countries and
groups that don’t comply with the standards and strengthens the
U.S. position on its response to a cyber attack.  The administration is sending the message that “cyberspace
is not some separate world where our usual laws, our usual
deterrence does not apply,” said Kristin Lord, vice president
and director of studies at the  Center for New American Security ,
an independent security research institution.  The message is meant to “deter attacks and say, ‘Look,
we’re the  United States , we have a full set of tools at our
disposal,’ ” Lord said in a telephone interview yesterday.  ‘All Necessary Means’  The cybersecurity plan states that the U.S. reserves “the
right to use all necessary means -- diplomatic, informational,
military and economic -- as appropriate and consistent with
international law,” to defend itself and its allies.  The strategy calls for the U.S. government, including the
State, Defense, Homeland Security, Commerce and Justice
departments, to work with their global counterparts, Schmidt
said.  “Long-term cybersecurity in cyberspace depends on
cooperation” on the plan, which was a result of “more than 18
different departments and agencies” collaborating, Schmidt said
at the White House event.  The departments must report back to the president in six
months on their progress, which is an important time frame, Dean
Garfield, president and chief executive of the  Information
Technology Industry Council , said in an interview yesterday.  “It has taken a long period of time to get where we are
today and the fact that the administration has put some time
frame around the next steps are important in making sure that we
move forward at a more accelerated pace,” Garfield said.  ‘Private Sector’  Federal departments will issue details on their strategies
for the plan. In six months, the White House will assess
agencies’ progress on meeting the plan’s policy goals,  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s assistant for counterterrorism
and homeland security, said at yesterday’s event.  “We look forward to partnering with our private sector,
with other nations and with others who share the same goal” to
support trade and commerce, security, free expression and
innovation in cyberspace, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said at the event.  The strategy also emphasizes that the U.S. will respond to
hostile acts in cyberspace “as we would to any other threat to
our country,” according to a fact sheet released yesterday by
the administration. Possible retaliation will mean the “right
to use all necessary means -- diplomatic, informational,
military and economic.”  International Norms  The strategy’s broader goal is to ensure that current
conventions and international norms on self-defense and armed
conflict include violations of cyberspace, Schmidt said in the
interview.  “The rules are not different in cyberspace,” he said.
“It’s been difficult over the years because there’s a desire to
carve that off separately” from the rules governing
conventional conflicts. “We need to make sure it’s brought up
to the 21st century with the understanding that none of us want
to see” a conflict, he said.  Schmidt said attributing cyber attacks to specific
countries or groups remains difficult and “that’s why we need
diplomatic ties” to help the U.S. and other countries talk
about ongoing investigations.  The strategy also calls for helping small and developing
countries build the capability to deal with cybercrime and theft
of intellectual property.  Russia  and  China   The U.S. doesn’t want some countries to “become the next
generation of cyber victims because the developed countries
constantly do a better job of protecting our systems and
citizens,” Schmidt said. “We want to make sure we are helping
them build theirs as well.”  The Obama administration is consulting with a range of
countries, including Russia and China, on developing these
norms, Schmidt said.  “It’s very important to understand we can’t have these
discussions without engaging” with both nations, Schmidt said.  The U.S. also is urging countries to sign a 10-year-old
treaty called the Cybercrime Convention that calls for
cooperation in probing crimes committed via the Internet and
other  computer networks . These crimes include copyright
infringement, fraud, child pornography and violations of network
security, according to the treaty website.  The treaty has been ratified by 30 countries, including the
U.S. and 29 European nations. Signatories including the U.K.,
 Canada  and  Turkey  have yet to ratify the law, according to the
treaty  website . China and Russia are among nations that have not
signed the treaty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  