-- 
U.S. Drone Strikes Follow Kerry’s Talks to Mend Ties With Pakistan Regime

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-16T20:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/u-s-drone-strikes-follow-kerry-s-talks-to-mend-pakistan-ties.html
U.S. missile strikes killed seven
suspected militants in  Pakistan ’s border area near Afghanistan
yesterday, according to Pakistani officials, a short time after
U.S. Senator John Kerry and Pakistani leaders discussed steps to
patch up relations strained by the U.S. raid that killed al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  The two sides held what they called “a constructive
exchange” in Islamabad and agreed that Pakistan and the U.S.
will work together in any future action against “high-value
targets” in the South Asian country, the two nations said.  “All tracks of U.S.-Pakistani engagement need to be
revisited” to assure that the countries can continue to
cooperate on counterterrorism, the joint statement said.  It added that U.S. officials will visit Pakistan soon to
prepare for a trip by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . In
Washington, State Department spokesman Mark Toner confirmed that
Clinton will go ahead with a planned trip to Pakistan on a yet-
to-be announced date.  While the joint statement on cooperation appeared to rule
out any repeat of a U.S. unilateral attack into the country, a
statement released by the Pakistan president’s office and the
U.S. Embassy did not explicitly address that point or the use of
U.S. drones to target suspect militants linked to al-Qaeda and
the Afghan Taliban.  Drone Strikes  Pakistani intelligence officials said U.S. missiles fired
from a drone hit a house and a car in North Waziristan, killing
seven suspected militants, according to the  Associated Press .
Such missile strikes in the border area, which provides a haven
for militants, are very unpopular among Pakistanis.  Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat and the chairman of the
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee , is the highest-ranking
American lawmaker to visit Pakistan from  Washington  since the
raid by Navy SEAL commandos killed bin Laden in a Pakistani
garrison town about 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the capital.  The senator met Pakistan’s army chief, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, as well as President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime
Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani , and he addressed the U.S. decision
not to inform Pakistan of the raid beforehand.  “I explained that the extreme secrecy” of the U.S.
assault “was essential for protecting the lives of
professionals and ensuring the success of the operation,” Kerry
told reporters at a press conference.  Bin Laden’s presence in Abbottabad -- an area that is home
to a number of retired generals as well as to Pakistan’s leading
military academy -- led U.S. President  Barack Obama  to say in an
interview broadcast May 8 on the CBS program “60 Minutes” that
the Pakistani government must investigate whether any of its
officials helped shelter him. Kerry said yesterday that there
was no evidence that Pakistan’s leaders were aware of the al-
Qaeda leader’s presence in the country.  Supply Route  On May 14 Pakistan’s Parliament passed a resolution asking
the government to consider ending a transit route used by the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization to supply forces in
Afghanistan, and to review the terms of engagement with the U.S.
in the fight against terrorism.  Pakistan’s army has been criticized by politicians, the
media and the public for failing to detect either bin Laden or
the helicopter-borne Navy SEAL force that killed him. Gilani has
said accusations of Pakistani complicity in hiding bin Laden are
“absurd.”  Kayani told Kerry that there are “intense feelings” in
the military over the raid, according to a statement issued by
the army yesterday.  U.S. Aid  Pakistan is a main U.S. ally in the fight against al-Qaeda-
linked militants, and the Obama administration is pressing the
government in Islamabad to cooperate more fully in the war
against the Taliban in neighboring  Afghanistan .  Pakistan has received $14.6 billion in economic and
military assistance from the U.S. since 2005 to help revive
growth and assist allied forces fighting Taliban and al-Qaeda
guerrillas.  After the bin Laden raid, Kerry echoed concern expressed by
lawmakers of both U.S. political parties that Pakistan may have
knowingly harbored the terrorist leader. Appearing May 8 on
CBS’s “Face the Nation,” he said it was “extraordinarily hard
to believe that he could have survived there for five years or
more in a major population center without some kind of support
system and knowledge.”  Zardari’s cooperation with Obama hasn’t been popular with
Pakistanis, particularly his tolerance of U.S. drone missile
attacks in tribal areas on the Pakistani side of the border with
Afghanistan.  Military offensives by Pakistan’s army against the Taliban
and allied guerrillas have sparked retaliatory attacks in cities
nationwide that killed  more than 2,000  civilians and security
personnel last year, according to the South Asian terrorism
database of the New Delhi-based  Institute for Conflict
Management .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  