-- 
Ukraine, Russia Spring Grain Planting Picks Up, Boosting Outlook

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-05-16T14:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/ukraine-russia-spring-grain-planting-picks-up-boosting-outlook.html
Spring grain plantings in Ukraine and
 Russia  have acclerated after a late start to the season and are
close to last year’s levels, with both countries aiming to boost
overall production from a year ago when they lost crops to one
of the worst droughts in recent years.  Ukraine’s spring grain planting, which is 94 percent
complete, reached 7.1 million hectares (17.54 million acres) as
of today, which is equal to the 2010 level, the Agriculture
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. The country boosted its
spring grain planting forecast to 7.6 million hectares from 7.5
million hectares a month ago.  In Russia, where it’s still early in the season, 11.1
million hectares of spring grain sowing was complete as of May
13, compared with 11.3 million hectares in the year-ago period,
Interfax news agency reported today citing the Agriculture
Ministry.  Both countries restricted grain exports last year following
the drought and are expected to lift limits on June 30,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , which said in a
report last week that exports from the former  Soviet Union  are
expected to double to 26.3 million metric tons in 2011-12
compared with the year earlier.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said this month that
the decision to lift the grain export ban will be made after the
harvest. The Ukrainian parliament is expected to approve new
taxes on grain exports from July.  Russian Planting  Russia, where about 37 percent of the planting is done,
plans to increase spring grain sowing by 5 percent this year,
said Oleg Sukhanov, grain analyst at the  Institute for
Agricultural Market Studies , or Ikar, by phone today.  “Weather conditions have normalized now” for spring
planting after delays in the sowing, Sukhanov said. Wheat
planting reached 2.7 million hectares as of May 13, which makes
up 19 percent of the planned sowing, he said.  Barley planting is 59 percent completed and covered 4.5
million hectares on May 13, according to Ikar. Corn was planted
on 900,000 hectares, or 47 percent of the area forecast,
Sukhanov said.  Ukraine will increase spring sowing of corn by 17 percent
to 3.2 million hectares this year and seeded 3.1 million
hectares with corn as of today, the country’s  Agriculture
Ministry  said.  Ukrainian grain exports will reach 13.5 million tons by
June 30, the Agriculture Ministry said, adding the aim is to
boost shipments to 20 million tons in the year starting July 1.  Ukraine plans to produce as much as 45 million tons of
grains this year as favorable weather will help increase grain
yields. Russia’s wheat crop will be 53 million tons, up from
41.51 tons last year, said the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  