-- 
UN Proposes Changes to Hydrofluorocarbon-Reduction Projects

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-16T10:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/un-proposes-changes-to-hydrofluorocarbon-reduction-projects-1-.html
A United Nations-overseen panel that
helps set the rules of the world’s second-biggest carbon market
proposed to change how regulators determine the number of
credits awarded to plants that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23.  Regulators are clamping down on projects that reduce
emissions of HFC-23, which has a global-warming potential 11,700
times more powerful than carbon dioxide, and the European Union
earlier this year banned the use of credits linked to the
industrial gas in its emissions-trading system from 2013.  Proposed rules for projects that generate credits for
cutting hydrofluorocarbons under the UN Clean Development
Mechanism may change the “cap on the baseline HFC-23 generation
rate, i.e. the amount of HFC-23 formed per amount of HCFC-22
produced,” according to the  minutes of the Methodologies Panel
meeting  published on the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change website over the weekend.  HFC-23 is a byproduct of HCFC-22 used in air-conditioning
and refrigeration. The panel continued to consider a request for
clarification of the rules, it said separately.  UN emissions credits for delivery in December fell 0.2
percent to 12.66 euros a metric ton as of 10:31 a.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London . EU carbon allowances for
December traded 0.1 percent up at 16.73 euros.  Placed on Hold  At a meeting ended on Nov. 26 in Cancun,  Mexico , the CDM
executive board agreed to “place on hold and revise” the
methodology of awarding credits for cutting the industrial gas
amid allegations of misuse.  The UN carbon program allows investors to earn carbon
credits, or Certified Emission Reduction units, for projects
that cut emissions in developing nations. The 19 projects
cutting HFC-23 under the CDM program are located mainly in China
and  India , according to UN data.  The UN emission-reduction credits, also known as offsets,
may be used by governments for compliance with their greenhouse-
gas reduction targets under the  Kyoto Protocol . They can also be
used by more than 11,000 power plants and factories in the EU
carbon system as a cheaper way to comply with pollution quotas.  The EU banned credits tied to HFC-23 and some nitrous oxide
projects in January, saying they have generated “exorbitant”
returns and created a “perverse incentive” for investors,
undermining the market’s integrity. The EU and environmental
lobbyists including CDM Watch have said some plants may be
increasing HCFC-22 output simply to generate credits for
controlling HFC-23 discharges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  