-- 
Venezuela Bandagro Bond Case Draws U.S. Supreme Court Inquiry

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-05-16T14:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/venezuela-bandagro-bond-case-draws-u-s-supreme-court-inquiry.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  sought the
Obama administration’s views on an Ohio investor group’s effort
to sue Venezuela over potentially $900 million in bank notes
that the South American country says are forgeries.  The justices asked acting Solicitor General Neal Katyal for
his advice on whether the high court should hear the case. A
lower court barred Venezuela from invoking a U.S. law that
immunizes foreign sovereigns from some lawsuits in American
courts.  In seeking Supreme Court review, Hugo Chavez’s Venezuelan
government told the justices that the suit by DRFP LLC, which
does business under the name Skye Ventures, may be the first of
several claims over the disputed bearer bonds.  The notes were allegedly issued in 1981 by the Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario, then a state-owned Venezuelan bank also
known as Bandagro.  Skye Ventures says it acquired its two notes only after the
Venezuelan attorney general issued a 2003 opinion declaring them
valid. The investor group then demanded payment in Columbus.
When  Venezuela  refused, Skye sued.  The two Skye notes have a face value of $50 million apiece.
The investor group said in September that with interest the
bonds were worth $900 million.  In ruling 2-1 that the suit could go forward, the
Cincinnati-based 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
Venezuela isn’t shielded by the U.S. Foreign Sovereign
Immunities Act because the notes let the holder demand payment
in the U.S. The majority said Venezuela’s refusal to pay had a
“direct effect” on the U.S., putting the dispute within the
province of the American court system.  ‘Dramatically Expands’  At the Supreme Court, Venezuela said the lower court ruling
“dramatically expands jurisdiction over foreign states,
especially in sensitive cases involving  government securities 
that the state itself contends are fraudulent.”  Skye Ventures is urging the high court to reject the
appeal, arguing that in “today’s global economy,” the
financial activities of foreign countries have enough of an
impact on the U.S. to warrant the involvement of American
courts.  The case is Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela v. DRFP,
10-1144.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  