-- 
Virgin Atlantic Pilots to Vote on Strike Action Over Pay Demands

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-16T14:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/virgin-atlantic-pilots-to-vote-on-strike-action-over-pay-demands.html
Pilots at  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. are to vote on  strike action  in a poll
starting next week after talks about a new pay deal broke down.  Virgin’s offer to lift wages 4 percent this year and by 3
percent next year and in 2013 is unacceptable as pilots haven’t
had a raise since 2008 and U.K. inflation is forecast to breach
5 percent, the British Airline Pilots Association said today.  “During the tough years pilots have made sacrifices to help
the business on the basis that fair pay would return, but that
hasn’t proved to be the case,” Balpa General Secretary Jim McAuslan said by e-mail. “We do not want a strike and have tried
every way to avoid it but are resolute in our aim of fairness.”  Ballot papers will be sent out on May 24 and the vote will
last four weeks, Balpa said, so that a walkout could start in
late June or early July in the event of a “yes” vote, including
a mandatory one-week notice period. Virgin Atlantic spokesman
Greg Dawson didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Talks with Virgin started last year and failed despite the
intervention of the government-funded Advisory, Conciliation and
Arbitration Service, according to the union, which represents 85
percent of the carrier’s 750 pilots.  U.K. inflation averaged 4 percent in the 12 months through
March and will accelerate to above 5 percent in the near term,
according to the latest  Bank of England  forecasts.  British Airways, Virgin’s biggest rival at London Heathrow
airport, said last week it had reached a deal with the Unite
union to end a two-year dispute over pay and conditions for
cabin crew. BA had already reached an accord with its pilots in
March giving them a 4 percent pay award in the first year.  Branson is considering options for Virgin Atlantic that
include joining an alliance and selling a stake after BA and AMR
Corp.’s  American Airlines  gained antitrust immunity allowing
them to coordinate prices and schedules on trans-Atlantic
flights, squeezing his company in its most lucrative market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  