-- 
Vodacom Sees Revenue Growth in ‘Low Single Digits;’ to Focus on Data Sales

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-16T13:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/vodacom-sees-revenue-growth-in-low-single-digits-correct-.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the biggest
provider of mobile data services to  South Africans , sees revenue
growing in the “low single digits” amid increased competition
in its home market, Chief Executive Officer Pieter Uys said.  Demand for the Johannesburg-based company’s broadband data
services remains high, even as rising food and fuel prices crimp
customers’ disposable income in South Africa, Uys said in a
conference call with analysts and journalists today. Vodacom
makes three-quarters of its revenue in South Africa.  “The economy is still somewhat fragile and competition has
also increased,” Uys said. “We are maintaining our market
position and we expect to see group service revenues grow in the
low-single digits. The mobile data business remains the engine
for growth.”  Vodacom, controlled by Vodafone Plc, is focusing on data
services, such as smart phones and wireless internet
connections, as well as controlling costs, to compensate for
increased competition in  South Africa  that is driving down the
cost of voice calls. South Africa’s regulator last year cut
interconnection rates, reducing revenue the operators make from
carrying each others’ calls.  “Vodacom’s handset strategies, particularly around smart
phones, tap into the importance of these devices as a driver for
data services,” Protea Hirschel, an analyst at  Frost &
Sullivan , said in an e-mailed note. “We expect Vodacom to be
following the lead of its parent company in developing other
markets in future, such as mobile health and machine-to-machine
communications.”  Shares Gain  Vodacom shares rose as much as 2.6 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since April 20, to 81.75 rand, a record, and were
trading at 81.66 rand as of 1:38 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Net income almost doubled to 8.25 billion rand ($1.18
billion) in the year ended March 31, the company said in a stock
exchange statement. Sales increased 4.5 percent to 61.2 billion
rand as data revenue in South Africa jumped 34 percent to 6.18
million rand. Earnings before one-time items was up 29 percent
to 6.56 rand a share, beating the 6.47 median estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The company has “mostly delivered” on its target to cut
500 million rand from costs, Uys said in a televised
presentation to analysts in Johannesburg. Operating costs rose
4.8 percent to 40.6 billion rand as the company reduced the size
of its workforce by 1.9 percent to 7,267.  Decision on Congo  Vodacom, which operates mobile phone networks in South
Africa,  Tanzania ,  Mozambique ,  Lesotho  and the Democratic
Republic of Congo, grew customer numbers 9 percent to 43.5
million. Customers making use of its data services in South
Africa increased 34.6 percent to 9 million.  Uys said Vodacom would decide soon on its intentions for
its business in the Congo, where it is involved in a dispute
with shareholders of the business. It appointed N.M. Rothchilds
& Sons (South Africa) Ltd. in December to explore options for
the unit.  “That process is well under way,” Uys said. “One of the
options has always been a sale process. We will report on
progress soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  