-- 
Volkswagen to Sell Up to 1.5 Billion Yuan of Dim Sum Bonds

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-16T07:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/volkswagen-said-to-plan-sale-of-yuan-bonds-in-hong-kong.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to sell as much
as 1.5 billion yuan ($231 million) of five-year bonds in  Hong
Kong  as soon as today, becoming the first foreign car company to
issue so-called Dim Sum bonds.  Volkswagen intends to price the bonds to yield between 2
percent and 2.25 percent, Andreas Hoffbauer, a Beijing-based
spokesman for Volkswagen, said today. Bank of China Ltd., HSBC
Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered Plc are managing the sale of
the senior, unsecured notes, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private.  Companies have sold 40.5 billion yuan of so-called Dim Sum
bonds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker has a 12.8 percent share of
the passenger car market in  China , according to industry analyst
J.D. Power & Associates.  “The demand in the Dim Sum market is still very strong,”
said Kristine Li, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Singapore-
based chief financial strategist for Asia ex-Australia.
“Volkswagen is a really good quality name. If the yield is
good, it offers scarcity value.”  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade to reduce reliance on the dollar and opened the offshore
yuan  bond market  in Hong Kong in February last year.  Caterpillar, BYD  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s biggest maker of construction
equipment, sold 1 billion yuan of two-year bonds in Hong Kong in
November after McDonald’s Corp. sold 200 million yuan of three
year notes in September.  BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., sold 1 billion yuan of three-year yuan-
denominated bonds at a coupon of 4.5 percent through a Hong Kong
unit in April.  “The Dim Sum bond market is new and because the investor
base has been mainly banks and retail the maturity has been
mainly two to three years,” Li said. “Fund managers only
recently became active in this market. For the five year you
will have to get more returns on the table for investors. If
they can get a decent yield, there should be good demand.”  Volkswagen started its first joint venture in the country
in 1984, according to its website. The bonds, guaranteed by the
automaker, are being sold by Volkswagen International Finance
NV, Hoffbauer said.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors: Ed Johnson,  Shelley Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  