-- 
Whitehaven Coal Falls Most in One Year After Ending Bid Talks

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-05-16T02:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/whitehaven-coal-falls-most-in-one-year-after-ending-bid-talks.html
(Corrects size of decline in headline, second paragraph.)  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , the Australian
coal producer that put itself up for sale in October, fell the
most in more than two years in Sydney trading after ending talks
for a potential takeover transaction.  Whitehaven, which has a market value of A$2.8 billion ($2.9
billion, fell 11 percent to A$5.71 at 12:43 p.m. local time, the
biggest drop since Nov. 6 2008, compared with a 1.1 percent fall
in the benchmark AS&P/ASX 200 Index.  The proposals didn’t reflect the quality of Whitehaven and
gains in the Australian dollar made the company more expensive
for foreign buyers, Managing Director Tony Haggarty said today
in an interview. Final bidders included  India ’s Aditya Birla
Group and Peabody Energy Corp., the Australian Financial Review
reported April 13, without citing anybody.  “The rising Aussie dollar is definitely an impediment,
given the majority of interest would have been from offshore
parties,” said  Tim Schroeders , a Melbourne-based  fund manager 
at Pengana Capital Ltd., who oversees about $1 billion. “The
protracted nature of the negotiations may not have helped.”  The Australian dollar reached a record this month, climbing
above $1.10 for the first time since it was freely floated, on
speculation increasing commodity prices will keep pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates .  Future Deal?  “Certainly that has added to the cost of the value of
Australian coal companies in foreign currencies but I think
there’re still a lot of people interested,” said Haggarty. A
future transaction is still possible, he said.  Demand for coal from steel and power producers has spurred
mining companies to add assets, triggering takeovers of $10.1
billion during the first quarter, the strongest start to the
year in at least five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buying Whitehaven would have given an acquirer four mines
as well as projects in New South  Wales ’ Gunnedah basin. A number
of groups had completed studies of the company’s books and
submitted formal proposals, Whitehaven said.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.,  China ’s fourth-biggest coal
producer said on April 21 it wasn’t in talks to buy the company
after an initial assessment. Yanzhou Coal bought  Australia ’s
Felix Resources Ltd. in 2009 for A$3.5 billion.  “The proposals weren’t acceptable and they didn’t reflect
the quality of the company and the value that we see in it,”,
Haggarty said in a phone interview. “I don’t think buyers are
cooling off - the  exchange rate  is probably a factor.”  He declined to name any bidders.  Whitehaven received a number of unsolicited approaches in
August last year before launching a formal process to study the
potential offers, Haggarty said. Since Aug. 1, the Australian
dollar has appreciated 15 percent against its U.S. counterpart,
making it the top performer among a group of 10 currencies.  The company will focus on building its Narrabri underground
coal mine, he said. “Narrabri is on track. We don’t believe we
need to raise more cash for funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs
 at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  