-- 
Inflation in India Exceeds Estimates, Adding to Pressure on Interest Rates

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-16T08:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/wholesale-prices-in-india-rise-8-66-percent-in-april-from-year-earlier.html
India ’s inflation was faster than
estimated in April, adding pressure on the central bank to
extend interest-rate increases as the biggest rise in gasoline
tariffs in three years threatens to intensify price gains.  The wholesale-price index rose 8.66 percent in April from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an 8.5 percent climb. Prices advanced a revised
9.1 percent in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  of India pledged to maintain the fight
against inflation after boosting borrowing costs this month for
the ninth time since mid-March 2010, the fastest pace of rate
rises among major Asian economies. The nation increased the cost
of gasoline as much as 8.5 percent yesterday, triggering
protests by the main opposition party.  “Inflation will further accelerate after hikes in  oil
prices , meaning the central bank’s focus will have to be on
tightening to control inflation,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a
Mumbai-based economist at  Bank of Baroda . “There is going to be
no respite from inflation this year.”  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 0.9
percent as of 1:42 p.m. in Mumbai after the inflation report.
The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 45.07 against the dollar,
while the yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 was up
five basis points from 8.25 percent before the report.  ‘Elevated’ Inflation  The ministry announced March’s revision after the release,
saying the wholesale-price index has been adjusted from April
2004 after errors were discovered.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May 3 inflation will stay
at an “elevated level” until September as he raised the
central bank’s repurchase rate by half a percentage point to
7.25 percent. Counterparts from  China  to  South Korea  have also
extended rate increases as Asia fights prices pressures spurred
by elevated oil and food costs.  Monetary tightening in India will slow growth this year and
help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by
March 31, 2012, Subbarao said.  India’s economy  may expand
“around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.6 percent
in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  For now, indicators such as industrial production and
credit expansion show that consumer demand is holding up.  Industrial Output  Industrial output grew 7.3 percent in March from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in five months, the commerce ministry
said May 12. Commercial credit given by lenders including ICICI
Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest private bank, rose 22 percent
from the previous year as of April 22, more than the 19 percent
rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank.  Stronger consumer demand is giving companies scope to
charge more for their products.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s largest carmaker, boosted
the prices of its vehicles by as much as 9,000 rupees ($200)
last month, Mayank Pareek, the automaker’s head of sales, said
April 5.  Inflation will accelerate further as the government raises
fuel prices, said Madan Sabnavis, an economist at Mumbai-based
CARE Ratings, a credit rating company.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest state-run refiner,
raised the price of gasoline by 5 rupees a liter to 63.37 rupees
in New Delhi. That’s the biggest increase since June 2008.
Officials are trying to limit losses at state-run refiners and
help the government cut fuel subsidies.  Fuel Protests  Activists from the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party 
blocked traffic in many parts of  New Delhi  today to protest the
rise, the  Press Trust of India  reported.  The end of elections last week in five provinces gives
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government room to ease fuel-
price controls on state refiners.  Global crude oil prices are up about 40 percent in the past
12 months. Fuel prices in India gained 13.32 percent in April
from a year earlier, compared with a 12.92 percent advance in
March, today’s report showed. The price of manufactured goods
rose 6.18 percent, compared with a 6.5 percent pace in March.  “I expect inflation to remain high over the next three
months,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Mumbai-based Yes
Bank Ltd. “We could see the rate in double-digits in August.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  