-- 
Young Redford Painted in Paris, Nixed $10,000 TV Offer: Books

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-16/young-redford-painted-in-paris-nixed-10-000-tv-offer-books.html
When Robert Redford was a little-
known actor in the early 1960s, he turned down a $10,000-per-
week offer to star in a TV series. A short time later, he
accepted a $110 weekly salary for a role in a new Neil Simon
play that would soon be renamed “Barefoot in the Park.”  According to Michael Feeney Callan’s “ Robert Redford: The
Biography ,” underneath the blond surfer look has always been an
iconoclast, less interested in money and fame than integrity and
artistic expression.  Redford could have settled for a cushy life as a leading
man in Hollywood movies. Instead, he helped launch the indie
movement with the  Sundance Film Festival , created a nonprofit
institute that supports aspiring filmmakers and other artists,
became an outspoken environmentalist and directed literary
adaptations like “A River Runs Through It” and “The Milagro
Beanfield War.”  Redford wasn’t a good businessman, trusted people too much
and spread himself too thin with his myriad interests, Callan
writes. He also neglected his family -- wife Lola and their
three surviving kids (their first child died of sudden infant
death syndrome) -- while building his career and burnishing his
Sundance legacy in  Utah .  But Callan, an Irishman who has written bios of  Sean Connery  and  Anthony Hopkins , makes a strong case that Redford is
one of the most influential movie figures of the past 50 years.
Who else has had so much impact as an actor, director (he won an
Oscar for “Ordinary People”), producer, social activist and
head of a self-made creative empire?  Touring Europe  Callan writes fluidly and tells plenty of interesting
stories, though he gets carried away with blow-by-blow
descriptions of how almost all of Redford’s movies were made.  The son of a milkman-turned-accountant, Redford grew up in
pre-boom  Southern California  and attended the University of
 Colorado , where he played baseball and drank heavily before
dropping out to tour  Europe .  He studied painting in Paris, where he struggled to meet
French women and was beaten while demonstrating against the
Soviet crackdown in  Hungary . After returning to the U.S., he
settled in New York and became a stage and TV actor.  His big break came in 1969, when he co-starred with Paul Newman in “Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.” Suddenly
Redford was plastered on magazine covers and followed by
squealing female fans who invaded his coveted privacy.  Redford went on to make other box-office and critical hits
like “The Way We Were” with  Barbra Streisand , “The Sting”
with Newman, “All the President’s Men” with Dustin Hoffman and
“Out of  Africa ” with Meryl Streep.  Offbeat Roles  Yet he also played more offbeat roles in “Downhill Racer”
(an egotistic Olympic skier), “The Candidate” (an idealistic
lawyer who turns into a slick politician) and “Jeremiah
Johnson” (a 19th-century mountain man).  Redford’s workaholic ways hastened the demise of his 27-
year marriage to Lola, Callan writes, though today he has a good
relationship with her and his grown kids, including a son who
received two liver transplants.  Redford got remarried in 2009 to German painter Sibylle
Szaggars and recently directed “The Conspirator,” a drama
about the Lincoln assassination. He’s 74 now and, while he
remains trim and fit, the years are evident on his craggy face.
The painter in him wouldn’t have it any other way.  “Robert Redford” is published by Knopf (468 pages,
$28.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 