-- Marchionne Meets Monti as Fiat Pushes Talks on State Aid
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-09-22T13:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/marchionne-meets-monti-as-fiat-pushes-talks-on-state-aid.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne , facing 700 million euros ($910 million) of
losses in Europe, praised  Brazil ’s aid to carmakers ahead of his
meeting today with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Marchionne, in a statement late yesterday, said Brazilian
incentives encouraged the Turin, Italy-based carmaker to build a
factory in the country. The CEO was responding to Italian
Industry Minister  Corrado Passera , who met with Fiat managers in
Brazil this week and said the company’s success in the South
American country should set an example.  “I’m happy that Minister Passera, traveling in Brazil,
took note of Fiat’s great results in that country,” Marchionne
said. “It certainly won’t have escaped him that the Brazilian
government is particularly attentive to the problems of the
automobile industry. I’m sure that the minister knows that
carmakers that go and produce in Brazil can obtain financing and
fiscal incentives.”  Marchionne has been under pressure from politicians and
unions to clarify Fiat’s strategy in  Italy . The company, which
controls Chrysler Group LLC, said Sept. 18 that it won’t give up
on its home market, even as sales drop and European losses are
estimated at 700 million euros this year. The aid from Brazil
can’t be a template for success in Italy, Marchionne said.  “We know very well that, given current European
regulations, similar financing conditions are not possible with
the European Union,” Marchionne said.  Rome Talks  Marchionne and Fiat Chairman John Elkann are scheduled to
meet with Monti, Passera and Italian Labor Minister Elsa Fornero
at the prime minister’s office at 4 p.m. in  Rome .  With European car sales on pace to fall in 2012 for a fifth
consecutive year because of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
Fiat cut production in Italy last year to fewer than 500,000
cars from 650,000 in 2009, according to industry association
Anfia. Marchionne reiterated on Sept. 13 that conditions no
longer exist to carry out an investment plan which was targeted
at boosting production in Italy to 1.4 million cars in 2014.  “The long history of Fiat in Brazil demonstrates that when
we work with determination toward the development of a country,
through thick and thin, we can have excellent results,” Passera
said Sept. 20, according to Italian newswire Ansa.  Registrations in  Europe  fell 8.5 percent in August,
according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or  ACEA . The market has shrunk for
11 consecutive months, and the ACEA is forecasting a 17-year low
for full-year sales. Fiat said in August that it’s focused on
temporary layoffs, as opposed to permanent job cuts, as a
response to the contraction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 