-- Asia Stocks Halt Two-Week Gain as Slowdown Overshadows Stimulus
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-22T01:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/asia-stocks-halt-two-week-gain-as-slowdown-overshadows-stimulus.html
Asian stocks  halted a two-week
advance as an escalating territorial dispute between the
region’s two biggest economies and signs of a deeper economic
slump overshadowed unexpected stimulus from the  Bank of Japan .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Fast Retailing Co. were among
companies that fell this week after anti-Japanese protests in
 China  forced the closure of factories and stores. Angang Steel
Co. dropped 8.3 percent in Hong Kong as data signaled China’s
manufacturing slump may continue for an 11th month. Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. surged 21 percent after Australia’s third-
biggest iron-ore producer arranged to refinance loans.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index slipped 0.1 percent to 123.49
this week after gaining 4.9 percent in the previous two weeks.
The gauge has advanced 5.4 percent this quarter.  “We’re very concerned about the near-term outlook for the
global economic picture,” said Peter Elston, who helps oversee
$270 billion as Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific strategy at
Aberdeen Asset Management, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “There’s some fairly significant weakness just
around the corner and that’s going to have a fairly big impact
on corporates and markets.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific index (MXAP)  has risen 6.5 percent since
Sept. 6 after the  European Central Bank  started the latest wave
of global easing, announcing unlimited bond purchases to curb
the debt crisis. The Bank of Japan announced more asset
purchases this week following the Federal Reserve third round of
quantitative easing.  Relative Value  The Asian benchmark trades at 12.8 times estimated earnings
compared with 14.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.1
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 0.5 percent this
week even after the nation’s central bank boosted asset
purchases to buoy the economy. Japanese shares slid after a
finance ministry report showed the nation’s exports declined for
a third month in August.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.3 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent and New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index added 0.5 percent in Wellington.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.5 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index advanced 0.2 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times
Index rose 0.3 percent.  Japanese companies that do business in China dropped, along
with their mainland partners, amid demonstrations that erupted
after Japan’s cabinet approved the purchase of three uninhabited
islands also claimed by China.  Island Dispute  Fast Retailing slid 3.9 percent to 18,060 yen after
shutting 42 Uniqlo stores in China as thousands protested in
Beijing,  Shanghai  and other cities. Outlets were reopened after
three days.  Nissan plunged 5 percent to 701 yen after rioters torched
showrooms and smashed Japanese-branded vehicles, forcing the
automaker to shut factories. Dongfeng Motor Group Co., a
mainland partner of Nissan Motor Co., slid 9.9 percent to
HK$9.32.  Japan  Airlines Co., which relisted this week after emerging
from bankruptcy, dropped below its initial public offering price
as travel boycotts forced it to cut flights.  Stocks also fell after a preliminary purchasing managers
index showed China’s manufacturing may contract an 11th month.
Angang Steel dropped 8.6 percent to HK$4.08. Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co., which depends on China for about 17
percent of its sales, lost 4.3 percent to 1,316 yen.  Global Easing  Asia’s benchmark stock index gained 0.9 percent on Sept. 19
after the Bank of Japan unexpectedly increased its asset-
purchase fund to 55 trillion yen ($704 billion) from 45 trillion
yen. Only five of 21 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
predicted the easing, while 11 expected action by October. The
move followed the Fed’s Sept. 13 announcement it would start a
third round of large-scale asset purchase, known as quantitative
easing, or QE.  “When America does QE, it puts pressure on other countries
to ease because they all have to try to fight their stronger
currency,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has almost $100
billion under management. “I think if America didn’t announce
QE last week, the Bank of Japan probably wouldn’t have done
anything.”  Among stocks that rose this week, Fortescue Metals surged
21 percent to A$3.61 after arranging $4.5 billion in new debt to
refinance bank loans, easing concern the Perth-based company may
need to sell assets or stock to repay debt. Trading of the
shares was suspended Sept. 14 and Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  