-- Libya Launches Push to Secure Country as Militias Disband
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-23T14:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/benghazi-fighting-erupts-as-protesters-try-to-oust-libyan-group.html
Libya  gave militias 48 hours to
withdraw from government installations occupied after last
year’s uprising in and around the capital, as officials launched
a new push to secure the violence-plagued nation.  The ultimatum issued by the military said authorities would
use force if needed, the state-run Libyan news agency LNA
reported. The Ansar al-Shariah brigade, linked by authorities to
an attack on the U.S. consulate, and the Abu Selim brigade in
the city of Derna announced they would disband “in response to
the demands of protesters calling for the dissolution of armed
groups,” according to the agency.  The decree follows mass weekend protests against militias
in Benghazi, the country’s second largest city, and comes as the
authorities struggle to improve security after last year’s
ouster and killing of long-time leader  Muammar Qaddafi . A joint
operations room was formed to coordinate the army and branches
of the security forces operating patrols and check points around
the city, LNA reported today.  “Our goal is to bring the militias under full control of
the government and the national army,” Ahmed Shalabi, a
spokesman for Prime Minister-elect Mustafa Abushagur, said by
phone today. “We will start with Benghazi by sending national
army officers to all known militia places and then continue
throughout the country.”  Rising Tensions  In a sign of a potential push-back, Soraya al-Thawar al-
Libieen, an umbrella group whose name in Arabic loosely
translates as “Battalion of Libyan Revolutionaries,” said it
had “arrested” 33 military officers on charges of inciting
protests against the groups in Benghazi,  Egypt ’s Middle East
News Agency said, citing a statement by the group.  Tensions in Benghazi have risen since the Sept. 11 attack
on the U.S. consulate and a second site that left U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other people dead. Abushagur
said Sept. 20 that eight Libyan nationals had been arrested in
connection with the assault and Ansar al-Shariah was one of the
groups thought to be involved.  Authorities began to deploy troops in the vacated bases,
with military police units sent into three sites used as militia
bases, including one that had been the home of Ansar al-Shariah,
General Hamad Belkkhair, the commander of the army garrison in
Benghazi, said in an interview. Belhkair declined to comment
about the reported capture of the military officers.  Base Raided  Along with the two militias driven from their bases, the
military said a third group based near Tripoli’s international
airport had also been pushed out and troops had taken control of
the compound.  The base, located in a complex belonging to the  Defense
Ministry , was raided by troops, according to a post on the
Facebook page of the armed forces Commander-in-Chief Youssif al-
Mangoush. The group was not identified.  The weekend protests left a total of 11 dead, Sabah A.
Gumati, a medical examiner in Benghazi, said in an interview in
the city. The deaths occured as unarmed protesters sought to
drive Ansar al-Shariah from its base. The dead included six
bodies discovered in a field yesterday near one of the vacated
bases. Each of them had been shot in the head, she said. More
than 70 were injured in the clashes, LNA said, citing health
officials.  Many of the militias, which played a key role in the 2011
uprising, took over military bases from the former regime. While
authorities have since been able to regain control of government
installations such as Tripoli’s airport, other facilities
including some hospitals are guarded by militias.  The retreat of the armed groups from Benghazi may clear the
way for the arrival of a team from the U.S.  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, now in Tripoli, to investigate the killing of
Stevens and the three other Americans in Benghazi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli via Cairo at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi via Cairo at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  