-- Bill Designed to Strengthen U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s Fair Play
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-22T04:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/bill-designed-to-strengthen-u-s-anti-doping-agency-s-fair-play.html
Two U.S. congressmen introduced a
bill to ensure the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency is providing athletes
with a fair playing field during investigations of allegations
of drug use.  The Athlete Due Process Protection Act of 2012 follows the
agency’s punishment of cyclist  Lance Armstrong , who decided last
month not to fight charges he doped and played a role in the
systematic doping of his Tour de France-winning teams. The
agency stripped him of his record seven Tour titles and barred
him from competing or coaching Olympic sports.  “I am introducing the Athlete Due Process Protection Act
to ensure our athletes are provided constitutional due process
protections, just like the rest of us,” Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin said in a statement on his website.
“As USADA undertakes its critical work to ensure drug-free and
fair competition, we also protect the integrity of sports by
ensuring our American athletes are provided their full due
process rights.”  The act ensures that all athletes are served with written
specific charges, are given a reasonable time to prepare their
defense and are afforded a full and fair hearing. It also
creates new reporting requirements, including a provision that
forces the USADA to provide Congress with an annual report
summarizing its enforcement activities as well as giving written
notice of any amendments to its rules.  ‘A Shared Value’  Representative  John Conyers , ranking member of the House
Judiciary Committee, said ensuring athletes compete drug-free is
“a shared value.”  “But no less critical in ensuring the integrity of sports
competition is the protection of individual athletes’ due
process rights or adjudication surrounding testing results,”
the Michigan congressman said.  Travis Tygart, chief executive of the antidoping agency,
said the congressmen should read the federal ruling against
Armstrong which shows the agency’s process provides full
constitutional due process to every athlete.  “The current process is a result of over a decade of
collaboration between the athletes, the national sport
federations and the U.S. Olympic Committee, all of which have
approved the rules handed to USADA to operate,” Tygart said in
a statement, according to the  New York  Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  