-- Chelsea Beats Stoke in Premiership; Southampton Gets First Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-22T16:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/chelsea-beats-stoke-in-premiership-southampton-gets-first-win.html
Chelsea got a late goal to beat
Stoke 1-0 and extend its lead in English soccer’s Premier
League, as Southampton defeated Aston Villa 4-1 for its first
win of the season.  An Ashley Cole goal in the 85th minute gave Chelsea the
home win today, putting the west London club on 13 points, three
more than Everton and West Brom, which both won to climb above
 Manchester United  in the standings.  Everton beat 10-man Swansea 3-0, West Brom defeated Reading
1-0 and Fulham won 2-0 at Wigan. West Ham rallied to tie
Sunderland 1-1 in the day’s other fixture.  Stoke appeared headed for its fifth straight tie before
Cole struck in the closing stages at  Stamford  Bridge. The
defender was left alone at the back post and knocked a pass from
Juan Mata past Asmir Begovic.  Stoke’s best chance came just before halftime as Jonathan
Walters sent a header off the crossbar.  Rickie Lambert scored twice as promoted Southampton ended a
four-game losing run to open the season. Nathaniel Clyne scored
for the Saints, which also got an own goal from Ciaran Clark.
 Darren Bent  scored in the first half for Villa.  Victory Anichebe, Kevin Mirallas and  Marouane Fellaini 
scored in Everton’s away win. Swansea’s Nathan Dyer was sent off
for receiving two yellow cards within 12 minutes after coming on
as a halftime substitute.  Romelu Lokaku scored from the edge of the area with 14
minutes left to give West Brom the victory and drop Reading into
last place on one point. Hugo Rodallega and Damien Duff scored
as Fulham remained unbeaten at Wigan’s DW Stadium since 2005.  Kevin Nolan ’s goal deep in injury time earned West Ham a
home draw after canceling out  Steven Fletcher ’s goal for
Sunderland, which has started the season with four draws.  Liverpool hosts Manchester United tomorrow, when Arsenal
visits defending champion Manchester City, Norwich travels to
Newcastle and Tottenham hosts Queens Park Rangers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 