-- Cloud Demand Buoys Radware as Mellanox Rallies: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-23T14:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/cloud-demand-buoys-radware-as-mellanox-rallies-israel-overnight.html
Radware Ltd. (RDWR)  surged the most in
four months in New York on prospects cloud computing demand will
boost revenue for the Israeli technology company.  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) ’s premium to its Tel Aviv shares widened.  The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded
Israeli companies in New York climbed to the highest level in
four months on Sept. 21. The measure gained 1.9 percent last
week. Radware increased 4.4 percent to $35, the most since May
16. Mellanox, the maker of technology used to transfer and store
data, rose 3.6 percent to trade at the  biggest premium  to the
Tel Aviv shares since July 27.  Cloud services spending will reach almost $100 billion in
2016, from about $40 billion this year, Framingham,
Massachusetts-based data research firm IDC said in its August
report. Radware will benefit from the trend as its virtualized
application delivery product will allow the company to boost
market share, Needham & Co. said. The developer will probably
report a record $34.7 million profit in 2012, according to the
 mean estimate  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This company has a multi-year run ahead of it as the
cloud computing market takes off,” Alexander Henderson, an
analyst at Needham, said in a phone interview from  New York  on
Sept. 21. “The question becomes who has got the best product in
this environment and Radware has that capability and is
positioned for the growth in the market.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index gained 1 percent to 87.12 on
Sept. 21, extending its 2012 gain to 7.2 percent. The benchmark
TA-25 index added 0.9 percent today.  Juniper Deal  Radware reported sales of $46.8 million in the three months
ended June 30, up from $41.1 million in revenue in the same
period last year.  Its shares slumped 21 percent in the two days after July 24
when  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  said that it awarded a $75 million
licensing deal to Radware’s competitor,  Riverbed Technology
Inc. (RVBD) , disappointing some investors who expected the Israeli
company to get the contract. The rout was excessive, said
Henderson, who initiated coverage on Radware with a buy rating
last week.  “This company’s margins are expanding consistently and
such companies tend to outperform,” he said. “Revenue growth
is likely to accelerate beyond what we forecast, in which case
there is more upside.”  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  ‘Additional Upside’  Mellanox rose 3.6 percent to $111.06 in New York, extending
its gain last week to 9.5 percent, the most since the five-day
period ending July 27. The shares in  Tel Aviv  jumped 4.5 percent
today to 429.6 shekels, or $110.23.  Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance Batucha
Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv, reiterated his price target of $140
on the shares following a meeting with Mellanox Chief Executive
Officer Eyal Waldman, according to a Sept. 19 report.  “Our impression is that strong business momentum
continues,” he wrote in the report. “We expect additional
upside to sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 with the launch of
Windows Server 2012 and the increasingly substantial entry into
the storage market.”  Sales will double this year to $532 million, according to
the mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Barclays Upgrades Cellcom  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , Israel’s largest mobile-phone
provider, rallied 9.6 percent to $8.75 last week in New York.
The Tel Aviv shares climbed 4.3 percent today to 33.9 shekels,
or the equivalent of $8.7.  The company was the best performer on the Bloomberg Israel-
US Index last week after Barclays Plc said a slowing competition
in the sector will boost the shares. The bank raised its
recommendation on the shares to the equivalent of hold from
underweight.  Cellcom and Partner Communications Co., the second-largest
mobile-service provider, sank in July after lower-cost operators
 Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  and Golan Telecom Ltd. moved
into Israel’s mobile-phone space.  “The disruptive operators miscalculated as they
underestimated the sharp reaction,”  David Kaplan , an analyst at
Barclays, said by phone from Tel Aviv on Sept. 20. “Additional
businesses and additional revenue are coming in anyway for
Partner and Cellcom. When you lay that over a more stable
business than what people were thinking, then things look
good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  