-- Congress Adopts Stopgap Budget as Lawmakers Eye Campaigns
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-09-22T05:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/congress-adopts-stopgap-budget-as-lawmakers-eye-campaigns.html
Congress adopted a stopgap budget
measure to fund the federal government’s day-to-day operations
before lawmakers adjourned to campaign for the Nov. 6 election.  The Senate voted 62-30 early today to clear legislation
that would give most agencies a 0.6 percent budget increase
after the start of the fiscal year until March 27, 2013.  The vote sends the measure to President  Barack Obama  for
his signature. The legislation was adopted Sept. 13 by the
House, 329-91, after Republicans dropped their demands for
billions of dollars in additional spending cuts included in
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s fiscal plan.  The budget vote came after lawmakers rejected Kentucky
Republican Rand Paul’s proposal to cut off aid to  Pakistan ,
Libya and Eqypt in retaliation for attacks on U.S. embassies and
the arrest of Shakil Afridi, a Pakistani doctor who helped the
U.S. track Osama bin Laden.  The budget measure, H.J. Res. 117, ends a budget fight
while lawmakers delay the more contentious debate about expiring
George W. Bush-era income-tax cuts and $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts set to begin in January. Congress was in
session for two weeks after lawmakers returned from their August
recess.  The Senate vote had been held up in part by Paul’s demands
for a vote on his foreign-aid bill, which some lawmakers had
hoped to avoid.  “When you see 10,000 people outside the embassy in
Pakistan burning the U.S. flag, can you imagine that we would
send them more money?” Paul said. “We have roads in our
country that are crumbling and need repair” and “we don’t have
the money but we somehow have billions of dollars to send to
people who disrespect us and burn our flag.”  ‘Valuable Tools’  A number of his Republican colleagues went to the Senate
floor to oppose Paul. “If you withdraw aid, you take one of the
most valuable tools off the table,” said  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican who serves on the Armed
Services committee. “There has to be more tools in the toolkit
than just bombing people or disengaging.”  The spending bill would fund agencies for the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1 at an annualized rate of $1.047 trillion, the
amount lawmakers agreed to last year as part of a deal to raise
the federal  debt  limit.  House Republicans  led by Ryan, the Republican vice
presidential nominee, had sought an additional $19 billion in
cuts as part of their budget adopted in March. That led to a
months-long impasse with  Senate Democrats , who accused them of
reneging on last year’s deal. None of the dozen annual spending
measures have been signed into law.  Though the stopgap measure provides most programs with a
0.6 percent increase, some initiatives -- including
cybersecurity, wildfire-suppression efforts and veterans’
disability-benefit processing -- would receive more. The
legislation also would extend a pay freeze for federal workers,
including members of Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
story: Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  