-- Egypt Court Challenges Parliament’s Legality as Fresh Ruling Due
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-09-22T19:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/egypt-court-challenges-parliament-s-legality-as-fresh-ruling-due.html
An Egyptian administrative court
affirmed a June ruling by the country’s highest court that led
to the dissolution of Parliament’s lower house, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  reported.  The ruling, by judge Magdy El-Agaty of the supreme
administrative court, came just hours after another judge within
the same circuit postponed until Oct. 15 a separate hearing on
the same issue.  Egypt ’s constitutional court, the nation’s highest judicial
authority, ruled on June 14 that the law governing parliamentary
voting was unconstitutional, prompting the governing Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces at that time to dissolve the chamber
and assume legislative powers. The court confirmed the
dissolution of Parliament again in July, after it was briefly
reinstated by President Mohamed Mursi, effectively banning
lawmakers from meeting again.  The case before El-Agaty’s court today was filed to
challenge the method under which individual seats in the lower
house were elected.  While that decision reinforces the June recommendation by
the constitutional court, the case which made its way to the
constitutional court in June is being re-examined by a separate
court within the administrative court system. A hearing on that
was delayed today until mid-October to give the parties a chance
to give supporting documents.  Military Officers  Egypt’s parliament was majority-composed of Islamists,
including the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, which
held nearly half of the seats. The dissolution of the
legislature outraged many in the country, including the Muslim
Brotherhood, who saw it as an attempt by the military council to
undercut the democratic transition.  Last month Mursi ordered the retirement of the country’s
two top military officers amid a power struggle between the
leader and the army.  The retirement of Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi,
who also served under former President  Hosni Mubarak  as defense
minister, was part of a reorganization of the top tier of the
armed forces and effectively sidelined the man who had headed
the military council that ruled after the ouster of Mubarak.
Lieutenant General Sami Enan was also ordered from office. Both
men were named as advisers to Mursi.  In addition to the shake-up, Mursi canceled constitutional
changes issued by the military before his inauguration that had
stripped his office of some of its authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  