-- Euro Posts First Decline in Six Weeks as Economic Growth Stalls
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/euro-posts-first-decline-in-six-weeks-as-economic-growth-stalls.html
The euro fell for the first time in
six weeks versus the dollar as reports showed the region’s
economy struggling amid the debt crisis.  The yen advanced against all major currencies as weaker-
than-forecast data from China and rising tensions between the
two nations spurred demand for haven assets. Riskier currencies
declined versus the dollar as report showed Chinese
 manufacturing  may contract for an 11th month. The 17-nation euro
declined versus most of its major counterparts before  Spain ’s
government addresses budget issues next week.  “Even though the moves by the  European Central Bank  can
take away tail risk, you still have a really dismal economic
situation, where at best, its stagnant, and at worst, deepening
recession,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage.  Esiner said he expects the euro to end the year between
$1.25 and $1.28.  The euro dropped 1.1 percent this week to $1.2980 in  New
York , its largest decline since July 6. The shared currency
weakened 1.4 percent to 101.46 yen, its first weekly loss since
Aug. 10. The yen strengthened 0.3 percent to 78.17 per dollar.  Relative Strength  The common currency’s 14-day relative strength index versus
the dollar fell to 66 after spending seven days above 70. A
reading above 70 indicates an asset may have rallied too quickly
and is be due for a correction.  Futures traders decreased bets the euro will decline
against the dollar for a third week, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. Net-shorts for the euro-dollar
fell to 73,482 in the week ended Sept. 18.  The euro declined as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
considered whether to request economic assistance for the
indebted nation after the ECB pledged to buy bonds.  “There is caution about how much further the risk rally
can go without constant stimulus injections to keep sentiment
high,”  Stephen Gallo , a foreign-exchange strategist at Credit
Agricole SA in  London , said Sept. 20. “The foreign-exchange
market is also sensing some tap dancing in Spain in terms of the
official request for aid.”  Options Trade  Options traders have pared bets the euro is going to fall
against the dollar by year-end. The three-month so-called 25-
delta risk reversal rate was minus 0.88 percent yesterday,
signaling greater demand for euro puts that give the right to
sell the shared currency, versus calls. The rate was minus 1.47
percent a month ago.  Stress in the European financial markets is easing,
reaching the least since July 2007, according to Bloomberg’s
Euro Area Financial Conditions Index. The index rose to zero
this week for the first time since 2007 after averaging minus
2.8 during the past year.  Rajoy’s government will unveil additional austerity
measures by the end of the month based on recommendations made
in July, including a possible increase in the  retirement age ,
shifting from labor to consumption taxes and deregulating closed
professions, according to European officials.  The shared currency had its biggest weekly decline versus
the yen since July 6 as services and manufacturing in the region
shrank to a three-year low. Economic growth in  Germany  will slow
to 0.8 percent for 2012 from 3 percent last year, the Kiel,
Germany, ZEW Institute for the World Economy said on Sept. 13.  Chinese Manufacturing  A preliminary reading was 47.8 for a China purchasing
managers’ index released Sept. 19 by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Markit Economics, compared with a final level of 47.6 last
month.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose 0.6 percent to 79.391, as investors
demanded the safety of U.S. Treasuries. In times of economic
stress investors seek dollar-denominated assets because it is
the world’s reserve currency.  Ten-year  notes  extended their run of gains to five days,
the longest in four weeks, with the  yield  declining 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 1.75 percent.  Australia’s dollar fell 0.9 percent to $1.0458 and declined
1.2 percent to 81.74 yen. It touched a seven-day low of $1.0368
on Sept. 20. The  Mexican peso  fell 1.1 percent to 12.8585, its
biggest weekly loss versus the dollar since June 1.  Real Slumps  Brazil’s real underperformed its high-yielding counterparts
as the central bank sold reverse currency swaps for the fourth
time in four days. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  reiterated
that the government won’t let the real strengthen.  The real fell 0.6 percent to 2.0231 per dollar and on Sept.
17, the day of the sale it declined the most since July versus
the U.S. currency.  The Japanese currency recovered losses earlier in the week
from investors speculating the  Bank of Japan (8301)  would expand
monetary easing. The central bank did follow the  Federal Reserve 
and the ECB in expanding its balance sheet by 10 trillion yen to
55 trillion yen ($700 billion) despite investor speculation it
would not enough to spur economic growth.  The yen gained 0.8 percent last week, the biggest advance
among the 10 developed-nation currencies on the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 0.5 percent and
the euro weakened 0.8 percent.  China  and  Japan ’s worst diplomatic crisis since 2005,
concerning the East China Sea Islands, is putting at risk a
trade relationship that’s tripled in the past decade to more
than $340 billion and spurred demand for yen-denominated assets.
The yen is traditionally bought in times of economic uncertainty
because of the nation’s status as a global net creditor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  