-- Four LIU Brooklyn Basketball Players Charged After Campus Fight
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-22T04:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/four-liu-brooklyn-basketball-players-charged-after-campus-fight.html
Four members of the  Long Island
University Brooklyn  men’s basketball team, including last
season’s three leading scorers, were arrested last week and
charged with assault after an on-campus fight, police said.  Jamal Olasewere, 21, was charged with four counts of
assault, while Carl Garner, 22, Julian Boyd, 22, and Troy
Joseph, 21, were each charged with three counts, according to
Officer Markowski in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner of
Public Information, who declined to provide her first name
citing a department policy.  She said all four were members of the school’s basketball
team, which has played in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament the past two seasons.  Athletic Director John Suarez said in an e-mailed statement
that four members of the men’s basketball team had been
suspended indefinitely.  “No other student-athletes were implicated in this
incident,” Suarez said. “Until all legal and appeals processes
have been completed, we will not comment further on this
matter.”  School spokesman Daniel Lobacz said he couldn’t identify
the names of the students, citing the legal process. Markowski
said police didn’t have contact information for lawyers
representing the players.  The alleged assault occurred at a back-to-school event in a
campus building at 12:30 a.m. on Sept. 15, Markowski said in a
telephone interview. A verbal argument escalated into a fight
between members of the basketball team and other students.  Three men and two women all sustained minor injuries,
Markowski said. Three victims were taken to a local hospital and
the other two were treated at the scene.  Conference Champs  The Blackbirds won the  Northeast Conference  championship
the last two seasons, gaining entry into the NCAA tournament.
The team lost both times in the Round of 64, to the  University
of North Carolina  in 2011 and to  Michigan State University  this
year.  Boyd averaged 17.4 points and 9.3 rebounds per game last
year, both team highs. Olasewere’s 16.9 points and 7.5 rebounds
were second in both categories, while Garner averaged 12.6
points per game, the only other Blackbird to average double-
digits in scoring.  Joseph didn’t play in 2011-12 due to injury, according to
his bio page in the school’s basketball media guide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  