-- Merkel, Hollande EU Unity Pledge Fails to Stretch to Bank Union
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-09-22T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/hollande-warns-against-selfishness-populism-in-debt-crisis.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  and
President  Francois Hollande ’s appeal for German-French unity to
tackle  Europe ’s ills lasted all of three hours as they disagreed
over closer integration of the region’s banking system.  The two leaders, marking Franco-German reconciliation after
World War II, delivered back-to-back speeches in which they
hailed their mutual ties, tried out each other’s language and
pledged to work together for a more unified Europe to defeat the
financial crisis. The bonhomie broke down at a subsequent press
conference when they failed to mask their differences on a
planned “banking union” meant to achieve that end.  “The earlier, the better,” Hollande told reporters in the
German town of Asperg yesterday, saying that banking union is
“an important step in our targets” with a goal of
implementation by year’s end. Merkel, standing alongside,
declined to set a target date, saying there’s no point doing
something fast if it then doesn’t work.  The disagreement was the only point of public discord
during an occasion meant to stress the Franco-German alliance
that Hollande said was “the heart of Europe” leading the fight
against the debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area. For all the
entente, the leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies remain at
odds on the pace of banking union and on whether  Spain  should
seek a sovereign bailout, plus the conditions that would apply.  Schaeuble Criticism  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  led criticism of
the euro region’s rush toward common bank oversight at a meeting
of European Union finance ministers in Cyprus this month.
Germany has raised doubts about plans backed by  France , Spain
and  Italy  to hand the European Central Bank oversight powers
over all banks in the euro area, and to do so by Jan. 1.  Financial markets “that are watching Europe want to see
results” on banking union, Merkel said. “That’s why we say it
has to be thorough, the quality has to be good and then we’ll
see how long it takes.” At the same time, the goal is to “work
as quickly as possible.”  With decisions looming on  Greece ’s progress in meeting aid
targets, the sustainability of Spain’s finances and the
mechanics of pressing for closer European integration, Merkel
and Hollande are making efforts to get to grips with their
differing political outlooks. The two have struggled to find
common ground after Hollande won election in May on a platform
of opposition to her austerity-first solution to the debt crisis
and she publicly backed his opponent,  Nicolas Sarkozy .  EADS-BAe Questions  The German and French leaders agreed to press ahead with
their governments’ review of the planned merger of European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and BAE Systems Plc. Hollande
said that “questions and verifications” will be conducted in
the coming days. “Jobs, industrial strategy, defense, interests
of both our countries are at stake,” he said.  In his earlier speech, Hollande appealed to Merkel to join
with France in pushing for closer European union, saying Europe
is on the verge of a “new frontier” that can only be crossed
by moving toward fiscal, banking, social and political union.  “We must act together or we risk being swept away in each
of our nations, by skepticism, selfishness and populism,”
Hollande said at the 18th-century Ludwigsburg castle outside the
city of Stuttgart.  Charles de Gaulle  The ceremony marked 50 years since a 1962 speech to German
youth at the same location by then French President  Charles de Gaulle , the wartime leader who liberated France from Nazi German
occupation and founded the country’s Fifth Republic. The chateau
was the residence of the dukes of Wuerttemberg, a region that is
now part of Baden-Wuerttemberg, the state that is home to world-
beating German companies such as Porsche AG, Daimler AG and SAP.  In a sign of reconciliation after the third German-French
war since 1871, de Gaulle held his speech in German,
congratulating young Germans for being “children of a great
people -- yes, a great people -- that has sometimes, during the
course of its history, committed great mistakes.”  Hollande and Merkel echoed De Gaulle’s words and delivered
sections of their respective speeches in the other’s language,
Merkel praising the assembled youth in French and Hollande
stumbling over the German word for “friendship.”  Germany  and France must nurture their ties, as “good and
trusting relations are not a given,” Merkel said. “We are
working to make Europe sustainably healthy,” she said.
“Germany and France have a special responsibility in that
regard.”  Hollande compared Germany and France to an elderly couple
who depend upon each other with a friendship that “sometimes
loses its way” yet is mutually “essential.” To appreciate how
precious the relationship is, “we have the duty to light up our
flame every day.”  Merkel, asked about her relationship with Hollande, said
they are “friendly.” Hollande shrugged off a question about
the closeness between the German chancellor and his predecessor
that led to them being dubbed “Merkozy.” He refused to bless
the suggestion offered: “Merkhollande.”  “We don’t need to put our surnames together to put a name
on European policies,” Hollande said. “It’s not necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Ludwigsburg, Germany via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Ludwigsburg, Germany via at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  