-- Perry Says He’ll Seek Fixed-Rate Tuition for Universities
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-09-22T03:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/perry-says-he-ll-seek-fixed-rate-tuition-for-universities.html
Texas would offer fixed four-year
tuition rates in its public universities under a plan Governor
 Rick Perry  said he’ll propose.  “It makes sense to tell incoming freshmen: Here’s what
your tuition is going to be,” Perry said at a conference on the
campus of the  University of Texas  at Austin.  Texas has two of the 10 largest U.S. public universities.
The University of Texas has more than 51,000 students at its
flagship Austin campus, while  Texas A&M University  has more than
50,000 at its main campus in  College Station .  Perry, 62, didn’t offer details in an interview with  Evan
Smith , editor-in-chief of the Texas Tribune, an online news
site. A similar system is in use at the UT Dallas campus.
Undergraduates can lock in credit-hour rates for four years,
capped at $5,796 a semester for 15 hours, according to the
university’s website.  The three-term Republican governor, whose campaign for his
party’s nomination for president ended in January, has pressed
in recent years to hold down tuition at public colleges and
universities.  He has also called for higher-education efficiencies, the
creation of $10,000 bachelor degrees, expanded online teaching
and a higher four-year graduation rate.  University Facilities  Universities should also get more use out of their
facilities, Perry said.  Texas A&M , his alma mater, uses its
buildings only 35 to 40 percent of the time, he said.  State Senator Judith Zaffirini, a Democrat from Laredo who
chairs the Higher Education Committee, said lawmakers discussed
the fixed-rate idea in 2009 as a way to give students
predictability.  “The downside is that the rate probably would be higher”
to cover anticipated inflation and cost increases, she said
after Perry’s interview.  The governor’s idea “will be carefully considered” in the
legislative session that begins in January, she said.  Gary Susswein, a spokesman for UT Austin President William Powers, said he couldn’t comment on fixed-rate tuition until the
proposal can be reviewed.  “We are very much in line with the goal of increasing
four-year graduation rates,” Susswein said, with a target of 70
percent by 2016. “President Powers has said that ultimately
that’s the best way to keep down higher education costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  