-- Treasuries Recoup Most QE3 Losses Amid Growth Skepticism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/treasuries-recoup-most-qe3-losses-amid-growth-skepticism.html
Treasuries rose, recovering most of
the losses sustained after the  Federal Reserve  said it would add
more stimulus, as traders wagered a slowing global economy will
pose challenges to policy makers seeking to lower unemployment.  Benchmark  10-year note  yields fell for the first week this
month as reports showed manufacturing shrank in the New York
area, Europe and  China . Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
said yesterday the central bank may take further action if the
 labor market  doesn’t show signs of greater strength. The U.S.
will auction $99 billion of notes next week.  “Although the economy is not double-dipping into another
recession, the growth we’re seeing is not robust,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “There’s nothing coming out of the Fed saying that
they will not come in and purchase more Treasuries.”  The 10-year yield dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 1.75 percent this week in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the
1.625 percent note due in August 2022 added 32/32, or $10 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 27/32.  The benchmark note yield  closed  at 1.76 percent on Sept.
12, the day before the Fed announced it would begin a third
round of debt purchases under quantitative easing to spur jobs
and growth. The yield climbed, reaching a four-month high of
1.89 percent on Sept. 14, before dropping this week.  Long Bonds  Thirty-year yields slid 15 basis points to 2.94 percent,
their 200-day  moving average . They were at 2.92 percent on Sept.
12, and rose to as high as 3.12 percent on Sept. 17. The yields
briefly reached below the moving average on Sept. 20. The level
is seen by some traders as a barrier to further decreases.  Volatility dropped to a four-month low. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures price swings based on
options, touched 57.5 basis points on Sept. 19, the least since
May 7, after reaching a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June
15. It was 59.6 basis points yesterday. The average over the
past decade is 100.3 basis points.  Low volatility is “not going to go away,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “It’ll change around auctions or big
numbers, but in between the weeks when there’s no supply, it’s
all about the Fed.”  Monthly Purchases  The central bank said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion of
mortgage-backed bonds a month to pump money into the  U.S.
economy  and boost employment. The U.S. jobless rate has been
stuck at more than 8 percent for 43 straight months, prompting
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to pledge to continue buying debt
until the labor market improves “substantially.”  The Fed is also swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those due in six to 30 years to lengthen the
average maturity and hold down borrowing costs.  “MBS purchases will continue until we see a better
employment situation,” Lockhart said yesterday in a speech in
Atlanta. “If we do not see improvement, more action may be
taken. And inflation will be monitored closely and kept near 2
percent.”  A gauge of traders’ outlook for consumer-price increases
fell from a six-year high it reached after the Fed announcement.
The  gap  in yield between 10-year notes and similar-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, known as the break-even
rate, narrowed to 2.5 percentage points yesterday after touching
2.73 percentage points on Sept. 17, the most since May 2006. It
has averaged 2.21 percentage points this year.  TIPS Auction  Treasuries pared gains Sept. 20 as an auction of 10-year
TIPS drew the weakest demand in more than three years as
investors speculated consumer prices may not rise as fast as
initially expected.  The $13 billion issue’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was
2.36, the lowest since April 2009. The sale drew a  record low 
negative yield of 0.75 percent, versus the average forecast of
negative 0.812 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  The Treasury will auction $35 billion of nominal two-year
notes on Sept. 25, the same amount of five-year debt the next
day and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Sept. 27.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
bets on 30-year bond futures from a net-long position to a  net-
short  position in in the week ended Sept. 18, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 72 contracts on the Chicago Board
of Trade.  Last week, traders were net-long 20,088 contracts.  ‘Slowing Down’  U.S. bonds rose this week as a gauge of  manufacturing  in
the New York area, the New York Fed’s Empire State index, slid
to a three-year low in September and purchasing-manager indexes
showed both Chinese and euro-area manufacturing contracted.  “There’s growing sentiment that the major economies around
the world are slowing down,”  David Coard , head of fixed-income
trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a brokerage for
institutional investors, said Sept. 20. “That’s helping to
generate a bid for Treasuries.”  Yields fluctuated yesterday on speculation whether European
leaders were making progress on the region’s debt crisis.  European governments “need to proceed toward a full
accomplishment of economic and monetary union and create
conditions for growth and the creation of jobs,” according to a
statement from Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s office
following a meeting with his Spanish counterpart, Mariano Rajoy,
in  Rome  yesterday.  Spanish Reluctance  While Monti championed a European Central Bank plan to
purchase the debt of distressed nations in the euro bloc, ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s insistence on imposing conditions on
any aid has left Monti and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
reluctant to seek a bailout, a requirement.  The gap between 10-year interest-rate swap rates and
similar-maturity Treasury yields was 1.4 basis points yesterday,
after narrowing Sept. 20 to minus 0.06 basis point, the first
time since September 2010 that yields on the swaps fell below
those on Treasuries. A negative reading indicates increased
demand for investments outside the Treasury market.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The difference, the gap between the
fixed component and the Treasury rate, is a gauge of investor
demand for higher-yielding assets. The spread is usually
positive because investors demand more yield to compensate for
the risk of a swap, a transaction between banks, than they do to
lend to the U.S. government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  