-- Saudi Shares Retreat to Lowest Level in Month Before Earnings
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-09-22T13:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/saudi-shares-set-for-lowest-close-since-august-before-earnings.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia, the only
Gulf Arab stock market open on Saturdays, fell to the lowest
level in more than a month as investors awaited quarterly
results and after oil had its biggest weekly decline in three
months.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker known as Sabic, dropped for the fifth day.
 Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , Saudi Arabia’s second-biggest listed bank
by market value, lost 1.1 percent. The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
retreated 0.4 percent to 7,031.04, the lowest level since Aug.
15, at the close in Riyadh.  “Investors are waiting for third-quarter results,” Turki Fadaak, head of research at Albilad Investment Co. in Riyadh,
said in a telephone interview today. “There are mixed views for
the petrochemical sector.”  Saudi Arabia, the biggest Arab economy that depends on oil
exports to support  government spending , is the largest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Crude oil
rose 1.1 percent to $92.89 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange yesterday, the first gain in five days and trimming a
drop for the week to 6.2 percent. The Tadawul retreated 0.7
percent last week.  Oil may decline next week after data from Asia, Europe and
 North America  increased investors’ concern that global economic
growth is slowing, a Bloomberg survey showed. A Chinese
manufacturing survey last week signaled the industry contracted
for an 11th consecutive month, while Japan’s exports declined in
August. A report on Sept. 20 showed euro-area services and
industrial output fell to a 39-month low this month.  Sabic, which has the  heaviest weighting  on Saudi Arabia’s
index, dropped 1.1 percent to 91.50 riyals, the lowest level
since Sept. 11. The company may announce a 31 percent decrease
in  third-quarter profit  to 5.6 billion riyals ($1.5 billion),
according to an estimate from Al Rajhi Capital. Samba, which may
announce  results on Oct. 15 , fell to 45.90 riyals, the lowest
close since July 29.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock market will be closed tomorrow for a
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  