-- Senate Moves to Bar U.S. Airlines From EU Carbon Curbs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-09-22T14:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/senate-moves-to-bar-u-s-airlines-from-eu-emissions-trading.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed a measure
that would effectively shield U.S. airlines from a European
Union program designed to curtail aviation emissions.  The bill, supported by the airlines, was approved early
today before lawmakers adjourned to campaign for the Nov. 6
election. Under the measure, which must be reconciled with
similar legislation passed by the House last year, U.S carriers
would be barred from participating in the EU emissions-trading
system for carbon credits.  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 to include flights to and
from Europe within its greenhouse-gas-reduction system from 2012
after airline emissions in the region doubled over two decades.
The expansion of the cap-and-trade program triggered opposition
from countries including the U.S., China and Russia.  U.S. airlines, including  United Continental Holdings (UAL)  Inc.,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and American Airlines owner  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , have
objected to being included in the emissions-trading system,
saying it exceeds the EU’s jurisdiction and amounts to an
improper tax. They would prefer global emission reductions be
negotiated.  “The Senate bill calls for the U.S. to go for a global
deal to address aviation emissions,” EU Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  said in an e-mailed statement in Brussels
today. “I agree. This is what the EU has always been fighting
for. But it’s not enough to say you want it, you have to work
hard to get it done.”  Senate Bill  The Senate bill, sponsored by Senator  John Thune , a
Republican from South Dakota, has Democratic supporters
including  Bill Nelson  of Florida and  Claire McCaskill  of
Missouri. While Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the
Obama administration has not taken a position on the bill, in
June he said the government “strongly opposes” the EU plan.  Critics of the legislation say the EU law is binding and
that the U.S. government and taxpayers ultimately might be
liable for penalties because it blocked the carriers from
complying.  Under the EU plan, airlines beginning in 2013 must
surrender allowances equal to their emissions on flights to and
from Europe in the prior year. The airlines were given free
allowances for about 85 percent of their emissions.  U.S. airlines may purchase emissions allowances from
governments at auctions or from  power plants  and manufacturers
in Europe that are already under pollution limits to cover any
shortfall under the EU program.  Airline Emissions  The cap will cut airline emissions by 3 percent in 2012 and
5 percent from 2013 to 2020, the equivalent of taking 30 million
cars off the road a year, according to the European Commission.
Complying with the EU law will add about $6 to the price of a
round-trip trans-Atlantic flight, Jake Schmidt, international
climate-policy director for the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , said in an interview.  The U.S. and other non-EU countries opposing the expansion
of the carbon cap-and-program to airlines say Europe should let
the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization, or ICAO,
regulate greenhouse-gas limits for the industry. The ICAO said
in November it wants to strike a deal this year to create a
global carbon system for airlines.  “All countries, including the U.S., should refocus their
efforts on injecting positive ideas and forward-looking
solutions into UN-led efforts to address growing aviation
emissions,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the
commission, said today.  The bill is  S. 1956 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  