-- SK Hynix Wins Sanction Against Rambus in Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-24T16:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/sk-hynix-wins-sanction-against-rambus-in-patent-lawsuit-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  was sanctioned by a
judge for destruction of documents in a U.S. chip-patent case
with  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  Its shares rose more than 20 percent today on
reports that the penalty will be limited to a fair royalty.  U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in  San Jose ,
 California , on Sept. 21 decided to strike from the record in the
case any evidence supporting a Rambus royalty that is “in
excess of a reasonable and non-discriminatory” amount,
according to court documents. Whyte ordered both companies to
file their proposals on the rate amount to the court.  “There is a possibility that Rambus did not destroy any
evidence that would have been beneficial to SK Hynix’s
litigation position,” Whyte wrote in his decision. “However,
because Rambus is the party that destroyed documents by the box
and bag without keeping any record of what was destroyed, Rambus
must suffer the consequences of that uncertainty.”  Rambus rose 94 cents, or 19 percent, to $5.87 in trading in
 New York  at 12:22 p.m. after earier trading as high as $6.10. It
was the biggest percentage rise since Nov. 17, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Both Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Sunnyvale,
California-based Rambus welcomed the decision.  The ruling “substantially limits any royalties on Rambus’s
patents,” SK Hynix said in a statement.  Rambus is hopeful the decision “will lead to putting this
matter behind us completely and allow us to reach reasonable
agreements,” the company’s general counsel Thomas Lavelle said
in a statement yesterday.  Appropriate Sanctions  The ruling follows an appeals court decision last year
concluding that Rambus destroyed documents relevant to its case
against the South Korean company. The appeals court ruling sent
the case back to Whyte to determine appropriate sanctions.  SK Hynix shares fell 1.5 percent to 23,500 won in Seoul
today. They have risen 7 percent this year, while shares of
Rambus have fallen 23 percent this year.  SK Telecom Co. completed acquiring a 21 percent stake in
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. in February, becoming the biggest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld Whyte’s denial of Hynix’s bid to throw out a
2006 verdict finding the company infringed Rambus patents or
grant a new trial. It vacated the financial damages judgment,
throwing out a $397 million judgment against Hynix, because of
the document spoliation.  Rambus’s cases against Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus got rid of papers that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-
cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
Or  pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  