-- Syria Rebels Move Command Center Into Syria From Turkey
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-09-22T16:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/syria-blast-shakes-hama-as-troops-shelling-kills-at-least-30.html
The Free Syrian Army moved its
command center from neighboring  Turkey  into a part of Syria that
the rebel fighters described as “liberated,” while human-
rights activists said President Bashar al-Assad’s forces killed
dozens of people in intensified shelling and airstrikes.  Troops clashed with rebels near the town of Nasib along the
border with Jordan, the  Associated Press  reported. Jordan’s
border guards arrested militants early today after an exchange
of gunfire, the state-run Jordanian news agency Petra reported.  United Nations envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who was appointed to
revive the UN’s peace efforts in Syria, said the crisis could
spread regionally if the bloodshed isn’t contained, according to
a Sept. 20 interview with Al Arabiya television. More than
26,000 people have died since the conflict between Assad’s
opponents and the military began in March 2011, the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said.  The Free Syrian Army’s command center is now in one of the
“liberated areas” of Syria, FSA Commander Colonel Riad al-
Assad said in a video aired by Doha-based Al-Jazeera today. He
didn’t give the location or details of the facility.  About 80 Syrians, including rebels and members of the
government’s forces, were among those killed today, the Syrian
Observatory said. Nineteen people died as troops shelled the
city of Aleppo, while 27 were killed in the suburbs of the
capital, Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees
said in an e-mail today. Assad’s military also shelled and broke
into homes in the towns of Deir al-Zour Daraa, Idlib, Raqqa and
Hama, leaving scores of casualties, the group said.  Syria ’s official news agency, SANA, reported today that
troops destroyed one of the headquarters of “terrorists” in
Aleppo, killing 20 people and injuring 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  