-- Syria Shells Aleppo, Daraa as Rebels Vow to Take Capital
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-09-23T15:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/syria-rebels-move-command-center-into-syria-from-turkey.html
Troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad shelled the provinces of Aleppo and Daraa after the
rebel Free Syrian Army said it moved its command center into the
country as part of a strategy to “liberate” Damascus.  Shelling today in Aleppo in the north and Daraa in the
south, as well as the capital and its suburbs left more than 30
people dead, according to the UK-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights .  United Nations envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who was appointed to
revive UN peace efforts in  Syria , said last week that the crisis
may spread regionally if the bloodshed isn’t contained. More
than 26,000 people have died since the conflict between Assad’s
opponents and the military began in March 2011, the observatory
said.  The relocation of the FSA’s command from  Turkey  to Syria
shows the group is “becoming more robust, more organized and is
serious about this struggle,” Anthony Skinner, Middle East
director for Maplecroft, a global risk adviser based in the
English city of Bath, said by telephone today. The move is
“bold” and while it is significant, it isn’t enough to unite
the opposition in ousting Assad, he said.  FSA Colonel Riad al-Asaad announced the movement of the
command center yesterday to one of the “liberated areas” of
Syria. Speaking in a video  posted  on the Internet, he said the
group “plans to liberate Damascus soon.” He didn’t give the
location or details of the facility.  Downed Aircraft  The rebels said they shot down an  Air Force  warplane
yesterday in the northern province of Idlib, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing activists.  In Hama, where Syrian Red Crescent teams recovered more
than 40 bodies yesterday after the Air Force bombed the
neighborhood of Mashaa al-Arbaeen, government forces arrested
many people after breaking into homes, the observatory said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Syria’s official news agency, SANA, said yesterday that
troops destroyed one of the headquarters of “terrorists” in
Aleppo, killing 20 people and injuring 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  