-- U.S. Military Says Middle East Exercise Is ‘Purely Defensive”
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-22T15:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/u-s-military-says-middle-east-exercise-is-purely-defensive-.html
An international air, sea and
underwater exercise in the  Middle East , including the Persian
Gulf, is “purely defensive” and not preemptive tactics for an
attack on  Iran , the U.S.’s top military commander in the region
said.  Marine Corps General James Mattis, head of the U.S. Central
Command, told sailors on the 684-foot long USS Ponce the 12-day
exercise is focused on clearing mines at sea. He spoke yesterday
on the vessel located about 80 miles from the Iranian coast and
280 miles north of the  Strait of Hormuz .  “Here we have navies from six continents working together
-- every continent except Antarctic is represented here -- and
we are going to make certain we can work together,” Mattis
said. “This is a wholly defensive exercise.” The drill is
“just about mines and how we get rid of them if they get in the
water.”  More than 30 nations are participating in the exercise
that’s taking place in three locations from the mid-Persian
Gulf, the Gulf of Oman to Djibouti and the  Gulf of Aden . Vessels
being used include those from the U.S., U.K., Japan and Iraq.
Countries participating or acting in observer roles include
Yemen, Jordan,  New Zealand ,  Estonia , Italy, Singapore and
Australia.  In reply to a question on whether the demonstration was
meant to send a signal to Iran not to interrupt traffic through
the Strait of Hormuz, Mattis said it wasn’t targeted at any
specific country. A fifth of the world’s traded oil flows daily
through the Strait.  The Ponce is a 41-year-old amphibious transport vessel
recommissioned and refurbished earlier this year after Mattis
requested in December a floating command center that can act as
a base for a wide variety of missions, including supporting U.S.
and allied mine-clearing operations and Navy SEAL missions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  