-- Wal-Mart Must Face California Bias Case, Judge Rules
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-22T21:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/wal-mart-must-face-california-bias-case-judge-rules.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  must face an
11-year-old gender discrimination lawsuit brought on behalf of
workers in  California  after the U.S.  Supreme Court  barred a
lawsuit representing Wal-Mart employees nationwide.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said in
an order yesterday that the plaintiffs have proposed a reduced
class size to between one and several hundred thousand members.  The reduced class “could be certified,” Breyer wrote, if
it made a “showing consistent with the Supreme Court’s
decision” that a nationwide class action isn’t appropriate.  Breyer rejected Wal-Mart’s bid to dismiss the case, an
argument made on grounds that even the reduced class size
suffers from the problems that led the Supreme Court to bar a
nationwide class certification, according to the ruling. Breyer
said he “reserves for later determination” if the class should
be certified.  The sex-bias case was originally filed in  San Francisco  in
2001 by women at a handful of  Wal-Mart stores  claiming they were
denied pay and promotions. It was eventually certified as a
class action, or group lawsuit covering more than 1 million
employees after lawyers for the workers convinced a judge that
Wal-Mart’s employment policies meant that women at hundreds of
stores across the country were subject to similar treatment.  Class certification provides leverage to plaintiffs in
financing the lawsuit and negotiating a settlement. Wal-Mart
appealed the certification, saying hiring and promotion
decisions were made by local managers and each claim of
discrimination should be handled in individual lawsuits.  Supreme Court  The Supreme Court ruled the workers didn’t provide
convincing proof of a companywide discriminatory pay and
promotion policy. It threw out class certification and sent the
case back to the lower court.  Worker’s attorneys refiled the lawsuit in October as a
group case representing California store employees, saying that
while the Supreme Court blocked a nationwide class, the court’s
ruling allowed them to show evidence of bias in pay and
promotion against tens of thousands of women who worked in
California. They filed a separate lawsuit against Wal-Mart in
 Dallas  on behalf of women who worked at stores in  Texas .  “We have maintained all along that the Supreme Court’s
decision did not preclude us from seeking justice for the women
of Wal-Mart,” said plaintiffs’ lead counsel  Brad Seligman  of
the Impact Fund, Berkeley, Calif., in a statement today.  At a hearing in June in the California case, Breyer said he
was “seriously concerned” that the plaintiffs’ lawyers didn’t
have the evidence to support claims of statewide discrimination.  Yesterday, Breyer set a hearing for Feb. 15 to consider
whether the women can sue as a group.  The California case is Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 01-
cv-02252, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco). The Supreme Court case is Wal-Mart v. Dukes,
10-00277, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  