-- Yankees Beat Athletics 2-1 in 10, Stay Atop Orioles in AL East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/yankees-beat-athletics-2-1-in-10-stay-atop-orioles-in-al-east.html
Russell Martin ’s walk-off home run
in the 10th inning gave the New York Yankees a 2-1 win over the
Oakland Athletics last night and a one-game lead over the
Baltimore Orioles in the American League East.  The Yankees won their sixth straight game to improve to 87-
63 in Major League Baseball’s AL East. The Orioles (86-64)
defeated the Boston  Red Sox  4-2 to stay one game ahead of the
Athletics (85-65) for the top spot in the two-team wild-card
race.  At Yankee Stadium, Martin blasted his solo home run on a 0-
1 pitch off Athletics reliever Sean Doolittle (1-1).  Curtis Granderson  hit a sacrifice fly in the fourth inning
to score  Nick Swisher . The Athletics were scoreless until the
ninth, when Brandon Moss hit a home run to right field off
closer  Rafael Soriano  who blew his fourth save in 46 chances.  Derek Jeter  singled in the sixth inning to extend his
hitting streak to a season high-tying 15 games.  CC Sabathia pitched eight scoreless innings, allowing three
hits and striking out 11.  David Robertson  (2-7) pitched a
perfect 10th inning for the win.  At Fenway Park in Boston, catcher Matt Wieters drove in
three runs, including the go-ahead score in the sixth inning, as
the Orioles tallied their fifth consecutive victory.  Wieters Answers  Wieters hit a two-run single in the fourth and followed two
innings later with a hit to send home  Adam Jones . He then scored
the Orioles’ fourth run on  Mark Reynolds ’s single in the sixth.  “Every time they scored, we had an answer and Matt was in
the middle of it,” Oriole manager Buck Showalter said in a
televised interview.  Pedro Ciriaco hit a run-scoring double in the third and
Dustin Pedroia added a one-run single in the fifth for the Red
Sox, who are fourth in the five-team AL East, 20 games behind
the Yankees.  Miguel Gonzalez (7-4) allowed seven hits and two runs while
striking out three in 6 1/3 innings.  “It was great out there,” Gonzalez said in a televised
interview. “Eight days off and that’s what happens. Being my
first year throwing this many innings, it’s good for me.”  Wieters called Gonzalez “a smart, high IQ pitcher.”  Closer Jim Johnson recorded his 46th save, a franchise
season record, surpassing by one the mark set by Randy Myers in
1997. Johnson gave up one hit and struck out one in the ninth.  “It’s nice to come to the ballpark and every game means
something,” Johnson said. “We’re seeing Baltimore fans in
Boston, I’ve never seen that.”  The Orioles are now 22 games above .500 for the first time
since the end of the 1997 season, when they finished 98-64.  Jon Lester  (9-13) took his first loss in 21 starts against
the Orioles, surrendering four runs on eight hits and striking
out three in seven innings. He was 14-0 against the Orioles
before last night’s game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  