-- Yankees Retain One-Game Lead Over Orioles After Win Over Oakland
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-22/yankees-hold-one-game-lead-over-orioles-after-win-over-oakland.html
Ichiro Suzuki  raced home on a two-
out error in the 14th inning to give the  New York Yankees  a 10-9
victory over the  Oakland Athletics  and keep them a game ahead of
the  Baltimore Orioles  in the American League East.  “Right now every game is magnified, and we know the
situation,” said Yankees  Raul Ibanez , who hit a two-run homer
in the 13th inning to tie the score at 9-9. “It’s a lot of
fun.”  The Orioles defeated the Boston  Red Sox  9-6 in 12 innings
yesterday for their 16th straight extra-innings win. The Orioles
lead the wild-card standings by two games over the Athletics,
with the Los Angeles Angels trailing Oakland by three games. The
top two wild-card teams face a one-game playoff to advance to
the postseason divisional series with the better season record
getting home-field advantage.  At Yankee Stadium, the teams were tied 5-5 going into the
13th inning when Jonny Gomes hit a two run homer and Yoenis
Cespedes and Chris Carter each hit solo home runs to give the
Athletics (85-66) a 9-5 lead.  The Yankees tied it at 9 after Suzuki scored on a wild
pitch by Pat Neshek,  Alex Rodriguez  added a run on Eduardo Nunez’s sacrifice fly and Ibanez fired his two-run homer.  Suzuki, who hit a solo home run in the first inning,
reached home to win the game for the Yankee (88-63) in the 14th
inning on first baseman Brandon Moss’s error with the bases
loaded.  Yankees’ Fight  “I told you all along that I like the fight in this
team,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said. “Some of the things
we go through, we find ways to get back up.”  At Fenway Park,  Jim Thome , who hadn’t played since July 27
because of a herniated disk in his neck, hit a double to score
Adam Jones and put the Orioles ahead 7-6 in the 12th inning.
Endy Chavez and Manny Machado added run-scoring singles to seal
the victory.  “At the end of the season, the teams that you see go into
the playoffs pull out the extra-inning games and win a lot of
extra-inning games,” Red Sox rightfielder  Cody Ross  told
reporters. “We just haven’t been able to do that this year.”  The Red Sox, who are facing their first losing season since
1997, rallied to tie the score at 6-6 on run-scoring singles by
Ross and Ryan Lavarnway in the seventh and Scott Podsednik’s
run-scoring double in the eighth.  Jones started the 12th inning with a double, followed by
Thome’s blast off reliever Alfredo Aceves.  “It’s been a lot of fun watching these guys and to come
and get a big hit like that was great,” Thome said in a
televised interview. “Sixteen straight extra-inning wins says a
lot about the bullpen and closers, but don’t forget the offense
-- it only takes one big hit.”  Oriole manager Buck Showalter praised Thome, the five-time
All-Star designated hitter acquired from the  Philadelphia
Phillies  in June, for stepping up despite his injuries.  “A lot of guys would have thrown in the towel with the
issues he went through with his back,” Showalter said. “He
really grinded it out. He means a lot to our clubhouse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  