-- 
‘Madness Abounds’ as Fake Candidates Confuse Wisconsin Recalls

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/-madness-abounds-as-fake-candidates-confuse-wisconsin-recalls.html
Wisconsin voters will choose among
real and fake Democrats this week to challenge six Republican
senators in recall elections that may derail the agenda of
Governor  Scott Walker .  The primaries are the opening skirmish in a state at
political war. The six districts in tomorrow’s races have
Republicans running as Democrats, hoping to win the nomination
and effectively render the Aug. 9 recall votes meaningless.  At a time when politics usually takes a break, voters will
select candidates to run against Republicans who supported
Walker’s efforts to curb collective-bargaining rights for most
public employees. On July 19, there will be two primaries and a
full-fledged recall aimed at Democratic senators who fled the
state in February in hopes of blocking the measure, which
touched off weeks of protests across the nation.  “It feels like madness abounds in our state, like
 Wisconsin  is 65,000 square miles surrounded by sanity,” said
Mike McCabe, executive director of the  Wisconsin Democracy
Campaign , a nonprofit that advocates openness in government.  “We’re just living in a really weird time,” McCabe added
in a telephone interview from Madison, the capital.  State election law allows open primaries, which means that
voters can participate regardless of partisan affiliation. It
also allows members of one party to enter another’s primary with
what McCabe called “fake candidacies.”  “There’s nothing illegal about it,” he said.  Step Right Up  The cross-party candidates have imparted a sideshow element
to a fight that is unprecedented and carries clear implications
for Wisconsin’s governance. The August recalls may tip the
balance of the Republican-controlled Senate to the Democrats,
who need a net gain of three seats to control the chamber and be
able to block Walker’s legislative agenda.  The state’s nine legislative recall elections compare with
a total of 20 across the nation since 1913, according to Joshua
Spivak, a senior fellow at the Hugh L. Carey Institute for
Government Reform at Wagner College in  New York . Wisconsin has
had two.  “I’m sort of happy about this because this shows people
that politics is about things that affect people’s lives,” said
Mordechai Lee, a professor of government affairs at the
University of Wisconsin- Milwaukee . “On the other hand, I’m sad
for Wisconsin because this is all the wrong kind of politics.”  Into the Courts  Walker, 43, was elected in November and used Republican
legislative majorities to push curbs on collective-bargaining
rights. The action triggered weeks of protests inside and
outside the Capitol in Madison. He signed the bill March 11, and
the state Supreme Court overruled a lower court decision June 15
that had blocked the measure.  The bill became the defining issue in the April 5 state
 Supreme Court  race between Justice David T. Prosser Jr. and
challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg. Prosser, who had indicated he
would uphold the law, won by about 7,300 votes.  While Prosser and Kloppenburg spent a combined $757,542,
outside interests spent far more to influence the outcome. The
Greater Wisconsin Committee spent almost $1.7 million in support
of Kloppenburg. Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce, Citizens for
a Strong America, Club for Growth Wisconsin and the Tea Party
Express spent a combined $2.65 million on Prosser’s behalf. The
groups paid for television ads and other forms of campaign
support.  Clean-Cut, Cutting Edge  Noncandidate groups set a state record for television
spending, $3.6 million, according to the  Brennan Center for
Justice  at  New York University .  “We’ve gone from clean-cut to really being on the cutting
edge of the new form of American politics -- battle to the
death, win at any cost,” Lee said in a telephone interview from
his office in Milwaukee.  If any recalls succeed, that will encourage more, McCabe
predicted, including one that has been started against Walker,
who cannot be ousted until he has been in office a year.  “We could more or less have a permanent election season
continuing through 2012,” McCabe said. “It almost becomes a
foregone conclusion about recalling the governor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  