-- 
Murakami Finds His Art Too Pricey, Market ‘Scary’: Interview

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-07-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/-scary-art-market-overprices-my-works-says-takashi-murakami-interview.html
A giant buxom blonde stands
bowlegged at the  Gagosian Gallery  in London.  “3-Meter Girl” (2011) is a towering sculpture by Takashi Murakami, a Japanese artist whose works are derived from comic
strips and pop culture. She’s on sale for an undisclosed price
in the sexually charged exhibition.  Murakami, wearing army pants, his hair in a pigtail, is
dwarfed by the barrel-chested lady. Does he find her alluring?  “Not personally,” he says. Investigating trends in youth
sexuality, he was told by a comic-book author that “giant is
really sexy” and that young generations are drawn to tall,
powerful women with “big heads, big hair, big breasts.”  In the same room are naked-women triptychs and two- and
three-dimensional close-ups of male and female genitalia.
They’re Murakami’s contemporary take on the nudes and explicit
images produced by Japanese artists in centuries past.  Eroticism, he says, cropped up in his own work after he
traveled to the West. The 1990s  New York  art scene looked “like
porn” to him: Sex was inside the museum and linked to beauty,
unlike in  Japan , where it was in magazines and books.  Money is another favorite theme. Murakami’s company  Kaikai
Kiki Co.  markets merchandise derived from his art; the Gagosian
Gallery has a stack of folded cutouts that visitors can take.  Vuitton Bags  More controversially, Murakami, 49, has designed
monogrammed bags for  Louis Vuitton . They were on sale in a
boutique that was part of his 2007-8 shows at the  Museum of
Contemporary Art  in  Los Angeles  and the  Brooklyn Museum .  “I love business,” says the artist, who’s interested in
evoking money and the market in his art (though he’s no longer
keen on designing bags, he says).  His 1998 sculpture of an aroused male, “My Lonesome
Cowboy,” sold for $15.2 million at Sotheby’s in New York in May
2008, a record for Murakami. He is part of a group of artists,
including  Jeff Koons  and  Damien Hirst , whose prices fell as much
as 50 percent during the 2009 financial crisis.  Still, Murakami is baffled by what his art costs today. He
says he discussed prices with dealer  Larry Gagosian  before the
show, and hearing the figures, told Gagosian that they were “a
little bit expensive.” According to Murakami, Gagosian replied,
“No, this is big, this is big!”  Big and Scary  At last month’s  Art Basel  contemporary fair, Murakami says,
an art adviser told him that prices were now substantially
higher than before the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. It’s “bigger and bigger,” says
Murakami. “Very scary.”  Does he think he’s too expensive? “I think so, yes,
honestly, yes,” Murakami says. At the same time, his expenses
are high: He employs about 200 people, and has costly travel and
communications bills.  Surprisingly, the artist says he lives in a small
apartment. “I cannot buy my home yet,” he says. His salary is
“a small amount of money.”  The way he describes it, Murakami’s lifestyle is far from
luxurious: He spends his days in the studio, painting and
sculpting creatures like the blonde hovering over him.  The exhibition is at the Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia
Street, through Aug. 5. Information:  http://www.gagosian.com  or
+44-20-7841-9960.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 