-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Rents May Extend Three-Year Decline as New Homes Add to Glut

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-07-11T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/abu-dhabi-s-rents-may-extend-decline-as-new-homes-add-to-glut.html
Abu Dhabi ’s residential rents may
drop by 10 percent in the next 12 months, extending a three-year
decline, as rising home completions increase the amount of
unoccupied properties, according to the sheikhdom’s second-
largest real-estate developer.  “The supply is coming very fast because whatever was
started three or four years ago is beginning to come into the
market,” Gurjit Singh, chief operating officer of Sorouh Real
Estate PJSC, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi. That “will
bring down rents quite rapidly.”  Abu Dhabi’s construction boom was hurt by the financial
crisis at a much earlier stage than that of neighboring Dubai,
which by mid-2008 had completed more projects and attracted more
buyers. Since then, Abu Dhabi’s decline has been slower than
Dubai, the worst performing market in the  Middle East .  Rents in Abu Dhabi have fallen 40 percent since the
market’s peak,  Jones Lang  LaSalle estimates. Those in Dubai have
dropped 55 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Two years ago, we were still seeing rents going up here
because at that time there was a dearth of quality supply, while
Dubai’s rents were coming down,” Singh said in the July 6
interview.  Building Spree  About 50,000 homes, 27 percent of Abu Dhabi’s current
supply, will be completed by 2014 and about 16,000 will be ready
this year, said Craig Plumb, Jones Lang’s head of Middle East
research.  Developers may need to reduce rents by more than 10 percent
to attract tenants, Plumb said. A surfeit of homes in Dubai
caused rents to drop by more than half there and provided an
alternative to commuters who live in Dubai and work in Abu
Dhabi, he said.  Abu Dhabi opened its  property market  to foreign buyers in
2005, three years after Dubai. The recession’s full affect on
the sheikhdom’s property market lagged almost two years behind
Dubai, where  home prices  and rents slumped after the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers International Inc. in September 2008.  Home prices in Dubai have dropped 64 percent from their
2008 peak after the global credit crisis caused banks to curtail
mortgage lending and speculators left the market, Deutsche Bank
said last month. In Abu Dhabi, the largest and wealthiest of the
seven sheikhdoms that comprise the  United Arab Emirates , prices
slid 55 percent, Rasmala Investment Holdings said.  Sorouh expects to hand over the keys to 7,000 homes over
the next four years, Chief Financial Officer Richard Amos said
on April 17. That excludes homes the developer is building for a
U.A.E. government housing program.  Rental Income  Sorouh will probably collect 3.2 billion dirhams ($870
million) from property buyers and commercial and residential
tenants this year and will spend 3 billion dirhams on project
completions, he said. The company has 2.35 billion dirhams of
debt due in 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apart from completing construction and collecting final
payments that typically amounts to 50 percent of the property’s
value, Sorouh has been working to increase income from rents of
offices, homes and shops. It’s aiming to triple its rental
income over the next three to five years from 171 million
dirhams in the first-quarter, Singh said.  The completion of 1,537 homes in the company’s  Alrayyana 
development by the end of this year and the leasing of 150,000
square-feet of retail space in the Sun & Sky towers will help
drive growth. U.K. supermarket chain Waitrose, a unit of John
Lewis Partnership Plc, will open a store in the tower later this
year, Singh said.  Long-Term Leases  Abu Dhabi’s market will probably need three years to absorb
the homes that are now being built, preventing rent and price
increases, Singh said. In the meantime, developers should offer
tenants long-term leases and try to manage their properties more
effectively. That would help them attract investment funds and
real estate investment trusts when rents eventually start to
rise, he said.  Investment funds and REITs aren’t interested in U.A.E.
properties at the moment because “we are still at the early
stages of getting out of this market,” Singh said. “The yields
still need to improve and the transparency as well as the
institutional investment frameworks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 