-- 
Peabody, ArcelorMittal Make Joint $5.1 Billion Offer to Buy Macarthur Coal

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-11T16:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/macarthur-coal-gets-takeover-proposal-from-arcelormittal-peabody-energy.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker, and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  said they approached
 Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  with an offer that values the Australian
coal producer at A$4.7 billion ($5.1 billion).  ArcelorMittal and Peabody, the biggest U.S. coal miner,
plan to bid through a jointly owned company, offering A$15.50 a
share, Macarthur said today in a statement. That’s 40 percent
more than today’s close. ArcelorMittal holds about 16 percent of
Macarthur, the largest exporter of pulverized coal used by
steelmakers, it said in a statement.  Buying Macarthur would give the pair ownership of mines in
Queensland state, the biggest exporter of the fuel, as prices
trade near a record. The bidders will likely seek the support of
 China ’s Citic Group and  South Korea ’s Posco, which own 22.78
percent of Brisbane-based Macarthur between them.  The offer “puts the rest of the sector firmly back as
takeover targets,” Colin McLelland, a resources analyst at
Investec Bank Australia Ltd., said by phone from Sydney. “It’s
not clear what Citic will do. I suspect they will just hold
their stake.”  Macarthur fell 2.8 percent to A$11.08 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trade in Sydney and before the approach was announced,
taking losses this year to 13 percent. Luxembourg-based
ArcelorMittal declined 1.6 percent to 23.635 euros in Amsterdam
trading.  Second Attempt  Macarthur’s board will “seek to engage with Peabody and
ArcelorMittal in relation to the price and terms,” the company
said in the statement.  The proposal is “non-binding and conditional on the
successful completion of due diligence, which would be completed
in a timely manner,” St. Louis-based Peabody said in a
statement. A condition of any offer would be a minimum 50.01
percent acceptance as well as Australian foreign investment
approvals, Peabody said.  “We believe there is significant value that can be created
by managing Macarthur’s portfolio of coal assets,” Greg Boyce,
chief executive officer of Peabody, said in the statement.
Macarthur controls total coal reserves of 270 million tons and
total resources of 2.3 billion tons, according to Peabody.  It’s the second time Peabody has bid for Macarthur, which
rejected its A$3.8 billion, or A$15 a share, approach in May
last year. Macarthur ended transaction talks with Arcelor in
June 2008 after the steelmaker bought a 14.9 percent stake the
previous month.  ‘More Engaged’  “The bidders keep hitting them with the same number each
time, more or less, so at least there is some consistency,”
said Prasad Patkar, a  money manager  who helps oversee about $1.7
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “My gut
feeling is that the board will be more engaged this time
around.”  The bid will be made through a venture 40 percent owned by
ArcelorMittal and 60 percent by Peabody, the two companies said
in separate statements today.  Citic hasn’t decided whether to accept the joint offer,
said Calvin Lam, investor relations head at Citic in  Hong Kong .  Peabody and Arcelor are bidding about 8.7 times Macarthur’s
projected earnings before interest, tax and depreciation,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the median of 17
analyst estimates. That compares with an Ebitda multiple of 15
for coal takeovers involving Australian companies in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Macarthur is being advised by J.P. Morgan Australia Ltd.
and Corrs Chambers Westgarth. ArcelorMittal said it’s being
advised by  RBC Capital Markets  and Mallesons Stephen Jaques. UBS
AG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Freehills are advising
Peabody.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  