-- 
Magic Software CEO Counts on Cloud to Boost Sales Through 2012

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-11T07:19:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/magic-software-ceo-counts-on-cloud-to-boost-sales-through-2012.html
Magic Software Enterprises Ltd. (MGIC) 
expects demand from a migration to mobile and cloud computing
to help boost sales by 29 percent this year and allow it to meet
a 2009 goal of tripling revenue by the end of 2012.  “We’re going to grow from mobile and cloud because the
buzz they create will generate us more business in the
traditional world,” Chief Executive Officer Guy Bernstein said
in a July 7 interview at Magic’s office outside  Tel Aviv .
“Growth will come to some extent from cloud, but in the short
term it will mostly come from traditional and because people are
planning for the future of cloud.”  Magic makes software that allows vendors to build products
for customers to upgrade to multiple platforms. Spending on
cloud, which allows companies to rent applications on the web
rather than put software on their own computers, is projected to
grow four times faster than on overall information technologies,
reaching $89 billion in 2011 and $177 billion by 2015, according
to a June report from researcher Gartner Inc.  The company forecasts revenue of $115 million this year, up
from last year’s $89 million and $55 million in 2009. Bernstein
said he expects sales to reach $165 million in 2012 and he’d be
“happy” if the company could reach $300 million revenue,
declining to give a time frame.  Net income at the Or Yehuda, Israel-based company rose 68
percent in the first quarter to $3.1 million. The company said
sales rose 29 percent to $25.5 million in the period.  Magic this year won integration software contracts
worldwide, including from Sonova AG, the world’s biggest
hearing-aid maker, and  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , a North American
gold producer.  ‘Gaining Traction’  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC, with a
“market outperform” rating and a 12-month price target of $8,
expects sustained double-digit growth for Magic. “We believe
that customer base expansion will be driving future revenue
growth,” he said in a report on May 9. “In addition, the
company is gaining traction in new markets through
distributors.”  The company’s shares have soared 143 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 14 percent gain for the benchmark
Israeli TA-25 index. Salesforce.com, whose unit force.com is
Magic’s main competitor in cloud computing, has risen 71 percent
in the same time period.  In April, Magic increased its holding in  South Africa ’s
Magix Integration (Pty) Ltd., to 75 percent, after buying 51
percent of the distributor in December. Magix won a contract
with New Reclamation Group Ltd. in June.  Bernstein said acquisitions will continue to be part of the
strategy, adding that Magic is currently talking to different
companies. He declined to be specific.  Two Kinds  “We are looking at two kinds of companies, one is pure
technology that is complementary,” he said, mentioning mobile
technology as one area. “The other companies are service
companies that have a nice install base of customers.”  Half of Magic’s revenue comes from the U.S., 30 percent
from  Europe , and about 12 percent from  Japan , Bernstein said.  “The U.S. is an interesting market because it isn’t stable
and you can find reasonable opportunities pricewise,” he said.  The company said on July 7 that it intends to announce that
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  partners will soon be able to use its system to
integrate the SharePoint business, which makes about $1.3
billion a year, with the JD Edwards & Co. software from Oracle
Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  