-- 
Thai Commerce Ministry May Take Legal Action on Total Access

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-07-11T12:14:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/thai-commerce-ministry-may-take-legal-action-on-total-access.html
Thailand ’s commerce ministry may ask
the police to pursue a case against  Total Access Communication
Pcl (DTAC)  over allegations the nation’s second-biggest mobile-phone
company breached foreign-ownership limits.  Deputy Commerce Minister Alongkorn Ponlaboot said today he
ordered the ministry’s Business Development Department to refer
the case to the police after a ministerial committee found
“credible information” that seven Thai companies hold Total
Access shares on behalf of foreign investors. The department
must report on its progress by July 19, he said.  The Business Development Department is at odds with
Alongkorn over whether to proceed with the case. Banyong
Limprayoonwong, the department’s head, said today the deputy
commerce minister doesn’t have the authority to order a police
probe.  Alongkorn is part of the Democrat-led caretaker government
that lost Thailand’s July 3 election to Yingluck Shinawatra’s
Pheu Thai Party. Shin Corp., the holding company founded by
Yingluck’s brother  Thaksin Shinawatra  that controls mobile-phone
company  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , faced similar accusations in
2006 after Thaksin’s family sold its shares to a group led by
Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte. International investors aren’t
allowed to own more than 49 percent of a Thai telecommunications
company.  Total Access said in the statement today it complies with
Thai laws and regulations, and hopes the investigation will be
transparent and unbiased. Its business, customers and trading
partners won’t be affected by any investigation, the company
said.  The ministry began the probe last month after True Corp.
Pcl, the third-biggest mobile operator, filed a complaint
against Total Access.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  