-- 
Thailand May Extend Rate Increases After Vote

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-07-11T17:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/thailand-may-extend-rate-increases-on-inflation-risks-after-vote.html
Thailand will probably raise
 interest rates  for the sixth straight meeting as spending
pledges by incoming leader Yingluck Shinawatra add pressure on
the central bank to rein in inflation.  The Bank of Thailand will boost its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.25
percent, according to 23 out of 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a decision due at 2:30 p.m. in Bangkok
tomorrow. The country has raised borrowing costs the most times
among major Asian economies after  India , with seven rate
increases in the past year.  Yingluck has pledged to raise wages, cut taxes and give
away tablet computers to boost the economy, plans that may spur
inflation and cause friction with the Bank of  Thailand ,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The central bank may be
more inclined to tighten monetary policy after the July 3
election passed without significant protests in the nation of 67
million, which has had nine coups and more than 20 prime
ministers since King Bhumibol ascended the throne in 1946.  “We currently expect monetary tightening to end later this
year, but the risk that the central bank’s work continues into
2012 is growing,” said Sukhy Ubhi, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “The fact that Pheu Thai’s election
win has so far been peacefully accepted bolsters our view that
the Bank of Thailand will hike the rate.”  Boost for Stocks  Thai stocks and the currency have risen since Pheu Thai’s
victory, with the benchmark SET Index climbing 3.4 percent this
month while the baht gained 1.5 percent over the period.
Yingluck, the youngest sister of  Thaksin Shinawatra  who was
ousted as premier in a 2006 coup, convinced five other parties
to join Pheu Thai in a coalition, strengthening her party’s hold
on power.  Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last
month he hoped the populist policies promoted by candidates
during the election campaign “will be toned down when they come
into force.” Thailand’s consumer prices climbed 4.06 percent in
June from a year earlier, near the 4.19 percent pace in May that
was the fastest in 32 months.  Only one of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg expects
the central bank to refrain from raising rates this week.  Thai law states that the central bank “must be able to
work independently,” according to the  bank’s website .  Monetary
policy  is decided by a seven-member committee comprising three
central bank officials and four external members who are either
academics or former senior government officials with economic
experience, according to the Bank of Thailand.  Government ‘Influence’  Prasarn was selected from a list of four candidates by
caretaker Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  in 2010 for a five-
year term. Under a revised law that took effect in 2008, a
governor can only be removed by the Cabinet in the event of a
serious failure on the job, damage to the governor’s reputation
or because of corruption, according to the bank’s website.  “The government may try to influence the central bank, but
it won’t be easy to intervene directly like in the past,” said
Pornthep Jubandhu, an economist at Siam Commercial Bank Pcl.
“The new law helps shield the governor and support the central
bank’s independence.”  The Bank of Thailand’s efforts to tame prices with higher
borrowing costs may lead to “tensions” with the government,
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse, said last week.  Yingluck, who is set to become Thailand’s first female
prime minister, last week asked for more time to formulate
detailed policies. She said her party is studying how it can
implement its policies “both on the spending and on the revenue
side.” Pheu Thai pledged rice-price guarantees, high-speed
trains, dams and the construction of a new city before the
election.  Threat to Exports  Yingluck also plans to reduce the corporate  tax rate  to 23
percent from 30 percent “at the same time as” boosting the
minimum daily wage to 300 baht ($9.90), a 99 percent increase in
some parts of the country.  Companies including  Banpu Pcl (BANPU) , Thailand’s biggest coal
producer, and Hana Microelectronics Pcl, the biggest
semiconductor packager, have raised concern that higher wage
costs may combine with rising borrowing costs and a stronger
currency to drive up costs and reduce overseas sales.  “The government should talk to the private sector,”
Chanin Vongkusolkit, chief executive officer of Banpu, said on
July 8. “There are hundreds of thousands of companies out there
which will be affected. If we don’t ask them about something
that will affect them, it may be a problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  