-- 
Alcoa Profit May Double on Aluminum Demand

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-07-11T13:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/alcoa-profit-may-double-as-airbus-to-gm-drive-aluminum-demand.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, may say second-quarter profit more than
doubled as customers from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to Airbus SAS
helped drive demand for the lightweight metal.  Profit excluding one-time items rose to 33 cents a share,
from 13 cents a year earlier, according to the average estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The New York-based
company, which is typically the first in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report earnings, will report after the
close of the market today.  Aluminum prices averaged 24 percent higher on the London
Metal Exchange in the quarter as usage soared in  China , the
biggest consumer. Alcoa Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld 
is forecasting global demand will increase by 12 percent in 2011
and double by the end of the decade as Asian countries build
more office blocks and buy more aircraft, cars and trains.  “Anything transportation is strong,” Lloyd O’Carroll, an
analyst at Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia , who has a
“neutral” recommendation on Alcoa, said in an interview.
“That’s a major driver.”  Alcoa fell 34 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $16.04 at 9:39 a.m.
New York time in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares advanced 47 percent in the past 12 months, the third-best
performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Sales advanced 22 percent to $6.31 billion in the second
quarter, according to the average of seven analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Aluminum for immediate delivery on the
LME averaged $2,600 a metric ton in the quarter, up from $2,092
a year earlier.  Demand Doubling  Mike Belwood, an Alcoa spokesman, declined to comment
before the earnings were released.  The company’s aerospace revenue was $2.9 billion in 2010,
compared with total sales of $21 billion. Worldwide shipments to
the  aerospace industry  will increase 15 percent in 2011,
according to O’Carroll. Auto sales will gain 9 percent while
cars’ aluminum content will grow by 1.5 percent a year as
manufacturers replace steel with the lighter metal, he said.  European Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co.’s Airbus, and
Boeing Co. are increasing production of narrow-body aircraft to
reduce the backlog of customer orders. Alcoa said June 24 it
agreed to a multiyear aluminum supply contract with Airbus
valued at about $1 billion. AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  is
discussing an order of as many as 280 new narrow-body jets in a
deal that may set an industry record, in talks with Airbus and
Boeing, two people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Alumina Contracts  GM has expanded factories this year and has announced plans
to invest $2 billion over the next four years as the company
adds new models. The Detroit-based company’s sales are up 17
percent through June this year.  Alcoa produced 889,000 tons of aluminum in the first
quarter. The company’s second-quarter shipments of the metal
should be higher, Michael F. Gambardella, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a June 22 note.  The aluminum company benefitted in the quarter from more
advantageous alumina sales contracts, according to  Charles Bradford , president of Bradford Research.  Alcoa company makes alumina, a raw material used in
aluminum smelting, and sells the output it doesn’t need. It
plans to sell all of its alumina based on spot prices by 2015,
ending the use of traditional supply contracts that peg the raw
material at a fixed percentage of the LME metal price.  In the first quarter, 20 percent of alumina customers were
pegged to spot or indexed alumina prices, Kleinfeld said in
April.  Higher Costs  Still, aluminum production costs increased in the second
quarter. The weakness of the dollar against currencies where
Alcoa has foreign operations lifted costs by as much as 2 cents
per pound of aluminum compared with the preceding three months,
Brian Yu, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  San Francisco , said in
a July 6 note. Smelting costs rose to $1.07 a pound from $1.04
on higher prices for coke and pitch, raw materials used in
aluminum production, and for electricity, Yu said.  “Costs are kind of playing catch up,”  Jorge Beristain , a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said
in an interview. “I don’t think it’s derailing the thesis for
Alcoa. I think they should be able to push up higher volumes in
coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 