-- 
Alcoa Profit Doubles as Aluminum Price Gain Outweighs Costs

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-07-12T20:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/alcoa-profit-doubles-as-aluminum-price-gains.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, said second-quarter profit more than doubled
after higher prices for the lightweight metal outweighed
increasing raw-material costs.  Net income rose to 28 cents a share from 13 cents a year
earlier, New York-based Alcoa said yesterday in a statement.
Earnings excluding $38 million of restructuring and debt tender
offer costs and other one-time items were 32 cents a share,
missing the 33-cent average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 27 percent to $6.59 billion, exceeding
the $6.31 billion average estimate of seven analysts.  “The market should be pleased that Alcoa is still showing
these strong year-on-year trends, and that we did not see them
retrench on a quarter-over-quarter basis on the net income
line,”  Jorge Beristain , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview with  Carol Massar  and
 Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” Alcoa
earned 27 cents a share in the first quarter.  Aluminum prices have advanced in the past year in  London  as
usage soared in  China , the biggest consumer, and demand from the
U.S. automotive and aerospace industries improved. Alcoa Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  reiterated his forecast for
global demand to increase by 12 percent in 2011 and double by
the end of the decade as Asian countries build more office
blocks and buy more aircraft, cars and trains.  Shares Drop  Alcoa, traditionally the first company in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to report earnings, fell 20 cents to $15.71
as of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Alcoa’s U.S. shares advanced 45 percent in the past 12 months,
the fourth-best performer in the Dow Jones.  The cost of goods sold -- excluding selling, general
administrative and some other expenses -- increased 25 percent
to $5.25 billion on rising prices for electricity,  fuel oil ,
caustic soda and carbon products.  “We’re growing both margins and profitability faster than
revenue,” Chief Financial Officer Chuck McLane said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday. “We’re taking firm
actions to combat energy and raw-material inflation.”  Alcoa’s primary-aluminum production will increase by 30,000
metric tons in the third quarter, the company said in a
 presentation  posted on its website. The primary-aluminum unit
will also see energy costs rise by $33 million in the quarter.  ‘Cost Pressures’  Brian Yu, a San Francisco-based analyst for Citigroup Inc.,
lowered his estimate for 2011 per-share earnings to $1.21 from
$1.25 and for 2012 to $1.35 from $1.43.  “We continue to see risk to consensus estimates due to
cyclical cost pressures in refining and smelting,” he said in a
note yesterday.  After “blistering” growth in 2010, Chinese automotive
demand for aluminum faces “headwinds” because of disruption
caused by the Japanese tsunami in March and the end of Chinese
government incentives, Kleinfeld said on the call. Growth will
be 5 percent to 8 percent, he said.  The slowest of Alcoa’s markets is construction in  Europe 
and  North America , Kleinfeld said. Construction is “pretty much
dead” in those markets and “we do not see that moving up.”  Globally, aerospace demand will climb 7 percent this year,
automotive will gain 4 percent to 8 percent, and commercial
construction will rise 1 percent to 3 percent, Alcoa said.  Alcoa’s primary-aluminum output rose 5.8 percent to 945,000
tons in the second quarter from a year earlier. Its average
realized price increased 23 percent to $2,830 a ton.  Aluminum for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange rose $14 to $2,492 a ton as of 4:34 p.m. New York time.
The metal has advanced 26 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  