-- 
Allergy’s Silver Lining Is Found as Scientists See Reduced Risk of Cancer

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-07-11T22:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/allergies-may-protect-against-some-cancers-researchers-find.html
People suffering from  contact
allergies  may be less at risk of developing certain tumors,
researchers found.  Scientists who scoured data from almost 17,000 Danish
adults tested for allergies and a national cancer register found
that people with adverse reactions to common metals and
chemicals were less likely to get skin and breast cancers. The
research was published today in the open-access online medical
journal  BMJ Open .  The research backs up a theory known as immunosurveillance
hypothesis, which says people with allergies have immune systems
that are more vigilant at patrolling the body and eliminating
transformed cells, reducing the risk of cancer.  “When you have an allergy, it appears that you have a more
focused immune system,” Kaare Engkilde, a senior researcher at
Denmark’s  National Allergy Research Center  and the study’s lead
author, said in a telephone interview. There may also be no
causal link between allergy and cancer, the authors wrote.  In the research, of the 6,000 people who tested positive
for at least one allergen at a hospital specializing in skin
problems, about 1,200 also developed a growth, including non-
cancerous tumors. The most common triggers for contact allergy
include fragrances, perfumes and nickel, according to the  Asthma
and Allergy Foundation of America .  Engkilde and his colleagues found “significantly lower
rates” of  breast cancer  and of non-melanoma skin cancer in both
men and women, and lower rates of  brain cancer  among women. The
scientists also observed a higher incidence of bladder cancer in
those with allergies, possibly because more chemical remains
accumulated in their blood, Engkilde said.  “It appears that there is an inverse association with
contact allergies to some of the more typical cancer types,” he
said. “With bladder cancer there seems to be an increased
effect.”  The study did not account for smoking, which may increase
the risk of developing contact allergies to nickel as well as
some types of cancer, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  London  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  