-- 
Amended News Corp. Lawsuit Says Hacking Claims Show ‘Culture Run Amuck’

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-11T19:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/amended-news-corp-lawsuit-says-hacking-claims-show-culture-run-amuck-.html
Allegations of phone hacking at  News
Corp. (NWS) ’s News of the World show a “culture run amuck” and
indicate the board “provides no effective review or oversight,”
Amalgamated Bank of New York said in an amended lawsuit.  Amalgamated, as a trustee for funds through which it holds
almost 1 million  News Corp. (NWSA)  shares, sued the directors on behalf
of the company in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington in
March. The bank accused Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch 
of nepotism in the purchase of Shine Group Ltd., his daughter’s
U.K.-based television production company.  News Corp. announced last week that it would shut down the
News of the World, the U.K. tabloid that had run stories about
celebrities, sex scandals and murders since the Victorian era,
amid claims that employees hacked into the voice mail of murder
and terrorism victims and bribed police. The paper published its
final edition on July 10.  “These revelations should not have taken years to uncover
and stop,” according to an amended complaint filed July 8 and
made public today. “These revelations show a culture run amuck
within News Corp. and a board that provides no effective review
or oversight.”  Murdered Schoolgirl  Allegations that messages left on a murdered schoolgirl’s
mobile phone were intercepted caused a public outcry that
prompted Prime Minister  David Cameron  to launch an independent
inquiry into the matter. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, competes with News Corp. units in providing financial news
and information.  The close relationships between Murdoch and former News of
the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson  make it
“inconceivable” that Murdoch and other board members wouldn’t
have been aware of news-gathering methods at the newspaper,
although New York-based News Corp.’s board “took no real action
to investigate the allegations until July 7,” according to the
amended complaint.  Teri Everett, a News Corp. spokeswoman in New York, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  The case is Amalgamated Bank v. Murdoch, CA6285, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 