-- 
AMSC Restating Results, Recognized Revenue Before Getting Paid

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-11T21:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/amsc-restating-results-recognized-revenue-before-getting-paid.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a
U.S. maker of wind-turbine components, said it will restate
financial statements for the second and third quarters of fiscal
2010 because it recognized revenue before receiving payments
from customers in China.  Revenue was about $98 million in the second quarter, ended
Sept. 30, and $43 million in the third quarter, ended Dec. 31,
the Devens, Massachusetts-based company said today in a
statement. Revenue for the full fiscal year is expected to be
$307 million.  The quarterly sales figures together are about 35 percent
lower than the $101.5 million American Superconductor initially
reported for the second quarter and $114.2 million for the
third. The company said those reports “should no longer be
relied upon.”  American Superconductor said it “had previously recognized
revenues in the second and third fiscal quarters based upon
customer receipt of shipments but prior to its receipt of
payment for such shipments,” according to the statement. The
company “has determined that revenues associated with unpaid
shipments to certain Chinese customers” should not be
recognized until it is paid.  The turbine component maker said in April that Beijing-
based Sinovel Wind Group Co., its largest customer, had refused
to accept contracted shipments, and that it expected to report
full-year revenue of less than $355 million.  American Superconductor said in May it would delay filing
its annual report while it reviewed revenue from customers in
 China . It has not yet filed its full-year report and plans to
file restated financial statements “as soon as practicable,”
according to the statement.  American Superconductor fell 50 cents, or 5.5 percent, to
$8.53 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. After-market trading
was halted on the news, which was released after the close of
regular U.S. trading. The shares have dropped more 70 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 