-- 
An 18-Wheeled Victory for Mexican and American Free Trade: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/an-18-wheeled-victory-for-mexican-american-free-trade-negotiations-view.html
Last week’s resolution of a long-
simmering dispute between the U.S. and  Mexico  over long-haul,
cross-border trucking represents a milestone in the economic
integration of North America.  By itself, the trucking deal, a three-year pilot program,
is a modest gain for free trade. But it brings the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  to a satisfying, if tardy,
conclusion at a time when ratification of other trade deals with
Colombia, Panama and  South Korea  is delayed in Congress.  Although NAFTA came into effect 17 years ago, the trucking
deal was bogged down by concerns over border security and by
opposition from the  Teamsters Union  and independent truckers who
fear their jobs will be jeopardized by low-wage Mexican
competition. Neither point is irrational -- the cross-border
drug trade is thriving and Mexican long-haul truckers commonly
earn about half the wages of their U.S. counterparts. Perhaps in
deference to such fears, the Obama administration announced the
agreement with little fanfare.  The tentativeness was unwarranted. In the long run, the
trucking agreement will help to knit together the countries of
 North America . It will reduce friction in the movement of goods,
increasing trade and economic activity on both sides of the
border. Since Mexico joined the U.S. and  Canada  in NAFTA in
1994, merchandise trade among the three partners has more than
tripled to almost  $1 trillion annually . U.S. potato farmers,
along with producers of pork, cheese and other goods, are now
looking forward to reduced Mexican tariffs with the resolution
of the trucking deal.  Higher wages and wider prosperity in Mexico are very much
in the U.S. national interest. Canada has only one-third the
population of Mexico, yet because of its relative affluence, it
is the U.S.’s top trading partner. The easiest way to ease
thorny issues like illegal immigration from Mexico -- and even,
to some degree, drug violence -- is for Mexico to grow its way
out of them.  The end of the trucking dispute will help. Transporting
goods across the Mexican border is a complicated business,
involving customs brokers, warehouses and lengthy inspections
for drugs and illegal immigrants. Under the current system,
Mexican truckers haul their merchandise to the border, where a
transfer truck takes it across. A U.S. truck picks it up on the
American side. In time it will be possible for a Mexican driver
to haul goods directly from any Mexican city straight through to
Phoenix or even all the way to  Boston . (They will be prohibited
from handling shipping within the U.S.) Such efficiencies will
yield savings to U.S. businesses and consumers.  American trucking companies have already begun partnering
with Mexican companies in anticipation of the change. For the
program to be successful, and engender support for future trade
deals, provisions requiring Mexican truckers to meet U.S. safety
standards regarding hours on the road, licensing, drug testing
and vehicle safety must be enforced.  As this system evolves, it may also yield surprises. To
qualify for service on U.S. roads, for example, Mexican drivers
will have to learn rudimentary English and the laws of U.S.
highways, which may drive up their wages. Critics of the deal
point out that while Mexican truckers will benefit, U.S.
truckers are loath to travel into Mexico. The country lacks the
smooth roads, fueling stations and accommodations available in
the U.S., and has the added disincentive of violent drug gangs.
Trade agreements inevitably disrupt some segment of workers or
industry. But cross-border trucking will gradually evolve over
many years, providing time for the small number of U.S. truckers
hurt by the deal to adapt.  NAFTA has not been a painless process. But it has laid the
foundation for improved  living standards  among its members. The
trade deals with Colombia, Panama and South Korea will do the
same, and deserve congressional ratification, now that the
trucks are hitting the road.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 