-- 
Manhattan Office Leasing Up 34% From First Half of 2010, CB Richard Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-11T21:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/manhattan-office-leasing-up-34-from-last-year-cb-richard-ellis-says.html
Manhattan  office leasing is up 34
percent from last year as deals for large blocks of space helped
drive down the availability rate, according to  CB Richard Ellis
Group Inc. (CBG)   Almost 15.7 million square feet (1.46 million square
meters) of leases were completed in the first half of the year,
or 4 million more than the same period in 2010, the world’s
biggest commercial real estate services firm said in a report
today. Agreements by  Conde Nast  Publications Inc. and law firm
Morrison Foerster LLP to anchor new buildings at 1 World Trade
Center in lower Manhattan and 250 West 55th St. in Midtown,
respectively, were among the biggest deals.  Companies such as Google Inc., lured by  New York ’s young
and creative talent pool, are setting aside concerns about a
lagging national economy to enter and expand in the market,
Peter Turchin, CB Richard Ellis’s executive vice president, said
in a telephone interview.  “You’re seeing New York as a place where almost every
company is saying we have to be in, and a market we can’t
avoid,” he said. “If we want to recruit the best and the
brightest, those people are in New York.”  Google, the  Mountain View , California-based owner of the
world’s most popular search engine, agreed in December to pay
$1.8 billion for 111 Eighth Ave. to expand its New York base of
operations.  Rebound in Demand  A rebound of the  New York City ’s financial industry from
the 2008 credit crisis has helped drive demand for  office space .
The city’s unemployment rate was 8.6 percent in May, its lowest
point in more than two years and below the national average of
9.1 percent that month, the state Department of Labor said on
June 16.  Manhattan’s office availability rate, defined as all space
being marketed for occupancy within the next 12 months, was 11.3
percent at the end of June, down from 14 percent a year earlier,
Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis said. The average rent sought
by landlords rose 9.1 percent to $51.93 a square foot.  Conde Nast, publisher of Vogue, the  New Yorker  and 16 other
magazines, agreed in May to move from its Times Square
headquarters in Midtown to about 1 million square feet at 1
World Trade Center, slated for completion in 2013.  Also in May, Morrison Foerster signed a deal to rent
180,000 square feet at 250 West 55th St. The agreement prompted
developer  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , the biggest U.S. office real
estate investment trust, to resume construction of a skyscraper
at the site.  Lower Manhattan  Office availability in lower Manhattan declined in seven of
the last eight months, to 11.3 percent in June, according to CB
Richard Ellis. Asking rents increased 2.2 percent from a year
earlier to $39.11 a square foot.  The firm’s data don’t include the 2.92 million square feet
at the World Financial Center listed for rent by landlord
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  decided
last month to retain only a fraction of the space it inherited
when it bought Merrill Lynch & Co., and subtenant Nomura
Holdings Inc. agreed to move its headquarters to Midtown. The
leases expire in 2013.  Demand for offices at the World Trade Center and World
Financial Center is so strong that “the majority of that space
will never hit the market, meaning it will never be
statistically listed,” Turchin said.  Newer Buildings  Downtown, still recovering from the destruction of the twin
towers almost 10 years ago, is on the verge of becoming the
market of choice for renters seeking the most technologically
advanced offices, Turchin said. About 35 percent of the area’s
buildings will be less than 35 years old in 2015, compared with
24 percent in Midtown. Almost 13 percent will be less than 15
years old, compared with 7 percent in Midtown.  CB Richard Ellis represents developer  Larry Silverstein  on
leasing 4 World Trade Center, a 2.3 million-square-foot
skyscraper, and 3 World Trade Center, an adjacent 2.8 million-
square-foot tower, both in progress at the Ground Zero site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  