-- 
Hannibal Lecter Hits East Village; Stratford-Upon-Park Avenue: N.Y. Stage

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-07-11T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/hannibal-lecter-hits-east-village-stratford-upon-park-avenue-n-y-stage.html
Effervescent as a summer tonic, “As
You Like It” arrives on the Upper East Side, where the  Royal
Shakespeare Company  has set up shop in the  Park Avenue Armory .  They’ve brought not only five works by the resident
playwright but a replica of its famed Courtyard Theatre at
Stratford-Upon-Avon. The vertiginous space is now taken up with
steep balconies and an orchestra that is actually a bit below
stage level, the result being a great intimacy with the actors.  That’s a good thing in the case of Shakespeare’s ever-
astonishing comedy. “As You Like It” manages to juggle
mismatched lovers, Sapphic cousins, exiled noblemen, rustic
vaudeville and ruminations on time and the stages of man, all
with equal verve and no small dose of melancholy. That it
happens in the Forest of Arden, where all these elements criss-
cross and intertwine, add to the growing sense of wonder and
merriment.  We have, at the center,  Orlando  (the tremendously appealing
Jonjo O’Neill), fleeing his greedy brother while searching for
his beloved, Rosalind (the irresistible, sexually flexible Katy
Stephens). She, in turn, has disguised herself as the male
Ganymede who ends up instructing Orlando on how to
woo...Rosalind.  Long-Limbed Fool  Strolling through the action is Jaques (Forbes Masson, with
rusted hair and dark blue eye shadow, a hilarious, guitar-
strumming wet blanket) and the lecherous fool Touchstone
(Richard Katz, long of limb and arching of eyebrow).  Director Michael Boyd, working on Tom Piper’s almost bare
white multilevel set, and with choreographer Struan Leslie,
heightens the play’s ants-in-pants electricity. Yet the themes
of displacement, longing and the search for identity simmer
below the surface, adding reflective depths to those glistering
surfaces. (Gerard)  “As You Like It” runs in alternating repertory through Aug.
14 at Park Avenue and East 67th Street. Information: +1-212-721-
6500;  http://www.lincolncenterfestival.org   Rating: ****  ‘Silence! The Musical’  After seeing “ Silence! The Musical ,” a parody of the 1991
hit film “Silence of the Lambs,” you may walk out of Theater
80 in New York’s Lower East Side sheepishly humming Hannibal
Lecter’s elegy to olfactory desire and Clarice Starling’s
private parts.  The title of the number is hilarious and, sadly, too vulgar
to appear here.  The plot hews closely to the movie, with visual gags
galore: Clarice (Jenn Harris) is an FBI trainee who interviews
the incarcerated cannibal psychiatrist Lecter ( Brent Barrett ),
hoping for help finding a serial killer who skins women.  Harris plays Clarice as a clueless, humorless southern
ingenue with an exaggerated lisp. Barrett’s grandiose Hannibal
recalls both  Anthony Hopkins ’s Hannibal and the phantom in
“Phantom of the Opera,” which Barrett has played in  Las Vegas .  Brothers  Jon and Al Kaplan  have written a grand score
that’s high-spirited and zany. Hunter Bell’s book is an amusing
skit, which at nearly two hours with intermission could be
trimmed.  What director and choreographer Christopher Gattelli does
with Scott Pask’s sets -- a few clothes racks and knickknacks --
is remarkable, whether it’s in a scene of Clarice jogging or the
lambs being silenced. The supporting cast members deftly play
countless characters, including those lambs, in white ears and
legwarmers.  The show debuted at the 2005  New York International Fringe
Festival , where any number of these sorts of spoofs have come
and gone. This one may be the most absurd of them all. It wears
its wrongness well. (Boroff)  Through Aug. 13 at 80 St. Marks Place. Information: +1-866-
811-4111;  http://www.silencethemusicalnyc.com   Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on this story:  Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 