-- 
Apple, Microsoft Group Wins Approval to Buy Nortel Patents

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-11T20:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/apple-microsoft-group-wins-approval-to-buy-nortel-patents.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , in a
joint venture called Rockstar Bidco LP, won court permission to
buy the patent portfolio of Nortel Networks Corp. for $4.5
billion after outbidding  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the biggest patent
auction in history.  In a joint hearing today, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross
in Wilmington,  Delaware , and Ontario Superior Court Judge
Geoffrey Morawetz in Toronto approved the sale of more than
6,000 patents and applications related to wireless and Internet
technology.  “This truly is a ‘wow’ transaction,” said David H. Botter, an attorney for the main committee of Nortel’s unsecured
U.S. creditors.  After Nortel filed for bankruptcy in 2009, it began selling
its businesses, raising about $3 billion before the June patent
auction. The patent portfolio was the last major asset Nortel
had to sell, and will boost creditor recoveries. The sale should
close within 30 days, Lisa Schweitzer, a bankruptcy attorney for
Nortel said in court today.  The winning group includes competitors-turned-partners of
Apple, such as Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., Nortel said in a statement.  The auction, held June 27 to June 30, involved 19 rounds of
bidding and began with an opening bid from  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
Schweitzer said. Before the auction, Google signed a contract to
be the so-called stalking-horse bidder with a guaranteed offer
of $900 million.  Breakup Fee  That offer, which entitles the Internet search company to a
breakup fee of $25 million plus expenses, was exceeded by Intel
when the auction started and then followed by more offers, some
in writing, some made orally, Schweitzer said.  Three companies and two groups competed in the first round
of bidding: Apple, Google, Intel, the initial Rockstar group
that didn’t include Apple, and Norpax LLC, a group led by
patent-buying company RPX Corp., according to court records
filed in Toronto.  The minimum increase in the bids rose from $5 million to
$100 million after the second round of bids. After five rounds
of bidding, Apple joined Microsoft as part of the Rockstar bid
and Intel dropped out, according to Canadian court records.  Google and Intel joined forces after eight rounds of
bidding and together stayed in the auction until the 19th round,
which was won by the Rockstar group.  Bonds Rise  Nortel’s bonds climbed after the auction results were
announced, with some selling for more than 100 cents on the
dollar. Nortel’s $450 million of 10.75 percent bonds that mature
in July 2016 closed today at 108.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s down slightly
from its close on July 8, when bonds hit almost 109 cents on the
dollar, their highest close since the company sold the debt in
January 2008.  Nortel’s 6 7/8 bonds due in 2023 fell 5.45 percent today to
73.75 cents on the dollar, according to Trace. On July 1, the
day that Nortel announced the auction results, the bonds more
than doubled, from 33 cents on the dollar to 69 cents on the
dollar.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  