-- 
HTC’s Flyer Tablet, Droid Accused of Infringing Apple Patents

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-12T05:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/apple-files-new-trade-complaint-against-htc-over-devices.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
maker of smartphones, was accused of infringing  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
patents in a case that may halt U.S. imports of the Taiwanese
company’s phones and its new Flyer tablet computers.  Apple claims HTC is infringing five patents related to
software architecture and user interfaces in portable electronic
devices, hardware for touch screens and movement sensors,
according to a complaint filed July 8 with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington. The complaint is
the second Apple has filed against Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC.  Apple has been using the trade commission, which has the
power to block products from the U.S. market, to pursue makers
of mobile phones that run  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system
and compete with its iPhone. With the filing of the complaint
against HTC, and one filed July 5 against Samsung Electronics
Co., Apple is expanding the battle to tablet computers that
challenge the market position of the iPad.  “HTC is dismayed that Apple has resorted to competition in
the courts rather than the marketplace,” said Grace Lei, HTC’s
general counsel. “HTC continues to vehemently deny all of
Apple’s past and present claims against it and will continue to
protect and defend its own intellectual property as it has
already done this year.”  Shares Fall  HTC shares lost 5.9 percent to trade at NT$925 as of 12:30
p.m. in Taipei, headed for their lowest close since Feb. 11,
after falling as much as their 6.9 percent daily limit. The
stock has added 2 percent this year, compared with a 5.2 percent
drop in the benchmark Taiex index. Apple lost 1.6 percent to
$354 in Nasdaq Stock Market Trading.  In March, HTC released the Flyer, its first tablet device
in the U.S. to rival Apple’s iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab. The
Flyer has a 7-inch screen and uses Android, while HTC’s second
tablet, called EVO View 4G, offers faster connections over
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s fourth-generation network.  The latest Apple complaint, which also names mobile phones
including the Droid Incredible, Wildfire, EVO 4G and Desire,
doesn’t list the EVO View tablet among the targeted products.  HTC agreed last week to buy S3 Graphics Co. for $300
million after the maker of video-game graphics chips won an
infringement ruling at the trade agency against Apple. HTC also
has its own patent complaint against Cupertino, California-based
Apple at the commission, with findings scheduled to be released
Sept. 16.  Ruling Expected  A trade commission judge is expected to issue a decision in
Apple’s earlier case against HTC on Aug. 5. Those findings are
subject to review by the full commission.  The newest case claims infringement of patents that cover
“groundbreaking technologies developed by Apple in conjunction
with the development of its innovative iPhone, iPad and iPod
touch products,” Apple said in the complaint.  Apple, which has accused competitors of “widespread
imitation,” also has patent battles at the trade agency with
Samsung Electronics and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., both
makers of Android-based phones. The Samsung complaint targets
both the Galaxy phone and Galaxy tablet computer.  Android is the most popular mobile-device operating system
in the U.S., accounting for 38 percent of the market in the
three months ended in May, according to Reston, Virginia-based
researcher ComScore Inc. Apple’s iOS, used in the iPad and
iPhone, made up 27 percent of the market.  Profit Beats Expectations  HTC reported on July 6 that sales and net income surpassed
analyst expectations for the second-quarter ending June 30,
after it released models with faster download speeds and better
displays. Both HTC and Apple more than doubled revenue from
mobile phones in the March quarter from a year earlier as they
race to offer their products in more markets globally.  Seeking to expand its patent portfolio, HTC said in April
it paid $75 million for wireless communications patents from ADC
Telecommunications Inc. According to the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s database, 171 patents have been assigned to
HTC. The most recent are two issued on July 5 for audio signal
processing and an electronic device with a user input device.  Apple, once best known for its Mac computers, now relies on
its iPhone for about 50 percent of sales and the iPad tablet for
12 percent, according to first-quarter figures compiled by
Bloomberg.  Public Issues  The commission issued a notice yesterday seeking
information on any public issues raised by the complaint. Such
requests have become standard, to allow the agency to determine
if an exclusion order should be granted should Apple win the
case.  Apple named HTC Corp., its U.S. unit HTC America Inc. and
Houston-based Exedea Inc., a fully owned subsidiary, in its
latest action.  The new complaint  is In the Matter of Portable Electronic
Devices and Related Software, Complaint No. 2828, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ). Apple’s earlier
case against HTC is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, The HTC case
against Apple is In the Matter of Portable Electronic Devices,
337-721, both ITC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  