-- 
Arch Shares Surged Before $1.2 Billion Lonza Sale Agreement

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-11T17:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/arch-shares-surged-before-1-2-billion-lonza-sale-agreement-2-.html
Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares soared
the most in two years last week before the company agreed to
sell itself to  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  for $1.2 billion.  Arch gained 21 percent to $42.17 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading last week, the biggest advance since the
period ending Nov. 28, 2008. The stock surged 11 percent on July
8 as more than 1.1 million shares changed hands, compared with
an average of 197,000 shares daily in the past three months.  “Any stock that trades up 11 percent for three days prior
to a weekend and gets taken over the following morning should
have any buyer expecting a call from the regulators,” said
Jamie Lissette, founder of  Hammerstone Group , a Westport,
Connecticut-based operator of online discussion forums for
investors.  John Nester , a spokesman for the Securities and Exchange
Commission in  Washington , declined to comment.  “We have a no-comment policy in general on questions
regarding formal investigations or inquiries,” said Dale Walter, a spokesman for Norwalk, Connecticut-based Arch.  Lonza, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , said today it agreed to
pay $47.20 a share in cash for Arch, 12 percent higher than the
closing price on July 8.  ‘No Rumor’  “It’s not up to us really to make any speculations about
it,” Lonza Chief Executive Officer Stefan Borgas said of the
stock price move on a telephone briefing with reporters. “The
fact is there was absolutely no rumor about Arch anywhere, there
was absolutely no rumor about Lonza anywhere. We really at the
end don’t know what happened.”  Arch shares rose in each of the four trading days last
week. The number of shares changing hands was also higher than
average on each of those days. The U.S. stock market was closed
July 4 for the Independence Day holiday.  The S&P 600 Specialty Chemicals Index increased 2.6 percent
last week, and rose 0.9 percent on July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 