-- 
Argentina Files Charges Against Research Company Over Inflation Reporting

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 
2011-07-11T18:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/argentina-files-criminal-charges-against-company-for-false-cpi-reports.html
Argentina  stepped up its pressure on
economists who say the government has underestimated inflation
in its official reports for more than four years by filing
criminal charges against research company M&S Consultores SA.  Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno filed charges
against M&S on July 8, saying the company stood to profit by
claiming prices in  South America ’s second-biggest economy are
rising faster than the 9.7 percent annual rate reported by the
national statistics institute. In February the government began
fining economists 500,000 pesos ($121,000) for saying prices
were rising as much as 25 percent per year.  “Inflation is the biggest vulnerability for the government
and they are trying to sweep it under the rug but with this they
are really sweeping it over the rug,” said  Boris Segura , a
Latin America strategist at Nomura Securities International in
 New York . “They are raising the profile on this issue. It’s a
real political miscalculation.”  Two calls and an e-mail to M&S Consultores director Carlos
Melconian weren’t immediately returned.  Analysts including former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna
say the government has underreported inflation since January
2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner  began changing
personnel at the national statistics institute in a bid to
“improve operations.” The government last year invited the
 International Monetary Fund  to visit the country to help create
a new inflation index.  ‘False’ Reports  “The false information generated by the consultant,
intended to benefit not only the company but agents in the
financial market who are clients of the company with
extraordinary profits, does damage to consumers and the state,”
according to a  statement  on the government’s website. “If M&S
was successful in convincing the community of the veracity of
its inflation, we would have an annual adjustment of between 12
percent and 23 percent over current values.”  “There is no foundation for these charges,” Mariano Lamothe, chief economist at Buenos Aires-based research company
Abeceb.com, said in an interview yesterday. “It’s an attempt to
silence the voices who since 2007 have said the government’s
reports are false. It’s another way to threaten economists.”  Tumbling Debt  Argentina’s inflation-linked bonds have fallen 11.7 percent
this year as the government fined economists and failed to react
to the recommendations made by the IMF in its report, which
wasn’t made public. Similar Brazilian debt has returned 3.5
percent this year.  Argentina’s inflation debt rallied 57 percent last year on
optimism the government would improve its reports after
Fernandez asked the IMF for help redesigning the  price index .
The government hasn’t said whether it will follow the
recommendations the IMF made in April.  “I don’t think it’s going to change the people’s
positioning a lot,” said Valentina Chen, a  fund manager  at
Aviva Investors in  London , which holds $2.5 billion in emerging-
market bonds, including Argentine debt. “It’s Argentina, we’re
pretty used to news like this.”  A group of congressmen released a report June 14 saying
prices rose 23.5 percent from a year earlier, basing their data
on the average estimates of eight analysts, all of whom face
fines if they publish their findings.  Lawmaker Challenge  Patricia Bullrich, one of 16 lawmakers in the 257-member
lower house to endorse the report, challenged Moreno at the time
to fine lawmakers in the same manner as economists.  “Let’s see if Moreno fines us now, let him come fine us,”
Bullrich said in an interview on Radio 10.  Graciela Bevacqua, who was fired in 2007 as head of the
consumer price index division at the statistics agency, was
assessed the maximum fine earlier this year. Other researchers
that have been punished include Buenos Aires-based Abeceb.com,
Finsoport and Estudio Bein & Asociados. Economia & Regiones SA,
based in  Buenos Aires , said March 16 it will stop releasing its
monthly price index because of “unjust persecution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  