-- 
Harvard, Wharton Battle Over Wine at Chateau Lafite Rothschild

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/harvard-wharton-battle-over-wine-at-chateau-lafite-rothschild-elin-mccoy.html
     July 11 (Bloomberg) - Baron Eric de Rothschild and 11 other
judges, in crimson velvet robes and matching hats, sweep into
the candlelit cellar at Chateau Lafite Rothschild.  Eight teams from the world’s top business schools and
universities wait at round tables, ready for a showdown of their
esoteric wine knowledge and tastebud skills.  Surrounding both at this 10th annual 20 Sur Vin wine
competition in a stone-pillared wine temple are dimly lit
barrels of very expensive red. The recently released futures
price for one bottle of 2010  Lafite  has climbed to $1,600.  I sit alongside a dozen observers, wrapping my shawl
against cellar chill.  The competition held last month before trade fair  Vinexpo ,
is organized by the  Commanderie du Bontemps , an association of
200 Medoc, Graves, Sauternes and Barsac chateaux, some of whose
owners are judges.  The aim is to ensure that future business leaders learn to
love -- and eventually spend money -- on Bordeaux’s great wines.
Today’s younger drinkers know less about this region than their
counterparts a generation ago. Many other places now make great
wine and, in the U.S., beginning wine lovers turn more to the
New World.  Multiple Guess  Two teams each come from  France  (Sciences Po Paris, SKEMA
Lille),  Europe  (Cambridge, Nyenrode Business university) and --
for the first time --  Asia  ( Chinese University of Hong Kong , NTU
Singapore) and the U.S. ( Harvard Business School , Wharton).  “Bonne chance,” says the grand master of the Commanderie,
Emmanuel Cruse, whose family owns Chateau d’Issan, before he
reads out the questions in English and French.  All teams do well answering part one’s 10 multiple choice
questions, like “What are flavonols?”  They struggle more with the second half’s 3-part blind
tasting. Example: Identify vintage, appellation, and comment on
the wine poured for your team.  Luckily, they can assume it will be a Left Bank Bordeaux.  “Use your imaginations,” urges Baron Eric. Each team’s
three tasters sniff, swirl, spit, confer; one puts his face in
his hands, searching for inspiration.  Hong Kong ’s Fergus Chau King Fung, 21, in black tie,
describes their wine as “absolutely a sleeping beauty,”
winning a few judges’ smiles, though the team misidentifies the
2002 Chateau Lagrange, from St. Julien, as a 2005 St. Estephe.  No team gets its wine right, but most offer passionate
commentary worth some of the maximum 10 points.  Trip to France  Silence reigns as results are tallied, trumpets sound (yes,
really), then the Baron announces the winner:  Harvard , with Hong
Kong only one point behind; Wharton and Nyenrode tie for third.  “We never expected to win, we just had fun with it,” says
Harvard’s Nicole Pereira, 26, who received her MBA in May and is
now associate brand manager for  Dom Perignon  in  New York .  Harvard wins a double-magnum of 1999 Lafite ($3,500), seats
at Vinexpo’s Chateau Haut-Brion press dinner and round-trip
tickets to Bordeaux on Air France. Pas mal!  Later, at dinner, we slurp oysters and sip a crisp, tangy
2007  Chateau Larrivet Haut-Brion  white at a long candlelit table
positioned between rows of polished wooden fermentation vats.  In between bites, last year’s co-president of Harvard
Business School’s Wine & Cuisine Society, Katy Andersen, 26,
fills me in on its history. Founded in 1997, it’s now the
largest club on campus, with 450 members and two tastings a
week. High demand for membership requires a lottery, though
those who grew up drinking first growths are shooed in.  Networking Socials  Clearly, MBA students feel they must know about wine.
Wharton’s club is 230-strong, Nyenrode’s 120.  “Our win will help us recruit more members,” says Chau
King Fung, chancellor of his fledgling 60-member Wine Society,
the first at any Chinese school.  Unlike the disciplined Wharton team, which holds weekly
sip-and-spit sessions using old black socks to hide labels,
Harvard practices informally, relying on networking. The Boston
Commanderie de Bordeaux, a society of collectors, tutored them
with wines from their personal cellars.  Andersen’s wine and food passion won her a job as a
gourmet food specialist with Lot18, a fast-growing online
retailer of wine and epicurean products, while third taster,
Christian Huot, 27, works for his family’s Cambodia-based
company Huotraco Ltd.  After grilled pigeon and astonishingly fresh and elegant
1983 Lafite from jeroboams, Baron Eric initiates a singing
contest with his rendition of “Le Sapeur Camember.” It’s a
love song based on the story of a brave comic book soldier he
read as a child.  Broadway Vet  Harvard and Wharton’s women follow with “Sweet Caroline”
and Hong Kong treats us to the Chinese national anthem.  To me, the vocal champ is Cambridge’s David C. Beall, an
American getting a degree in international relations. A major in
the U.S. Army Reserve, he served two tours in  Iraq  and one in
 Afghanistan , where, he says, the wine and food were definitely
not this good. He belts out “Almost Like Being in Love,” then
downs more Lafite to a chorus of bravos.  Musicians arrive, dancing breaks out, and at the end of the
evening Baron Eric and I are doing a two-step. “What I really
want them to learn,” he says, “is that Bordeaux is about fun
and pleasure.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 