-- 
Stocks, Euro, Spain Bonds Drop on Debt Concern; Treasuries Rise

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T21:53:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/asian-stocks-fall-euro-drops-australian-bond-risk-jumps-on-europe-crisis.html
Stocks sank the most since March
while Spanish 10-year bond yields topped 6 percent for the first
time since 1997 amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread.
The euro tumbled, while  U.S. Treasuries  rallied.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
tumbled 2.1 percent, the most in four months, as of 5 p.m. in
New York. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of default
swaps jumped to an all-time high as Italy’s stock index tumbled
to the lowest level in two years. The euro sank 1.7 percent to
$1.4029 and reached the weakest price since May. Oil fell 1.1
percent while yields on 10-year Treasuries posted the biggest
two-day drop in more than a year.  European finance chiefs clashed over how to dig  Greece  out
of its financial hole just as markets battered the bonds of
 Spain  and Italy, opening a new front in the debt crisis.  Alcoa
Inc. (AA)  began the second-quarter earnings season, reporting after
U.S. markets closed that profit more than doubled. President
 Barack Obama  said he won’t agree to a short-term extension of
the government’s debt limit and plans to continue meeting with
members of Congress every day until an agreement is reached.  “The size of Italy’s economy makes sovereign credit issues
there a much greater concern,” said Gary Flam, who helps
oversee $6.5 billion at Bel Air Investment Advisors. “Greece,
Portugal and Ireland are manageable given the small size of
those economies relative to the EU. Once you cross the threshold
into Spain and Italy, you’re taking a big step up. That’s a
major negative.”  S&P 500  Retreat  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1.8 percent 
after advancing 5.9 percent between June 24 and July 8, the
biggest two-week rally since October 2009. The index lost 0.7
percent July 8 after American employers added 83 percent fewer
jobs in June than economists forecast. U.S. equities have
rebounded after the S&P 500 lost 3.2 percent in May and June.  Alcoa slipped 2.9 percent in regular trading before
reporting earnings, becoming to first Dow Jones Industrial
Average company to do so for the second quarter. Earnings
excluding items were 32 cents a share, missing the 33-cent
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
increased 27 percent to $6.59 billion, exceeding the average
estimate of $6.31 billion from seven analysts.  Alcoa shares slipped to $15.82 at 5:48 p.m. in  New York 
after closing at $15.91.  Profits at companies in the S&P 500 will rise 13 percent in
the second quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, the smallest gain in two years.  Biggest Losses  Financial, raw-materials and energy companies led losses
among all 10 industry groups in the S&P 500, with Citigroup Inc.
losing 5.3 percent,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  down 3.2 percent and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  0.6 percent lower. Companies reliant on
economic growth have tumbled in the last two days after rallying
during the past three weeks.  News Corp. (NWSA)  slid 7.6 percent, the biggest drop in the S&P
500, to $15.48. The media company’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for pay-TV operator  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  faces a review by the top U.K. competition authority that
will take at least six months as a probe into phone hacking
widens.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield dropped 10 basis points to
less than 3 percent for the first time since June 28. The yields
have dropped 21.9 basis points over the past two days.  The euro weakened 1.7 percent to a near a record low versus
the Swiss franc. The dollar rallied versus 14 of 16 major peers,
climbing the most against the Swedish krona, Norwegian krone and
South African rand.  Oil, Cotton  Crude oil in New York fell 1.1 percent to $95.15 a barrel
and copper dropped 1.4 percent in New York. The S&P GSCI index
of 24 commodities retreated 0.8 percent, led by a 4.4 percent
decline in cotton.  Orange juice  lost as much as 2.4 percent, its
biggest decline since March 21. Gold rose to a two-week high,
advancing 0.8 percent to $1,554 an ounce.  President Obama held a press conference in  Washington 
today, his fifth public remarks on debt in a week, as he urged
Republican leaders to compromise on their opposition to tax
increases and achieve “the largest possible deal” to cut the
deficit. Obama resumed talks this afternoon with bipartisan
congressional leaders toward a compromise on reducing deficits
and raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling before the
government exhausts its borrowing authority on Aug. 2.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Italian and
Spanish 10-year bonds instead of German bonds rose to the
highest since the euro was introduced in 1999.  Italy , Greece  Credit-default swaps protecting Italian bonds rose 55 basis
points to an all-time high of 301, while contracts on Spain
jumped 28 basis points. The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond
climbed 41 basis points to 5.68 percent, the highest in more
than a decade. Yields on Spain’s 2-year bond increased 43 basis
points to 4.14 percent. Greek yields jumped 76 basis points to
29.72 percent, and its default swaps climbed 143 basis points.  “Both Italy and Spain are starting to look more
vulnerable,” said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen. “The fear is that this is going to continue as
the market starts focusing on the larger euro-region nations.”  The yield on 10-year German bonds declined 16 basis points
to 2.67 percent.  European leaders are prepared to accept that Greece should
default on some of its bonds as part of a new bailout plan for
the country that would put its debt levels on a sustainable
footing, the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified
senior officials. The  European Central Bank  is seeking advice
from a private lender on what to do in the event of a default in
the euro area,  Handelsblatt  said, without citing anyone.  End the Uncertainty  The EU has “got to put an end to the uncertainty
surrounding Greece and the contagion impact that that is
having,”  Andrew Bosomworth , a  fund manager  at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in an interview with  Owen Thomas  and Francine Lacqua
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.”  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 1.4 percent. Ageas, the
insurer formerly known as Fortis, and EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA,
Greece’s second-biggest bank, led losses among financial shares,
sliding more than 7.9 percent. Italian stocks fell to the lowest
level in two years, with declines in lenders UniCredit SpA and
Banca Sanpaolo Intesa SpA helping to push the benchmark FTSE MIB
index down 4 percent.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.8 percent, its
biggest decline in three weeks. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index retreated 2 percent, while  Russia ’s Micex Index sank 1.3
percent and  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index
slipped 0.7 percent. Turkey’s lira weakened 1.2 percent against
the dollar after data showed the current-account deficit more
than doubled in May from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  