-- 
Asia Currencies Fall, Led by Malaysian Ringgit, on Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-11T08:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/asia-currencies-fall-led-by-malaysian-ringgit-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and the Philippine peso, as signs the global
economic recovery is losing traction dimmed the outlook for
regional exports and damped demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index retreated from a
14-year high after a U.S. government report on July 8 showed
payrolls increased by 18,000 in June, less than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
 China ’s economy grew the least in almost two years last quarter,
a Bloomberg survey showed before the July 13 release of the data.
The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest economies.  “The outlook for Asian currencies isn’t that positive
today,” said Nick Verdi, a foreign-exchange strategist at
 Barclays Capital  in Singapore. “The negative international
factors are superseding some of the more positive domestic
determinants in the region.”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.1 percent as of 4:47
p.m. in  Hong Kong , having ended last week at the highest level
since August 2008. The ringgit declined 0.5 percent to 3.0100
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso slid 0.4 percent to 42.912 and  Thailand ’s baht
lost 0.3 percent to 30.32.  China’s economic growth slowed to 9.3 percent in the second
quarter from 9.7 percent in the first, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey before the data is released on
July 13. Malaysia’s industrial output fell 5.1 percent from a
year earlier in May following a 1.7 percent decline in April,
according to government data released today.  Rate Pause  The ringgit was headed for its biggest loss in two weeks
following the production figures.  Bank Negara  unexpectedly
refrained from raising its overnight policy rate on July 7,
citing higher downside risks to growth. Malaysian police
detained 1,697 people on July 9 as demonstrators rallied against
what they call unfair voting practices in the biggest protest
since 2007.  “Concern over the global slowdown and a pause in Malaysian
interest-rate rises contributed to the weakening of the
ringgit,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at
Alliance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “There’s no impact from the
street protest over the weekend.”  ‘Risk-Off Again’  The peso snapped a nine-day rally as the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index fell 0.4 percent.  “It’s risk-off again after data showed weakness in some
major economies,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila . “We’re also seeing some
mild correction in the peso after the rally.”  Thailand’s baht fell, retreating from a one-month high, on
concern the central bank will intervene to slow appreciation
that threatens export growth.  “Intervention is more likely now that there is concern
about external demand on data from China and the U.S.,” said
Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “A sharp gain in the baht is not
desirable.”  Data from the Bank of Thailand released on July 8 showed
foreign-exchange reserves rose 0.3 percent in the week ended
July 1 to $184.90 billion, the first gain in four weeks.  ‘Bit Skittish’  The won retreated from a three-year high, prompting Finance
Minister Bahk Jae Wan to say at a forum in  Seoul  today that the
government may take pre-emptive action against sudden changes in
capital flows if needed, while strengthening monitoring of
financial markets. Policy makers will use “smoothing
operations” to counter “herd behavior” in the  currency market ,
he said.  “The market turned a bit skittish after the U.S. job
market proved quite bad,” said Kim Sung Soon, a Seoul-based
currency trader with state-run Industrial Bank of  Korea . “After
last week’s good run, the won also needs to take some respite
before breaking through the psychological 1,050 level.”  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,058 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Elsewhere, the  Singapore  dollar slid
0.2 percent to S$1.2222 and  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent
to 8,529. China’s yuan was little changed at 6.4671.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 