-- 
At Least 65 Are Killed in Two Indian Train Crashes; Rescuers Search Wrecks

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-07-11T15:30:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/at-least-55-are-killed-in-two-indian-train-crashes-rescuers-search-wrecks.html
Rescuers searched the wreckage of
two Indian passenger trains that derailed in separate incidents,
leaving at least 65 people dead and more than 250 injured.  Fifteen carriages and the engine of the New Delhi-bound
Kalka Mail jumped the tracks near Malwa station, about 120
kilometers (75 miles) south of the city of Lucknow in Uttar
Pradesh state, at 12:20 p.m. yesterday,  North Central Railway 
spokesman Sandeep Mathur said by phone.  Emergency services  and local people worked throughout the
night to free trapped passengers from the damaged carriages. An
inquiry has been ordered into the cause of the derailment, which
accounted for all the fatalities in the two crashes, said
Mathur, adding that more than 200 injured people are being
treated in hospitals.  Local television channels, including the CNN-IBN network,
reported that the driver had applied the locomotive’s emergency
brakes as the train traveled at a speed in excess of 100
kilometers an hour.  India ’s 63,000-kilometer railway network,  Asia ’s oldest, is
frequently hit by fatal accidents.  Indian Railways  carries about
15 million people each day on 11,000 passenger trains, and 1.4
million tons of freight.  In the second accident, at least 50 passengers were injured
after six coaches of the Guwahati-Puri Express derailed
following a blast in the northeastern state of Assam late
yesterday.  India’s Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement today
that a television channel in Assam received an e-mail from a
group called the Adivasi People’s Army claiming responsibility
for the act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  