-- 
Australian Homes May Cost Banks $7.5 Billion in a Year, Deustche Bank Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-07-11T04:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/australian-homes-may-cost-banks-7-5-billion-in-a-year-deustche-bank-says.html
Australia ’s biggest banks may lose
about A$7 billion ($7.5 billion) from a 30 percent drop in  home
prices  and a 9 percent default rate, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Mortgages account for about 60 percent of lending at the
nation’s four largest banks, and Australian  house prices  are
likely to fall further, said Gus Medeiros, head of credit
research and strategy at Deutsche Bank, in a report. Still,
favorable macro conditions and monetary policy flexibility
reduce the risk of an excessive correction, he wrote.  Home prices  in Australia’s eight capital cities fell 0.3
percent in April, and decreased about 1.5 percent over the year
that ended April 30, according to figures from real estate
researcher RP Data. Mortgage defaults are also rising and the
number of properties listed for sale is rising, adding weight to
claims the nation is on the brink of a housing rout.  Deutsche Bank assessed  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in the report.  Commonwealth Bank spokesman Steve Batten, ANZ Bank
spokesman  Kevin Foley  and National Australia spokeswoman Meaghan
Telford didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and phone messages
seeking comment. Westpac Bank spokeswoman Jane Counsel directed
a request for comment to the group’s half-year results released
May 4, which detailed the quality of the bank’s mortgage book, a
reduction in “low-doc” lending and delinquencies that remained
below industry levels.  Basel Requirements  Australian banks have A$130 billion of bonds maturing in
the next 12 months, and may issue about A$144 billion of new
debt in the same period, according to the Deutsche Bank report,
authored by Sydney-based Medeiros and senior credit analyst
Colin Tan.  Tougher capital and liquidity requirements faced by the
lenders under the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s new
global standards are ”manageable,” they said.  Still, Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, National Australia Bank,
ANZ Bank and Macquarie Bank Ltd. face a A$223 billion “gap” as
they seek to meet Basel’s net stable funding ratio, with
National Australia Bank having the biggest shortfall, the
Deutsche Bank analysts wrote.  Stable funds are resources that banks can expect to have
for at least a year even in stressed market conditions, for
example term deposits and long-standing retail deposits.  The Basel measures, scheduled to become binding at the
start of 2018, will set a minimum amount of stable funds that
banks will have to use to finance different types of lending.  The banks face losses ranging from A$61 million in the
mildest scenario to A$41.7 billion in a year, the report said.
The smallest loss would result from a 1 percent default rate and
a 10 percent home-price decline, while the worst-case scenario
is based on a 15 percent default rate and a 60 percent plunge in
housing values, Deutsche Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  