-- 
Australia’s Carbon Tax Won’t Alter RBA Policy, McKibbin Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   J o h n   D a w s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T03:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/australia-s-carbon-tax-won-t-alter-rba-policy-mckibbin-says.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will
likely “see through” the inflation effects of a carbon tax
proposal announced yesterday by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ,
said economist  Warwick McKibbin , an RBA board member.  Gillard’s estimates of a 0.7 percentage-point rise in
inflation “sound about right to me and I think the central bank
will see through the price effects of this and it will have no
impact on policy,” McKibbin, a professor at  Australian National
University  in Canberra, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s largest airline, said it
will raise fares, and electricity and gas costs are likely to
climb after Gillard unveiled a tax on carbon dioxide emissions
and an increase in the excise on aviation kerosene. The central
bank, which aims to keep inflation in a range of 2 percent to 3
percent on average, will likely monitor broader price moves and
wage demands to ensure there isn’t a sustained inflation impact,
economists say.  “Evidence of persistently higher prices and wages could
add to the medium-term pressure for the RBA to lift the cash
rate in order to ensure inflation is consistent with target,”
said  Stephen Walters , chief economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
Sydney.  Australian inflation expectations increased to the highest
in a month, according to swaps linked to changes in consumer
prices. The rate on five-year inflation-linked swaps climbed to
2.95 percent as of 1:06 p.m. in Sydney, the highest since June 8,
from 2.89 percent on July 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Pause  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  on July 5 held the overnight
cash rate target at 4.75 percent, the seventh straight meeting
of inaction. He said consumer-price growth is expected to be
near the RBA’s target range in the next year.  Consumer prices in the first quarter were 3.3 percent more
than a year earlier, according to government figures on April 27.
First-quarter prices surged 1.6 percent from the previous three
months, the most in five years, as natural disasters boosted
food costs and Middle East unrest drove fuel bills higher.  A report on second-quarter consumer prices is scheduled to
be released July 27.  Inflation is likely to accelerate to a four-year high of 4
percent next year, assuming the majority of price adjustments
take place at the commencement of the carbon tax on July 1, 2012,
Roland Randall, an economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore ,
said in an e-mailed note.  ‘Upper Limit’  “Headline inflation rate is unlikely to fall from above
the 3 percent target band upper limit through 2013,” he said.  Qantas said the carbon price system would have an estimated
cost impact of about A$110 million ($118 million) to A$115
million on the Qantas Group in the financial year ending June 30,
2013. It plans to fully pass on the costs to customers, the
Sydney-based airline said in a statement today. The stock fell 2
percent at 11:35 a.m. in Sydney.  Brickworks Ltd. (BKW)  said it expects brick prices may rise as
much as 6 percent, according to a statement sent to the stock
exchange.  “I don’t think it’s going to destroy the economy, but the
problem is it’s potentially a very risky policy,” McKibbin said.
“It’s important that we have a carbon price in Australia. I
think this policy, though, is far from the best way to achieve
that goal.”  McKibbin, whose term on the central bank’s board ends July
30, said “the biggest risk it causes is the fiscal
uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dawson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 jrdawson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  