-- 
Bank of Ireland Wins Temporary EU Approval for State Support

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-11T14:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/bank-of-ireland-wins-temporary-eu-approval-for-state-support.html
Bank of Ireland Plc won temporary
European Union approval to receive as much as 5.35 billion euros
($7.5 billion) from the Irish government.  The European Commission  said  it expects the bank to submit
a new restructuring plan by the end of July before it can decide
on final approval for the aid.  “The commission agrees that the measures are necessary to
increase the bank’s solvency ratios and maintain confidence in
the Irish financial markets,” the regulator said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland, the country’s
two biggest lenders, will require “close surveillance” from EU
antitrust authorities because they will control the Irish market
after a banking crisis forced the government to bail out several
lenders, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last
month.  Bank of Ireland’s restructuring plan must show a return to
long-term viability, an “adequate participation” in the
restructuring costs by shareholders and subordinated debt
holders and measures to limit the harm to competition caused by
the state support, the EU said in the statement.  Dan Loughrey, a spokesman for Bank of Ireland in Dublin,
said the bank has already published some details of its
restructuring plan as part of its capital raising effort and he
had no additional comment.  Share Sale  Bank of Ireland plans to raise 1.91 billion euros in a
share sale as it tries to avoid state control. The government
has committed to underwriting the bank’s rights offering at 10
cents a share, for as much as 4.35 billion euros, and provide
another 1 billion euros of contingent capital.  Pat Molloy, the bank’s chairman, told investors at an
extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in Dublin today
that discussions with private equity investors for a stake in
the lender had “not totally gone away,” though a successful
conclusion to the talks hadn’t yet been achieved.  Depending on how many existing shareholders buy new stock
in the share sale, the government may own up to 70 percent of
the lender, Bank of Ireland said last week. The bank must raise
the bulk of the capital by the end of this month.  Bank of Ireland needs the capital to shore up its balance
sheet against mounting losses on bad loans and meet regulatory
targets. Already 36 percent state-owned, the lender has been
seeking to raise money from private investors to avoid becoming
the last domestic lender to fall under state control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  