-- 
Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Budi Rochadi Dies in New York, Analyst Says

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-07-11T10:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/bank-indonesia-deputy-governor-budi-rochadi-dies-in-new-york-analyst-says.html
Bank Indonesia  Deputy Governor Budi Rochadi died yesterday in New York, where he was visiting to
attend a conference on bank notes, the central bank said in a
statement on its website, without specifying a cause of death.  Rochadi died about 6:30 p.m. local time July 10, Anto Prabowo, an executive analyst at the central bank’s research and
bank regulation department, said in a mobile-phone text message
today.  Rochadi, who as deputy governor was responsible for
settlement systems among the country’s banks, was named to the
position by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in January 2007,
according to a biography posted on the central bank’s website.
He was 60, the biography says.  “Budi Rochadi’s death won’t have a significant impact on
Bank  Indonesia ’s operations as he focused on payment systems,”
said  Fauzi Ichsan , a Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard
Chartered Plc.  Bank Indonesia will hold its monthly policy meeting to
decide on its benchmark interest rate tomorrow as planned,
Muliaman Hadad, a deputy governor at the central bank, said by
telephone today.  Rochadi was born in Solo, Java, on March 24, 1951,
according to the central bank’s website. He graduated with a
Bachelor of Economics degree from the University of Gajah Mada,
Yogyakarta in 1975, and earned a Master of Economics from
 Michigan State University  in the U.S., according to the website.  He joined Bank Indonesia in 1975, and held positions as
head of Bank Indonesia Semarang, Indonesia Medan Leader Bank,
and Bank Indonesia’s head office in  Tokyo . Rochadi served as
senior director of bank supervision before being named a deputy
governor, according to the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  