-- 
Barclays Call Trades Jump in U.S. Before Stress Test Report

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-11T17:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/barclays-call-volume-surges-in-u-s-before-stress-test-results.html
Barclays Plc (BCS)  call-options volume
jumped to the highest since February in the U.S. as investors
bet that the second-largest U.K. bank by assets will rebound
from a two-year low as European lenders prepare to release
stress-test results July 15.  More than 17,000 calls to buy Barclays American depositary
receipts changed hands, 10 times the four-week average and 10
times the number of puts to sell. The shares tumbled 5.5 percent
to $14.93 as of 1:50 p.m. in  New York , heading for the lowest
close since May 2009. July $15 calls, which expire at the end of
this week, were the most-traded options.  “Traders began bidding up calls as shares hit multiyear
lows,” said Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-
based provider of options-market analytics. “They’re looking
for snapback move.”  European regulators trying to end the region’s banking
crisis are forcing firms to publish details of capital
shortfalls in a more detailed set of stress tests that will give
firms six months to plug any gaps. Lenders must disclose capital
levels, profitability estimates and holdings of sovereign debt,
the London-based European Banking Authority said in a statement
July 8.  Regulators will publish the test results at about 6 p.m.
Central European Summer Time on July 15. EU finance ministers
will discuss the tests at a meeting in Brussels tomorrow,
according to an agenda posted on the EU’s website.  “Call buyers may be bottom fishing in Barclays,”  Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based
provider of options-market data and analytics, wrote in a note
to clients. Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices,
for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days surged 25 percent
to 45, “one of the most extreme spikes among financials,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 