-- 
Becton, Dickinson & Co., Bayer, OpenMind, Invenergy: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-11T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/becton-dickinson-co-bayer-openmind-invenergy-intellectual-property.html
Becton, Dickinson & Co. won a
partial appeal of a $5 million patent-infringement verdict that
favored  Retractable Technologies Inc. (RVP)  on technology used to
protect health-care workers from accidental needle sticks.  Becton’s 3-milliliter Integra syringe doesn’t infringe
Retractable’s patents, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  said in a decision July 8 that reverses
part of a 2009 jury verdict. The court upheld the remaining
portion of the jury’s finding, that Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-
based Becton’s 1-milliliter Integra product does infringe.  Becton no longer sells the smaller syringe “so there is no
impact to our customers,” said Liz Ryan Sax, a spokeswoman for
the company. Little Elm, Texas-based Retractable sued in June
2007, claiming Becton used its innovations without permission.
The patents cover Retractable’s VanishPoint-brand syringes,
which contain spring-loaded needles, according to the complaint.  A federal jury in Marshall,  Texas , found that both devices
infringed Retractable’s patents, and awarded $5 million as
compensation. U.S. District Judge David Folsom later told Becton
to stop using the technology, an order that was put on hold
pending outcome of the appeal.  Retractable’s product has a feature in which pushing the
plunger after the injection is complete releases the needle
holder from a retaining ring so that it retracts back into the
syringe body without coming into contact with a health worker,
court papers show.  In finding the 3-milliliter Integra doesn’t infringe two
Retractable patents, the Federal Circuit said the inventions are
limited to a one-piece structure, while the Becton syringe has
multiple parts.  “I understand how a perfectly competent trial judge can be
persuaded by the siren song of litigation counsel to give the
jury wide scope regarding what is claimed,” Circuit Judge S.
Jay Plager wrote. “But it is a song to which courts should turn
a deaf ear if patents are to serve the purposes for which they
exist, including the obligation to make full disclosure of what
is actually invented, and to claim that and nothing more.”  The case is Retractable Technologies Inc. v. Becton,
Dickinson & Co., 2010-1402, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Retractable Technologies Inc. v.  Becton Dickinson and Co. (BDX) ,
07cv00250, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Bayer’s Patent for Yasmin Revoked by  European Patent Office   The European Patent Office decided to revoke  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
formulation patent for the Yasmin group of contraceptives,
opening the company’s second-best-selling product to increased
competition.  An appeals board of the patent office annulled an earlier
decision that had rebuffed a challenge brought by  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Hexal unit, Bayer said in a statement on its website July 8.
Bayer will decide on possible next steps after studying the
reasons for the ruling, the company said.  “We are disappointed by the decision,” said Flemming
Ornskov, head of strategic marketing general medicine at Bayer
HealthCare Pharmaceuticals. “We remain confident that we can
maintain our European leadership position in women’s health-care
with innovative product launches.”  Bayer,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, had sales of 1.11
billion euros ($1.58 billion) with the Yasmin, Yasminelle and
Yaz birth-control pills last year, making them the company’s
biggest-selling drug after the multiple sclerosis treatments
Betaferon and Betaseron.  Generics of Yasmin and Yasminelle are already sold in some
markets including  Poland , Friederike Lorenzen, a Bayer
spokeswoman, said in an interview. It’s too early to speculate
about financial implications of the ruling, she said.  Apple Told to Pay $8 Million in Patent Trial Over IPod Playlists  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was told to pay closely held Personal Audio LLC
$8 million after a federal jury in Texas found that the maker of
iPod music players infringed patents for downloadable playlists.  Personal Audio, a patent licensing company with an office
in Beaumont, Texas, sued Apple in 2009 for $84 million in
damages, claiming infringement of two patents. The jury found
that the patents were infringed, and upheld their validity July
8, according to Personal Audio’s lawyer, Ron Schutz of
Minneapolis-based Robins Kaplan Miller & Ciresi LLP.  The inventions cover an audio player that can receive
navigable playlists and can skip forward or backward through the
downloaded list. Apple contended that it wasn’t using the
inventions, and that the patents were invalid.  The iPod generated $8.3 billion in sales last year for
Cupertino, California-based Apple, about 13 percent of its total
revenue.  The case is Personal Audio LLC v. Apple Inc., 09cv111, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Lufkin).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Lumber Liquidators Sues Connecticut Company for Infringing Marks  Lumber Liquidators Holdings Inc. (LL) , a seller of flooring
products, sued a Connecticut competitor for trademark
infringement.  Fox Flooring Inc. , of Bridgeport, Connecticut, is accused
of using trademarks for various floorings belonging to Toano,
Virginia-based Lumber Liquidators.  According to the complaint filed July 7 in federal court in
New Haven, Connecticut, Fox also has used on its website photos
and product descriptions belonging to Lumber liquidators. This
was done without permission, according to court papers, and
violates the Virginia company’s copyrights  Lumber Liquidators claims it has suffered irreparable harm
and that the public is confused by Fox’s actions.  The company asked the court to bar further infringement of
its trademarks and copyrights, and for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs. Claiming the infringement is
deliberate, Lumber Liquidators requested extra damages to punish
Fox Flooring for its actions.  Fox Flooring didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  Lumber Liquidators is represented by  Mark S. Gregory  of
 Martin Chioffi LLP  of  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The case is Lumber Liquidators Inc. v. Fox Flooring Inc.,
3:11-cv-01078-AWT, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut
(New Haven).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Adult-Film Company Claims Infringers Engage in Civil Conspiracy  OpenMind Solutions Inc., a maker of adult films, accused 39
unnamed defendants of committing a civil conspiracy to
distribute a film without authorization.  The unnamed defendants used the BitTorrent file-sharing
protocol to distribute OpenMind’s “Throated 30” film without
authorization, according to the complaint filed July 6 in
federal court in  San Francisco .  OpenMind acknowledged in its pleadings that the
decentralized nature of the BitTorrent protocol has stymied
efforts at combating copyright infringement.  “Because there are no central servers to enjoin from
unlawfully distributing copyrighted content, there is not a
primary target on which to focus anti-piracy efforts,” OpenMind
said in the complaint.  The decentralization that makes the BitTorrent protocol
“an extremely robust and efficient means of transferring
enormous quantities of data also acts to insulate it from anti-
piracy measures,” the film company said in court papers.  The conspiracy allegations flow from the nature of the
BitTorrent distribution protocol that “necessitates a concerted
action by many people in order to disseminate files,” according
to the complaint.  OpenMind argued that the unnamed defendants are properly
joined in one suit even if they weren’t engaged in one single
BitTorrent “swarm,” or data-sharing event, “because they have
contributed to the chain of data distribution due to their prior
involvement in like swarms.”  The film company asked the court to order the defendants to
halt their infringing behavior, and to find them liable to a
claim for civil conspiracy. Additionally, OpenMind seeks money
damages, and awards of attorney fees and litigation costs.  OpenMind is represented by Brett L. Gibbs of  Chicago ’s
 Steele Hansmeier PLLC . On its wefightpiracy.com website, the
firm lists the most pirated film of the week. On July 7 that
film was Ridley Scott’s “Robin Hood.”  The case is OpenMind Solutions Inc., v. Does 1-39, 3:“11-
cv-03311-MEJ, U.s. District Court, Northern District of
 California  San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Media Outlets Seek Access to Wind-Power Project Cost Data  Montana’s Public Service Commission agreed to keep
confidential price and cost information that was provided by
unsuccessful bidders for a wind-power project, the Billings
Gazette  reported .  Two media outlets objected, saying the information isn’t a
trade secret that should be protected, according to the
newspaper.  The two losing bidders -- Chicago-based Inveneregy Inc.’s
Invenergy Wind LLD and  Sagebrush Energy  of Jackson, Wyoming --
had asked that the commission to keep that information secret,
the newspaper reported.  The Gazette reported the media outlets are arguing that
because the winning bidder, Denver’s Compass Wind LLC, permitted
its information to be disclosed, the unsuccessful bidders data
isn’t a trade secret because it can’t be for one company and not
another.  IP Moves  Perkins Coie Adds Fish & Richardson’s Joseph Reid to IP Group  Perkins Coie LLP hired Joseph P. Reid for its IP practice
group, the Seattle-based firm said in a  statement .  Reid, a patent litigator, joins from  Boston ’s Fish &
Richardson PC. His areas of expertise include life sciences,
computer software and hardware, consumer electronics, video and
audio processing, pharmaceuticals, medical devices,
semiconductors, wireless networking, automotive systems and e-
commerce. Reid will practice in the firm’s  San Diego  office.  He has an undergraduate degree in biology from Duke
University, a master’s degree in physiology from the  University
of California  at Davis, and a law degree from Notre Dame
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 