-- 
Best Currency Forecasters Say Dollar Slump Coming to an End as Index Falls

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-11T14:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/best-currency-forecasters-say-worst-is-over-for-dollar-after-index-tumbles.html
The best currency forecasters say
the dollar’s 12 percent slide over the past year is coming to an
end as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis discourages bets against
the world’s reserve currency.  Led by Schneider Foreign Exchange Ltd., the five most-
accurate firms during the six quarters through June 30 as
measured by Bloomberg see the dollar trading at $1.42 per euro
on average by year-end, compared with $1.43 on July 8. Against
the yen, they predict the greenback will rise to 83 from 80.64.  While Moody’s Investors Service added to Europe’s woes last
week by lowering Portugal’s credit ranking to junk, the dollar
is regaining its status as a haven after the worst performance
over the past year among 10 developed-market currencies based on
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is up 5.9
percent from a 17-month low on May 4 against the euro.  “There’s not a lot of room left for it to weaken beyond
$1.50 to the euro, and we still see it recovering to about $1.40
by year-end,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider in London, who had an average margin of error of 5.05
percent across all currency pairs. “The risk of a disorderly
default is, for now, much higher in Europe than in the U.S.”  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are no longer
betting the dollar is going to collapse.  Wagers on a decline against peers including the euro, yen
and pound were 203,230 on July 5, data from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in Washington showed last week.
That’s down from 405,267 in March, the most since at least
November 2003.  “It’s difficult for the dollar to fall out of bed,” said
 Paul Mackel , director of currency strategy in London at HSBC
Holdings Plc, the eighth most-accurate forecaster. “The euro-
zone crisis has definitely slowed the pace of dollar weakness.
The dollar is still the reserve currency of the world and will
be for some time to come.”  HSBC sees it ending the year at $1.44 per euro, compared
with $1.4037 as of 10:23 a.m. in  New York . It earlier
strengthened to $1.4026, the highest since May 25. The greenback
accounted for 60.7 percent of the world’s currency reserves in
the first quarter, compared with 61.8 percent a year earlier,
the  International Monetary Fund  in Washington said June 30.  The U.S. currency rallied 1.8 percent last week against the
17-member euro and has dropped 5.4 percent this year. It fell
0.3 percent today to 80.42 yen.  Dollar Index  The dollar has stabilized as the euro-region debt crisis
worsened, forcing Greece to seek a second bailout in little more
than a year from the European Union and the IMF, stirring
speculation  Portugal  and Ireland will follow.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six trading partners,
rose in four of the past five weeks as the German government and
the  European Central Bank  debated how best to ward off a Greek
default and investors fled riskier assets.  EU leaders are pushing banks and insurance companies who
hold Greek bonds to contribute to a new aid package after last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue failed to stop the
region’s debt crisis from spreading.  The threat of contagion has sparked a surge in the cost of
insuring against Spanish and Italian defaults, with the yields
on the 10-year securities rising to euro-era record spreads with
equivalent German debt today.  “Everyone is aware inside and outside of the euro area
that these countries cannot bail themselves out of these debt
burdens,” said Schneider’s Gallo in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Betty Liu on “In the Loop.” “The bottom line
is there is no way to ring fence this entirely the losses are
going to have be swallowed.”  Earnings Growth  Earnings growth is rebounding in the U.S., albeit at a
slower pace. Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are
poised to boost income by 19 percent in 2011, including a 13
percent advance in the second quarter, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The gain will push profits back in line with their average
increase of 6.9 percent over the last 51 years, data compiled by
Brockhouse & Cooper Inc. and Bloomberg show.  “Our central scenario is that the  U.S. dollar  is bouncing
along the bottom,” said  Richard Grace , chief currency
strategist and head of international economics in Sydney at
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , the ninth-best forecaster.  Concern the  U.S. economy  will falter and a growing debt
load may hurt the dollar.  Data from the Labor Department in  Washington  on July 8
showed employers added jobs in June at the slowest pace in nine
months. Payrolls rose by 18,000, less than the 105,000 positions
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Economic Outlook  The U.S. economy may grow 1.1 percent in the 12 months
ending June 2012, according to research by the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Cleveland  using Treasury yields and growth data for the
past five years to project output for the coming 12 months.
That’s less than half the 2.7 percent to 2.9 percent range
projected by the Fed in its official estimates.  The U.S. risks missing debt payments should Republicans and
Democrats fail to agree on raising the $14.3 trillion federal
borrowing limit before an Aug. 2 deadline. S&P said June 30 it
would cut the U.S.’s credit rating to D, the lowest level on its
scale of creditworthiness, should a failure to raise the debt
limit lead to a default.  “It’s really hard to build a near-term to six-month story
where the U.S. dollar rallies when they have no credible fiscal
plan in place,” said  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist
in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia. The firm is the seventh-
ranked forecaster in the survey.  ‘Negative on Dollar’  The dollar will slide to $1.52 per euro by year-end,
following a decline to $1.50 by the end of the third quarter,
according to Societe Generale SA, the second-most accurate
forecaster, whose average margin of error was 5.21 percent.  “I’m negative on the dollar,” said Kit Juckes, London-
based head of foreign-exchange research at the company. “The
U.S. favors a weaker currency as part of its economic solution
and with employment well below where they want it to be, the Fed
will keep rates lower for longer.”  The Fed won’t raise its target interest rate for overnight
loans between banks, currently a range of zero to 0.25 percent,
until the second quarter of 2012, according to the median
forecast of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Schneider’s Gallo estimates the dollar will end the year at
$1.40, about 1.9 percent stronger from last week, and number
three Wells Fargo & Co. predicts a recovery to $1.39.  Fourth-ranked JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees the dollar
weakening to $1.48 by year-end. Credit Agricole SA, the most
bullish dollar forecaster and ranked fifth in the survey,
estimates $1.30.  ‘Safest Bet’  “The safest bet is to stay long the dollar against the
yen,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells
Fargo in New York, the third-most accurate forecaster. “As soon
as the market starts to see a shift in interest-rate futures,
that would be enough for the dollar to move higher. We expect
this to happen by the end of the fourth quarter.”  While the Fed repeated after last month’s meeting it will
keep its key rate at a record low for an “extended period,”
the U.S. currency may find support from the June end of the
central bank’s asset-purchase program, or quantitative easing,
known as QE2, which helped depress bond yields this year.  “We don’t have a scenario where the U.S. economy weakens a
lot further or in a prolonged sense such that the Fed then
undertakes another round of quantitative easing,” said  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency strategy at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Sydney, the number six forecaster. “We don’t see a
further large fall in the U.S. dollar.”  ‘Positive Dollar Impact’  The dollar appreciated on June 22 after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  ruled out a third round of asset purchases.  “As U.S. bond yields begin to gradually drift upwards in
anticipation of policy normalization from the Fed, a lot of the
liquidity that has drained out of the U.S. is going to flow back
again,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in  London , which had a margin of error of 5.65 percent. “That’s
going to have some positive dollar impact.”  Currency forecasters were ranked according to the accuracy
of their estimates for the six quarters beginning with the first
three months of 2010. Long-term accuracy was judged by a
forecast for the twelve-months to end-June 2011.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least five of eight pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall predictors. In all, 50 firms submitted enough forecasts
to be ranked in at least one currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  