-- 
Binge Eating Targeted as Head Disorder With Shire’s Vyvanse

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T20:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/binge-eating-targeted-as-head-disorder-with-shire-s-vyvanse-1-.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , Ireland’s biggest
drugmaker, is aiming to introduce a medicine that quells the
urge to overeat. Just don’t call it a diet drug.  After  Alkermes Inc. (ALKS)  last week stopped developing a similar
medicine, Shire became the top candidate to develop the first
approved drug to combat binge-eating disorder. The Dublin-based
company says its treatment, Vyvanse, now marketed for
hyperactivity, may limit binging by interacting with brain
chemicals that affect mood, motivation and inhibition.  In the process, Shire is cutting a new trail through a U.S.
regulatory system that has rejected diet products because of
their side effects. While drugs made by Vivus Inc., Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. have failed
to win clearance from the  Food and Drug Administration ’s
metabolic drug unit, Shire’s effort is being overseen by the
agency’s psychiatric division, a different approval route that
focuses on the drug as treatment for a mental disorder.  “There are a lot of theories about how binge-eating
disorder and its related obesity may arise,” said James Hudson,
a professor of psychiatry at  McLean Hospital  in Belmont,
 Massachusetts , and  Harvard Medical School . One is that “the
brain perceives food more as a drug or substance that’s
affecting the reward center directly.”  Shire rose 22 pence, or 1.1 percent to 2,002 pence in
London trading today. The stock has climbed 39 percent in the
past 12 months, more than tripling the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  Patients with the disorder may “have a deficit in their
reward pathway such that they will overeat well past when
they’re not physically hungry,” he said.  3% of Americans  About 3 percent of the  U.S. population  has dealt with
binge-eating disorder at some point in their lives, making it
the most common eating disorder and more prevalent than anorexia
nervosa and bulimia nervosa combined, Hudson said. The condition
can lead to obesity, which in turn puts people at risk for
diabetes and heart disease.  Shire is pursuing the theory that the condition may be
associated with chemicals that affect the ability to control
oneself or feel satisfied after food, said Robert Lasser, who
heads Shire’s research into new uses for Vyvanse. The drug drew
$634 million in 2010 revenue, and may gain an extra $750 million
a year with an indication for binge-eating disorder, Lasser
said.  Brain Rewards  “When you begin to think about food addiction, you
automatically turn to a couple of neurochemicals that are
important in reward,” Lasser said in a telephone interview.
“One of those primarily is dopamine, and the other is
norepinephrine.”  Vyvanse affects both. Shire isn’t seeking to apply an
indication for binge-eating disorder more broadly to all obese
patients, Lasser said. The FDA’s psychiatric division focuses on
the condition “because it has substantial disability in the
realm of psychiatric symptoms,” he said.  “Depression, anxiety, reduced quality of life” all are
associated with the disorder, Lasser said. That’s “in addition
to the more obvious issues related to higher rates of diabetes,
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, GI or  heart disease  -- all
of those are associated with obesity.”  While not all patients with binge-eating disorder are
obese, about 25 percent of obese patients who seek treatment are
thought to have the condition, said Lasser. Someone with the
disorder can consume almost 10,000 calories in a single, hour-
long binge, he said.  Macaroni and Cheese  Dick Waller, an 81-year-old Cincinnati musician who has
been treated for binge eating for seven years, says the
condition is “definitely a disease.”  During a recent family gathering, he ate more macaroni and
cheese “than my two grandsons, put together,” Waller said in a
telephone interview. He ate stuffed cabbage, salami, cheese, and
then, “even though I wasn’t hungry,” went out to eat ice cream
with the kids, he said.  “You’re tempted every time you eat,” he said. “Once I
take a taste, I feel like I can’t stop.”  Waller isn’t obese. At 5 feet, 5 inches, and about 160
pounds, he has a body mass index of 26.5, on the low end of
overweight, according to the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services. About 10 years ago, though, he had reached 190 pounds.  “That’s 30 pounds overweight,” Waller said. “For me,
that’s a disaster.”  Treadmill Therapy  Fearful of getting diabetes, which runs in his family,
Waller exercises frequently, doing at least 40 minutes of work
on a treadmill or with a trainer six days a week, he said. While
he’s not enrolled in Shire’s trial, he said he’d seriously
consider taking a drug proven to be safe and effective for his
condition.  Now, “I’ll go a day where I’ll eat really well, and I’ll
think, ‘I’m on my way,” he said. Then, “maybe I’ll go for a
day or two and I’ll blow it. The idea of trying a new medication
that would help me, I would gladly try that at this point.”  Binge-eating is expected to be formally recognized in the
next version of the  Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
Disorders , the handbook for U.S. mental-health professionals.  The manual would define the disorder as “recurrent
episodes of binge eating,” in which someone eats a much greater
amount of food than most people would under similar
circumstances, and feels a lack of control over their eating.  Guilt and Depression  To meet the criteria for diagnosis, the episodes, which may
also be associated with feelings of embarrassment, guilt and
depression, would occur regularly.  The path to approval for a binge-eating disorder drug is
already paved with one failure. Alkermes, the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based maker of the medicine Vivitrol for alcohol
and opioid dependence, announced last week it would stop
development of an experimental drug for binge-eating disorder
after mid-stage trials didn’t show significant efficacy compared
with a placebo. The company is still testing the medicine, ALKS
33, in alcohol dependence, cocaine addiction and treatment-
resistant depression.  Shire expects binge-eating data on Vyvanse next year from
the second trial phase of three generally required for U.S.
marketing approval. The company is also testing the medicine for
major depression, schizophrenia and excessive daytime
sleepiness.  Attention Deficit  Vyvanse was approved in the U.S. in 2007 to treat attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder in children ages 6 to 12, and has
since gained approval for use in adolescents and adults.  The medicine is a chemically modified, longer-lasting
version of dextroamphetamine. A class of drugs that were used
extensively from the 1930s through 1970s, amphetamines fell out
of favor in part because they could be habit-forming and lead to
abuse, said  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
in  London . For use in ADHD, Shire developed a slow-release
amphetamine variant that has reduced the potential for
recreational use and is likely safer in the event of overdose,
he said.  “It’s been known for years that amphetamine suppresses
appetite,” Scannell said in a telephone interview. “ Andy
Warhol  used amphetamine as his favorite weight-loss method.”  Approval isn’t guaranteed, despite the wealth of knowledge
about amphetamines and Vyvanse’s use for ADHD, the analyst said.  Regulators may still show concern that there is a potential
for abuse, and the drug is tied to side effects, including dry
mouth, increased heart rate, trouble sleeping and, in very high
doses or overdose, cardiovascular problems, he said.  Heart Risk  Regulators’ concerns about heart risks led  La Jolla ,
California-based Orexigen to shut down U.S. development of its
diet pill, Contrave, last month, after the FDA required a large
study in that area.  Orexigen and its partner,  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co., had been vying with San Diego-based Arena
and Vivus of  Mountain View ,  California , to introduce the first
new obesity medicine in the U.S. in more than a decade. Abbott
Laboratories pulled its diet pill, Meridia, off U.S. shelves in
October after it was tied to heart attacks and strokes. Safety
issues also prompted the withdrawal of Wyeth’s fen-phen in 1997.  Vyvanse’s heart risk would only arise at very high, or
overdose, levels, Scannell said.  The indications for schizophrenia and depression are likely
much bigger opportunities than binge eating, the analyst said.  “Depressed and schizophrenic patients are already seeing
their doctors and already getting medication,” said Scannell.
“With binge eating, there are two challenges: One is getting
the drug approved, and the second is convincing doctors they
should prescribe a drug for the condition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 