-- 
Birinyi Sees 15% Stocks Gain Over Next Year as Google Sets Tone: Tom Keene

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T16:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/birinyi-sees-15-stocks-gain-over-next-year-as-google-sets-tone-tom-keene.html
Stocks will rise 15 percent over the
next year, in part because investors are able to look past the
European debt crisis and a U.S. unemployment rate stuck over 9
percent, Laszlo Birinyi said.  “Yes, we are aware that there are economic issues, there
are concerns and fears, but somehow to say that is to say the
market doesn’t know that. But the market does,” Birinyi said
today. “What I worry about are situations that the market
doesn’t understand,” he said. “Things like  Greece  and
employment and so forth, these are well within the scope of the
market to understand and discount.”  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  will start earnings season today. While Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index companies are poised to report the smallest
quarterly earnings increase since the equity bull market began
in 2009, growth for the measure is climbing back to its average
since the 1960s as valuations are stuck near credit-crisis
levels.  David Kelly , who helps oversee about $445 billion as
chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds, says that means
stock investors are buying an “undervalued asset.”  The  S&P 500  fell 7.2 percent between April 29 and June 15
amid concern the European debt crisis will curb global growth.  “Greece, for example, has been with us for over a year,”
said Birinyi, the president and founder of Westport,
Connecticut-based research and money management firm Birinyi
Associates Inc. “If you listen to and sort of dissect the
negative concerns, they’re pretty much unchanged. One is that
earnings will not come through this quarter. Well, we’ve heard
that every quarter.”  Setting the Tone  Alcoa, based in New York, will report a 169 percent surge
in second-quarter net income, according to the average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  will “set the tone” for earnings season when
it releases its second-quarter report on July 14, Birinyi said.
The operator of the world’s largest search engine will post 22
percent growth in net income, according to the average forecast
in a Bloomberg survey.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has “been such
a significant stock in most people’s portfolios that that could
really set the tone for how the portfolio does,” he said.  David Bianco , chief U.S. equity strategist for Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp., agreed that Alcoa
may not be the best proxy for earnings season, speaking in a
separate interview today.  “Once we get past the banks into the non-financials, which
is really next week and the week after that, I think earnings
season is going to be very impressive,” Bianco said.
“Analysts’ estimates for the non-financials are going to be
beat handsomely by about 5 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  