-- 
Black Diamond Purchase of GSC Group Assets Is Approved by Bankruptcy Judge

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-11T15:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/black-diamond-purchase-of-gsc-group-assets-is-approved-by-bankruptcy-judge.html
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC
won court permission to buy assets of GSC Group Inc., an
investment-management firm in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez  approved the sale in
a decision filed today in Manhattan. A lender group that
included  UBS AG (UBS)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  opposed the sale and
sought a separate restructuring of the Florham, New Jersey-based
company.  “The debtors extensively marketed the assets” and chose
the best bid after an auction, Gonzalez wrote in the order. The
bid fully satisfies a $253.5 million senior secured claim, and
includes a $6.7 million promissory note and $5 million in cash,
according to the court order.  GSC, founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner
Alfred Eckert III, filed for bankruptcy last year. It had about
$8.4 billion of assets under management as of March 2010,
according to court papers.  After the bankruptcy filing, GSC agreed to sell its
investment-management business to lender Black Diamond. UBS and
other lenders fought the deal and persuaded Gonzalez to appoint
a trustee to take over the business.  The trustee, James Garrity, then proposed a new deal in
which GSC’s assets would be sold to Black Diamond as part of two
sale agreements worth about $275 million to GSC, according to
court papers.  The sale gives Black Diamond a windfall at the expense of
other creditors, the lender group said. It proposed a plan that
would have given lenders ownership of GSC.  The case is In re GSC Group Inc., 10-14653,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 