-- 
BOE Sees Staff Departures as Main Risk to King’s Policy Plan

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-11T18:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/boe-sees-staff-departures-as-main-risk-to-king-s-policy-plan.html
The  Bank of England  said the main
risk affecting Governor  Mervyn King ’s plan to deliver effective
monetary policy in the next year is whether it can hire and
keep the best employees.  The primary obstacle to the Monetary Policy Committee’s
strategy “relates to the recruitment and retention of
sufficiently experienced staff who are able to exercise the
necessary critical judgment in providing analytical support to
MPC and implementing monetary policy,” the bank said in its
annual report published today in London.  The review showed a net loss of 64 employees in the year
through February 2011, and it last month faced the resignation
of economist Andrew Benito to join Goldman Sachs Group Inc. With
staff shortages forcing research cutbacks and a two-year pay
freeze in force to match the government’s policy, King has
resorted to curbing increases in canteen prices and improving
restroom facilities to assuage employees.  “A particular concern” of the bank’s governing body known
as the Court “has been ensuring the bank has and retains the
numbers and particularly the quality of the staff it needs,”
said Court Chairman David Lees as he described challenges facing
the bank’s new Human Resources director, Catherine Brown. “We
have made her job no easier by deciding to follow the
Government’s two-year pay freeze for the public sector.”  Senior Staff  The bank’s Financial Stability department also faces a
risk to the implementation of its business plan of “not having
sufficient senior, experienced staff with the necessary
expertise and knowledge of the financial system and the capacity
to engage effectively in international policy debates,” the
report said.  The bank’s strategy for monetary policy includes a focus on
providing analytical support to the MPC. This requires the bank
to “build capacity to service future MPC needs through an
appropriate research program” and to “develop a culture in
which staff are encouraged to think creatively about potential
risks and to challenge conventional wisdom,” the report said.  Spending on staff for its policy functions was 7.9 million
pounds ($12.6 million) below budget at 114.5 million pounds in
the 2010-2011 fiscal year amid staff vacancies, the report said.  The bank raised the concerns as it defends its decision to
keep the key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent while
inflation has held above its target for 18 months. Data tomorrow
may show it stayed at 4.5 percent in June, more than double the
2 percent goal.  King said in the report that annual price gains will slow
to the target within two years as “the most likely outcome” is
the effect fades of a weaker pound and higher sales tax and
commodity prices.  King’s salary held at 305,368 pounds as he refused a pay
increase last year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  