-- 
Boeing May Lose $400 Million More on Tanker, Air Force Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-12T01:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/boeing-may-lose-400-million-more-on-tanker-air-force-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  may be required to absorb
more than $700 million and the  Air Force  another $600 million in
overruns if projections of cost increases on the KC-46 tanker
program materialize, according to newly released U.S. Air Force
figures.  Boeing’s $700 million cost is a combination of a previously
reported $300 million and another $432 million the Air Force
disclosed today, putting Boeing’s profit from the tanker
contract in jeopardy if the contract exceeds its $4.9 billion
ceiling.  The Air Force and Boeing split 60/40 any dollar increase
between a target cost of $3.9 billion to the contract ceiling --
a $600 million share for the service and $400 million for
Boeing.  “It’s a part of the contract,” Air Force acquisition head
David Van Buren said in an interview today. “That’s the
geometry of the contract.”  “If they come in” over $3.9 billion, the Air Force pays
its share until the $4.9 billion ceiling is reached, Air Force
KC-46 program manager Major General-select  Christopher Bogdon 
said. “If they get to $4.9 billion, they get zero profit,”
Bogdon said.  “We made an aggressive yet responsible bid to win the
contract. This is a win for the Air Force and a win for the
taxpayer in that they will receive the best tanker at the best
price,” said Conrad Chun, a Boeing spokesman.  Boeing Shares  Chicago-based Boeing declined $1.72, or 2.3 percent, to
$73.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange Composite
trading.  “Based on the present estimate to complete that Boeing has
given to us, they will spend up to the ceiling price, so yes, we
would share the difference between target cost and up to the
ceiling. But anything over $4.9 billion is completely the
responsibility of Boeing,” Pentagon director of pricing Shay Assad said in an interview.  “That wasn’t a surprise to us because we evaluated the
contracts and we have properly budgeted for it,” Assad said.  The Pentagon evaluated the Boeing bid with the
understanding it was “possible” the ceiling would be breached,
Assad said.  Now, Boeing has told the Pentagon it expects to exceed the
ceiling, Assad said.  “We will have to see how they actually perform but that’s
what they’ve informed us of.”   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  