-- 
Bovespa Falls Most in Five Months on Inflation, European Debt

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-11T20:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/bovespa-futures-fall-on-brazil-inflation-forecast-europe-debt-concern.html
The Bovespa index dropped the most
in five months as rising Italian bond yields stoked concern
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is deepening and economists
covering Brazil’s economy increased their inflation forecasts.  Miner  Vale SA (VALE3)  slid after saying it won’t boost its offer
for the African copper company  Metorex Ltd. (MTX)  Oil companies
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
tumbled as crude prices fell. Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s
largest pulp producer, declined after the stock was cut to
“hold” from “buy” at Deutsche Bank AG.  The Bovespa index dropped 2.1 percent to 60,223.63 at the
close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the most
since Feb 9. Fifty-eight stocks fell on the index, while eight
rose. The real weakened 0.9 percent to 1.5774 per  U.S. dollar .  “After Greece, the focus is now on  Italy ,”  Felipe Casotti , who helps manage 1.2 billion reais ($756 million) at
Maxima Asset Management in  Rio de Janeiro , said in a telephone
interview. “Soon, it’ll be on another country, maybe Spain. It
doesn’t look like this crisis will be solved anytime soon.”  Stocks around the world tumbled as concern mounted that
Europe’s debt crisis will spread, dimming the outlook for global
growth. Italy’s FTSE MIB Index plunged the most in more than a
year, entering a bear market as its slide from this year’s high
exceeded 20 percent.  Ten-year Italian yields soared to the highest in 10 years.
The spreads investors demand to hold Italian, Portuguese and
Spanish debt over German bunds widened to euro-era records.  Bailout Funds  A European bailout fund may have to be doubled to 1.5
trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in Italy,
according to the  European Central Bank , German newspaper Die
Welt reported, citing unidentified “high-ranking” people.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  denied the
report. “No, there can be no talk of that,” he told reporters
in Brussels today before a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers.  Consumer prices in  Brazil  will rise 6.31 percent this year,
according to the median forecast in a July 8 central bank survey
of about 100 economists published today. The figure was up from
6.15 percent the previous week.  Economists also raised their projection for 2012 inflation.
Prices, as measured by the IPCA index, will rise 5.20 percent
next year, the survey found, from a forecast of 5.10 percent the
previous week.  Brazil’s central bank is set to preside over the longest
streak of consecutive interest-rate increases since 2005 in a
bid to slow inflation, trading in futures contracts shows.  Rate Outlook  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in October
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, last week to
12.41 percent, suggesting the central bank will lift the
benchmark Selic rate 25 basis points at its policy meetings in
July and August, from 12.25 percent. That would extend the
stretch of increases to six.  Oil declined for a second day in  New York  on speculation
that a slump in Chinese imports and rising unemployment in the
U.S. may indicate fuel demand will falter in the world’s biggest
crude-consuming nations.  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, tumbled 1.2
percent to 23.15 reais. OGX declined 3 percent to 14.37 reais.  Fibria plunged 4.1 percent to 19.10 reais.  Vale dropped 1.1 percent to 45.61 reais. The company will
withdraw its offer to buy Metorex, according to a filing to
Brazil’s securities regulator today, paving the way for a rival
$1.36 billion bid from  China ’s Jinchuan Group Co. to win control
of the African copper company.  Electricity Companies  Cia. Energetica de  Minas Gerais , the state-controlled
electricity utility serving Minas Gerais state, known as Cemig,
fell 1 percent to 30.50 reais. Cemig’s unit  Light SA (LIGT3) , a Rio de
Janeiro-based energy distributor, may isssue 350 million reais
in local bonds to finance the purchase of renewable energy
company  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11) , Chief Financial Officer Luiz Fernando
Rolla said on the sidelines of an event in Sao Paulo today.  Emerging-markets stocks are likely to rise less than
previously forecast this year as weaker sentiment means that
developing-nation equities may be unable to achieve a “clear
valuation premium,” Citigroup Inc. said in a note written by
analysts led by New York-based Geoffrey Dennis.  Citigroup cut its rating on Brazilian stocks to “neutral”
and lowered Poland to “underweight,” according to the report.
The brokerage raised Indonesia, Thailand and Turkey to
“neutral.”  Index Valuation  The Bovespa trades at 9.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, near the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 12.9 for
the Shanghai Composite Index, 6.6 for Russia’s Micex and 15.1
for India’s Sensex.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index lost 17 percent from a
November high through last week on concern that quickening
inflation may hurt domestic demand, while a slowdown in global
economic growth could cut the appetite for commodities.  Traders moved 5.19 billion reais in stocks July 8, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily average
this year of 6.47 billion reais, according to data from the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  