-- 
Brazil Real Slides on Central Bank Move to Discourage Bets Against Dollar

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-07-11T22:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/brazil-real-slides-on-central-bank-move-to-discourage-bets-against-dollar.html
Brazil ’s real fell after the central
bank stepped up efforts to stem the currency’s appreciation and
investors fled higher-yielding assets on concern the European
debt crisis will spread to Italy.  The real weakened 1 percent to 1.5775 per dollar after the
central bank announced measures late on July 8 to discourage
bets against the dollar in Brazil.  Brazilian policy makers said they will require banks to
make non-interest bearing deposits with the central bank
equivalent to 60 percent of short dollar positions that exceed
$1 billion or their capital base, whichever is smaller. The
currency also weakened on growing debt concerns in Europe as
Italian bond yields rose and the euro fell to a six-week low
against the dollar, said Win Thin, global head of emerging-
markets currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  “With these kind of interventionist measures, it’s always
good to go with the market,” Thin said in a telephone interview
from New York. “The  Italy  thing is flaring up and that’s just
hitting emerging-markets.”  Yields on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bonds closed above 5
percent for the first time since November 2008 on July 6 and
were at 5.68 percent, a nine-year high. The 17-nation euro
depreciated 1.6 percent to $1.4046.  Spot Market  Brazil is seeking to improve the working of the currency
spot market and reduce bets the real will strengthen that
reached $14.7 billion in June, the central bank said. June’s
long real positions were up from $9.3 billion in May and the
highest since December.  The rule, which banks will have five working days to
implement, amends a regulation introduced in January that
required banks to pay deposits on short positions above $3
billion. A short position is a bet that the price will fall.  Banks in Brazil may have to unwind as much as $5 billion of
short U.S. dollar positions by selling forward contracts on the
dollar to comply with the new requirements, according to Kenneth Lam, a Latin America strategist with Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  The yield investors receive on real-denominated assets
plunged 273 basis points, or 2.73 percentage point, to 6.98
percent, the lowest since May 25, one-month non-deliverable
forward contracts show.  The real has gained 47 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Benchmark Rate  Policy makers raised  interest rates  at their last four
meetings, to 12.25 percent, and traders are betting they will
raise rates twice more this year, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures.  “While the need to adjust positions coincides with a new
bout of Europe-related  risk aversion ,” the new measures alone
should not “change the appreciation trend,”  Tony Volpon , a
Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York,
wrote in a note to clients today. “With such a substantial
interest-rate differential, the incentives to maintain long BRL
positions are just too large.”  In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases. On March 29, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration increased to 6 percent a tax on new
corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks. A few days
later, she applied the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or
transferred loans of as long as two years in length. Companies
previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans of up to 90 days and
zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  “The currency war continues because the recovery in
advanced countries has led to expansionary monetary policies,”
Mantega told reporters in Paris on July 7.  Yields on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due
in January 2013 fell were unchanged at 12.71 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  