-- 
Brazil Central Bank Moves to Curb Short Dollar Bets and Rein in Real Rall

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-11T14:16:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/brazil-central-bank-moves-to-curb-short-dollar-bets-and-rein-in-real-rally.html
Brazil  took further action to end a
rally in the real after repeated efforts to weaken the currency
this year failed to prevent it strengthening to a 12-year high
against the  U.S. dollar .  The world’s second-largest emerging market will  require 
that banks make non-interest bearing deposits with the central
bank equivalent to 60 percent of short dollar positions that
exceed $1 billion dollars or their capital base, whichever is
smaller, the central bank said in an e-mailed statement after
markets closed on July 8.  The rule amends a regulation announced in January that
required banks to pay deposits on short positions above $3
billion. Banks will have five working days to comply with the
new rule, whereas in January they were given 3 months to adjust.
A short position makes money if the asset price falls.  Brazil’s  interest rates  are the highest in the Group of 20
Nations, and traders are betting on two more rate increases this
year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures. Because of this, the latest measure will fail to weaken
the real, just as previous attempts have failed, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos.  “Short-term interest rates are still so high in Brazil
that they can’t do a lot,” Perfeito said, speaking by telephone
from  Sao Paulo . “Why is it going to work this time? Why is this
time different?”  Brazilian policy makers raised interest rates at all four
of their meetings this year, to 12.25 percent.  Brazil is seeking to improve the working of the currency
 spot market  and reduce bets against the dollar that reached
$14.7 billion in June, the central bank said. June’s short
positions were up from $9.3 billion in May and the highest since
December.  Weaker Real  The real weakened 1 percent to 1.5782 per U.S. dollar at
10.03 a.m. New York time, compared with a 0.68 percent fall in
Morgan Stanley’s index of Latin American currencies. The real
rose to as high as 1.5524 per dollar last week, the strongest
level since 1999, as investors increased demand for higher-
yielding assets amid easing concern over  Greece ’s debt crisis.
Brazil’s government has repeatedly complained that a stronger
currency harms its exporters while rich nations boost their own
exports by devaluing their currencies.  The real has gained 46.7 percent against the dollar since
the start of 2009, the most among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Higher Tax  In October, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled to 6
percent a tax on foreign investors’ fixed-income purchases. On
March 29, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration increased to
6 percent a tax on new corporate loans and debt sales abroad by
banks. A few days later, she applied the higher tax to renewed,
renegotiated, or transferred loans of as long as two years in
length. Companies previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans of
up to 90 days and zero tax when the operation exceeded three
months.  The central bank bought $36.2 billion in the spot market in
the year through June 24, almost as much as the $41.4 it bought
in the whole of 2010. The bank has also intervened in the
futures market by selling reverse currency swaps.  “The currency war continues because the recovery in
advanced countries has led to expansionary monetary policies,”
Mantega told reporters in Paris on July 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  