-- 
Finivest, Commerzbank, Countrywide, BofA, RBS, Madoff, Exxon in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-11T10:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/broadband-research-countrywide-bofa-rbs-madoff-exxon-in-court-news.html
Fininvest SpA, the investment
company of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, was ordered to pay
Compagnie Industriali Riunite SpA more than 540 million euros
($770 million) by an Italian court. Fininvest said it will
appeal.  The company will also have to pay interest and CIR’s court
expenses, an appeals court in Milan decided, according to the
text of the ruling released July 9 and obtained by Bloomberg
News. The decision is effective immediately, the court said.  Marina Berlusconi, the premier’s daughter and Fininvest
president, called the decision a “bitter defeat for justice”
and “the umpteenth scandalous episode of frantic aggression
that has gone on for years against my father, by all means and
on all fronts, including entrepreneurial and economic.”
Fininvest will appeal the ruling, she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Fininvest in October 2009 was ordered to pay 750 million
euros to CIR for bribing a judge during a takeover battle for
publisher  Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA (MN)  dating back to 1991.
Fininvest, which said at the time the ruling was “profoundly
unjust,” appealed and won a suspension of the court ruling,
which allowed the company to delay payment while its appeal went
through the courts.  In December 2009, Fininvest provided an 806 million-euro
bank guarantee, including interest and “ancillary costs” to
cover the damages owed to CIR.  The guarantee was provided by a group of banks including
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS)  and  Banca Popolare di Sondrio SCARL (BPSO) , Ansa news agency
reported at the time. Compensation will be paid if Fininvest
loses the appeal.  The appeals court said separately that Silvio Berlusconi
should be considered co-responsible for the civil charges tied
to the bribery ruling, Ansa reported.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Caterpillar Accused of Demoting CPA Discovering Tax Dodge  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  used offshore  subsidiaries  in Switzerland
and Bermuda to avoid about $2 billion in U.S. taxes from 2000 to
2009, boosting its earnings through a “tax and financial
statement fraud,” according to a Caterpillar executive’s
lawsuit, Bloomberg News’ Peter S. Green reports.  The company, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, sold and shipped spare parts globally from an Illinois
warehouse while improperly attributing at least $5.6 billion of
profits from those sales to a unit in Geneva, according to the
suit filed by Daniel J. Schlicksup. He was a global tax strategy
manager for Caterpillar from 2005 to 2008.  Schlicksup, 49, sued in U.S. District Court in Peoria,
Illinois, in 2009, claiming he was moved to a job that limits
his career opportunities because he complained to superiors that
the “Swiss Structure” ran afoul of U.S. tax rules. He’s
seeking a court order to give him back his old job and prevent
any retaliation. He also seeks stock options that he claims were
wrongly withheld as well as legal fees and punitive damages.  His lawsuit, which calls the structure a “tax dodge,”
followed a request for job protection he filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor under provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act,
court records show. The law bars retaliation against corporate
whistleblowers. Schlicksup declined to comment for this story.
His attorney, Dan O’Day, declined to say whether Schlicksup has
taken his concerns to the Internal Revenue Service.  Caterpillar spokesman  Jim Dugan  said the company has
engaged in no wrongdoing, and its attorneys said in a court
filing that Schlicksup’s transfer wasn’t a demotion. Dugan
declined to comment on the suit’s specific allegations, saying
Caterpillar “complies with applicable tax laws and
regulations.”  Magistrate Judge Byron G. Cudmore has ordered the pre-trial
exchange of evidence to continue, and according to court
records, a trial date has been set for Jan. 16, 2012, before
U.S. District Judge Michael M. Mihm.  The case is Schlicksup v. Caterpillar Inc., et al, 09-
01208, U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois
(Peoria).  For more, click here.  Commerzbank Unit, Eurohypo, Must Face QVT Fund U.S. Lawsuit  Eurohypo AG, a unit of  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , must face a U.S.
lawsuit by QVT Fund LP over purported payments the bank owes QVT
and other investors in Delaware-based trusts owned by Eurohypo.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald F. Parsons denied the
bank’s request to dismiss the complaint and ruled that the
issues in the case must be determined under Delaware law,
according to a court filing yesterday.  “I conclude that the central questions before this court
require the application of Delaware law,” and Eurohypo’s
argument that the Delaware lawsuit will cause “inconvenience
and expense” because of a similar German proceeding “are also
unavailing,” Parsons said in the ruling.  The lawsuit stems from a dispute over 2010 dividend
payments that weren’t made to QVT and other holders of trust
preferred securities which they claim they were entitled to
receive, according to court documents.  Maximilian Bicker, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Commerzbank, wasn’t immediately able to respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Eurohypo created the Delaware trusts in 2003 and 2005, and
raised $1.2 billion of “profit-dependent securities,” court
papers and company statements show. QVT, managed by New York-
based hedge fund QVT Financial LP, owns about $226 million of
the trust securities. QVT seeks about $68 million for the Trust
investors, about $14.1 million for itself, and “further
damages” to be determined at trial.  “Having reaped the benefits associated with raising
capital from investors using Delaware entities, the defendants
now are unwilling to live up to their obligations,” QVT said in
the complaint.  The bank argues it wasn’t obligated to make dividend
payments to the Trust holders in 2010 because it wasn’t
profitable in 2009, and the payments are based on making a
profit in the previous year.  The case is QVT Fund LP v. Eurohypo Capital Funding, CA5881
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Expert-Network Founder Who Refused FBI Wire Expects Arrest  John Kinnucan, the expert-networking firm founder whose
public refusal of an FBI request to wear a wire presaged a dozen
insider-trading arrests, said he expects to be charged himself,
Bloomberg News’ Patricia Hurtado reports.  Kinnucan, who runs Broadband Research LLC in Portland,
Oregon, may have good reason to fear the worst. Federal
prosecutors in  New York  disclosed in court papers that they had
a court-authorized wiretap on his mobile phone in connection
with their case against Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital
Advisors LP portfolio manager who pleaded guilty to insider-
trading charges on April 28 in Manhattan federal court.  Walter Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) 
executive who pleaded guilty July 5 in federal court in New
York, said during his plea hearing that he had given Kinnucan
confidential nonpublic information about his own company, as
well as  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)   “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in a
telephone interview. “There’s a saying that the government
indicts who they investigate, so I have always assumed that I
was a target.”  Longueuil, Shimoon and Kinnucan have been swept up in the
biggest insider trading investigation in a generation, one that
has implicated  hedge funds , technology firms and expert
networking firms like Broadband. Kinnucan denied he ever
received illegal tips on companies, and insisted the kind of
information he provided hedge fund clients was publicly
available.  “They’re trying to criminalize standard industry practices
here,” Kinnucan said. “The kind of information I provide to my
clients is exactly what is provided by large investment banks.”  Kinnucan hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined
to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Walter Shimoon, 11-cr-00032, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Countrywide Wages Victorious Tranche Warfare Against Investors  Investors who sued over $351 billion in downgraded
Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage-backed securities after the
2007 subprime market collapse may have to settle for less than 1
percent of what they initially sought, Bloomberg News’ Edvard
Pettersson reports.  U.S. District Senior Judge Mariana Pfaelzer in Los Angeles,
who narrowed the case to $2.6 billion in bonds and dropped
Countrywide parent  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  as a defendant, has
gone further than other judges in scaling back such claims. Her
rulings in April and May show the difficulty of trying to hold
banks liable for billions of dollars in debt downgraded to junk.  “The recent court rulings provide encouragement for
Countrywide and Bank of America and could indicate that the
courts would limit or reduce the number of claims in these cases
or perhaps dismiss them in their entirety,” said Patrick
McManemin, a lawyer with Patton Boggs LLP in Dallas who has
worked on both sides of mortgage-securities cases and isn’t
involved in the Los Angeles litigation.  Countrywide, based in Calabasas,  California , was once the
biggest U.S. residential home lender, originating or purchasing
about $1.4 trillion in mortgages from 2005 to 2007. The bulk of
them were sold to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Bank
of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The Los Angeles lawsuit, filed last year and led by the
Iowa Public Retirement System, was, at $351 billion, the largest
in terms of securities at stake among dozens of cases brought
against lenders and underwriters. A hearing on Countrywide’s
next bid to have the claims dismissed is scheduled for Sept. 12.  The case, like similar suits brought under the U.S.
Securities Act of 1933, isn’t part of an $8.5 billion settlement
announced June 29 between Bank of America and 22 institutional
investors in Countrywide mortgage-backed securities. That
accord, if approved, will resolve investors’ claims that
Countrywide was required under contract to repurchase loans that
didn’t meet its underwriting guidelines.  The Los Angeles case is Maine State Retirement System v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  RBS Asks U.K. Court to Block $100 Million U.S. Case  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  asked a U.K. judge to
limit the amount of e-mails it must turn over as it seeks to
halt Highland Capital Management LP’s $100 million U.S. lawsuit
over a failed bond transaction.  RBS is seeking a court order blocking the Dallas-based
hedge fund’s recent litigation in Texas. In that case, the bank
is accused of misleading a U.K. court last year in a lawsuit
over Highland’s failed collateralized debt obligation.  Highland was ordered in December by Justice Michael Burton
in  London  to pay RBS 19 million pounds ($30.5 million) over the
bond deal’s collapse, caused by the turmoil in the financial
markets in 2008. Burton awarded RBS about half of what it sought
after finding the Edinburgh-based bank had misled clients about
the CDO and offered deceptive evidence to the court.  RBS, which sued again in Britain to stop the Texas case,
argued July 8 in the High Court in London that the bank
shouldn’t have to provide the broad types of evidence Highland
affiliates are seeking.  Highland has separately appealed last year’s ruling,
claiming RBS’s behavior means it should pay less.  RBS spokesman Michael Strachan declined to comment on the
case when reached by phone July 8.  Mets Owners Again Seek Dismissal of Madoff Trustee’s Suit  Owners of the New York Mets baseball team renewed their
request that a $1 billion lawsuit by the liquidator of  Bernard
Madoff ’s firm be thrown out after a judge said the trustee may
have erred in demanding money from them.  Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz said July 7 in a court filing
that the trustee,  Irving Picard , wasn’t entitled to take back
principal or so-called fictitious profit they made in Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme. Picard argued they should have investigated the
fraud.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan agreed to
review the case, saying that judges have struggled with the duty
of inquiry into fraud for more than half a century, and it may
not have been the “governing law” for the Mets owners.  Picard seeks the return of $700 million in principal and
$300 million in profit, saying the team’s owners had a duty to
investigate “red flags” warning of possible fraud.  The Mets owners said the payments, made over 25 years,
“discharged the broker’s legal obligation to its customers,”
and couldn’t be treated as so-called fraudulent transfers, as
Picard tried to do.  “The trustee can prove no such guilty knowledge, nor any
bad faith,” they said in the filing.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Strauss-Kahn Faces Preliminary Paris Probe on Attempted Rape  The Paris prosecutor opened a preliminary investigation
July 8 into an attempted rape complaint by a French writer
against Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  The prosecutor will seek to determine whether there are
grounds for a full criminal probe into Tristane Banon’s claims
the former International Monetary Fund chief assaulted her in
2003 when she went to interview him, according to spokeswoman
Agnes Labregere-Delorme.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a New York hotel in
May. He was released last week from home confinement and had his
bail returned after U.S. prosecutors uncovered evidence the 32-
year-old woman who accused him had lied about key aspects of her
life. Strauss-Kahn denies the claims in both cases.  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn in  France  didn’t return calls for
comment. He has called Banon’s claims “imaginary” and asked
that a slander complaint against Banon be prepared, according to
a July 5 statement by his lawyers.  Banon was an intern with magazine Paris Match in 2003 and
had just signed a contract for a book on politicians’ regrets.
She met Strauss-Kahn in February for a follow-up interview at
his friend’s apartment in Paris, she said in an interview
published in the July 6 issue of L’Express.  Strauss-Kahn turned off her tape-recorder and began
assaulting her, touching her breasts and putting his hands in
her mouth and underwear, she said, according to the magazine.
She kicked him and said “you’re not going to rape me,” then
ran out, got in her car and called her mother, the magazine
quoted her as saying.  Banon’s lawyer, David Koubbi, didn’t immediately return
calls for comment on the opening of the preliminary
investigation. Prosecutors received Banon’s complaint on July 6.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  J&J’s Scios Unit Charged in Misbranding of Natrecor Drug  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Scios unit was charged by U.S.
prosecutors with misbranding the heart drug Natrecor because the
medicine’s labeling allegedly lacked adequate directions for
use.  Scios Inc. distributed misbranded Natrecor from Kansas
throughout the U.S. from August 2001 to June 2005, according to
a charging document filed July 7 in federal court in San
Francisco.  The charge is a single misdemeanor count under the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, said Shaun Mickus, a spokesman for
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson.  “With regard to the investigation that led to the
misdemeanor charge, the parties have reached an agreement that
is pending approval by the court,” Mickus said July 8 in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further.  The charge carries a maximum fine of $200,000 or twice the
gain or loss resulting from the illegal conduct and unspecified
restitution, according to the charging document.  Joshua Eaton, an attorney with the Justice Department in
San Francisco, didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  The Justice Department in 2009 joined two whistleblower
lawsuits accusing Scios of marketing Natrecor for unauthorized
uses. The practice cost the government-run health insurance
program Medicare “substantial amounts,” the department said.  Johnson & Johnson and Scios deny engaging in off-label
marketing of Natrecor, the company said in court documents.  The criminal case is U.S. v Scios, 11-461, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  J&J Suppressed Cancer Test Over Listerine Link, Suit Says  Johnson & Johnson, the world’s second-largest maker of
health-care products, was sued for at least $70 million by a
company that claims it interfered in a contract over
distribution of an oral cancer test.  Oral Cancer Prevention International Inc., a private
company based in Suffern, New York, sued over a contract it
signed in February 2010 with OraPharma Inc., then a J&J unit.
OraPharma agreed to distribute OCPI’s Oral CDx Brush Test, which
identifies precancerous cells in the mouth, according to the
complaint filed in federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey .  J&J, which also sells Listerine mouthwash, then grew
“extremely concerned about the implications” of a study
published in Australia that linked mouthwashes with a high
alcohol content to cancer, according to the complaint. J&J
didn’t want to “lend credence to the link between Listerine and
oral cancer” by selling both its mouthwash and OralCDx, the
complaint said.  “Johnson & Johnson induced OraPharma to breach the sales
agreement to suppress sales of and withhold from the public a
proven life-saving oral cancer prevention product in order to
protect the sales of its mouthwash, Listerine, which has been
linked to oral cancer,” said the complaint, filed July 6.  Bonnie Jacobs, a spokesman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based J&J, said the “company is confident that we have engaged
in proper business practices and we look forward to the
opportunity to resolve this matter through the legal system.”  The case is Oral Cancer Prevention International Inc. v.
Johnson & Johnson, 11-cv-3878, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Trenton).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Exxon Mobil to Face Indonesia Human Rights Suit, Court Rules  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  must face claims it aided and abetted
murder, torture and sexual assault by its security forces in
Indonesia’s Aceh province, a federal appeals court ruled,
reinstating a lawsuit thrown out by a lower court.  In a 2-1 decision July 8, the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 Washington  said Exxon Mobil didn’t have corporate immunity from
claims filed by 15 Indonesian villagers under the Alien Tort
Statute. The court reversed the ruling of a trial judge who said
the villagers couldn’t use U.S. courts to sue over alleged
actions that took place in Indonesia and involved the Indonesian
military during a period of martial law.  “It would create a bizarre anomaly to immunize
corporations from liability for the conduct of their agents in
lawsuits brought for ‘shockingly egregious violations of
universally recognized principles of international law,’” Judge
Judith Rogers wrote in her 112-page opinion.  An Exxon Mobil spokesman, Patrick McGinn, said the company
has “fought these baseless claims for many years” and is
reviewing the decision.  In two lawsuits consolidated for appeal, Indonesian
villagers claimed Exxon Mobil was responsible for the abuses
because they were committed by an Indonesian military unit
dedicated only to Exxon’s Aceh facility and under the company’s
direction and control. Exxon provided material support to the
unit by hiring mercenaries for training, advice and
intelligence, the villagers alleged.  The case is John Doe VII v. Exxon Mobil Corp., 09-7125,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Oakton Wins A$15 Million Settlement in Tenix Contract Fight  Oakton Ltd. (OKN) , an Australian computer services provider, said
it won an A$15 million ($16.1 million) settlement in a contract
dispute with Tenix Solutions IMES Pty.  Neither company admitted liability in the settlement,
Melbourne-based Oakton said in a statement to the Australian
Stock Exchange July 8.  Oakton and Tenix sued each other in the Supreme Court of
Victoria, after Tenix canceled a contract Feb. 15, 2010, and
demanded A$19 million as compensation. Oakton countersued
claiming A$12 million in damages.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Dodgers Bankruptcy Suit Most Popular Bloomberg Docket  The Los Angeles Dodgers, which filed for bankruptcy
protection June 27, had the most-read litigation docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week.  The filing came after Major League Baseball rejected a
television deal with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports, leaving team owner
Frank McCourt unable to make payroll.  Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said the 17-
year TV-rights deal, which McCourt valued at about $3 billion,
would harm the franchise in the long term. Baseball took over
the Dodgers’ business operations about two months ago.  The team listed assets of as much as $1 billion and debt of
as much as $500 million in a Chapter 11 petition filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  