-- 
BSkyB Falls Below News Corp. Offer As Government Seeks Advice From Ofcom

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-11T14:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/bskyb-falls-below-news-corp-offer-as-government-seeks-advice.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) 
fell below News Corp.’s offer price after U.K. Culture Secretary
 Jeremy Hunt  asked regulators whether the bidder’s undertakings
were still credible following a phone-hacking scandal.  BSkyB declined as much as 7.6 percent to 693 pence in
London trading, and traded at 700 pence at 2:08 p.m.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. in June last year offered 7.8 billion
pounds ($12.5 billion), or 700 pence a share, for the 61 percent
in the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV broadcaster it doesn’t already own.
News Corp. dropped as much as 6.5 percent to $15.66 in  New York .  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  urged Murdoch to
“reconsider” his bid following a public outcry over
allegations that Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid intercepted
messages left on murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler’s mobile
phone. Hunt today asked regulator Ofcom whether there is still
“confidence in the credibility, sustainability or
practicalities” of the undertakings offered by News Corp.  Hunt is asking “does their general behavior lead one to
the position that you can’t entirely trust them?” Stewart Purvis, a former partner at Ofcom and professor of television
journalism at City University in  London , said in an interview.  News Corp., which also publishes The Sun, The Times and The
Sunday Times, had agreed to carve out the Sky News channel as a
separate company. The company also offered the nomination of a
monitoring trustee to oversee the spinoff process, and the
inclusion of an independent director. The government previously
said it was likely to accept News Corp.’s undertakings.  Politically Driven  “This has now become a completely politically driven
issue,” Liberum Capital analyst Ian Whittaker said today. “It
will be hard for the government to approve the bid, either now
or at some point in the future.”  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition  Labour Party ,
said Murdoch should drop the bid.  News Corp., based in New York, last week decided to close
the 168-year-old News of the World, Britain’s biggest Sunday
newspaper. The last issue was published yesterday.  The scandal has wiped almost 2.7 billion pounds off BSkyB’s
market value since the Guardian reported the Milly Dowler
allegations on July 4. The pay-TV broadcaster is now an
“attractive opportunity” as the stock is likely to rebound,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts.  Investment Opportunity  “Our base case assumes that, ultimately, News Corp. is
able to acquire BSkyB but with a significant time delay, and we
maintain our 12-month price target of 900 pence,” Goldman Sachs
analysts, including Vighnesh Padiachy, said in a note to clients
today. “We see the 14 percent downward move in BSkyB’s share
price in the last two days as an attractive entry point to buy a
company with top-quartile industry positioning and returns.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  “In the present atmosphere it has become so poisonous it’s
very difficult for this takeover to proceed,” John Whittingdale, a member of Cameron’s Conservative party and
chairman of the culture committee of the House of Commons, said
today on the BBC Radio 4’s Today show. “I think the best thing
would be if it could be put on hold until we have a much clearer
idea of who knew what, who was responsible.”  London police have made at least seven arrests as part of
the phone-hacking investigation, including that of  Andy Coulson ,
one-time editor of the News of the World and former
communications chief for Cameron. Coulson has denied any
knowledge of reporters tapping phones when he led the paper.  Objections  Ofcom received Hunt’s letter and will respond within days,
a spokesman said today. Ofcom has the power to bar News Corp.
from owning a broadcaster if it finds senior executives not
“fit and proper” to hold a license. OFT spokeswoman  Kasia
Reardon  declined to comment.  A weeklong consultation on additional conditions imposed on
News Corp. over the deal ended on July 8 and the U.K. government
said it will take “some time” before it will give a final
ruling. The Department of Culture said it had received 156,000
messages of objection, as well as a written petition that it was
informed had 100,000 signatures.  The U.K. government is looking for a way to block the deal
because of the public outrage after the hacking allegations, a
person familiar with the situation said today. As the regulatory
process has already been laid out, the only organization that
can raise issues with the takeover by  News Corp. (NWSA)  at this stage
is Ofcom, said the person.  Increasing Cash Flow  News Corp. hasn’t made any decision on whether to withdraw
its bid and will continue to wait for regulatory clearance on
the transaction which may come after the summer recess, said
another person familiar with the matter. The House of Commons is
breaking from July 20 to Sept. 5. Alice Macandrew, a London-
based spokeswoman for News Corp., declined to comment  News Corp., which already owns 39 percent of BSkyB, wants
full control to gain access to the broadcaster’s increasing cash
flow. BSkyB may also help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspapers
more profitable by allowing him to bundle print and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over media platforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net . 