-- 
Bulgaria Default Swaps to Rise on Euro Debt, UniCredit Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v
-- 
2011-07-11T15:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/bulgaria-default-swaps-to-rise-on-greece-links-unicredit-says.html
The cost of insuring Bulgarian bonds
against non-payment is likely to increase because of the Balkan
country’s economic ties with  Greece , according to UniCredit SpA.  Investors should buy Bulgarian credit-default swaps at 220
basis points, or 2.20 percentage points, on expectations the
five-year contracts will climb to 270 points, the bank said in a
report dated yesterday. Swap prices rise as perceptions of
borrowers’ creditworthiness deteriorate.  An index of emerging-market stocks headed for its biggest
decline in four weeks and Italian and Spanish bonds fell on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread. The outlook on the
Bulgarian banking system remains negative, principally due to
the country’s slow economic recovery, weak operating
environment, expectations of rising non-performing loans and
high dependence on foreign-parent funding support, Moody’s
Investors Service said June 1.  “Bulgaria remains the most closely connected to the  Greek
economy  and Greek banking sector in central and eastern Europe,
the  Middle East  and Africa,” wrote  Gyula Toth , Vienna-based
chief of UniCredit strategy for the region. “We do not see the
recent outperformance versus its regional peers Romania, Hungary
and Croatia and the broader SovX CEEMEA index as justified.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index tracking
default swaps for 15 governments jumped 33 basis points to an
all-time high, with Italy surging above 295 basis points for the
first time ever. Bulgarian CDS rose 13 basis points to 237,
according to CMA prices. Greek banks control about 30 percent of
the total banking assets in Bulgaria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  