-- 
Canada’s Dollar Falls Versus Greenback on Europe, Economic Growth Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-11T21:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/canada-s-dollar-falls-versus-greenback-on-europe-economic-growth-concern.html
Canada’s dollar fell for a second
day versus its U.S. counterpart as investors sought a refuge
from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis in the wake of U.S. payroll
data last week that trailed even the most bearish forecast.  The Canadian currency weakened as much as 0.7 percent
against the greenback. It still outperformed 10 of its 16 most-
traded counterparts and reached the strongest level against the
euro since March 14 after Italian bond yields climbed as
European leaders met on the debt crisis.  “Generally we’ve had a risk-off environment, largely on
the back of what we saw Friday with non-farm payrolls, China
numbers weren’t as good as expected and then of course we have
European peripheral stresses and now with  Italy  under scrutiny
so that’s keeping the markets under pressure,”  Mary Nicola , a
foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas, said by phone from
 New York . “In spite of that the Canadian dollar has held up
relatively well.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.6 percent to 96.88 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 96.27 cents
on July 8. It rose as much as 1.5 percent to C$1.3547 per euro,
from C$1.3745. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0324.  Canada’s currency is likely to outperform its commodity-
linked peers including the Australian and New Zealand dollars
and the Mexican peso if  risk aversion  intensifies according to
Citigroup Inc. Long positions for those currencies are greater
than for the loonie, meaning traders would have to sell them
more aggressively should higher-yielding assets move further out
of favor, Citigroup said in a client note today. Long positions
are bets that currencies will rise.  Long  Canada  Trade  The lack of spare capacity in the Canadian economy, the
resilience of its labor markets and consumer prices that are
running above expectations may force the  Bank of Canada  to raise
 interest rates  sooner rather than later, boosting the nation’s
currency, Citigroup strategists Andrew Cox in New York and  Todd Elmer  in  Singapore  wrote in the note.  Cox and Elmer entered a tactical short-euro, long-Canadian-
dollar trade on June 30 at C$1.3850 and tightened their stop-
loss today to the entry level, meaning they are increasing bets
the loonie will gain versus the euro. A short position is a bet
that a security will fall in value. A stop-loss is an automatic
order to exit a trade, should it move too far the wrong way.  Bonds Rise  Canada’s government bonds climbed, pushing the yield on
benchmark two-year securities down eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 1.42 percent. The price of the 2 percent
security maturing in August 2013 gained 15 cents to C$101.16.  The loonie, as the nation’s currency is also known for the
image of the common loon on the dollar coin, rose to as high as
94.46 cents versus the greenback on April 29, the strongest in
more than three years before successive indications of softening
U.S. economic growth drove it to as low as 99.13 cents on June
27. Canada ships about three quarters of its exports to the U.S.  “If people are getting really nervous about the U.S.
again, then you would expect the  U.S. dollar  to rally a little
bit versus the Canadian dollar,” said Tom Levinson, a foreign-
exchange strategist at ING Bank NV, by phone from  London . “Such
was the negative response to the payrolls number that it
broadened out general risk aversion.”  The loonie weakened against the greenback on July 8 as data
showed U.S. employers hired 18,000 workers in June, the fewest
in nine months, while the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
climbed, boosting concern that the  U.S. economy  is struggling.  ‘Better Prospects’  “With Canada, they’re kind of brushing off this labor
report in the U.S., whereas everywhere else seems to have
reacted pretty negatively to it,” Levinson said. “We still
take the view that U.S. data will steadily improve throughout
the rest of this year and that will contribute to better
prospects for Canada as well.”  Canadian housing starts were 197,400 at a seasonally
adjusted annual pace in June, Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp.
said on its website today. Economists forecast a reading of
185,000 according to the median of 18 responses to a Bloomberg
News survey.  Chinese consumer prices increased 6.4 percent in June from
a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on July
9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The government will say on July 13 that
gross domestic product expanded 9.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year before, according to a separate survey, down
from 9.7 percent the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  