-- 
Dubai’s Majid Al Futtaim Seeks $1 Billion Loan After Scuppering Bond Plan

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-11T13:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/carrefour-operator-majid-al-futtaim-seeks-1-billion-in-loan-for-expansion.html
Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, the
operator of Carrefour SA stores in the  Middle East , is raising
$1 billion from three-year and five-year loans to fund
expansion, according to two people familiar with the deal.  The three-year revolving credit facility pays a margin of
250 basis points over the benchmark rate, said the people, who
declined to be identified before the terms are public. The five-
year amortizing loan pays a margin of 275 basis points, which
rises to about 315 basis points after fees are included, the
people said. The loans are being raised in both dollars and
dirhams. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  A spokesman for Majid Al Futtaim declined to comment.  Barclays Capital ,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  are coordinating the loan, the people said. The Dubai-based
owner of the City Center shopping malls hired the same banks to
arrange a $2 billion medium-term note program on June 14.  Majid Al Futtaim postponed a plan to sell five-year bonds
last month after price bids were below expectations, Group
Treasurer Daniele Vecchi said in an interview July 5.  Dubai’s government raised $500 million from the sale of 10-
year bonds with a five-year put option in June at a yield of
3.75 percent over the five-year mid-swap rate, or 5.59 percent.  Dubai’s five-year credit default swaps were quoted at 327
basis points on July 8, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  Shopping malls  Majid Al Futtaim, which develops shopping malls across the
Middle East and north  Africa , plans to invest $3.5 billion
expanding in  Egypt , Lebanon, Syria and the United Arab Emirates.
Its shopping mall in  Beirut  will be completed in October 2012
while a mall is under way in Cairo costing 2.8 billion dirhams
($762 million).  The company posted a loss of 144 million dirhams in 2010
compared with a profit of 479 million dirhams in the preceding
year. Long-term debt stood at 8.5 billion dirhams at the end of
2010, according to its bond prospectus.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the company a rating of BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade score.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  