-- 
Cash Tax Holiday, July 20 Basel Rules, Serbia Development Bank: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-07-11T11:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/cash-tax-holiday-july-20-basel-rules-serbia-development-bank-compliance.html
The Senate  Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations  is reviewing how companies might use offshore
cash they are seeking to transmit to the U.S. at a low tax rate.  Companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  are pressing Congress to approve a repatriation
holiday that would allow them to transfer overseas profits to
the U.S. and pay a tax levy that is less than the current 35
percent statutory rate. Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat
and chairman of the subcommittee, sent a survey to DuPont Co.
seeking information about how the Wilmington, Delaware-based
company might use repatriated funds.  Elise Bean, the subcommittee’s staff director, wouldn’t
comment on the letter. Representatives for DuPont, a chemical
and life sciences company, weren’t available to comment.  The survey seeks details about DuPont’s undistributed
accumulated foreign earnings, including how much money the
company holds offshore, where the money is held, the name of
each “controlled foreign corporation” that held earnings at
the end of fiscal 2010 and how much money those entities held.  Levin also requested information about which financial
institutions hold the offshore earnings, the type of accounts in
which the earnings are held, how much money is held in U.S.
dollars and whether those earnings were used to purchase assets
or make investments in the U.S.  He asked the company to respond by July 20.  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, introduced
legislation in May that would allow companies to repatriate
profits at a 5.25 percent tax rate. Brady said in an interview
July 8 that Congress shouldn’t try to micromanage companies’ use
of their cash.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Version of Basel Bank Capital Rules to Be Published July 20  The European Union said July 8 that it will publish
proposals to implement tougher Basel capital and liquidity rules
for banks in the 27-nation region on July 20.  Under the new rules lenders would need to “hold more and
better minimum capital than in the past; will need to build up
‘capital buffers’ over time so they will have money on-hand in
an economic downturn” and will also have to “monitor closely
their liquidity positions and leverage,” the European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said in a statement on its
 website .  The plans are based on agreements, known as the Basel III
rules, reached last year by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, which brings together regulators from 27 nations
including the EU, U.S. and  China , the Brussels-based commission
said. The proposals will need to be approved by governments and
by lawmakers in the European Parliament before they can enter
into force.  Compliance Action  Serbia  to Create Development Bank by December, Minister Says  Serbia’s government will probably establish a national
development bank by the end of 2011 to help bolster economic
growth.  The  Finance Ministry  will complete a feasibility study next
month, which should lead to the bank’s creation in the fourth
quarter, Labor Minister Rasim Ljajic told a news conference July
8 in Belgrade.  Serbia’s economy expanded 3.4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, driven by exports that the government sees
as essential for sustained growth after a recession in 2009. The
bank would consolidate state support to business, provided at
present through the  Development Fund  and  Export Credit and
Insurance Agency . Only Serbia’s northern Vojvodina province has
a  development bank .  Cyprus Central Bank Introduces Stricter Capital Requirements  Cypriot banks must comply with stricter capital
requirements that reflect the systemic risk they pose in
compliance with Basel III standards, the  Central Bank of Cyprus 
said.  By the end of 2014, the eastern Mediterranean island’s
banks must have available adequate core Tier 1 capital of at
least 8 percent of their risk-weighted assets plus the ratio of
their balance sheet to Cypriot gross domestic product, the
central bank said in a directive July 8. The stricter criteria
will apply gradually.  Presently the bank complies “with the core Tier 1 capital
ratio required by the central bank with 8.2 percent,” which
does not include this year’s profit or our convertible capital
bonds, which give us an additional 3.2 percent cushion, Christis
Hadjimitsis, senior group general manager at Bank of Cyprus,
said in a telephone interview.  The bank, Cyprus’s largest lender, will meet and exceed the
required core Tier 1 ratio with expected profit in the coming
years, Hadjimitsis said.  Fontana Settles SEC Claims Tied to Merrill, Wells Fargo Trades  Forrest Fontana and his Boston-based investment firm agreed
to pay more than $900,000 to settle U.S. regulator claims they
violated anti-manipulation rules.  Fontana Capital LLC bet against shares of Merrill Lynch &
Co.,  XL Group Plc (XL)  and Wells Fargo & Co. during a restricted
period before buying the shares in a public offering, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in an administrative
 order  July 8. The firm made $816,184 in profit on the 2008
trades, the SEC said.  SEC rules prohibit investors from selling short a stock, a
bet that its price will fall, within five business days of
participating in a public offering of the same security. The
provision, known as Rule 105, aims to prevent investors from
artificially depressing the price shortly before the sale.  Lisa Wood, Fontana’s attorney at Foley Hoag LLP in  Boston ,
didn’t immediately comment.  J&J’s Scios Unit Charged in Misbranding of Natrecor Drug  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Scios unit was charged by U.S.
prosecutors with misbranding the heart drug Natrecor because the
medicine’s labeling allegedly lacked adequate directions for
use.  Scios Inc. distributed misbranded Natrecor throughout the
U.S. from August 2001 to June 2005, according to a charging
document filed July 7 in federal court in  San Francisco .  The charge is a single misdemeanor count under the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, said Shaun Mickus, a spokesman for
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson & Johnson.  “With regard to the investigation that led to the
misdemeanor charge, the parties have reached an agreement that
is pending approval by the court,” Mickus said last week in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further.  The charge carries a maximum fine of $200,000 or twice the
gain or loss resulting from the illegal conduct and unspecified
restitution, according to the charging document.  Joshua Eaton, an attorney with the Justice Department in
San Francisco, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The Justice Department in 2009 joined two whistleblower
lawsuits accusing Scios of marketing Natrecor for unauthorized
uses. The practice cost the government-run health insurance
program Medicare “substantial amounts,” the department said.  The government alleges in one lawsuit that the company and
its subsidiary promoted the drug for serial, scheduled
outpatient infusions, a use not approved by the Food and Drug
Administration and not covered by Medicare.  The lawsuit is pending in federal court in San Francisco. A
related lawsuit was dismissed.  Johnson & Johnson and Scios deny engaging in off-label
marketing of Natrecor, the company said in court documents.  The criminal case is U.S. v Scios, 11-461, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Courts  Caterpillar Accused of Demoting Executive Discovering Tax Dodge  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  used offshore  subsidiaries  in Switzerland
and Bermuda to avoid about $2 billion in U.S. taxes from 2000 to
2009, boosting its earnings through a “tax and financial
statement fraud,” according to a Caterpillar executive’s
lawsuit.  The company, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, sold and shipped spare parts globally from an Illinois
warehouse while improperly attributing at least $5.6 billion of
profits from those sales to a unit in Geneva, according to the
suit filed by Daniel J. Schlicksup. He was a global tax strategy
manager for Caterpillar from 2005 to 2008.  Schlicksup, 49, sued in U.S. District Court in Peoria,
Illinois, in 2009, claiming he was moved to a job that limits
his career opportunities because he complained to superiors that
the “Swiss Structure” ran afoul of U.S. tax rules. He’s
seeking a court order to give him back his old job and prevent
any retaliation.  His lawsuit, which calls the structure a “tax dodge,”
followed a request for job protection he filed with the U.S.
Department of Labor under provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act,
court records show. The law bars retaliation against corporate
whistle-blowers. Schlicksup declined to comment for this story.
His attorney, Dan O’Day, declined to say whether Schlicksup has
taken his concerns to the Internal Revenue Service.  Schlicksup’s lawsuit, which is in the evidence-gathering
phase, alleges that the Swiss structure is improper because it
has no legitimate business purpose beyond cutting Caterpillar’s
U.S. tax bills.  Caterpillar spokesman  Jim Dugan  said the company has
engaged in no wrongdoing, and its attorneys said in a court
filing that Schlicksup’s transfer wasn’t a demotion. Dugan
declined to comment on the suit’s specific allegations, saying
Caterpillar “complies with applicable tax laws and
regulations.”  The case is Schlicksup v. Caterpillar Inc., 09-01208, U.S.
District Court for the Central District of Illinois (Peoria).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Buffett Says Banks Are ‘Plenty Profitable’ After Leverage Cut  Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is the
largest shareholder in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , said the U.S. will
benefit from reduced leverage at banks and that financial firms
will be able to earn sufficient returns.  Banking can “still be plenty profitable,” Buffett told
Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu July 8 on the “In the Loop”
program in an interview from Sun Valley, Idaho.  Regulators are limiting banks’ revenue on debit card
transactions and overdraft fees and have raised capital
requirements. Buffett, 80, said financial limits may increase
stability.  For more, click here.  Haldane Says Regulators Should Examine Risks From Faster Trading  Andrew Haldane , the  Bank of England ’s Executive Director
for Financial Stability, said regulators should address
stability risks posed by technological advances to speed up
financial-market trading.  “This rapidly changing topology of trading raises some big
questions for risk management,” Haldane said in a speech at the
 International Economic Association 16th World Congress  in
Beijing July 8. “While this evolution in trading may have
brought benefits such as a reduction in transaction costs, it
may also have increased abnormalities in the distribution of
risk and return in the financial system.”  The rise of practices such as high-frequency trading, a
computer-driven trading method that can permit thousands of
transactions in a second, has created a “race to zero” among
firms seeking market advantage, he said.  Comings and Goings  Pozen Said to Be Considered for Acting Head of Antitrust Unit  Sharis Pozen, a senior Justice Department adviser, is a top
candidate to become acting head of the agency’s  antitrust
division , a person familiar with the matter said.  No decision has been made on filling the position being
vacated by  Christine Varney , the person said. Varney is leaving
the department next month to work for Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP, a second person familiar with the matter said.  Pozen currently is Varney’s chief of staff and counsel.
Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Jobs for Unemployed Bankers Targeted in Delaware Budget  Delaware may be turning to tax incentives in an effort to
create jobs in a state where  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  and  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  together laid off more than 1,000 employees in the past
year.  Governor Jack Markell is urging the state legislature to
pass a bill that would provide a $1,250-per-employee tax credit
to financial institutions that hire 200 or more state residents.
Bloomberg’s Megan Hughes reported on ‘InBusiness with Margaret
Brennan’.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 