-- 
Cemex Sinks Most in Month After Credit Suisse Cuts Stock to ‘Underperform’

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:42:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/cemex-sinks-most-in-month-after-credit-suisse-cuts-stock-to-underperform-.html
Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker
in the Americas, tumbled to its lowest level in three weeks
after Credit Suisse AG and Bank of Nova Scotia analysts reduced
their recommendations on the stock, citing sluggish U.S.
construction.  Cemex’s shares trading in  Mexico  City fell 2.4 percent to
9.50 pesos at 4:10 p.m. New York time, the lowest closing price
since June 20. The shares this year have dropped 25 percent
compared with a 5.7 percent drop for Mexico’s IPC index. The
company’s American depositary receipts fell 3.6 percent today to
$8.07.  Credit Suisse cut its recommendation on Cemex to
“underperform” from “outperform” and slashed the target
price to $6.50 from $12 for the ADRs in a report today. Scotia
Capital dropped its recommendation to “sector perform” from
“sector outperform” and lowered its estimate for Cemex’s cash
flow in the second quarter by 5.5 percent.  “We were expecting a recovery in the U.S. by now and it
hasn’t happened,” said Ramon Ortiz, an analyst with the Mexico
City-based brokerage Corp. Actinver SAB. “The economic
indicators have been weak and this hasn’t translated into
spending on highways and other public-works projects that
require a lot of cement.”  Cemex is dependent on a recovery in the U.S. construction
industry to boost profits after it borrowed to pay $14.2 billion
for Rinker Group Ltd. in July 2007, which made the U.S. its
largest market by sales at that time. The U.S. construction
recession forced the Monterrey, Mexico-based company to reach a
$15 billion financing agreement with banks in August 2009 to
avoid default.  Housing Market  “The U.S. housing market has continued to show fundamental
weaknesses and discouraging signs,” Vanessa Quiroga, an analyst
with Credit Suisse in Mexico City, wrote in the report.  U.S. highway spending also will likely be lower than
expected, hurting profit, Quiroga said. The lower government
construction spending may last for several years and cause
profits to fall short of a December 2013 debt covenant that
could cause a technical default if it isn’t renegotiated or
waived, Quiroga said. That could create “an overhang on the
shares,” she said.  Credit Suisse lowered its estimate for Cemex’s 2011
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -
- a measure of  cash flow  known as Ebitda -- to $2.44 billion
from $2.59 billion and expects $624 million for the second
quarter.  Europe , Mexico Slowdown  Besides the U.S. weakness, the company faces a slowdown of
construction in Europe as well as its largest market, Mexico,
said Marcos Duran, an analyst with Scotia Capital in Mexico
City, in a report today.  The weaker activity in the U.S., Mexico and Europe
“suggest the recovery we had been anticipating will take longer
to materialize,” Duran said in the report.  Scotia reduced its second-quarter Ebitda estimate for Cemex
to $630 million from $667 million. Cemex, which is scheduled to
report earnings before the market opens on July 22, had Ebitda
of $664 million during last year’s second quarter. For the full
year, Duran reduced his 2011 Ebitda estimate to $2.52 billion
from $2.63 billion.  Ortiz, who has a “buy” on Cemex shares and a 12-month
target of $11.20 per ADR, said he wants to see Cemex’s second-
quarter earnings report before he deciding whether to adjust his
recommendation or target price.  Cemex is forecast to post a second-quarter loss of 5 cents
per ADR, according to the average of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. It would be the seventh straight quarter
of losses for the cement maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  