-- 
Central U.S. Bakes; Heat May Return to East Coast Later in July

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-11T11:59:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/central-u-s-bakes-heat-may-return-to-east-coast-later-in-july.html
Record-breaking heat is keeping a
grip on the center of the U.S. while the odds improve for
another round of hot weather along the East Coast later this
month, according to forecasters.  Temperatures were above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius)
yesterday across large parts  Missouri , Kansas, Oklahoma,
 Arkansas  and  Louisiana , according to the  National Weather
Service . Heat advisories and warnings were posted for those
states and into to Ohio today.  Natural gas traders monitor weather forecasts to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.  The heat will probably shift eastward during the next two
weeks until it blankets most of the East Coast in the July 21 to
July 25 time frame,  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather
Group LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland, said in his 6- to 10-day and
11- to 15-day forecasts.  “In the past 24 hours, there has been a trend to shift the
East Coast hotter again in the 11-15 day after a closer-to-
seasonal situation through the 6-10 day,” Rogers said in a note
to clients. “The core of the strongest heat is still expected
in the mid-continent, though.”  While most of the East won’t get that hot today, a heat
advisory has been issued for  New York City  and its immediate
metropolitan area because temperatures and humidity may make it
feel like 95 degrees or more, according to the weather service
in Upton,  New York .  NYC Heat  The high today in Central Park is expected to reach 91
degrees. The heat is building because a high pressure system is
moving to the southeast of the city and into the ocean, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist at Hometown Forecast Services in
Nashua,  New Hampshire .  Carolan said the heat will last for one more day, with
highs near 95 tomorrow before cooler, drier air moves into the
region.  At least eight cities in the South and Great Plains set
heat records yesterday, according to the weather service.
Wichita,  Kansas , had a high of 111, which broke the record of
110 set in 1980, according to the weather service.  In Arkansas,  Fort Smith  reached 108 and Harrison reached
103, setting new daily high temperatures. In Missouri, Joplin,
devastated by tornadoes earlier this year, set a new high for
the date of 106, and in Springfield the high was 102.
Shreveport, Louisiana, tied a record of 102 degrees set in 1998.  The heat will stay focused over those states for most of
the month, and reach into the northern Great Plains and Great
Lakes from July 16 to July 25, according to Rogers. The edges of
the heat pocket will also reach to the east and west as well, he
said.  “This east-west wobbling of the left and right flanks of
the hot ridge may continue to offer heat chances to the East
Coast and Southwest (and) California in the weeks ahead,”
Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 