-- 
Chesapeake Forms $1 Billion Fund to Boost Natural-Gas Demand

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-07-11T22:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/chesapeake-to-form-1-billion-fund-to-boost-natural-gas-demand.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most-
active U.S. natural-gas driller, will form a $1 billion fund to
invest in companies that develop infrastructure or technology to
increase the use of gas as a motor fuel.  For the fund’s initial investments, Chesapeake will spend
$155 million to buy half of closely held Sundrop Fuels Inc.,
which plans to build a plant to convert gas and waste products
into motor fuel, the Oklahoma City-based company said in a
statement today. The plant is expected to open in 2013 with a
capacity of 40 million gallons of fuel a year.  It will also spend $150 million over three years on bonds
issued by  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , a company that builds
fueling stations for heavy trucks that run on gas instead of
 diesel fuel . Chesapeake will make the current and future
investments via Chesapeake NG Ventures over the next 10 years,
it said.  “What we’re trying to do is create a demand revolution
that will have even more benefits than the supply revolution
that our company helped create in the last five years,”
Chesapeake Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon
said in an interview.  Chesapeake and other gas producers are hoping that
converting cars and trucks to using gas can help boost prices
that have declined by 68 percent in the past three years as
production climbed. Prices have dropped to an average of $4.288
per million British thermal units this year, after reaching
$13.577 in 2008.  Gas Infrastructure Play  “It’s really the largest natural-gas vehicle
infrastructure play to date,” Clean Energy Fuels Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Littlefair said of Chesapeake’s plan in
an interview.  About 1,600 of the more than 3 million heavy trucks in the
U.S. -- defined as those with a gross vehicle weight of more
than 33,000 pounds (15,000 kilograms) -- run on liquefied
natural gas, or LNG, Littlefair said. Manufacturers are
beginning to roll out new engines for the long-haul tractor
trailer rigs that run on LNG, he said.  LNG sells for $1.50 to $2 less a gallon than the equivalent
amount of diesel and produces less carbon dioxide and other
pollutants when burned, Chesapeake said in a statement.  Clean Energy Fuels will use the investment to add about 100
new fueling stations on major highways, Littlefair said. The
company, co-founded by Littlefair and Dallas billionaire  T.
Boone Pickens  and based in Seal Beach,  California , has about 240
fueling stations already.  Demonstration Plant  Chesapeake chose to invest in Louisville, Colorado-based
Sundrop because its technology may be able to produce a liquid
from natural gas that costs about the same as LNG, McClendon
said. Sundrop is backed by  Oak Investment Partners  and Kleiner
Perkins Caulfied & Byers, according to its website.  “We certainly think the demonstration plant is going to
prove the efficacy of the technology and the compelling nature
of the economics underneath it,” McClendon said.  Chesapeake has begun converting its fleet of 4,500 light
trucks to run on compressed natural gas. The company will
convert 100 of its drilling rigs and some of its fleet of
hydraulic fracturing equipment to run on LNG, it said today.  Converting the rigs and fracturing equipment will cut the
company’s diesel fuel consumption by about 350,000 gallons a
day, according to the statement.  Chesapeake is operating 157 drilling rigs in the U.S. this
week, the most among oil and gas producers, according to  data 
from Baker Hughes Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  