-- 
China Shibor Drops Most in Three Months on Signs Growth to Slow

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T07:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/china-shibor-drops-most-in-three-months-on-signs-growth-to-slow.html
China’s interbank borrowing costs
dropped the most in four months on speculation the central bank
will pause in raising  interest rates  as growth moderates in the
world’s second-largest economy.  Government data due July 13 is expected to show gross
domestic product increased 9.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least since September 2009, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
 trade surplus  widened to a seven-month high of $22.3 billion in
June as imports grew at the slowest pace since 2009, the customs
bureau said yesterday.  The Shanghai interbank offered rate, or Shibor, for three-
month yuan loans, dropped seven basis points to 6.24 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center at 11:30 a.m. in  Shanghai . The rate hit
a record high of 6.46 percent on June 28. The central bank
raised its one-year lending and deposit rates by a quarter of a
percentage point on July 7, the third increase of 2011.  “The market is speculating inflation has peaked this year
and another interest-rate hike probably won’t be possible in the
short term,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at
China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest lender.
“Also, the widening surplus means more capital flowing into the
economy, helping to ease the cash shortage.”  Inflation accelerated to a three-year high of 6.4 percent
in June, from 5.5 percent in May, the statistics bureau said on
July 9.  Failed Sale  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 83 basis points to 5.32 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the Interbank
Funding Center.  China ’s finance ministry failed to sell all of the three-
year debt offered on behalf of local governments at an auction
today as a cash crunch curbed demand. The ministry sold 23.9
billion yuan ($3.7 billion) of bonds at a yield of 3.93 percent
on behalf of 11 provinces and municipalities, falling short of
its 25 billion yuan target, said a trader at a  finance company 
required to bid at the auction. That’s the fourth time it’s
failed to sell all of the debt offered at a sale this year.  “While the interbank borrowing cost is so high, investors
won’t spend money on local government debt,” said Huang Yanhong,
a bond analyst at Bank of Nanjing Co. in Nanjing. “Demand is
also low because the debt’s secondary-market trading isn’t
active. After you buy it, you can only hold it till maturity.”  Swaps Decline  The central government will sell 200 billion yuan of bonds
on behalf of local authorities this year. Today’s auction was
the first involving this type of debt in 2011 and 25.4 billion
yuan of five-year notes were sold at a yield of 3.84 percent.  The one-year interest-rate swap contract, the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate,
declined three basis points to 3.80 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped as much as six basis points to
3.77 percent, the lowest level since July 4.  The yield on the 3.83 percent government bond due March
2021 was unchanged at 3.83 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 