-- 
China Inflation Jump Won’t Derail Stocks Rally, Shenyin, BofA-Merrill Say

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T07:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/china-s-cpi-jump-won-t-derail-three-week-stocks-rally-shenyin-bofa-say.html
The jump in Chinese inflation last
month is unlikely to derail a three-week rally in the nation’s
equities, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. and Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch.  China ’s consumer prices climbed to a three-year high of 6.4
percent in June, the statistics bureau said on July 9. That
exceeded the previous month’s 5.5 percent and the government’s
full-year target of 4 percent.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index advanced for a third
week last week on speculation the government will refrain from
further monetary tightening as the economy slows after boosting
 interest rates  for the third time this year. The measure rose
0.2 percent to 2,802.69 by the 3 p.m. close today, compared with
the MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index’s 1.2 percent drop. China’s gauges
were the only key indexes to post advances in Asia today.  “The June inflation number had already been widely
expected by the market and its impact will be minor,” Ling Peng, chief strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo, said in an interview
from  Shanghai . “Inflation may have already peaked.”  Shenyin & Wanguo, ranked China’s most influential research
provider by New Fortune magazine last year, predicted China’s
inflation rate would rise to 6.5 percent in June, according to a
June 30 report. That’s more than the 6.2 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  China’s central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said July 8
the nation can’t adopt inflation as its only monetary policy
target. The People’s Bank of China needs to consider other goals
including economic growth, employment, the exchange rate and
balance of payments, Zhou said at a forum in Beijing.  ‘Fall Steadily’  Signs that the economy is cooling include a slide in the
Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of manufacturing, to a 28-
month low in June, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported on July 1.  “The higher-than-expected CPI inflation in June could be
market-positive,” said Ting Lu, Hong Kong-based economist at
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. “The higher the reading in June,
the better chance for it to peak.”  Lu predicts China’s inflation will “fall steadily” after
June to around 4 percent to 4.5 percent by the end of the year
and stay at that level for a “couple of years.”  China’s pork prices may fall beginning in July and August
as more maturing pigs boost supply, Xinhua News Agency reported
today, citing Wang Zhicai, director of animal husbandry at the
Ministry of Agriculture. Consumer prices in June were mostly
pushed up by rising food and pork costs, which will become less
of a problem in the second half of the year, Caijing reported
July 9, citing  Li Daokui , an adviser to the central bank.  Further Gains  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 6.9 percent since June
20. Gains accelerated after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an
opinion piece in the Financial Times newspaper on June 24 that
efforts to control inflation have worked.  China’s stocks may be poised for further advances, said
Shen Yang, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Lombarda China Fund
Management Co., a venture with  Italy ’s fourth-biggest bank.  “Policy tightening may ease with inflation peaking soon,
and economic growth may pick up again,” he said. “That’s
positive for the stock market.”  --Zhang Shidong, Allen Wan. With assistance from Sophie Leung.
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  