-- 
China Auditor Denies Understating Debt of Local Governments

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T11:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/china-auditor-denies-understating-debt-of-local-governments-1-.html
China ’s National Audit Office today
denied understating the debts of local governments after Moody’s
Investors Service said last week that the liabilities may be as
much as a third more than the agency’s estimates.  The results of a  national audit  issued June 27 that showed
local governments had 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.65 trillion) of
debt was based on “reliable” data, according to excerpts of an
interview the official Xinhua News Agency conducted with an
unidentified agency spokesman posted to the  website  of the State
Council, China’s cabinet. The audit was independent, based on
facts and objective, the spokesman said in the transcript.  China’s banks may have an additional 3.5 trillion yuan of
exposure to local government debt that didn’t appear in the
auditor’s report, Moody’s said July 5. The “apparent absence”
of a plan to deal with the liabilities may mean that Chinese
lenders will have to manage a portion of any souring loans on
their own, Moody’s said.  Local Chinese governments, barred from sell bonds or
directly taking loans from banks, have set up financing vehicles
to fund infrastructure projects. More than 10,000 of these
companies had been set up by the end of last year, according to
the People’s Bank of China.  The national auditor examined more than 86,000 government
agencies for its report, according to the transcript posted
today. Of those, 6,576 were defined as local government
financing vehicles, the agency spokesman was cited as saying.  Of the liabilities disclosed in the auditor’s report, the
government has responsibility to repay 6.7 trillion yuan of the
debt, according to the transcript. The government has provided
guarantees for 2.33 trillion yuan of the liabilities and may
bear partial responsibility for the remaining 1.67 trillion yuan
of debt, the spokesman was cited as saying in the transcript.  --Penny Peng. With assistance from  Alfred Cang  and Jin Jing in
Shangahi. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News Staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7719 or
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  