-- 
Assad Has ‘Lost Legitimacy,’ Clinton Says

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-12T07:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/clinton-says-assad-lost-legitimacy-after-mob-attacks-embassy.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has lost his legitimacy
amid a crackdown on dissent across the country and mob attacks
on the U.S. and French embassies in Damascus.  Tensions between the two countries have escalated since
last week when  Robert Ford , the first U.S. ambassador to  Syria 
in six years, traveled to Hama, a hotspot for anti-regime
sentiment, and met with residents. Syrian authorities said the
visit was proof the U.S. was seeking to “incite” rebellion.  “From our perspective, he has lost legitimacy. He has
failed to deliver on the promises he’s made,” Clinton said
yesterday in Washington. “President Assad is not indispensable,
and we have absolutely nothing invested in him remaining in
power.”  The direct criticism of the Syrian leader, an assessment
the Obama administration had previously been reluctant to make,
was a shift from March, when Clinton said that some U.S.
lawmakers saw Assad as a reformer. Ten days ago, while traveling
in  Lithuania , Clinton warned the Syrian leader that he was
“running out of time” to meet the demands of protesters.  Climbing Walls  Since Ford’s trip, pro-Assad demonstrators have gone from
throwing eggs and tomatoes at the U.S. and French embassies in
Damascus to climbing over compound walls and injuring three
French guards.  About 300 people infiltrated the compound of the U.S.
Embassy yesterday, with some climbing the roof before U.S.
Marines dispersed them, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said in Washington. Protesters wrote anti-American
graffiti on the building, and broke windows and security
cameras.  The French Embassy also was attacked yesterday, for the
second day in a row. Three guards were hurt and the French
ambassador’s car destroyed, according to a statement by the
 France ’s Foreign Ministry. French security guards fired shots in
the air to disperse the mob, according to the statement.  Ford traveled through a checkpoint on July 7 to reach Hama,
where he spoke to more than a dozen residents and visited a
hospital. The French ambassador to Syria, Eric Chevalier, also
went to Hama and visited wounded people and their families at a
hospital.  Clinton said the Assad regime was using the anti-American
protests to divert attention from its brutality.  ‘Deflect Attention’  “By either allowing or inciting this kind of behavior,”
Clinton said, Syrian leaders “are clearly trying to deflect
attention from their crackdown internally and to move the
world’s view away from what they’re doing and create some kind
of ongoing conflict between Syrians and people like our
diplomats.”  Anti-regime protests that began in March have posed the
biggest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited power from
his father, the late President Hafez al-Assad, 11 years ago.
They have been part of a wave of unrest across the  Middle East 
and North Africa this year that has unseated the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia .  Assad has “sought and accepted aid from the Iranians” on
how to suppress his own people, Clinton said yesterday.  Syrian forces killed at least three anti-government
protesters in Homs on July 10 and wounded dozens of others as
opposition leaders boycotted a second day of reconciliation
talks, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria, said by telephone.  Demands ‘Have Merit’  At least 20 people were killed July 8 as 500,000 people
rallied in Hama to call for the fall of Assad’s government,
according to Merhi and Qurabi.  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while saying that the demands of demonstrators “have merit”
and that changes are needed. The crackdown in Syria has left
more than 1,700 dead, according to rights groups. At least
20,000 people have been arrested since the demonstrations began,
with half still in detention, Qurabi said.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries. A total of 8,561 Syrians remain in camps
in Turkey set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the province of
Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency Management
Presidency said today in a statement. As many as 15,490 people
have entered Turkey since the upheaval began, it said.  Economic Impact  The effects of the unrest on the Syrian economy have been
limited, the country’s central bank governor, Adib Mayaleh, said
in a May 31 interview. Deposits at Syrian banks declined for
about 10 days in the first quarter, then recovered after the
central bank took measures to boost confidence, he said.  Syria’s banking industry had a total of about $28 billion
in deposits at the end of March, he said. The bank raised the
rate lenders pay on deposits in May by 2 percentage points and
lowered the reserve requirement to 5 percent from 10 percent.  Deposits at private banks declined about 7 percent in the
first quarter, Abdul Qader Dweik, head of the Syrian
International Islamic Bank, the country’s largest Islamic
lender, said in a May 31 interview.  Lebanon’s  central bank  governor, Riad Salameh, said he saw
no evidence that $20 billion has left Syria’s banks and made its
way to Lebanon since the Syrian unrest started in March. The
estimate of as much as $20 billion in capital flight was
reported on June 30 by  the Economist , which didn’t say where it
got the information.  “This is completely false,” Salameh said in an interview
yesterday. “The figure that is being mentioned is a huge amount
compared to the total deposits of the banking sector in Syria.
It would have reflected immediately on our balance of payments
as well as the consolidated balance sheets of banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 