-- 
Clorox Rises as Options Traders Lift Bets Maker of Bleach Will Extend Gain

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-07-11T20:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/clorox-rises-as-options-traders-lift-bets-maker-of-bleach-will-extend-gain.html
Clorox Co. (CLX)  advanced the most in five
months, and bullish options trading surged to 38 times the four-
week average as investors boosted bets that the maker of the
namesake bleach will extend this year’s 11 percent gain.  The shares gained 2.8 percent to $70.05 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York after rising as much as 5.7 percent. More than 16,000 calls
to buy the Oakland, California-based company changed hands, the
most since October and 10 times the number of puts to sell. The
most-active contracts were July $70 calls, which expire at
week’s end.  “Clorox has been the subject of takeover chatter on
several occasions over the years, which in the past tended to
drive up the price of the underlying as well as call volume and
options implied volatility,” Caitlin Duffy, an options analyst
at Interactive Brokers Group Inc., wrote in a note today.  “No rumors have come to our attention today, but shares
are soaring, calls are in high demand and implied volatility is
up sharply,” said Duffy, who’s based in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Clorox spokesman Dan Staublin declined to comment.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  reported a stake of about
9.1 percent in a February filing, making him the company’s
largest holder.  Icahn, 75, built his reputation as a corporate raider in
the 1980s, targeting companies such as Phillips Petroleum Co.
and Texaco Inc. He has also sparred with management at Time
Warner Inc. and Yahoo! Inc. He often spends years holding stocks
as he waits for investments to pay off.  Clorox owns disparate brands including Hidden Valley salad
dressing, Burt’s Bees skin care and Kingsford charcoal.  Clorox reports quarterly results on Aug. 3. In May, the
company forecast 2012 earnings that fell short of analysts’
estimates, citing higher-than-anticipated commodity costs and a
challenging environment. Chief Executive Officer Don Knauss has
sought to boost overseas sales and revenue from higher-margin
products at the Oakland, California-based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  