-- 
Cocoa Seen Climbing on Africa-Indonesia Fix: Freight Markets

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-07-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/cocoa-seen-climbing-on-africa-indonesia-fix-freight-markets.html
The U.S., the world’s biggest market
for chocolate, is importing the most West African cocoa in three
years as disease and taxes curb Indonesian supply, driving
prices to a three-decade high.  Cargoes from Ivory Coast,  Ghana ,  Togo  and Nigeria rose 2.6
percent to 145,394 metric tons in the first four months while
those from Indonesia fell 88 percent to 7,301 tons, U.S. trade
data show. Increased competition for beans will mean cocoa
averaging $3,300 a ton in the fourth quarter on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York , 8.2 percent more than now and the most since 1979,
said  Kona Haque , the analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London
who correctly predicted a rally in February.  “For the U.S. bean grinder, the lack of Indonesian beans
has raised costs and diminished a regular supply in their
formula,” said Peter Johnson, president of Morristown, New
Jersey-based Transmar Commodity Group Inc., which has supplied
manufacturers with cocoa for three decades. “The trick is, how
do you replace what used to be a cheapening agent that isn’t so
cheap anymore? The first thing is you use more African beans.”  Cocoa is not alone as surging demand for everything from
oil to tin means supply is falling short of demand.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the world’s largest food company, is forecasting the biggest-
ever increase in its raw-material bill and Hershey Co., which
began making chocolate more than a century ago, increased prices
by an average of 9.7 percent in March. The cost of living in the
U.S. rose 3.6 percent in May, the biggest year-on-year gain
since October 2008, the Labor Department said June 15.  Cocoa Leading  Cocoa traded in New York averaged $3,159 this year, heading
for the highest annual average since 1978. The beans led gains
in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities in the
second quarter, rising 6.7 percent as the gauge declined 7.8
percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities dropped
0.5 percent and Treasuries returned 2.4 percent, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch shows.  The U.S. consumed 1.4 million tons of chocolate last year,
generating $17.6 billion of sales, London-based Euromonitor
International Ltd., a consumer research company, estimates.
Cocoa represents about 10 percent of the price of the average
chocolate bar, according to the International Cocoa Organization
in  London , whose members account for about 85 percent of global
production and 60 percent of consumption.  An average cocoa tree produces about 30 usable pods a year,
yielding enough beans to make about 2 pounds of dark chocolate,
according to information on a Hershey website.  Steel Containers  Cocoa is normally hauled across oceans in 20-foot-long
steel containers by companies including Copenhagen-based A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container shipper. There
has been an acceleration of West African beans to the U.S., said
Kenni Simon Skotte, general manager of Europe-West Africa trade
at  Maersk Line .  An index reflecting charges for six types of container
carriers rose 19 percent since the end of December, according to
the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association. That compares with a 18
percent decline in rates for shipping dry bulk commodities such
as  iron ore  and coal and a 91 percent plunge in the benchmark
cost of hauling oil on supertankers, according to data from the
 Baltic Exchange . The London-based bourse publishes daily rates
for more than 50 maritime routes.  Shipping companies will lift 549 million 20-foot-equivalent
containers this year, about 9.1 percent more than in 2010,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., part of the
world’s largest shipbroker. Trade will expand another 9.3
percent to 600 million units in 2012, the research unit
estimates.  Fleet Expansion  The global fleet of 4,750  container ships  expanded 4
percent in the past year, according to Redhill, England-based
IHS Fairplay. Owners have made orders for new ships equal to 26
percent of existing capacity, the data show. About 90 percent of
global trade moves by sea, the Round Table of International
Shipping Associations estimates.  The growth in U.S. imports of West African cocoa is being
driven by a drop in the availability of beans from  Indonesia ,
the world’s third-biggest grower behind Ivory Coast and Ghana.
The Asian nation’s output will probably decline 13 percent to
500,000 tons this year, Dakhri Sanusi, secretary-general of the
Indonesia Cocoa Association said June 9. A longer and wetter-
than-normal rainy season last year helped spread vascular streak
dieback, a fungal disease that can kill trees.  Indonesia’s government also wants to ship fewer raw beans
and expand its processing industry to create jobs. The state
imposed an export tax of 5 percent to 15 percent in April 2010,
allowing local grinders to offer higher prices to farmers. The
tax increases as New York futures rise. Domestic processing may
advance to 400,000 tons of cocoa products next year, compared
with 280,000 tons this year, Piter Jasman, chairman of the cocoa
industry association, said July 8.  ‘True Value’  “The tax structure and poor crop in Indonesia is pushing
prices above what the market perceives as true value,” said Kip
Walk, director of cocoa for Chicago-based Blommer Chocolate Co.,
which says it is the largest processor of the beans in  North
America . By contrast, “a  bumper crop  in West Africa has
provided lower prices out of that region.”  Production in  Ivory Coast  will expand 4.6 percent to 1.3
million tons in the crop year ending Sept. 30, while in Ghana it
will advance 52 percent to 960,000 tons, the International Cocoa
Organization estimated in June. Nigerian output will be little
changed at 240,000 tons, the group said.  Futures markets are anticipating no decline in prices until
at least 2013, with cocoa for delivery a year from now trading
at $3,117. Speculators are also getting more bullish with the
net-long position, or bets on higher prices, expanding for four
consecutive weeks to 16,627 contracts, the most in three months,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  No Relief  That signals no relief for consumers. Hershey, based in the
town of the same name in  Pennsylvania , announced its wholesale
price increases on March 30, citing costs including raw
materials, packaging and fuel. Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
said June 8 its raw-materials bill may rise by as much as 3
billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion) this year, the biggest gain
ever. The company’s candy brands include Smarties and Aero.  The growth in West African exports to the U.S. is also
surprising because it came despite a two-month ban on shipments
in Ivory Coast that ended in April. The curbs were imposed by
then President-elect Alassane Outtara, who was seeking to deny
funds to his rival  Laurent Gbagbo . The conflict that began with
disputed presidential elections at the end of November ended
with the arrest of Gbagbo in April.  U.S. Imports  The U.S. imported 49,295 tons from Ivory Coast in January
and 63,949 tons in February, dropping to 1,458 tons in March and
252 tons the following month, U.S. Department of Agriculture
data show. The slump in Ivorian supplies helped drive cocoa
futures to a 32-year high of $3,775 in March.  After the end of the export ban to the end of June, a
“significant portion” of the 180,000 tons shipped headed to
the U.S., according to Gerry Manley, global head of cocoa at
Olam International Ltd., a Singapore-based commodity trader with
more than 10,000 customers. Ivory Coast may produce a record 1.6
million tons this year, and Ghana 900,000 tons, also the most
ever, he estimates.  The lack of Indonesian beans combined with the Ivory Coast
export ban also drove the U.S. to other West African suppliers.
Ghanaian shipments advanced 28 percent in the first four months
and those from  Nigeria  jumped 156 percent, USDA data show.
Cargoes from Togo, to the east of Ghana, reached 3,285 tons,
compared with nothing in the previous two years.  The competition for beans may intensify in the next crop
year that starts Oct. 1 as supply once more falls short of
demand. Globally, farmers will reap 3.68 million tons in the
2011-12 crop year, 5.3 percent less than this year, ABN Amro
Bank NV and VM Group estimated in a June report. That will leave
a global shortfall of 94,000 tons, they said.  “I suspect the New York cocoa market will outperform
London” until the end of the third quarter, said Haque of
Macquarie. “Indonesia is the only bullish story in cocoa supply
and demand at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 