-- 
Coffee Protects Against Drug-Resistant Germs in Latest Baffling Benefit

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-11T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/coffee-protects-against-drug-resistant-germs-in-latest-baffling-benefit.html
Drinking tea and coffee may be
linked to reducing antibiotic resistant bacteria carried by
healthy people in their noses, a potential benefit of the
beverages that baffled researchers.  People who consumed tea and coffee carried methicillin-
resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or  MRSA , in their noses half as
often as those who didn’t, according to a study released today
in the Annals of Family Medicine.  MRSA can live in people’s noses without infecting them. It
grows and multiplies there, in a process called colonization.
Colonized people can spread MRSA to others or become infected
through a break of the skin. It is considered a risk for
contracting the infection, said  Eric Matheson , the study author
and a doctor in the department of family medicine at the Medical
University of  South Carolina  in Charleston.  “Oral consumption, which is the way most of us drink our
tea and coffee, does seem to help, but no one is sure why,”
said Matheson in a telephone interview.  Coffee and  tea  may activate the immune system, or directly
damage cells of the bacteria, Matheson said. Both also decrease
 iron absorption,  and MRSA needs iron to grow.  Coffee has been linked in studies to a lower risk of
prostate cancer,  Parkinson’s disease ,  Type 2 diabetes ,  liver
cancer , cirrhosis and gallstone disease, Harvard University
researchers said in a May 17 analysis in the Journal of the
 National Cancer Institute . It also contains compounds that can
reduce inflammation and regulate insulin.  Nose Swabs  Researchers in the study, of 5,000 people, swabbed bacteria
from people’s noses to see if they carried MRSA and asked them
to answer questions about their beverage consumption. Iced tea
and soda had no effect on MRSA, the study found. That may be
because the antimicrobial parts of coffee and tea are carried to
the nose through steam, the authors wrote.  If the findings hold true in further studies, coffee and
tea may prove inexpensive ways to keep MRSA to a minimum in the
population, the authors wrote.  MRSA is the most common drug-resistant strain of bacteria,
often acquired in hospitals, according to the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. The hospital-acquired strain
sickens about 90,000 people a year in the U.S. and kills about
15,000, according to the Atlanta-based CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  