-- 
Coke Traders Pay Up to Hedge as Stock Reaches 12-Year High

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-11T20:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/coke-traders-pay-up-for-protection-as-stock-reaches-12-year-high.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  investors are paying
more for protection against stock declines than ever before,
increasing options bets against the world’s largest soft-drink
maker after it rallied to the highest price since 1999.  Coca-Cola’s skew, which measures how much puts cost
relative to calls, climbed to a record on July 1, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Atlanta-based soda maker rose 37
percent from its July 2010 low through last week’s peak of
$68.75, beating the 25 percent advance for Standard & Poor’s 500
Index companies that sell necessities to consumers, and a 15
percent increase for PepsiCo Inc., its biggest rival.  Stock investors bought companies seen as less-tied to the
economy this year amid speculation the European debt crisis and
 Japan ’s record earthquake will curb global growth. That trend
started to reverse a month ago. Coca-Cola shares may fall if
commodity prices pare their 2011 gain, harming demand in Latin
American economies driven by raw materials, said  Philip Gorham ,
a senior equity analyst for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  “Skew is a measure of the downside expectation,” said
Alex Panagiotidis, managing director for equity derivatives at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York . “The higher the stock
goes, the more room to the downside. People will want to protect
gains and are going to be bidding skew up as the stock is going
and going.”  Profit Estimates  Profit at the maker of the two best-selling soft drinks in
the U.S. beat expectations for 22 of the past 24 quarters, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Chief Executive Officer Muhtar Kent
introduced new can and bottle sizes, purchased Coca-Cola’s
largest franchised bottler and promised to spend at least $27
billion through 2020 for new plants and distribution facilities
in emerging markets.  While the S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities has rallied 7.6
percent in 2011, hurting profit margins at food companies, the
measure has dropped 25 percent from its 2011 high on April 29.
Central banks in emerging markets such as China and  Brazil  are
trying to slow growth to curtail inflation. Coca-Cola gets at
least a third of its sales from developing nations, Gorham said.  Funds trimmed bets on rising agriculture prices for a third
straight week, sending holdings to the lowest in a year as
supply concerns eased. Speculators reduced their net-long
position in 11 U.S. farm goods by 6.6 percent to 564,174 futures
and options contracts in the week ended July 5, government data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the lowest since July 2010.  Options Prices  Implied volatility, a key gauge of options prices, for
Coca-Cola’s three-month puts increased to a record 64 percent
higher than the level on calls, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg using contracts priced 10 percent above and below the
shares. The premium slipped to 52 percent today.  Forecasts that  Greece  will default on its government debt
as well as concerns about the Japanese earthquake, tsunami and
nuclear crisis drove investors to so-called defensive companies
such as Coca-Cola, drugmakers and grocers this year.  That helped the Morgan Stanley Consumer Index beat the
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of manufacturers, commodity
producers and transportation by 9.7 percentage points between
Feb. 17 and June 16. The cyclical measure then led through July
7, winning to 6.6 points.  Coca-Cola climbed eight consecutive days through July 7,
its longest streak since September before losing 0.1 percent on
July 8. It slipped 0.8 percent to $68.10 today. The ratio of
existing puts relative to calls rose to a three-month high of
0.75-to-1 on July 6, up from a 20-month low of 0.63 on June 1.  Quarterly Report  On July 19, the company will report second-quarter profit
of $1.16 a share excluding some items, according to the average
of 14 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s investing in emerging markets and it’s achieving
strong growth there. It’s executing well in  North America , which
is a tough market but an important one -- and the acquisition of
their bottler last year has allowed them to take some market
share in North America,” said Morningstar’s Gorham. “The
second quarter was pretty good. It’s probably not sustainable.
There are headwinds on the horizon that will make this more
challenging.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  