-- 
Commerzbank, GDF, Glaxo, ING, RWE, Total: Europe Equity Preview

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-07-11T03:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/commerzbank-dassault-gdf-glaxo-ing-rwe-total-europe-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ may have
unusual moves in European trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.8 percent to 273.76. The
Stoxx 50 Index slipped 0.7 percent to 2,570.85. The Euro Stoxx
50 Index, a benchmark measure for nations using the euro,
declined 1.9 percent to 2,790.09.  BP Plc (BP/ LN): The London-based oil producer said the U.S.
Gulf Coast economy has improved so much that most payments for
projected damage caused by its spill should stop. The shares
declined 0.9 percent to 458.50 pence.  Bank of Ireland Plc (BKIR ID): Ireland’s largest lender
said it plans to raise 1.9 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in a
share sale, as it seeks to raise capital and avoid state control.
The shares rose 0.9 percent to 11.6 euro cents.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  :  Spain ’s largest bank may make
acquisitions in  Colombia  within three years and in  Peru  in the
next five years, El Economista said, citing Francisco Luzon,
head of the lender’s Latin American unit. The shares fell 3.8
percent to 7.564 euros.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK GY):  Germany ’s biggest bank denied a
Der Spiegel report that Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
told management board members at a recent meeting that he wants
to become chairman. The shares dropped 2.2 percent to 39.85
euros.  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  :  Brazil  will delay a decision
on a $5 billion order for new fighter jets to next year, Defense
Minister Nelson Azevedo Jobim said. Dassault is promoting its
Rafale against Boeing Co.’s F/A-18 Super Hornet and  Sweden ’s
 Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen. The shares rose 0.2 percent to
701.50 euros.   EDP-Energias de Portugal SA (EDP PL): Parpublica, a
Portuguese state holding company, hasn’t received a firm
proposal for its stake in utility EDP, the country’s securities
regulator said. There have been demonstrations of “potential
interest” and no talks are taking place, the regulator said.
EDP shares fell 2.2 percent to 2.43 euros before the
announcement.  Electricite de France SA (EDF FP): Europe’s biggest power
utility is preparing to order 44 replacement steam generators
for its nuclear  power plants , and French supplier Areva SA
(AREVA FP) will get about two-thirds of the order, Le Figaro
said, without saying where it got the information. The shares
dropped 2 percent to 26.80 euros.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  : The British drugmaker won U.S.
regulatory approval of a vaccine to prevent tetanus, diphtheria
and whooping cough in those aged 65 and older, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a statement. The shares gained 0.7
percent to 1,375.5 pence.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA: Europe’s largest gas network operator
is discussing cooperation with Gazprom OAO, including on the
Nord Stream natural gas pipeline, the French company said. The
shares fell 2.4 percent to 24.285 euros.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  : The Netherlands plans to guarantee
the stability of the country’s biggest banks, including ING, by
ensuring that different units can be separated in times of
crisis. The government said it favors making the banks safer as
whole entities, rather than splitting them now. ING fell 1.5
percent to 8.394 euros.  Porsche SE (PAH3 GY): The carmaker will boost production of
the Cayenne sport-utility vehicle next year after surging
deliveries of the sports-car maker’s best-selling model spurred
a 37 percent sales gain in the first half. The shares fell 0.3
percent to 57.13 euros.  Qiagen NV (QIA GY): The company reached an agreement to buy
a 61 percent stake in Ipsogen SA. The stock rose 0.3 percent to
13.45 euros. Qiagen gained 0.3 percent to 13.45 euros.  Royal Ahold NV (AH NA): The Dutch owner of Stop & Shop
supermarkets in the U.S. is waiting for the right opportunity
and the right time for an acquisition, NRC Handelsblad said,
citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer .
Ahold shares fell 0.2 percent to 9.32 euros.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  : Europe’s largest oil
company was granted “Major Project Facilitation” status by the
Australian government for its Prelude liquefied natural gas
project. The designation assures government assistance during
the final approval process for the $12.9 billion project. Shell
shares fell 0.1 percent to 25.42 euros.  RWE AG (RWE)  : Germany’s second-largest utility is close
to an agreement to sell its Amprion German power grid company to
a group of investors led by  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  , as the
country’s second-largest utility cuts debt, said a person with
knowledge of the matter. RWE fell 4 percent to 37.02 euros.
Commerzbank declined 2.1 percent to 2.964 euros.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS LN): Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. is considering a bid for RBS Aviation
Capital, the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s aircraft-
financing division, the Sunday Times reported, citing  Guy Hands .  Separately, RBS asked a U.K. judge to limit the amount of
e-mails it must turn over as it seeks to halt Highland Capital
Management LP’s $100 million U.S. lawsuit over a failed bond
transaction. The shares retreated 2.6 percent to 37.21 pence.  Siemens AG (SIE GY): The engineering company is seeking to
beat the top quartile of rivals in profitability,  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  reported, citing an interview with managing board member
Roland Busch. The shares fell 0.6 percent to 94.68 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW3 GY): The carmaker’s Audi unit plans to
sell 1.5 million cars by 2014, a year ahead of schedule,
Automotive News Europe reported, citing Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Stadler. The unit plans to build another plant in  North
America , a company spokesman said, confirming a report by
Automotive News Europe. The shares fell 0.1 percent to 148.65
euros.  Total SA (FP)  : Europe’s largest oil refiner is no longer
in exclusive discussions to sell its Lindsey refinery in the U.K.
and there are several bidders involved in the process, delaying
the sale process, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
said at an event in Aix-en-Provence. The shares fell 1.1 percent
to 39.97 euros.  Vision IT Group (VIT)  SA: The Belgian consulting company
said earnings will decline this year because of a slower-than-
expected development of the Dutch unit’s cloud-computing
operations. Vision shares climbed 1.9 percent to 6.42 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Taylor in New York at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  