-- 
Copper Falls Most in Two Weeks on Concern European Debt Woes Will Spread

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-11T17:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/copper-may-decline-on-concern-sovereign-debt-crisis-might-spread-to-italy.html
Copper fell the most in two weeks on
concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may spread to Italy,
curbing economic growth and metal demand.  The premium that investors demand to hold Italy’s debt over
German bunds hit a euro-era high. Europe’s finance ministers are
meeting in Brussels today to seek ways to shore up Greece and
defend other nations facing large budget deficits. Copper has
dropped 6.2 percent from a record $4.6575 a pound on Feb. 15.  Italy “is probably the next risk,” said  Charles Cooper ,
an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s one of the
larger economies in Europe, and any concerns over that are going
to affect the commodity market.”  Copper futures for September delivery fell 4.4 cents, or 1
percent, to close at $4.368 at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York , the biggest decline for a most-active contract since June
27.  The metal dropped 3.7 percent in the first half of 2011 as
demand eased in China, the world’s largest buyer. The nation’s
inflation in June accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years, government data showed.  “Inflation rates could spike again in July, leading to
further Chinese tightening and likely moderating commodity
demand in the process,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien, Connecticut, said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $91, or 0.9 percent, to $9,570 a metric ton
($4.34 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also fell in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  