-- 
Credit-Ratings Firms May Be Forced to Show Sovereign Data

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-11T12:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/credit-ratings-firms-may-have-to-show-eu-data.html
Credit-ratings companies may be
forced to disclose the internal analyses they use when they
decide to cut a European Union government’s rating, the region’s
financial services commissioner said.  Nations may win the right to check the data used by the
companies in advance of downgrades of their sovereign ratings,
 Michel Barnier  said in the text of a speech in Paris speech
today. The measures may be included in legislation to rein in
the ratings firms, he said.  Ratings companies “occupy a place which is far too
important in Europe,” Barnier said. “We are considering
compulsory publication of the analysis which leads to
modification of a rating and the obligation of conducting a full
analysis more regularly.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s credit rating by
four levels last week, prompting criticism from the EU that
ratings companies are unnecessarily exacerbating the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis. European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said he “deeply” regretted the timing and magnitude of
the downgrade and said proposals for increasing regulation of
the rating companies in  Europe  would come out this year.  “We are considering introducing requirements which would
allow a government to check the accuracy of the data used by an
agency in advance of any downgrading,” Barnier said in his
speech.  Spokespeople at Moody’s and  Fitch Ratings  didn’t
immediately respond to calls seeking comment. A spokesman for
 Standard & Poor’s  declined to comment.  ‘Negligence’  Barnier, who leads work on financial regulation for the
Brussels-based commission, said the proposals may also include
measures for investors to take ratings companies to court “when
there has been negligence or violation of applicable rules.”  Governments shouldn’t abuse the ability to check the data
used by ratings firms by attempting to delay downgrades to their
sovereign rating, said Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker who
represents  London  at the European Parliament.  “Unfortunately, governments whose ratings are downgraded
are often too ready to shoot the messenger rather than tackle
their debt problems,” Kamall said in an e-mail.  The euro has fallen in four of the past five days after
Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit rating to Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, reigniting concern the region’s debt crisis
will spread beyond  Greece  as officials remain divided over a
solution to the crisis.  Euro-area finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today
as rising Italian bond yields stoked concern the country is also
being dragged into the mire.  Barnier said today that “more competition and diversity is
essential” in the market for credit ratings.  One “interesting
idea” is the possibility of creating “a network of small and
medium-sized agencies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 