-- 
Crude Oil Falls for a Third Day on European Debt Concern, U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-12T12:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/crude-oil-trades-near-one-week-low-in-new-york-on-european-debt-concern.html
Oil declined for a third day in  New
York  on speculation that  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis will
curb demand for raw materials and that U.S. fuel stockpiles
increased last week.  Futures fell as much as 1.7 percent as soaring yields on
Italian bonds heightened concern Europe’s third-largest economy
won’t be able to finance its debt. U.S. gasoline supplies
probably grew for the first time in four weeks, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before a government report tomorrow. Oil
briefly fell below its 200-day moving average, a technical
support level.  “Contagion fears about Italy, Portugal and Ireland are
going to dominate for the time being,” Myrto Sokou, a London-
based analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd., said. “Investors should
be very cautious about all the uncertainty in the  euro zone ,”
which will probably cause crude to drop, she said.  Crude for August delivery fell as much as $1.60 to $93.55 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $94.57 at 1:40 p.m.  London  time. The
contract yesterday lost $1.05 to $95.15, the lowest settlement
since July 1. Prices have risen 26 percent in the past year.  New York futures fell less than London’s Brent crude,
narrowing the gap between the benchmark contracts to $21.69 a
barrel from $22.09 at settlement yesterday. Brent oil for August
settlement lost as much as $2.29, or 2 percent, to $114.95 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  Risk Aversion   “Crude is joining in on the selloff,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in London said today by e-mail. “The
euro is down yet again, with equities selling off as risk
aversion continues to haunt global markets on fears for
peripheral debt in the euro zone.”  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. gasoline
supplies increased for the first time in four weeks, according
to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. They probably climbed 500,000 barrels last week from
212.5 million, the survey shows.  Crude stockpiles dropped 2.3 million barrels, the Bloomberg
survey shows. That would be the sixth week of declines. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will report its own
supply data today.  OPEC Report  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries forecast
world oil demand will grow at a slower pace for a second year in
2012 as consumption declines in Europe and slows in other
industrialized nations.  Global demand will average 89.5 million barrels a day in
2012, the group’s Vienna-based secretariat said today in its
monthly report, giving its first forecast for next year. That’s
up 1.3 million barrels, or 1.5 percent, from the 2011 estimate.  Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably rose 800,000 barrels, according
to the survey. Nine of the analysts anticipated a gain and one
forecast a decline.  Oil may extend declines if it settles below its 200-day
moving average, currently at $93.76 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moving averages are used by investors to
determine levels of support and resistance and predict price
direction when those levels are crossed.  New York crude slumped 11 percent in the second quarter on
speculation Europe’s debt crisis will stall the region’s
economic recovery.  Italian bonds fell for a seventh day and the nation’s
borrowing costs jumped by more than half at an auction of 6.75
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of bills today. Stocks pared
declines after falling to a two-year low. The rout in  Italy 
underscored Europe’s inability to contain the crisis that began
in  Greece  in 2009 and led to bailouts in Ireland and Portugal.  “Global debts seem to be hanging over the market like the
Sword of Damocles,”  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover
Inc., an energy adviser in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said in an
e-mailed note today.  Italy faces 175 billion euros in debt maturities this year
and has 1.6 trillion euros of bonds outstanding, the world’s
third-largest debt pile, after the U.S. and  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  