-- 
Cyprus Blast Kills 12, Injures 62, Reduces Power by 50%

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T17:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/cyprus-fire-that-killed-eight-spread-from-power-station-to-munitions-store.html
A fire and explosion at a Cyprus
naval base that damaged an adjacent power plant killed 12
people, injured 62 others and knocked out 50 percent of the
island’s electricity supply, the Cyprus government said.  A bush fire, which started in dry grass about 4 a.m. local
time, spread to explosives stored at the Evangelos Florakis
naval base in Mari on the southern coast and set off munitions
seized from a ship in 2009, state broadcaster CyBC said.  “Of the 62 injured, two are in a serious condition,”
government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  told reporters in Nicosia
today. “The exact cause of the fire has yet to be determined,
but we are ruling out sabotage based on current information.”  Both the Cypriot Defense Minister Costas Papacostas and
Army Chief Petros Tsalikides resigned and both resignations were
accepted, he said. Cyprus has declared three days of national
mourning.  Among those killed were four soldiers, two sailors and five
firefighters and an unknown number are missing, CyBC reported.
Many of those injured were driving past the plant and base and
were hit by flying metal, Health Minister Christos Patsalides
said.  Damage to the Vassilikos plant, the country’s largest,
knocked out about half the island’s power-producing capacity,
the energy regulator said. Generation island-wide, which fell to
140 megawatts at the time of the incident from about 700
megawatts, rose to 560 megawatts as of 3:00 p.m., local time,
according to the  Cyprus Transmission System Operator .  Power Output  The disabled plant accounts for 767 megawatts of Cyprus’s
total power generation capacity of 1,436 megawatts, according to
the operator’s website. “Whether it will take weeks or months
to restart the plant is something we can’t say at the moment,”
Electricity Authority of Cyprus (EAC) spokesman Costas
Gavrielides said in a telephone interview.  Fifty firefighters and 10 fire trucks fought the blaze,
said a fire official who declined to be identified. Leonidas Leonidou, spokesman for the fire department, said the fire at
the base was under partial control and some fires still burning
at the power station didn’t threaten the fuel depots.  Electricity demand for air conditioning in Cyprus, one
of  Europe ’s hottest countries, peaks in the summer. The EAC, the
island’s state-run power company, asked consumers to cut power
usage and not use air conditioners after the explosion at the
nearby naval base damaged the distribution network, according to
an e-mailed statement.  Huge Disaster  “The blast caused a huge disaster at the power station,”
Giorgos Siammas, chairman of the Cyprus Energy Regulatory
Authority, told Cyprus state radio. “Owners of reserve
generators must put them into operation.”  Hermes Airports , operator of Cyprus’s two international
airports, said in an e-mailed statement they have reduced air
conditioning to the lowest possible levels and started power
generators at the two airports.  Cyprus’s Agriculture, Natural Resources and  Environment
Ministry  called on consumers to restrict water consumption to
‘necessary use’ after it suspended operations at all the
country’s desalination plants due to power problems. The British
Broadcasting Corporation reported on its web site that six of
the company’s eight relay transmitters at close by Zigy were
without power cutting its English-language broadcasts to the
 Middle East .  ‘Our aim is to solve the power problem and to meet demand
in the middle of the peak tourist season,” Stefanou said.  The EAC is examining the possibility of bring mobile power
generators to Cyprus and will prioritize electricity supply to
hospitals, airports, the police and for water pumping and then
to main tourist areas followed by large industrial users, the
Nicosia-based company said in a separate e-mailed statement
today.  Possible power cuts rotated across the country of
unknown duration may also affect consumers.  Emergency Meeting  Cyprus President Demetris Christofias, who described the
scene at the base as a “biblical catastrophe,” called an
emergency cabinet meeting for 12:30 p.m. Cyprus time today,
according to an e-mailed statement from his office. Cyprus will
seek emergency assistance from the European Union, CyBC said,
citing Interior Minister Neoklis Silikiotis.  The government spokesman confirmed that the munitions that
exploded came from the Russian-owned, Cypriot-flagged vessel
Monchegorsk that was intercepted by Cyprus in 2009.    .  The U.S., Britain and  France  said at the time that the
Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines chartered the vessel to
send weapons-related material, including what they described as
“bullet shells” and anti-tank munitions, to  Syria . Iran said
the seizure of the arms shipment was illegal.  Three staff members at the power plant were injured and
there were no fatal casualties, the EAC’s Gavrielides said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in London at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  