-- 
Toronto-Dominion Leads Canada Equity Sales as Issuance Hits 12-Year High

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-11T18:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/td-securities-tops-cibc-as-canada-equity-sales-at-12-year-high.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities took top spot for arranging Canadian stock sales in
the first half of the year as issuance reached a 12-year high.  TD Securities, which has never led the annual rankings for
equity sales, arranged $2.1 billion of initial public offerings
and secondary stock sales, according to revised data compiled by
Bloomberg as of June 30.  RBC Capital Markets  ranked second at
$1.87 billion, followed by  CIBC World Markets  with $1.76 billion
in financings.  Equity financings, excluding preferred shares and
convertible debentures, was about $18 billion in the first six
months, 37 percent higher than the same period a year earlier
and the best start in at least 12 years, Bloomberg data show.
Companies are raising more money to expand operations and fund
takeovers as  Canada ’s economy grows.  “With Canadian corporate balance sheets in good shape,
primary equity issuance by companies this year has been largely
to finance capital expenditures or acquisitions,” said Sante Corona, TD’s head of equity capital markets, in an interview.  Toronto-Dominion’s investment bank is leading the rankings
after Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  vowed as recently as
February to become one of the country’s leading investment
banks. RBC Capital Markets was top arranger of Canadian stock
sales in 2010, and placed No. 1 in four of the past five years.  TD climbed the ranks after co-leading  Intact Financial
Corp. (IFC) ’s C$962 million ($1 billion) offering with CIBC to fund a
takeover of  AXA SA (CS) ’s Canadian insurance business. TD also helped
arrange Lone Pine Resources Inc.’s $195 million IPO and led
 Dundee Real Estate Investment Trust (D-U) ’s C$178 million sale.  IPO Pipeline  Corona said the “big picture themes” this year also
include strong demand for yield securities and “a significant
pickup in IPO dialogue,” which should translate into more IPOs
this fall and in the first half of 2012.  Canadian IPOs were $1.63 billion in the first six months,
48 percent less than a year earlier, when  Athabasca Oil Sands
Corp. (ATH)  raised C$1.35 billion in Canada’s largest IPO since 1999.
The biggest IPOs this year were the C$568 million sale by
Calgary-based oil-services firm Gibson Energy Inc. and a C$393
million sale by Parallel Energy Trust.  “There’s really been a lack of issuers, so there’s a
pretty big slowdown in IPOs in the first half of the year,”
said Daniel Nowlan, a managing director in  equity capital
markets  at CIBC, which co-led Parallel’s IPO. “Hopefully we’ll
fix that in the second half; we’ve got a bunch of stuff in the
pipeline.”  Canadian IPOs being sold include Vancouver-based oil-and-
gas explorer New Zealand Energy Corp., led by GMP Securities and
Canaccord Genuity, and renewable chemicals company EcoSynthetix
Inc., led by UBS Securities Canada, Canaccord Genuity and RBC,
according to regulatory filings. EcoSynthetix plans to raise
about C$100 million in its IPO, according to sale documents.  Dundee International Real Estate Investment Trust plans to
raise about C$365 million in an IPO to buy properties in  Germany 
in a sale to be priced this week, according to two people
familiar with the sale. The sale would be Canada’s largest REIT
IPO in at least a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ; Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at +1-
   spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  