-- 
Daewoo Securities to Triple Asia Employees to Expand Outside South Korea

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-07-11T00:33:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/daewoo-securities-to-triple-asia-employees-to-expand-outside-south-korea.html
Daewoo Securities Co.,  South Korea ’s
second-largest brokerage by market value, plans to more than
triple its workforce at its Asian units by 2013 as it seeks to
expand outside its domestic market.  Daewoo is aiming to boost headcount for its Asian units
including Hong Kong to about 120 from 35 currently, Chief
Executive Officer Im Kee Young said in a July 7 interview. The
new hires may include traders, analysts and personnel for its
investment-banking business, he said. The Hong Kong unit
currently has 21 employees.  The Seoul-based brokerage firm is bolstering its Asian
operations to take advantage of growing fund inflows into the
region. Developing economies in  Asia  may grow 8.4 percent in
2012, outpacing an expected expansion of 2.6 percent in advanced
countries and 4.5 percent growth in world output, according to
June estimates by the  International Monetary Fund .  “Asia is the one that has greatest growth potential,”
said Im, 58, who previously worked as vice chairman at Deutsche
Bank AG’s Korea unit and country head of Salomon Brothers Inc.
“We have to meet growing demand from the local investors.”  Shares of Daewoo Securities fell 1.8 percent to 19,250 won
as of 9:31 a.m. Seoul time. The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 0.6
percent.  The South Korean brokerage, which also has units in  New
York  and  London , is preparing to establish a unit in  Singapore 
in the second half, the CEO said. Daewoo also has offices in
Beijing,  Shanghai  and Ho Chi Minh City.  Asian Acquisitions  The company is targeting to have 10 percent of its revenue
overseas by 2015, double the current amount, he said. Daewoo
Securities plans to continue increasing the paid-in capital of
its  Hong Kong  unit “significantly” from $100 million currently
as it seeks to bolster equity, bonds trading and underwriting,
Im said.  The company is “open” to acquisitions in the mid- to
long-term in Asia to bolster overseas growth, the Daewoo
Securities CEO said, declining to comment further. He also
declined to comment directly on a possible merger with Woori
Investment & Securities Co., flagged by Financial Services
Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong in an April 5 interview as
“one of the options” to strengthen securities companies.  Such a move might spark industry consolidation and help
create investment banks that can provide financing for South
Korean companies competing for development projects abroad, Kim
said at the time.  “A big vessel can better battle a tougher storm,” Im said.
“It’s necessary to be a big, dominant domestic player to be
successful overseas. We’ll be prepared for that,” he said,
without being specific.  Daewoo Securities is joining rivals in seeking to expand
outside their home country. Samsung Securities Co., the
brokerage unit of the nation’s largest family-run conglomerate,
said in February it plans to hire as many as 20 people in Hong
Kong this year. Mirae Asset Securities Co., the first South
Korean brokerage to expand into  Brazil , said on July 1 it plans
to increase its workforce in the South American nation by 40
percent within a year to boost market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  