-- 
Danish Banks May Pool Bond Sales to Penetrate Funding Freeze Amid Failures

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-07-11T09:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/danish-banks-may-pool-bond-sales-to-penetrate-funding-freeze-amid-failures.html
Denmark ’s regional lenders may pool
their debt sales in an effort to attract investors reluctant to
lend following the failure of a second bank to trigger senior
creditor losses.  Nykredit Markets, the investment banking unit of Denmark’s
biggest mortgage lender, is looking into arranging combined debt
sales for some of the country’s roughly 120 banks. The pooled
borrowing would require a group of lenders to absorb losses
triggered by an individual bank and protect bondholders.  The plan will “provide some risk diversification for
buyers,” Kim Duus, chief executive officer at Nykredit A/S’s
banking unit, Nykredit Bank A/S, said in an interview. “We’re
talking to both investors and banks.”  The country’s regional banks have faced an international
funding wall since Fjordbank Mors A/S last month became
Denmark’s second lender to seek resolution under the country’s
bail-in bill, forcing a 26 percent loss on its senior creditors.
Government efforts to encourage consolidation have so far
failed, prompting lenders to seek other avenues as they struggle
to refinance 182 billion kroner ($35 billion) by 2013, when a
state guarantee expires.  “Most of this funding is coming from abroad and foreign
lenders will not roll it back to the Danish banks,” Duus said.  Assessing the Risks  Stockholm-based SEB AB, which was the lead bookrunner for
Danish bank sales of senior state-guaranteed debt in 2009 and
2010, is also exploring the possibility of arranging pooled
borrowing for Denmark’s troubled lenders, Michael Frisch, head
of SEB’s financial institutions group in Copenhagen, said in an
interview.  The plan puts the burden of assessing risk on the lender
arranging the debt sale, allowing foreign investors unfamiliar
with Denmark’s banking market to rely on the credentials of
bigger issuers, he said.  “This is in effect a new asset class,” Frisch said. “We
don’t believe these small and mid-sized Danish borrowers will be
able to find funding abroad.”  The difference between the Copenhagen interbank offered
rate and the equivalent rate in the euro area, Euribor, narrowed
to 6.15 basis points from 6.20 today.  The country’s banks face a long-term increase in funding
costs as Denmark commits to  Europe ’s toughest bank resolution
laws, Moody’s Investors Service said on May 19. The rating
company has since downgraded a number of Danish lenders,
including the country’s biggest, Danske Bank A/S, as it factors
out state support.  ‘Crisis Mentality’  Moody’s analyst Oscar Heemskerk said July 1 Denmark’s banks
also need to overcome a “weak” economic outlook in the Nordic
country. Denmark, which slipped into a recession in the fourth
quarter, is lagging behind economic recoveries in neighboring
Norway and  Sweden . That’s left Danish consumers in the grip of a
“crisis mentality,” Danske Bank senior economist Las Olsen
said in a note today.  Spar Nord Bank A/S, Denmark’s fourth-largest listed lender,
isn’t approaching investors outside the Nordic country as it
waits for the fallout of the June 24 collapse of Fjordbank Mors
to recede, Ole Madsen, Spar Nord’s head of communications, said
June 28.  Frisch at SEB said Danish institutional investors are
likely to remain the “only realistic” bet for the Nordic
country’s banks.  “Hence, SEB is looking into establishing a fund to invest
in Danish banks’ senior funding,” he said.  Consolidation Target  A bank’s “ability to get funding, especially funding
abroad, is correlated to the size of your bank,” Torsten Bech,
a senior analyst at LD Invest Markets in Copenhagen, said last
month.  The government wants healthy banks to absorb smaller,
troubled lenders and has passed a bill allowing them to tap
Denmark’s depositor guarantee fund to help finance such
purchases. Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen said June 26 it’s
“regrettable” there were no buyers for Fjordbank Mors. The
government’s “one target” for the industry is “consolidation,
consolidation, consolidation,” Mikkelsen said July 1.  Regional lender Sparekassen Faaborg A/S today said it
agreed to buy Ryslinge Andelskasse for 1.34 million kroner after
it was unable to meet solvency requirements.  Investors ‘Very Uneasy’  Both Fjordbank Mors and Amagerbanken A/S, which collapsed
in February, failed after losing money on loans to the
 construction industry . Fjordbank also suffered losses because of
its loans to the farming sector.  Fjordbank had the worst risk ranking of 99 banks graded by
researcher  Niro Invest ApS , Copenhagen-based newspaper Borsen
said on June 23. It was followed by Aarhus Lokalbank A/S and  Max
Bank (MAX)  A/S, according to Niro. Ryslinge Andelskasse ranked 86 on
Niro’s risk list.  “The track records of Fjordbank Mors and Amagerbanken are
making international investors very uneasy,” Frisch said. “Why
would large and mid-sized European asset managers begin looking
into the credit quality of small Danish banks?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  