-- 
Demand for Securities Funding Rose Last Quarter, Fed Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-07-11T19:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/demand-for-securities-financing-rose-last-quarter-fed-says.html
Wall Street’s largest dealers saw
more demand for funding to buy all types of securities other
than equities in the second quarter, according to the  Federal
Reserve .  More banks said their credit terms “eased somewhat” than
“tightened somewhat” in the three months ended in June,
compared with the previous quarter, the Fed said today in its
quarterly financing survey. Banks cited better market
functioning and ease of trading, as well as improved current or
expected financial strength of counterparties, as reasons for
the looser terms. Increased risk appetite also was listed.  Equity financing was little changed, the survey found.  The Fed started the survey in part because the financial
crisis “highlighted that a significant volume of credit
intermediation has moved outside of the traditional banking
sector,” the central bank said last year.  Hedge funds , private equity firms and other private
investors intensified their efforts to get better financing
rates, according to 12 out of 20 banks polled. Six of 20 banks
said the same of their insurance company, pension and other
institutional investor clients, according to the Fed.  Demand for funding of high-yield, high-risk corporate bonds
“increased substantially” or “increased somewhat” in the
three months ended in June compared with the first quarter,
according to nine of 17 respondents.  Most of the banks’ hedge-fund clients used a degree of
leverage that fell “roughly in the middle” between the highest
and lowest levels surrounding the financial crisis, according to
the survey. The same was true for asset managers, private-equity
and insurance companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 