-- 
Deutsche Bank, MortgageIT Ask Court to Throw Out $1 Billion U.S. Lawsuit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/deutsche-bank-mortgageit-ask-court-to-throw-out-u-s-lawsuit.html
     July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, and its MortgageIT unit are seeking dismissal of a
$1 billion suit by the U.S. government claiming they lied to
qualify thousands of risky mortgages for a government insurance
program.  The U.S. claims Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT falsely
certified that they properly assessed the default risk of
borrowers, qualifying loans for insurance by the Housing and
Urban Development Department’s  Federal Housing Administration ,
according to a complaint filed May 3 in  Manhattan  federal court.  “The complaint is long on unsupported and conclusory
rhetoric but short on facts and legal underpinnings,” Deutsche
Bank argued in a court filing yesterday. “It utterly fails to
state any basis on which to hold Deutsche Bank liable for
alleged conduct that occurred before it acquired MortgageIT and
in which it had no involvement.”  The U.S. sued under the  False Claims Act , which permits it
to seek triple damages and penalties of more than $1 billion.  The government claims Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT masked
problem loans through “egregious” violations of HUD rules for
analyzing the income and creditworthiness of borrowers.
MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for FHA insurance
after 1999, making them “highly marketable for resale,” the
U.S. claimed. Of those, 12,500 defaulted.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
in Manhattan, declined to comment on the filing.  Case Targets Statements  The government’s case targets statements made by Deutsche
Bank and MortgageIT made as participants in the FHA’s Direct
Endorsement Lender Program.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, which acquired MortgageIT in
2007, argued that it’s not legally responsible for any liability
tied to MortgageIT’s operations. MortgageIT stopped lending to
homebuyers shortly after the acquisition, according to the court
filing.  Both defendants argued that the False Claims Act doesn’t
authorize the government to impose liability based on allegedly
false certifications made by a MortgageIT official about
compliance with the requirements of the Direct Endorsement
Lender Program.  The case is U.S. v.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 