-- 
Dial-a-Chauffeur Demand Pops as China Jails Drunken Drivers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T21:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/dial-a-chauffeur-demand-pops-as-china-jails-drunken-drivers.html
China  is counting on the threat of
incarceration to keep drunken drivers off the roads. Dial-a-
chauffeur services are reaping the benefits.  Beijing Ben Ao An Da Automobile Driving Service Co. , which
hires out stand-in chauffeurs, expects to boost sales by about
60 percent this year after the government amended the law on May
1 to hand out prison sentences for drunken driving. Demand is
coming from car owners like Jack Wang, who uses substitute
drivers about once a week after business dinners.  “Drinking with clients is part of my work,” said Wang,
36, a salesman for a telecommunications company in Beijing. “A
lot of business has to be done over dinner and alcohol, but no
one I know is willing to take the chance now to drive after
drinks.”  China, which overtook the U.S. in auto sales in 2009, is
cracking down on drunken driving as vehicle ownership tripled in
the last five years. The number of traffic accidents rose 36
percent to 3.9 million cases in 2010, resulting in  one death 
every nine minutes, according to the Ministry of Public
Security.  Last year, police caught 526,000 drunk drivers, a 68
percent increase from a year earlier.  More than half  of the road
fatalities in China were caused by inebriated motorists,
according to the ministry.  China may have 150 million vehicles on its roads by 2015,
65 percent more than last year, according to the Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology . The market for alcohol is
estimated to expand 39 percent to 53 million liters in the same
period, according to London-based researcher Euromonitor
International Plc.  BYD, Ford, GM  BYD Co., the Chinese automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said they
haven’t seen any impact of the tougher rules on car sales.
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest overseas automaker in the
country, said it supports programs that raise safety awareness.  China implemented its first  road safety traffic law  in May
2004, making it mandatory for motorcyclists to use helmets and
drivers and front-seat passengers to use seatbelts.  With the amendment this year, those caught operating a
vehicle with blood-alcohol content exceeding  80 milligrams per
100 milliliters  -- equivalent to three beers -- face prison
terms of up to six months and a five-year driving ban.
Previously, they may be detained for up to 15 days and have
their licenses impounded for three to six months.  The harsher punishments have come in part after several
drink-driving cases sparked public outrage.  Hit-and-Run  In May 2010, Chen Jia, 31, fled the scene after running a
red light and crashing his black Infiniti sedan into a Fiat and
a bus. The collision killed a 35-year-old man and his six-year-
old daughter and injured another two.  Chen, a dancer, admitted he was drunk and was sentenced to
life in prison. He also agreed to pay 3.66 million yuan
($566,134) in compensation to the family of the victims.  Gao Xiaosong, 42, a judge on the popular “China’s Got
Talent” television contest, became the most high-profile
motorist to be punished under the new law.  The musician was sentenced to six months in prison and
fined 4,000 yuan after causing a four-car pile-up in the Chinese
capital that injured four people. He was found to have three
times the legal limit for alcohol.  Business negotiations in China are often conducted over
meals and alcohol, and “baijiu,” the fiery sorghum-based
spirit is served at occasions from state banquets to family
reunions.  Ancient Tradition  “Drinking is an inseparable part of social activities in
China and can be traced back into ancient history,” said Li
Fangxiao, a professor at the  China University of Political
Science and Law . “Administrative measures have proved to be
ineffective in curbing drink driving. Criminalizing it is the
ultimate measure.”  Ji Yifeng, the owner of Beijing Ruiyu Xingchen Driving
Service Corp., said he’s had to turn away some bookings since
the tougher rules came into effect and boosted demand for his
pool of 30 drivers.  Traffic police manned roadblocks in Beijing and  Shanghai  in
the weeks after the tougher penalties were implemented and
administered breathalyzer tests for selected drivers.  The number of motorists caught driving after consuming
alcohol fell 81 percent in May to 1,024, of whom 89 were found
to be legally drunk, according to the Beijing Traffic Management
Bureau.  Booking Fees  Hiring substitute drivers in the Chinese capital also
became more popular after Beijing doubled parking charges to 10
yuan per hour since April 1 as part of measures to curb traffic
in the central areas. Car owners may pay more to leave their
vehicles and take a cab home than if they used a stand-in
driver, Ji said.  Charges start from 100 yuan after 11 p.m. at Ben Ao An Da
Automobile Driving Service, with additional fees based on
distance and waiting time. Customers must pre-pay 3,000 yuan,
from which the charges will be deducted and bookings must be
made 40 minutes before pickup.  The company has a pool of 160 drivers and has signed up
companies including China Everbright Bank Co., China Minsheng
Banking Corp. and the People’s Insurance Co. (Group) of China to
provide services to their clients, according to founder He Jin.  “People know there’s too much at stake now if they drive
after drinking,” said He, 51, who sold insurance before setting
up the business in 2003. “Some of our customers are so drunk
they can’t even stand. They shouldn’t get behind the wheel.”  --Tian Ying in Beijing with assistance from Liza Lin in
Shanghai.
Editor: Chua Kong Ho, Kae Inoue.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  