-- 
DiDonato Elopes to Vegas, Rages Against Arts Cuts: Interview

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/didonato-elopes-to-vegas-rages-against-arts-cuts-saves-fees-interview.html
Although mezzo Joyce DiDonato swings
both ways, operatically speaking, now even she has a juicy new
opportunity for gender bending.  “This is the first opera I’ve sung where I play the girl
instead of the guy in the all-female love duets,” she says.
“It’s really sweet.”  London ’s  Royal Opera House  is staging Massenet’s 1899 opera
“Cendrillon,” based on the story of Cinderella, as a star
vehicle for the Kansas-born singer. The title role needs a mezzo
with a rich middle register, soaring high notes and great acting
skills, all of which she has in spades.  When I catch up with DiDonato, 42, at Covent Garden, my
first question is not about fairy tales. It’s about her leg. She
last appeared at the Royal Opera as Rosina in Rossini’s “The
Barber of Seville,” and broke her shin on opening night. Hardy
trooper that she is, she finished the run in a wheelchair. Is
she fully recovered now?  “Yes, everything’s fine,” she says, twirling her toes to
prove it. “Though you know what? About eight months after that
first accident, I tripped on stage again and tore all the
ligaments in the same foot. The expletives were pouring out of
my mouth then, I can tell you.”  A date with the surgeon’s knife in Geneva sorted her out.
“I didn’t make a big deal of it at the time. I felt, ‘Enough
with the foot story already.’ And now everything’s fine.”  Superb Prince  There are happier memories attached to “Cendrillon.” She
first sang the role when Laurent Pelly’s staging premiered in
Santa Fe,  New Mexico , in 2006. “That was one of my top two or
three favorite productions of all time,” DiDonato says. “When
the Royal Opera asked me if there was anything I’d like to sing,
I suggested this.”  It was a good choice. Pelly’s charming staging has some
amusing costumes and a sprinkle of fairy-tale magic about it.
DiDonato is terrific in the title role, and she has a superb
Prince Charming in Alice Coote. There are other reasons why she
recalls it fondly.  “I married my husband during that run in 2006,” DiDonato
says. “We took off to  Las Vegas  one weekend without telling
anybody, and came back married. You could say we eloped.” Her
husband Leonardo Vordoni is an Italian musician who, in a twist
of fate, is now in  Santa Fe  himself conducting a production of
Puccini’s “La Boheme.” “So  Santa Fe  is a lot in my thoughts
at the moment,” she says.  Has marriage changed her? “It’s wonderful to be with
someone in the business, who understands the pressures of
performing,” she says. “We coordinate our schedules to be able
to spend as much time as possible together.”  Kansas Cuts  Kansas is as much on her mind as New Mexico.  Sam Brownback ,
the Republican governor of DiDonato’s home state, recently
erased all state arts funding. The matching federal arts funding
was thus withdrawn too. DiDonato wrote an angry  blog  about it in
which she argued what a positive cultural and financial impact
the arts have on life. It was picked up and printed by two
newspapers, and cause much comment.  Has it made a difference, I ask her? “I haven’t a clue,”
she says. “I’m just happy I spoke my mind. I understand that
cuts are necessary across the board, but he singlehandedly
eliminated every single penny for the arts. It’s so misguided,
so shortsighted. Staying silent wasn’t an option for me.”  DiDonato’s keen to use her high profile to highlight issues
she cares about. She also uses her privileged access to the
great and good of opera in other ways. Her hobby is photography,
and she often takes shots of her colleagues during rehearsals.
Her pictures of soprano Diana Damrau rehearsing in “Le Comte
Ory” at the Met, taken from the wings, have snap and crackle.  On her Flickr photosharing page (details below), there are
lively rehearsal shots of “Cendrillon.”  Dior Bag  At the moment, it’s opera -- not photography -- that brings
in her A-list earnings. What does she do with her fees?  “I splurge on holidays, and the rest of the time I save,”
says DiDonato. No diva-like impulse buying of glamorous frocks?
“I had a busy season a while ago in Milan, and picked up a few
extra fees,” she says. “So I decided to be a diva for a
change. I’ve never paid more than about $40 for a handbag, so I
thought I’d treat myself to something fashionable in Milan.”  DiDonato went to the Dior shop, and found a gorgeous purse.
“When the assistant told me it was 2,600 euros ($3,647), I
froze. ‘I could send someone to college for that,’ I gasped. I
just couldn’t buy it.”  She hoots with laughter, “Honey, I am so from  Kansas !”  Joyce DiDonato performs in “Cendrillon” in repertory
through July 16 at the Royal Opera. Information:
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000. The production will
be broadcast around the U.K. as part of the BP Summer Big Screen
project on July 13,  http://www.roh.org.uk/bpbigscreens .  Her photosharing page can be found at
 http://www.flickr.com/photos/yankeediva .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 