-- 
Dodd-Frank Act Forcing Banks to Slim Down, Reshape Swaps: One Year Later

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/dodd-frank-act-forcing-banks-to-slim-down-reshape-swaps-one-year-later.html
Jamie Dimon keeps a tally of the
ways  Wall Street  already has been affected by the largest
overhaul of financial regulation in generations.  At a June 7 conference in Atlanta, the  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
chief executive officer reeled off items from his list during a
session with Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke : Banks are
putting aside more capital. Off-balance-sheet business has been
“virtually obliterated.” Accounting is more transparent.  “Regulators, I can assure you, are much tougher in every
way and shape possible,” Dimon told the central banker,
suggesting that the rules are going too far.  Some things may not seem to have changed much since the
credit crisis nearly toppled the financial system in 2008. A
handful of large banks dominate Wall Street, where workers with
higher salaries than most professionals collected cash bonuses
averaging $128,000 last year. Executives have fared even better;
Dimon’s compensation rose 51 percent to $23 million.  Moreover, a year after the Dodd-Frank Act became law,
hundreds of rules mandated by statute have yet to be written.
Financial firms, consumer groups and regulators are still
engaged in hand-to-hand combat over many of them. Deadlines for
implementing the law are being pushed back as agencies find
themselves unable to cope with the sheer size and complexity of
the task under the  timetable  set by Congress.  House Republicans , swept into power in the November
elections, are pushing bills to revise, delay or repeal parts of
the law including the consumer bureau, derivatives rules and the
registration requirements for private equity advisors.  ‘Pretty Powerful’  Still, Dimon’s complaint illustrates that Dodd-Frank is
rippling through the U.S. financial system. However slowly,
firms have begun changing the way they do business in response
to the rules and in anticipation of what lies ahead.  “Many people think that not much has happened because so
much of it is delayed and behind schedule,” said Roy C. Smith,
a finance professor at New York University’s Stern School of
Business. “That is not the case. In fact, the statute has
pretty powerful provisions in it with respect to regulating
systemic risks.”  In Smith’s view, the power of Dodd-Frank can already be
seen in moves like  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s decision to sell off lines
of business such as its consumer-lending unit. New regulations
governing different lines of business, in addition to the
substantial increase in the amount of liquid capital banks must
hold, are making it too expensive for financial institutions to
stay at their current size, Smith said.  ‘Cost of Regulation’  While some of this streamlining would have happened as a
response to the crisis without Dodd-Frank, the law is ensuring
that it continues, he said.  The law’s authors “are creating a cost of regulation that
causes you to break yourself up,” Smith said. “They’ve done it
in a back-door way, and they’ve done it with a slow-burning
fuse, but there’s no doubt that if Dodd-Frank had not been
passed, the odds are much greater that this would have gone
back” to the old ways.  Dodd-Frank is simultaneously leading to the end of some
Wall Street practices and creating new opportunities.  The looming threat of provisions such as the Volcker Rule,
which will largely bar banks from trading solely for their own
profit, has already spurred a stream of departures from the
proprietary trading desks of firms including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG.  At the same time, the law requires swaps to be traded on a
platform that allow multiple bids and offers to be made by
multiple participants. Some firms are preparing so-called swap
execution facilities to take advantage of the new market.  Strategy Shifts  Eris Exchange, an electronic futures exchange, opened for
business in  Chicago  a year ago in direct response to Dodd-Frank,
and has since traded more than $33 billion in notional value of
interest-rate swap futures contracts, the company’s chief
executive officer, Neal Brady, told lawmakers at a Senate
hearing last month.  “There certainly have been shifts in approach and strategy
for a lot of people,” said Kevin McPartland, a senior analyst
in  New York  with Tabb Group, a financial markets research and
advisory company.  Even as regulators rush to finish rules governing swaps,
there has been a “slight uptick” in electronic trading to make
sure the system works when regulations are ready, he said.  Besides changing how financial institutions make their
money, the act has begun to influence some of their practices,
said Jo Ann Barefoot, a Washington-based bank consultant.  Consumer Bureau  The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with expanded
powers to enforce existing laws banning ”unfair, abusive and
deceptive practices,” is set to begin operations July 21,
exactly a year after President  Barack Obama  signed Dodd-Frank
into law. Already, some banks are hiring internal consumer
advocates to help ensure that their policies on overdraft fees
and other issues will not be flagged as abusive, she said.  “Banks are trying to be much more proactive in looking at
fairness, rather than technical compliance,” she said. “A lot
of the industry has not yet made that shift, but it’s happening
rapidly.”  While the enactment of the law has begun to change the
financial system, the lobbying battle in  Washington  rages on in
Congress and the regulatory agencies.  The financial services industry, which is facing the
largest re-write of its rules in more than 70 years, is
deploying all of its expertise and resources to help shape the
rules through research, comment letters and meetings with
regulators, said  Timothy Ryan , president and CEO of the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association .  Lobbying Funds  The 10 largest U.S. banks by  assets  spent $11.2 million on
lobbying in the first quarter of 2011, according to Senate
disclosure forms. Five of the 10 firms, including JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs, spent more in the first quarter of 2011, in the
wake of Dodd-Frank, than they did before its passage in the
first quarter of 2010.  In addition, four Washington trade groups representing the
largest banks -- including Ryan’s securities association, the
 American Bankers Association , the Financial Services Roundtable
and the Financial Services Forum -- combined to spend $6.25
million in the first quarter.  “We’re working seamlessly with all of these trade groups,”
said Ryan, whose group has filed more than 100 comment letters
with the rule-writing agencies and is planning to increase its
activity in the months ahead. “Almost all of us are working
together now and we’re divvying up assignments based on
expertise.”  Debit Cards  Provisions that bankers consider most harmful to their
business models have gotten special attention. Many financial
lobbyists, for example, spent a year fighting with retailers
over the Dodd-Frank provision that cuts the fees merchants must
pay each time their customers swipe a debit card -- a revenue
stream worth some $16 billion each year to banks large and
small. The Fed on June 29 set the fee at about half the current
average of 44 cents per transaction, after the banks argued that
the original plan for a 12-cent cap was too low.  In Congress, lawmakers from both parties have rallied
behind real estate brokers, homebuilders and consumer groups in
pressuring regulators to water down a rule on mortgage risk
retention, which would force lenders to keep a 5 percent stake
in loans they bundle for investors. Republicans and Democrats in
both chambers have also kept the pressure on the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission to exempt commercial end users of derivatives from
margin payments.  Consumer Group  “It feels like passing the legislation was one stage of a
battle. Now we have to continue the work of implementing it,”
said Lisa Donner, executive director of Americans for Financial
Reform, an advocacy group that includes the AFL-CIO labor
federation  Even if Dodd-Frank is fully implemented, some economists
and analysts say, its provisions don’t go far enough to shrink
large, interconnected banks and prevent them from taking on
risks that could threaten the financial system again.  So long as “there are institutions so powerful and
considered so important that they require special support and
different rules, the future of capitalism is at risk and our
market economy is in peril,” Thomas M. Hoenig, president and
chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas
City , said at a conference on Dodd-Frank in June. “To more
fundamentally address this issue, we must go beyond today’s
Dodd-Frank.”  Dimon and Bernanke  At the June meeting with Bernanke, Dimon expressed the
opposite concern when he rose out of the audience: “Do you have
a fear, like I do, that when we look back” at all the Dodd-
Frank rules, “they will be a reason it took so long that our
banks, our credit, our businesses, and most importantly  job
creation  to start going again?” he asked.  When Dimon had finished reeling off the ways the industry
had already changed in the wake of the financial crisis,
Bernanke paused and looked at him.  “Well, Jamie, that list you gave made me feel pretty good
there for a while,” the Fed chairman said. “It sounded like
we’re getting a lot done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ; Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  