-- 
Dodd-Frank Act Standing Up After First Year, Rep. Frank Says

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-11T19:22:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/dodd-frank-act-standing-up-after-first-year-rep-frank-says-1-.html
The U.S. law reshaping the financial
system has stood up well to the challenges and criticisms it’s
faced in its first year of existence, Representative Barney Frank said.  “I believe that the year’s study, examination, criticism,
advocacy, et cetera, leaves this legislation holding up very
well,” Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and co-author of the
financial overhaul law, said today in remarks at the  National
Press Club  in Washington. “There have been very few calls for
any substantial amendment on the part of the financial services
community.”  With the Dodd-Frank Act nearing its one-year anniversary,
debate continues inside federal agencies and on  Capitol Hill 
over its final shape. The law, which was enacted on July 21,
2010, requires regulators to craft and implement hundreds of new
rules that will govern much of the U.S. financial system,
including the  derivatives market  and consumer finance.  Frank, the senior Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, said the law provides regulators a set of principles
while giving them the flexibility they need to write the rules.  House Republicans , who took power in the House after the
November elections, have pushed multiple bills to reshape or
repeal provisions in the law. Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, is leading
Republicans who almost unanimously opposed the law last year.  Consumer Bureau  The lawmakers have introduced a slate of bills to change or
repeal provisions in the law -- including restricting the powers
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau -- that Republicans
say extend regulation too far.  “The Dodd-Frank Act is a roadblock to our nation’s
recovery,” Bachus said today in a statement. “When you add the
mountain of 400 new regulations required by Dodd-Frank to those
of Obamacare, plus the threat of higher taxes caused by
Washington’s spending spree, you get an astounding level of
apprehension and uncertainty among job creators.”  Frank said Republicans were “bluffing” in their efforts
to reshape or repeal parts of the law.  “My Republican colleagues, unlike  climate change  and
health care, don’t want to take this one head-on because it is
still too popular,” Frank said. “Coming to the defense of
unrestricted derivative trading is not a popular cause.”  Frank defended a provision in the law requiring mortgage
risk retention, which would force lenders to keep a 5 percent
stake in loans they bundle for investors. Regulators have
proposed that the only loans exempt from the requirement would
be those for which borrowers made downpayments of 20 percent.  More than 40 groups, including the  American Bankers
Association  and the  Consumer Federation of America , have joined
with Republican and Democratic lawmakers to urge regulators to
loosen the rule.  ‘Assault’  “I am troubled because there is an assault now on risk
retention,” said Frank, adding that even though he believes the
20 percent requirement is “too high” the overall provision is
one of the most important in Dodd-Frank.  Frank said that in the wake of the subprime mortgage
crisis, new rules that make changes to the current market are
necessary.  “It’s disruptive because we had to disrupt a rotten
system,” Frank said. “We had to disrupt a system that
collapsed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  