-- 
Duke Energy Deal Shows Cheap-Power Pledges Ease Merger Approvals

-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-07-11T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/duke-energy-deal-shows-cheap-power-pledges-ease-states-merger-opposition.html
State regulators are putting up
fewer obstacles to U.S. utility mergers as companies become more
skillful at emphasizing benefits, from limiting job cuts to
restraining rate increases.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  AES Corp. (AES)  have
announced a combined $25.1 billion in takeovers this year and
are counting on speedier approvals of the transactions, which
would help them bulk up to handle costs for new environmental
rules and modernizing the electric grid.  Regulators may be seeing the benefit to consumers of larger
companies that can operate more efficiently to keep rates from
rising rapidly while ensuring a steady supply of electricity,
said Tony Clark, president of the  National Association of
Regulatory Utility Commissioners .  “Utility companies may be getting better at providing what
regulators need to feel comfortable with a merger,” Clark, who
also serves as chairman of the  North Dakota Public Service
Commission , said in an interview. “There are just huge
investments that are coming on down the line, and some of the
potential advantages of size and scale may be working their way
into some of these decisions.”  Utilities face more than $40 billion in spending to meet
air-pollution reduction regulations planned by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, according to IHS Inc.’s
 Cambridge Energy Research Associates , a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based adviser to energy companies.  For a utility facing such  capital expenditures , combining
with a larger company may make it easier and less expensive to
borrow money and spread costs, Todd Shipman, a utility credit
analyst for Standard and Poor’s in New York, said in an
interview.  Customer Savings  Regulators may be amenable to a merger that promises
savings for customers as utilities struggle with escalating
expenses amid slow power sales, William Johnson, chairman and
chief executive officer of Progress Energy Inc., said in an
interview.  “I really think the world has changed in many respects
since 2005 when some mergers didn’t happen,” said Johnson,
whose company agreed to be acquired by Duke Energy in January.
“The growth that used to be there to cover increases in costs,
when you had more customers using more, that dynamic has
changed.”  Faster Approvals  Since 2009, natural-gas and electric utility takeovers
larger than $1 billion have typically taken 12 months or less to
be completed, according to Bloomberg data. Before 2007, some
mergers languished before state officials for almost twice that
long.  State regulators, who are responsible for setting customer
electricity rates, generally have veto power over mergers if the
transaction involves a new owner of a power distributor in their
jurisdiction. Officials judge a takeover by considering whether
it will result in harm to the customer or, in some states,
whether it will actually benefit consumers,  Robert Burns , a
utility-regulation researcher at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus, Ohio said in an interview.  Since 2003, at least five takeovers have been canceled
after state officials demanded more concessions than companies
were willing to make. Transactions also must pass federal
regulatory reviews, William Mogel, a Washington-based attorney
and founder of the Energy Law Journal, said in an interview.  Mergers Foiled  In 2006, Chicago-based Exelon gave up on an almost two-
year-old bid to buy Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. of
 Newark ,  New Jersey , after failing to reach agreement with state
officials concerned that the companies might dominate power
markets and inflate prices.  The same year, a proposed takeover of  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. (CEG)  of Baltimore by  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  of Juno Beach,
 Florida , then called FPL Group Inc., was abandoned because of
the prospect of a “protracted and open-ended merger review” in
 Maryland  over customer-bill increases, the companies said in an
October 2006 statement.  In contrast, this year  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  of Akron, Ohio,
completed its $4.7 billion takeover of Allegheny Energy Inc. of
Greensburg,  Pennsylvania , which required approval in four
states, in less than 13 months. The companies agreed to about
$50 million in customer payments or rate credits, according to
regulatory filings.  Big Get Bigger  State regulators may now be better at negotiating timely
settlements than they were initially after the 2005 repeal of a
Depression-era law that restricted utility takeovers, Clark of
the Washington-based regulators’ association said. The law,
called the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, was
designed to prevent companies from becoming too big and abusing
their monopoly power.  The trend toward approving mergers may not be good for
consumers as “these mergers need to be scrutinized very
closely,” said David Kolata, executive director of the  Citizens
Utility Board , a Chicago-based advocacy group for Illinois
consumers.  “You have a situation where the big are getting bigger,
and that raises some concerns about market concentration,”
Kolata said in an interview. “With a few giant players, you
wonder if you are going to get the best possible prices for the
customer.”  Preserving Jobs  Since the recession, state officials seem focused on
limiting job losses and preserving the local presence of an
acquired company when evaluating takeovers, Shipman, the utility
analyst, said.  To gain approval in Pennsylvania, FirstEnergy promised to
avoid firing some workers at Allegheny’s headquarters for at
least five years. FirstEnergy also agreed to $16.9 million in
rate credits for West Penn Power customers over three years.  The company also offered a rate freeze through October 2012
and agreed to invest in renewable energy. With these
concessions, FirstEnergy forecasts merger-related pretax
earnings benefits of $210 million this year, climbing to $450
million in 2013, according to a regulatory filing by the
company.  Pennsylvania regulators found “a proper balance” between
“encouraging companies to achieve long-term costs savings” and
“flowing benefits back to consumers in the short term” in its
decision, Public Utility Commission Chairman Robert Powelson
said in an e-mailed statement.  Duke, Progress Takeover  Given FirstEnergy’s success, other companies have gained
confidence that they can do “deals that pass regulatory
muster” and add to earnings,  Travis Miller , a Chicago-based
utility analyst for Morningstar Inc. said in an interview.  Duke Energy’s $13.7 billion takeover of Progress Energy is
expected to be completed by the end of this year, Johnson, the
Progress CEO, said on a June 28 conference call with investors.  Johnson has said the combination will help the utilities
afford investments in new  power plants , including nuclear
reactors, to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions.  “Everything the regulators want for these systems to be
updated, technologically and environmentally, costs money, and
they look at the impact of that on rates,” Jeffrey Holzschuh, a
vice chairman at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said in an
interview. “If the deals make sense, regulators are trying to
find a way to do it.”  Rate Freeze  Companies are also offering financial incentives to support
state policies, such as in renewable and energy efficiency
mandates, Thomas Flaherty, a senior partner who consults on
energy mergers for Booz & Co. in Dallas, said in an interview.  Duke and Progress said on June 28 they reached a merger
settlement with Kentucky officials, offering a rate freeze for
two years and $825,000 for economic programs. The companies also
need federal,  North Carolina , South Carolina and shareholder
approvals.  Exelon met with Maryland’s Democratic Governor Martin O’Malley before offering what it said is $250 million in
economic incentives in its $7.9 billion offer for Baltimore-
based Constellation. The package includes a $100 credit to every
customer of Constellation’s Baltimore Gas and Electric unit and
a promise to not cut jobs at the utility for at least two years.  Approval for the deal, which may close early next year, is
needed from the  Maryland Public Service Commission , as well as
utility regulators in New York and  Texas , and shareholders, the
companies have said.  The $3.5 billion acquisition of DPL Inc. by AES of
Arlington,  Virginia , includes a pledge to limit firing workers
at the Dayton, Ohio-based company through December 2013.  The takeover will help DPL with the costs of pollution-
control rules for its power generators and compete with larger
 Ohio  utilities, the company said in a regulatory filing. The
companies have said they expect the deal to close by early in
next year’s first quarter.  “Companies have come to realize that they have to put
something on the table, and regulators recognize that they are
only going to get so much,” William Lamb, a New York-based
attorney who is co-head of the utilities mergers and
acquisitions group at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  