-- 
Dunkin’ Brands Seeks $460.6 Million in Initial Offering

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-07-11T13:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/dunkin-brands-seeks-460-6-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., operator
of the  Dunkin’ Donuts  coffee chain, is seeking to raise as much
as $460.6 million in its initial public offering, 15 percent
more than the company planned in May.  Dunkin’ Brands is offering 22.3 million shares for $16 to
$18 each, the Canton, Massachusetts-based company said in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today.
The company may sell an additional 3.33 million shares, given
sufficient demand.  Taken private in 2006 by Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group 
and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Dunkin’ follows private equity-
backed companies such as HCA Holdings Inc. and Kinder Morgan
Inc. in returning to the public market this year after leveraged
buyouts. Private equity owners have completed the biggest U.S.
IPOs in 2011 as a rising U.S. stock market increased investors’
demand for companies acquired through debt-fueled acquisitions.  “After the market has done so well, from a timing point of
view it’s a good idea to get it done now,”  Hugh Johnson , who
oversees about $2 billion as chairman of  Albany , New York-based
Hugh Johnson Advisors LLC, said in an interview. “If I were in
the private equity business, I’d be trying to raise liquidity as
fast as I could.”  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 31
percent from July 2, 2010, there’s risk that  Europe ’s debt
crisis and  China ’s efforts to curb inflation may pull stocks
back down, Johnson said.  Dunkin’ Buyout  Bain, Carlyle and Thomas H. Lee paid about $2.43 billion
five years ago for Dunkin’, which competes with coffee chains
such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Canada ’s  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI)   The three firms each contributed $345.5 million of equity
to the deal in addition to management’s $25 million, with the
rest of the cost financed with debt, according to a letter to
investors from Carlyle. Carlyle marked its investment at 1.55
times as of March 31, according to the letter, putting the
enterprise value of the company at $3.5 billion, including $1.8
billion in long-term debt.  A record $1.6 trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed
from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm.  Dunkin’  filed  on May 4 to raise as much as $400 million in
an IPO. All of the shares in the offering will be sold by
Dunkin’, and proceeds will be used to repay debt, according to
regulatory filings. The company had about $1.8 billion of net
long-term debt as of March 26.  Snack Sales  Sales at Dunkin’ Brands increased 9.3 percent to $139.2
million in the three months ended March 26 from a year earlier,
according to the company’s regulatory filings today. The company
booked a net loss of $1.72 million, compared with a profit of
$5.94 million in the year-earlier period.  The chain has introduced several menu items this year to
bring in customers during the slower afternoon period. In April,
the restaurant began selling snacks including apple pies,
stuffed breadsticks and bagel twists.  The doughnut chain has more than 16,000 locations in 57
countries under the Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-Robbins brands,
according to the filing. Bill Rosenberg founded his first
restaurant in the 1940s, which was later renamed Dunkin’ Donuts.  The stock will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
ticker symbol DNKN.  Dunkin’s offering is being led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The company aims to complete the offering by the end of
July, two people familiar with the plans said last month. The
timing of the IPO is subject to change based on market
conditions and demand for the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  