-- 
Medvedev Vows Probe After Russia Cruise Ship Accident Kills as Many as 129

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-07-12T17:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/medvedev-orders-probe-after-cruise-accident.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
vowed “ a complete review ” of passenger ships after one of the
deadliest accidents since the collapse of the  Soviet Union 
killed as many as 129 people on an unlicensed cruise.  “We need harsh measures aimed at those violating
transportation laws,” Medvedev told the leaders of
parliamentary parties outside Moscow today. “It’s obvious that
we can no longer put up with this.”  Ninety bodies  have so far been recovered after the July 10
shipwreck on the  Volga River  and almost no hope remains for
finding more survivors from the Bulgaria double-deck river
cruise ship, Emergency Minister  Sergei Shoigu  told Medvedev
yesterday. Of 208 people aboard the tourist boat, 79 people were
rescued, according to the ministry.  Medvedev, a former lawyer who made combating corruption a
centerpiece of his term, ordered a probe of the operator, ships
and transportation officials. About 120 tourist river boats are
currently in service in the European part of  Russia , all of them
built in Germany and  Czechoslovakia  before 1991, the Russian
Tourism Union said in a  statement  on its website today.  Criminal Probe  The Investigative Committee  said  today it detained and
opened a criminal probe into a local river-transport official
and the head of the company that leased and operated the boat.
The vessel didn’t meet the required safety standards and wasn’t
properly insured, while the crew was working without a contract
with the operator, the committee said on its website.  Medvedev  declared  today a day of mourning, and he and Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  expressed condolences. The federal
government will pay 1 million rubles ($35,400) to families of
the deceased and compensate those injured in the accident, Putin
told reporters in Moscow today.  “State control has increased in the past 10 years, but
there is more bribe-taking and less order,”  Dmitry Oreshkin , a
political analyst, said by phone from Moscow. “Perhaps now, if
not Putin himself, then his People’s Front, will come out with
an initiative to toughen and broaden state control.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released in October.  People’s Front  Putin, who stepped down as president in 2008 because of a
ban on serving more than two consecutive terms, in May formed
the All-Russia People’s Front, a coalition of interest groups
including labor, business and women, to broaden the political
base for his United Russia party.  The disaster raises concerns about safety oversight and
regulations of Russia’s passenger transportation, Medvedev said.  “The number of old tubs in operation exceeds all limits,”
he said. “The government owns only a small number of these
ships, but that doesn’t mean that the government should shirk
control.  The  Bulgaria  hadn’t been overhauled since 1980 and was
running with a faulty left engine, and the cruise was operated
without a license to carry passengers, the Prosecutor General’s
Office said on its website. The boat had passed an inspection
this year, according to state television.  The Bulgaria was listing to the right when it left Kazan,
which may be one of the reasons it sank, Vladimir Markin,
spokesman for the Investigative Committee said on state
television. A criminal investigation has been opened into
violations of transportation safety regulations, according to
the Investigative Committee’s  website .  Worst in 25 Years  The incident is the worst riverboat disaster in more than
25 years, according to Alexei Klyavin, president of the
Association of Shipping Companies. Plane crashes in Irkutsk
killed 125 people in 2006 and 145 people in 2001, according to
the Aviation Safety Network’s  website .  The boat sank “in minutes, very fast,” Liliya Khaziyeva,
a spokeswoman for the Rescue Service from the neighboring
Udmurtia region, said by phone yesterday from a boat near the
accident site. “We found dead people wearing safety jackets,
people who were simply unable to leave the ship.”  Divers are working at depths of 7 to 14 meters, and workers
have combed the river banks and islands in an area where the
water stretches into a reservoir about 30 kilometers across,
Khaziyeva said.  Returning to Kazan  The ship was returning to Kazan, the capital of Tatarstan,
from the town of Bolgar when it sank about 740 kilometers (460
miles) east from Moscow at 1:58 p.m. local time on July 10. It
sank about three kilometers from shore, according to a statement
on the Emergency Ministry’s website.  Nikolai Chernov, a survivor, told state television he saw
at least two ships pass by without offering help.  Divers have now reached a recreation hall on the sunken
ship where as many as 50 children may have been trapped, state
television channel Rossiya 24  reported . The bodies of the
captain and his wife were also recovered, Rossiya 24 said.  Rescue vessels expect to begin lifting the Bulgaria on July
16, Emergency Minister Shoigu said in comments broadcast on
state television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  