-- 
Egyptian Prime Minister’s Words Fail to Satisfy Protesters

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-12T19:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/egypt-prime-minister-plans-cabinet-reshuffle-police-purge.html
Egyptian protesters continued sit-
ins in Cairo and other cities, not satisfied with Prime Minister
Essam Sharaf announcement that he will change members of his
Cabinet within a week and is purging senior police officers
accused of crimes against protesters.  Thousands of protesters marched today to the Cabinet
building, some chanting, “We won’t leave, let the Cabinet
leave,” and calling for the removal of the head of the ruling
military council.  Sharaf accepted the resignation of his deputy, Yahya el-
Gamal, meeting one of the protesters’ demands.  In a televised address late yesterday, the prime minister
said that he ordered disciplinary action by July 15 against
senior police officers accused of abuses of protesters and
called for swift, public trials for all the “symbols of the
former regime and the killers of the revolutionaries.”  He also said there would be a shakeup in his Cabinet and a
change of provincial governors.  “We are going through a historic moment,” he said. “I
ask the great Egyptian people to give the new government the
full opportunity to work for the future of  Egypt  and to realize
the goals of the revolution.”  Egyptian protesters, unswayed by his comments, continued to
call for speeding up effort to prosecute former government
officials accused of corruption and involvement in the killing
of demonstrators during the revolt that ousted former President
 Hosni Mubarak .  ‘Lack of Trust’  Protesters in the capital’s central  Tahrir Square  have made
seven demands, including an end to military trials of civilians
and the firing of some Interior Ministry officials.  “There’s lack of trust in the prime minister and in the
government in general,” Emad Gad of the Cairo-based Al-Ahram
Center for Political and Strategic Studies said yesterday.  Gad said many protesters have come to see the prime
minister as “a front for the military council.” The council
took interim authority from Mubarak, who stepped down on Feb. 11
after mass protests.  Egypt’s ruling military council said today that it fully
supported Sharaf and wouldn’t deviate from its schedule of
transitional government.  “The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces is committed to
the road map that it has decided on for the transitional period
in regards to parliamentary elections, the drafting of a new
constitution, presidential elections and handing the country
over to the legitimate elected civilian authority,” the council
said in a statement read on state television.  Parliamentary elections are due to be held in September.  New Constitution  Some protests were “deviating from the peaceful course
which leads to hurting the interests of the people and
obstructing state facilities,” the army council said in the
statement, calling on Egyptians to “confront the measures that
obstruct normalcy.”  Yamen Hamza, a 28-year-old protester who has been camped
out in Tahrir since Friday, rejected the military council’s
statement as a “threat” that would only fuel the protests.  Hamza said Sharaf’s announcements yesterday fell short of
meeting protesters’ demands. “The regime hasn’t changed. It’s
not enough to just make amendments,” he said. “The prime
minister should resign. We respect him but he hasn’t done
anything.” Hamza called for a presidential council to be formed
until elections are held.  Military Statement  The military statement said the ruling council “will not
give up its role in running the country’s affairs at this
critical stage.” The armed forces “will not allow” anyone to
“bypass the legitimacy,” it said.  “The necessary measures will be taken to confront the
threats surrounding the homeland and affecting citizens and
national security” based on the law, it said.  The council decided to draw up regulations for the
selection of the assembly that will draft a new constitution, it
said in the statement.  “All options” within the law were on the table to
confront actions that hurt the country’s interests, Major
General Mahmoud Hegazy, a member of the military council, told
reporters in Cairo today. “There’s no scenario or justification
for the armed forces to use violence against protesters,” he
said.  Another council member, Major General Mamdouh Shaheen,
said military courts have been limited to trying civilians in
cases related to “thuggery, weapons and ammunitions and the
intimidation of citizens.”  Fighting broke out in Tahrir today after a member of one
group refused to show protesters his identity card and attacked
a volunteer guarding an entrance to the area, the state-run
Middle East  News Agency  reported, citing a witness. The
volunteer and a journalist were injured, MENA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 