-- 
Egyptian Shares Plunge Most Since April as Protests Escalate

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-11T14:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/egyptian-shares-plunge-to-lowest-since-may-as-protests-escalate.html
Egyptian stocks retreated the most
in almost three months as protests continued for a fourth day to
demand the government speed-up changes and the prosecution of
Mubarak-era officials.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly
traded builder, fell the most since March.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  lost 4 percent. The benchmark  EGX
30 Index (EGX30)  declined 2.9 percent, the most since April 18, to
5,116.21 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.  Hundreds of protesters continued today an open-ended sit-in
in Cairo, Alexandria and Suez that started on July 8 to demand
the government accelerate political and economic changes.
Demonstrators are want the government to speed up the
prosecution of officials accused of corruption and killing of
protesters under former President  Hosni Mubarak . Eighteen days
of protests ended Mubarak’s three decades of rule in February.  “The market’s fall today is purely due to political
reasons, which could have an economic impact on the country if
they are not resolved soon,” said Walaa Hazem, who helps
oversee about $1 billion in Egyptian assets at Cairo-based HC
Securities & Investment. “The talk of civil disobedience is
leading some investors to panic.”  Three former ministers and two businessmen were acquitted
on corruption-related charges on July 5, state-run Middle East
News Agency reported. The trials of former Interior Minister
Habib el-Adli and several police officers accused of killing
protesters during the uprising have been postponed, causing
resentment among the families of the dead as well as political
activists. Mubarak’s trial is set to start on Aug. 3.  Orascom Construction  lost 3.9 percent to 256.02 Egyptian
pounds. CIB, the country’s biggest publicly traded lender by
assets, fell the most since April 20 to 28.11 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  