-- 
HeidelbergCement Tanzania Unit May Review Expansion Over Illegal Squatters

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-07-11T05:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/heidelbergcement-tanzania-may-review-expansion-over-squatters.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) ’s Tanzanian unit
said it may halt output and a $60 million expansion plan unless
the government evicts people illegally occupying the premises of
its Wazo Hill plant.  Tanzania Portland Cement Co. will hold a board meeting next
month to review its plans, Managing Director Pascal Lesoinne
said in an e-mailed response to questions on July 6 in  Dar es
Salaam , the commercial capital. Twiga Cement, as the company is
known, is considering boosting annual production capacity at the
factory to 2 million metric from 1.4 million tons, he said.  “We are still confident that the government of Tanzania
will bring a quick and agreeable end to this ongoing issue, but
we need to stress that if this would not be done timely and
properly, we would have to halt the production and further
investments,” Lesoinne said.  Twiga has a 45 percent share of Tanzania’s cement market,
according to Lesoinne, making it the biggest producer of the
building material in East Africa’s second-largest economy. The
company acquired the land where the plant is situated between
the 1960s and 1993, when it bought out 200 villagers, according
to a Court of Appeal judgement dated Aug. 4, 2010. In 2000,
“people started invading the area and built small huts,”
according to the judgement, a copy of which was provided to
Bloomberg by the company on July 8.  A Tanzanian court ruled in 2008 that the company is the
owner of the land and ordered the government to relocate the
squatters, the Dar es Salaam-based  Guardian newspaper  reported
on June 21. Twiga officials met state officials last month to
discuss implementation of the ruling and expects the government
to take action “early next week,” Lasoinne said.  In addition to boosting capacity at Wazo Hill, the company
is also considering building a new plant next year to be
completed in 2013, Lasoinne said, without providing further
details.  Twiga, which directly employs 360 people and 250
indirectly, is listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange.
Twiga’s shares closed unchanged at 1,960 shillings on July 8,
according to data on the bourse’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 