-- 
Elpida to Sell 79.7 Billion Yen in Shares, Convertible Bonds

-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 
2011-07-11T08:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/elpida-may-sell-987-million-of-shares-convertible-bonds-stock-tumbles.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the world’s
third-largest maker of computer-memory chips, plans to raise
79.7 billion yen ($987 million) selling shares and convertible
bonds. The shares tumbled the most in almost two years.  The chipmaker plans to sell 57.3 million new shares,
equivalent to 27 percent of Elpida’s outstanding stock, for
about 52.2 billion yen by as early as July 25, the Tokyo-based
company said in a statement. The company also plans to sell 27.5
billion yen in convertible bonds, with the interest rate being
decided July 15, it said.  Tokyo-based Elpida, bailed out by the government in 2009,
fell as much as 15 percent in Tokyo trading on concern the sale
will dilute the value of existing shares. It’s the unprofitable
company’s sixth fundraising plan since 2009 to invest in
factories to keep up with Samsung Electronics Co., which spends
about $10 billion annually to widen its lead in the production
of memory chips.  “The company is selling way too many shares,” said
Yoshihiro Ito, chief strategist at Okasan Online Securities Co.
“Individual investors must have sold shares on that news.”  Elpida plans to sell 18.3 million of the shares to local
investors and as many as 39 million to overseas investors,
according to the company.  Elpida plunged 13 percent to close at 787 yen, reducing the
chipmaker’s market value to 168.8 billion yen.  Reuters  reported
on the sale earlier today.  Taiwan Listing  The five-year convertible bonds will be offered at 102.5
percent of the face value and pay interest of 0.5 percent to 0.9
percent, Elpida said.  Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co., Nomura Securities Co., Mizuho Securities Co. and
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. were hired for the sale.  Last year, the company said it plans to sell 60 billion yen
in convertible bonds to local private investors. Earlier this
year, Elpida sold NT$4.26 billion ($148 million) of Taiwan
depositary receipts to fund research and development. The
company’s shares began trading in Taipei this year.  Elpida specializes in making chips known as dynamic random
access memory, a product whose industry is marked by companies
driven out of the business by low-cost competitors and cycles of
boom-and-bust. The last recession pushed German memory-chip
maker Qimonda AG into bankruptcy.  Elpida is trying to avoid the same fate. In 2009, Elpida
received a 30 billion yen bailout from the state-run  Development
Bank of Japan  following a record loss in the year ended March
2009.  In February, Elpida Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto
said he is scrapping a plan to merge with Taiwanese chipmakers
following opposition from the target companies. Chipmakers face
mounting pressure to unite to keep up with the South Korean
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  