-- 
Emerging Stocks Retreat Most in Three Weeks on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-11T22:21:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/emerging-market-equities-retreat-amid-speculation-global-growth-will-slow.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
the benchmark index dropping the most in seven weeks, amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis and slowing growth in the U.S. and
China will dim the outlook for the global economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 1.8 percent to
1,142.82 at 4:40 p.m. in  New York , the largest decline since May
23. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index retreated 1.7 percent,
while  India ’s Sensex Index slipped 0.7 percent. Russia’s  Micex
Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1.3 percent and Hungary’s equities sank to a six-
month low. Brazil’s Bovespa tumbled to the lowest in more than a
year and  Argentina ’s Merval Index lost 2.2 percent.  Energy and consumer shares led losses among 10 industry
groups in the MSCI index after oil fell to the lowest level in a
week in New York on concern that the European debt crisis will
spread to  Italy . Chinese inflation rose to the highest level in
three years in June while imports grew the least since October
2009. U.S. data on July 8 showed the  unemployment rate  rose as
hiring slowed.  “There seems to a bit of disappointment over the U.S. job-
market data as well as  China ’s still-high inflation figures,”
said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP
Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees $29 billion.
“Investors may have to endure the lingering uncertainties in
the near term.”  The MSCI gauge of developing nations has slid 0.7 percent
this year, trailing a 2.7 percent gain in the MSCI World Index,
a measure for developed markets. Stocks in the benchmark index
for emerging equities are valued at 10.2 times estimated profit
for the next 12 months, less than the multiple of 11.8 times for
developed countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Estimates  Emerging-market stocks will probably advance less than
previously forecast this year as weaker investor sentiment
prevents a “clear valuation premium,” Citigroup Inc. said.  The brokerage cut its end-2011 forecast for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index to 1,400, compared with an earlier
estimate of 1,500, Citigroup strategists led by New York-based
Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a July 8 report. They reiterated their
“bullish” stance on developing-nation shares.  China may report July 13 that gross domestic product rose
9.3 percent from a year before, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey, down from 9.7 percent the previous
quarter.  Brazil , Hungary  The Bovespa index fell 2.1 percent, the biggest drop in
five months, to the lowest level since May last year. Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s largest lender by market value,
slumped 3.7 percent to a one-year low, leading the decliners.
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and Petroleo Brasileiro SA
followed the oil price lower.  Hungary’s BUX index went down by 2.2 percent, the most
since April, as OTP Bank Nyrt., the largest lender, and Mol
Nyrt., the country’s biggest oil refiner, declined.  The forint weakened 3 percent versus the dollar, the worst
performer among major emerging-market currencies, on concern the
European Union’s debt crisis may spread.  Samsung Electronics,  South Korea ’s No. 1 exporter of
consumer electronics, fell 2.3 percent. LG Display Co., the
world’s second-largest liquid-crystal display maker, dropped 3.7
percent. Taiwan Semiconductor, the world’s largest contract
maker of chips, dipped 1.7 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 310, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa increased 12 basis points to 215, according to data
provider CMA in  London .  Turkey ’s lira fell to the weakest level in more than two
years against the dollar as concern about Europe’s debt crisis
curbed demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.
Turkey’s current-account deficit more than doubled to $7.8
billion in May from a year earlier, the central bank said today.
The nation’s ISE National 100 equity index lost 1 percent in a
second day of declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  