-- 
Emirates Says Superjumbo Ramp-Up Fully Funded for Next Year

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-07-11T15:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/emirates-fully-funded-through-july-2012-finance-chief-says.html
Emirates, investing in a wide-body
jet fleet including 90 Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos worth $34
billion at list prices, said financing the planes isn’t a
concern and that it’s fully funded through July 2012.  A $1 billion  bond issue  last month was “opportunistic” and
Emirates would consider a further sale given “suitable” pricing,
 Gary Chapman , its president for services, said in an interview.
The world’s biggest international airline would consider seeking
a  credit rating  if such a move appeared advantageous, he said.  “The bond was part of risk management and making sure we
have a nice cushion of cash just in case,” Chapman said in
Dubai, where Emirates is based, adding that there are no plans
for a further issue right now. Obligations for the current year
are being met through a mixture of debt and equity, he said.  Emirates plans to spend about $4 billion annually over the
next three to four years. Fuel-price volatility will be managed
through ticket-price changes and the carrier’s cash balance, and
it has been less active in hedging for fear of being locked in
at prices creating a competition disadvantage, Chapman said.  “We have limited cover in terms of  call options  which will
be triggered at higher prices,” he said. “We are not heavily
hedged at the moment and that’s a conscious decision.” Emirates
removed its fuel surcharge in May after  oil prices  fell.  Hub Challenge  The Arab world’s biggest carrier is building the largest
superjumbo fleet as it seeks to establish Dubai as an inter-
continental travel hub and win passengers from  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group, British Airways and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)  It also
competes with local rivals  Qatar Airways  and  Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad.  Emirates will need about $27 billion to fund jet deliveries
for the next six years, Chapman reiterated. About 199 planes are
slated for delivery through 2019, the latest factsheet says.  “We always aim to have about 50 percent of our fleet on
operating leases, so we often do sale and lease back,” a
strategy that shifts asset risk from the balance sheet, said
Chapman. The company, which seeks financing for up to 85 percent
of plane purchases, aims to continue building up its cash pile.  Emirates had 16 billion dirhams ($4.4 billion) in cash at
the end of its fiscal year on March 31 and would generally aim
to maintain a figure equal to 25-30 percent of revenue, Chapman
said. During the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 most airlines
suffered a drop of 20 percent in sales, he said.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty still out there in the
world, given what’s happening in Greece and  Portugal , he said.
“And the U.S. is struggling.”  Dnata Branding  Emirates, which boosted annual earnings 43 percent to a
record 5.93 billion dirhams in the fiscal year as it attracted
passengers with its growing A380 fleet, favors a mixed approach
to raising funding, according to Chapman.  “We’ve traditionally been about 20 percent on each of them,
between commercial debt, export credit, German and Japanese tax
leases, and we’ve done some Islamic,” he said. “We’ve mixed
around all of those and that’s proven to be a good way forward.”  Plans to rebrand the  Dnata  ground-handling and catering
unit, of which Chapman is also president, are under way as part
of an overseas expansion, with the name being applied to
operations in Singapore, currently trading via Changi
International Airport Services (CIAS), and the U.K., fully
acquired in 2005 and operating as Plane Handling Ltd.  “We now handle more aircraft, more passengers, more cargo,
and more baggage outside of Dubai than inside, so we are no
longer Dubai-centric,” Chapman said.  Emirates will continue to expand its ground-handling
operations and is in talks concerning one or two acquisition
opportunities in the segment, which it may announce before the
year’s end, said Chapman. Dnata employs 20,000 people at more
than 70 airports in 28 countries, 60 percent of them overseas.  “We continue to look at opportunities,” the executive
said. “ Europe  is very mature, so it’s about retaining what
we’ve got. There’s a lot of growth in the Far East and
Australasia so that’s definitely a strong focus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  