-- 
Employment Index in U.S. Climbs for First Time in Three Months

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-11T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/employment-index-in-u-s-climbs-for-first-time-in-three-months.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. climbed in June for the first time in three months,
reflecting gains in three of eight components that indicate the
improvement failed to be broad-based.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
0.5 percent to 100 from the prior month’s reading of 99.5, the
New York-based private research group said today. The measure
was up 5.4 percent from June 2010.  Today’s figures underscore a Labor Department report last
week that showed payrolls rose 18,000 in June, less than
forecast and the fewest in nine months, while the  unemployment
rate  rose to 9.2 percent. Bigger job gains are needed to give
households the means to lift their spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy.  The report “is consistent with weak job growth, rather
than an outright decline” in employment,  Gad Levanon , associate
director of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said
in a statement.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the
gauge can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months
before the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months
in advance, the Conference Board said.  A drop in jobless claims, an increase in the number of
small companies saying jobs are hard to fill and a projected
gain in sales contributed to last month’s advance, the
Conference Board said.  The Labor Department’s payrolls report, released on July 8,
also showed private employers added 57,000 workers last month,
less than median estimate in the Bloomberg News survey.  Companies reducing staff include Lockheed Martin Corp., the
world’s largest defense contractor. Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed on June 30 said it plans to cut about 1,500 employees.
McLean, Virginia-based Gannett Co., the publisher of 82
newspapers including  USA Today , also announced last month it is
eliminating about 700 jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  