-- 
Essar May Expand Supertanker Fleet as India Buys More Mexico Oil

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-07-11T18:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/essar-may-expand-supertanker-fleet-as-india-buys-more-mexico-oil.html
Essar Shipping Ltd., controlled by
billionaire Ruia brothers, plans to add as many as a dozen
second-hand supertankers to benefit from Indian refiners’ rising
need to haul crude oil from Mexico and  Venezuela .  “We’re looking at the emergence of long-term contracts
between Indian  oil companies  and suppliers from  Latin America ,”
Managing Director A.R. Ramakrishnan said in a July 7 interview
at the company’s headquarters in  Mumbai . “We see a great scope
for import of crude oil to feed all the refining expansion
taking place in  India .”  Essar may purchase six very large crude carriers, or VLCCs,
as part of its tanker-fleet expansion, Ramakrishnan said without
providing a timeframe or investments. Indian refiners including
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  are stepping up imports from Latin
America as they add capacity to process the heavier and cheaper
grades of crude from the continent.  “Diversification of the route network will definitely help
shipping companies,” said Jyotsna Sawdekar, an analyst with
Mumbai-based Jaypee Capital Services Ltd. “Going forward,
charter rates are also expected to rise for VLCCs.”  The shipping line, spun off from  Essar Shipping Ports &
Logistics Ltd. (ESRS)  in May, has 26 vessels, including two VLCCs and
five capsizes, according to its  website . Essar will also start
taking delivery of 12 new bulk carriers valued at about $450
million in September, Ramakrishnan said.  $99 Billion  India, which imports almost 80 percent of its oil, spent a
record $99 billion buying crude from overseas in the year ended
March 31, as refiners expanded capacity to meet rising energy
demand in the world’s second-fastest growing major economy.  Indian refiners including Indian Oil Corp. and Essar Oil
Ltd. are also adding capacity to process heavy grades of crude
oil, which are cheaper than light varieties. Essar’s expanded
refinery will process 90 percent of heavy grades, Managing
Director Naresh Nayyar said yesterday.  Reliance, owner of the world’s largest refining complex,
boosted crude imports from Latin America 78 percent last year,
according to JBC Energy GmbH, as processing the cheaper grade of
oil helps boost refining margins. Bulk of the supplies were from
Venezuela, the Vienna-based industry consultant said.  Essar, controlled by brothers Shashi and Ravi Ruia,
separated the shipping business from its port operations so that
the management can increase focus on the two units’s expansion
plans. Essar Ports Ltd. began trading on May 31, while the
listing of Essar Shipping is pending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  