-- 
Essar Energy, Unit May Raise $3 Billion for U.K., India Projects

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-11T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/essar-energy-unit-may-raise-3-billion-for-u-k-india-projects.html
Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  and unit  Essar Oil
Ltd. (ESOIL)  may raise as much as a combined $3 billion to fund the
purchase of oil stockpiles in the U.K. and expand refining
projects in India, an official said.  Essar Energy may raise as much as $1.5 billion in debt to
buy crude oil and fuel stockpiles at the refinery in Stanlow,
which it acquired from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Chief Executive
Officer Naresh Nayyar said on a conference call yesterday. The
borrowing will depend on the value of the stockpiles, he said.  Mumbai-based Essar Oil’s board has approved raising as much
as $1.5 billion in foreign currency debt to fund ongoing
projects, said Nayyar, who is also managing director of the
company.  “There are two different loans and have two different
purposes,” Nayyar said. “There’s an arbitrage opportunity in
raising foreign currency debt and we hope to take advantage of
that.”  India ’s central bank has raised key borrowing costs 10
times since March 2010. The 7.5 percent benchmark interest rate
is the highest among  Asia ’s biggest economies, as India’s policy
makers seek to curb accelerating inflation.  Essar Oil is increasing the capacity of its refinery at
Vadinar in India’s Gujarat state by 43 percent to 20 million
metric tons a year by September 2012 at a cost of $1.8 billion,
Nayyar said.  “Completing the refinery expansion on time is important as
it will help Essar improve margins significantly,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. in Kochi. “The refinery in the U.K. will give the
group access to new markets.”  Heavy Crude  The expanded refinery will allow Essar Oil to process
heavier grades of crude oil, which are cheaper than lighter
varieties, and help improve margins, Nayyar said.  Essar Energy said in February it would buy Shell’s Stanlow
refinery for $350 million. The refinery’s oil stocks were valued
at around $900 million on July 4.  Essar Oil declined 0.9 percent to 127.60 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the
benchmark Sensitive Index.  Essar Oil posted a net income of 4.69 billion rupees ($105
million) in the three months ended June 30, compared with a 700
million-rupee loss a year earlier, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The company earned $7.38 on every barrel of
crude turned into fuels in the quarter, compared with $5.79 a
barrel a year earlier.  Essar plans to complete the first phase of expansion at its
Vadinar refinery to 18 million tons by September and operate it
at full capacity by the first quarter of 2012, Nayyar said.  Separately, Essar Oil’s board approved a proposal to seek
shareholder revalidation for an enabling resolution to raise as
much as $2 billion through the sale of securities, the company
said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 