-- 
European Stocks Sink as Debt-Crisis Contagion Threatens Italy

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-07-11T16:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/european-stock-index-futures-drop-on-italy-debt-concern-china-inflation.html
European stocks tumbled the most in
seven weeks, led by banks and insurers, as contagion from
 Greece ’s debt crisis threatened to spread to the bigger
economies of Italy and Spain.  Italy’s FTSE MIB Index plunged the most in more than a
year, entering a  bear market  as its slide from this year’s high
exceeded 20 percent.  UniCredit Spa (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  lost
more than 6 percent and  Germany ’s  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  sank to a two-
year low as a gauge of banks had the biggest two-day drop in 14
months.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  fell as the U.K.
government referred its purchase by  News Corp . to regulators.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.4 percent to 269.9 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The measure has fallen for 9 weeks
out of the past 10, bringing its drop since this year’s high on
Feb. 17 to 7.3 percent, as concern about the debt crisis
deepened and U.S. economic data trailed forecasts.  “What we’re seeing today is the result of 20 to 30 years
of Western countries living beyond their means,” said Matthieu Giuliani, a  fund manager  at Palatine Asset Management in Paris,
which oversees $5 billion. “We pulled on the thread a bit and
everyone is naked underneath. I’m cautious on stocks. Emerging
markets were the final motor. If we have to slow down that
machine, that motor will be removed.”  Italian and Spanish government bonds tumbled today, driving
the spreads investors demand to hold Italian, Portuguese and
Spanish debt over German bunds widened to euro-era records.  EU Rescue Funds  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “there’s no
discussion whatsoever” of doubling the European Union’s rescue
facility after Die Welt reported yesterday that the  European
Central Bank  is seeking to increase the pool to 1.5 trillion
euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover an Italian crisis. European
leaders are prepared to accept that Greece should default on
some of its bonds as part of a new bailout plan for the country
that would put its total debt levels on a sustainable footing,
the Financial Times said, citing unnamed senior officials.  China ’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years in June, highlighting the challenge for policy makers of
sustaining growth while taming prices. The  consumer price index 
increased 6.4 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
July 9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, will become
the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report
quarterly earnings after the close of New York trading today.
According to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, Profits at
S&P 500 companies gained 13 percent in the second quarter, their
smallest increase in two years.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX lost 2.3 percent and the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 1 percent. Portugal’s PSI-20 Index plunged
4.3 percent and Spain’s IBEX 35 sank 2.7 percent. Italy’s FTSE
MIB Index slid 4 percent, bringing the retreat since February to
21 percent.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, tumbled 6.3 percent to
1.15 euros. Intesa Sanpaolo, the second-largest, plunged 7.7
percent to 1.53 euros as it was downgraded to “neutral” from
“overweight” at HSBC Holding Plc.  Fiat SpA (F)  tumbled 5.4 percent to 6.86 euros as the carmaker
was cut to “sell” at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA. Fiat Industrial SpA,
a maker of trucks and tractors, sank 1.6 percent to 8.22 euros.
 Azimut Holding SpA (AZM) , which offers investment management services,
slumped 7.4 percent to 5.50 euros and  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , a milk
producer, slid 4.2 percent to 2.40 euros.  Short Sales  Italy’s financial-market regulator, known as Consob, last
night ordered that short sellers must reveal their positions
when they reach 0.2 percent or more of a company’s capital and
then make additional filings for each additional 0.1 percent
that they acquire. The measure takes effect today and lasts
until Sept. 9.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, dropped 8.6
percent to 2.71 euros, the lowest level since March 2009. Bank
of Ireland Plc retreated 13 percent to 10.1 euro cents after
Ireland’s largest lender said it plans to raise 1.9 billion
euros in a share sale as it seeks to raise capital and avoid
state control.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  lost 5.6 percent to 4.42 euros.
Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank by market value,
retreated 5.7 percent to 36.33 euros.  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index’s two-day decline was the biggest
since May 2010. CA Cheuvreux said it expects second-quarter net
income at the 31 largest European banks it covers to fall 19
percent from the first quarter.  Insurers Fall  A measure of insurers in the Stoxx 600 sank 3.7 percent,
the biggest drop in 14 months. Ageas, the insurer formerly known
as Fortis, retreated 9.4 percent to 1.57 euros, the lowest level
since April 2009. Allianz SE fell 4.1 percent to 91.56 euros and
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  slid 7.3 percent to 7.79 euros.  BSkyB tumbled 4.6 percent to 715.5 pence, the lowest since
November, as Hunt referred News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.4 billion) bid to buy all of the pay-TV operator to the
 Competition Commission .  Allegations last week that a News of the World employee
intercepted messages left on murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler’s
mobile phone caused a public outcry and prompted Prime Minister
 David Cameron  to pledge an independent inquiry.  Voestalpine AG (VOE)  sank 4.3 percent to 36.07 euros after a
report that Austria’s biggest steelmaker may lose German
whistleblower protection against possible prosecution for
antitrust violations.  Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  jumped 5 percent to 447.7
pence after the utility received a 465 pence-a-share, or 2.4
billion-pound, takeover proposal from Li Ka-Shing’s Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd.  International Power Plc (IPR)  advanced 2.6 percent to 309.1
pence. The energy utility said the Australian government’s new
carbon tax will be important to its Australian operations and
employees, but is not expected to be material to the entire
group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  