-- 
Euro Chiefs Clash as Italy Concern Mounts

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-11T15:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/euro-finance-chiefs-weigh-greek-options-as-italy-looms-as-crisis-victim.html
European finance chiefs clashed over
how to dig  Greece  out of its financial hole just as markets
battered the bonds of Spain and Italy, opening a new front in
the debt crisis.  Finance ministers weighed how to get private bondholders to
maintain their exposure to Greek debt in a way that doesn’t
prompt credit-rating companies to declare a formal default.  Forcing bondholders to chip in would be “fatal,” Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter told reporters before a crisis
meeting in Brussels today. “We will now in the eurogroup
discuss the proposals on the table and their impact with respect
to a Greek insolvency or classification as an insolvency.”  Bonds of debt-strapped countries plunged, the euro sank and
stocks dropped amid concern that European governments are
powerless to prevent the financial distress spreading from
Greece.  Italy ’s effort to build a firewall against the spreading
crisis formed the backdrop to today’s meeting of finance
ministers that will consider a new package for Greece on top of
the 110 billion euros ($155 billion) pledged last year.  Italy, struggling with  Europe ’s second-highest debt load
after Greece, curbed short selling as its 10-year bond spread
over  Germany  surged to 305 basis points, a euro-era high. The
extra yield, a sign of investors’ doubts about Italy, more than
doubled from its 2011 low of 122 basis points on April 12.  Berlusconi Doubts  Italian assets were upended by doubts whether Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , plumbing record-low approval ratings
with two years left in office, will muster the political
strength to push through 40 billion euros in planned deficit-
cutting measures.  “Italy can get out of this situation on its own and with
the help of all European countries but not with financial aid,”
Spanish Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  A lunchtime crisis-management session including European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  preceded the regular ministerial meeting.  Europe faces “another summer of uncertainty” with an
accord on Greece unlikely before September, London-based
Citigroup Inc. economists including  Michael Saunders  said in a
research note. “The uncertainty is likely to propel the flight
of investors out of non-core sovereign bonds and deposit flight
out of periphery country banks.”  Greek Deficit  Greece’s uphill struggle for solvency was dramatized by
data showing the central government’s deficit widened 28 percent
in the first half of 2011, with spending surpassing targets and
revenue falling short.  Greece’s next package hinges on the EU finding a formula
for getting investors to roll over Greek debt holdings so that
governments don’t have to pick up the tab when bonds come due
between 2012 and 2014.  “Some rating agencies say it’s very difficult to have a
plan that is completely voluntary and that even if the scheme is
on a voluntary basis some agencies will say it’s non-
voluntary,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.
“But this could be for a very short period of time.”  EU officials are considering a previously rejected German
plan for a bond exchange after French-led efforts to shepherd
banks and asset managers into a “voluntary” rollover fell
short of a target of 30 billion euros.  Swap Opponents  The ECB,  France  and southern countries are the loudest
opponents of a bond swap, fearing that it would trigger an
official default that spreads turmoil through European markets.  “We need to find a way to have some guidelines today about
the private-sector involvement and the solution for Greece,”
Belgian Finance Minister  Didier Reynders  said.  Today’s meeting started with the signing of a treaty to
establish the European Stability Mechanism, which will provide
loans to debt-hit countries as of mid-2013 and include
provisions for a private-sector role.  Euro-area governments will put 700 billion euros of cash
and callable capital into the ESM, giving it the capacity to
lend 500 billion euros. It requires unanimous government
ratification to go into operation.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  ruled out a
further reinforcement of the current rescue mechanism, the
 European Financial Stability Facility , set up in May 2010 at the
height of the first phase of the crisis.  Finance ministers last month agreed to increase national
guarantees to lift the EFSF’s lending ceiling to a targeted 440
billion euros. A further boost “is not at all up for
discussion,” Schaeuble said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  