-- 
EU Revives Buyback Idea as Crisis Hits Italy

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-12T08:29:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/european-leaders-revive-buybacks-for-greek-solution-as-crisis-swamps-italy.html
European finance chiefs cast about
for a strategy to halt Greece’s debt spiral, reviving previously
discarded ideas and sharpening a dispute with central bankers as
the rot spread to  Italy .  As exploding bond yields in Italy and Spain brought the
crisis closer to the heart of the euro area, Europe’s search for
answers took it back to a proposal scuttled by Germany this year
to buy back discounted debt. Also being considered are remedies
that would put Greece into temporary default, countering pleas
from the  European Central Bank  to avoid that step at all costs.  The brainstorming in Brussels failed to stem the plunge in
European shares and bonds of the most-debt laden countries,
reflecting investor concern that their efforts will be
overwhelmed. The euro fell to its weakest in four months.
Italy’s 10-year bond yields exceeded 6 percent, reaching the
highest since 1997. Milan’s stock index fell to its lowest in
more than two years.  “They are misjudging the size of the problem they face,”
said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc. “This is a euro-wide crisis and again they are
behind the curve.”  Nine hours of talks yesterday yielded a  six-paragraph
statement  in which the 17 euro governments pledged to flesh out
a new master plan “shortly” to end the 21-month-old crisis,
without setting a timeline. The meetings resumed today with all
27 EU finance ministers plotting a response to the release of
bank stress tests later this week.  Default Risk  The decision to have another look at reinforcing the
European Financial Stability Facility, the 440 billion-euro
($618 billion) bailout fund that was beefed up only last month,
came after talks with bondholders over a “voluntary” rollover
of Greek debt ran into a threat by credit-rating companies to
put  Greece  in default.  Prodded by the ECB, the euro’s guardians said a bailout
fund set up last year may be used to buy bonds in the secondary
market or enable Greece to retire its debt at a discount. They
offered another cut in rates on its emergency loans.  “There are a variety of ways of enhancing the
flexibility,” European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters late yesterday. Buybacks
are “one of those. I would at this stage not exclude any
option. But instead we are exploring these possibilities.”  Dutch Demand  Finance ministers offered varying interpretations of the
commitment to explore a wider range of options. Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  insists on getting bondholders to
roll over Greek debt even if that results in the “selective
default” opposed by the ECB.  “We managed to break a very difficult knot of a
contradictory statement, on the one hand that you are saying
that you want a private sector involvement, and on the other
hand that you want to avoid a selective default,” de Jager told
reporters today. “Now we can do the work. In the next two weeks
the euro working group can prepare a broader mandate.”  The statement singled out the ECB as opposing a “ credit
event  or selective default.” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, the meeting’s chairman, said this doesn’t mean
that European governments “would do everything in order to
provoke a credit event.”  Greece, the trigger of the debt shock, was the only country
mentioned. Juncker said the reassurances are “offering adequate
responses” to concerns about  Spain  and Italy as well.  Papandreou’s Complaint  Europe’s lunge back to basics came after Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  complained that a “cacophony” had
sowed “panic” that overwhelmed the budget cuts that he pushed
through his parliament amid street riots last month.  The uphill struggle for solvency in  Athens  was dramatized
by data yesterday showing the central government’s deficit
widened 28 percent in the first half of 2011, with spending
surpassing targets and revenue falling short.  Greece last week obtained European and International
Monetary Fund assurances of a loan payout of 12 billion euros in
July, part of the 110 billion-euro package it was awarded in May
2010.  A second package will also include lower  interest rates  and
longer repayment times for official loans, the statement said.
In a nod to demands by Finland and Slovakia, it said Greece
might be required to put up collateral.  ‘Too Dangerous’  In a letter to Juncker, Papandreou also said a French bond-
rollover proposal under discussion with banks was potentially
“too expensive, too little and too dangerous” and might tip
Greece into formal default.  With Greek 10-year debt fetching less than 55 cents on the
euro, buybacks were forced back onto the table by the  Institute
of International Finance , a group representing more than 400
banks and insurers that has tried to broker an accord on the
French proposal.  Rejected by  Germany  earlier this year, the buybacks would
pare Greece’s debt burden of 142.8 percent of gross domestic
product by enabling it to retire bonds at a discount. German
resistance centered on using taxpayer money to help spendthrift
countries wriggle out of their debt.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  came to
yesterday’s meeting opposed to a further reinforcement of the
fund, saying there is “no discussion whatsoever” of another
boost to its firepower. He wasn’t asked about buybacks. He is
slated to speak to reporters after the meeting ends later today.  Italy, a focus of German concern in the 1990s runup to the
euro with debt over 100 percent of GDP, returned to the
forefront as investors dumped Italian bonds and stocks. Italy
now has  Europe ’s second-highest debt load, at 119.0 percent of
GDP in 2010.  Spread Widens  Italy’s 10-year bond spread over Germany surged to 326
basis points today, a euro-era high. The extra yield, a sign of
investors’ skepticism about Italy’s fiscal health, has more than
doubled from a 2011 low of 122 basis points on April 12.  Italian assets were upended by doubts whether Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , plumbing record-low approval ratings
with two years left in office, will muster the strength to push
through 40 billion euros in planned deficit-cuts.  The bond rout continued to engulf Spain, the fourth-largest
euro user. Spanish 10-year yields climbed 23 basis points to
6.26 percent, stretching the spread over German debt as wide as
364 basis points, also a euro-era record.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  