-- 
Hewlett-Packard Reorganizes PC Unit to Push WebOS Software

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-07-11T21:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/hewlett-packard-reorganizes-bradley-s-pc-unit-to-promote-webos-software.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest computer maker, is reorganizing its personal-computer
division as part of a push to broaden use of the software it
gained from the acquisition of Palm Inc.  Jon Rubinstein, Palm’s former chief executive officer, will
take charge of product development and innovation for the
Personal Systems Group, which encompasses PCs, tablets and
smartphones. Senior Vice President Stephen DeWitt will run a new
unit responsible for developing and promoting the WebOS computer
operating system. Both will report to  Todd Bradley , who runs
PSG. DeWitt discussed the changes in an interview today.  Hewlett-Packard is counting on the integration of WebOS to
differentiate its products from rival machines, including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and those using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android. Hewlett-
Packard CEO  Leo Apotheker  said in February that all of the
company’s PCs will feature WebOS by the end of next year, a
shift away from machines that only run  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
operating system.  Rubinstein helped create the iMac and iPod at Apple before
becoming Palm’s CEO. He will now be Hewlett-Packard’s senior
vice president of product innovation and will work on projects
that span the  Palo Alto , California-based company, including the
printing group, DeWitt said.  “We’re fortunate to have Jon doing that voodoo that he
does,” DeWitt said. “He’s going to bring his knowledge,
experience and passion for building products across the PSG
portfolio.”  Apotheker’s Reorganization  Apotheker is reorganizing business units to revive growth
and take back market share after slicing $1 billion from the
company’s annual revenue forecast in May. Corporations are
“wary” of large-scale information-technology spending amid
concerns about global economic growth, Apotheker said at a July
9 technology conference in Aix-en-Provence,  France .  On June 14, Hewlett-Packard said executives in charge of
global sales, software and data-center equipment and services
would report directly to Apotheker.  Hewlett-Packard bought Palm last year to add mobile devices
and software to its product lineup.  DeWitt’s Role  DeWitt, who joined Hewlett-Packard in 2008 from a closely
held computer maker named Azul Systems Inc., had been
responsible for sales, marketing and operations of personal
systems in  North America . Stephen DiFranco, a former general
manager at Hewlett-Packard, is now a senior vice president,
taking DeWitt’s former role. The personal systems group was
responsible for $40.7 billion in sales last year.  DeWitt will take charge of engineering, research and
development, and sales and marketing for WebOS. Hewlett-
Packard’s TouchPad tablet computer, which runs on WebOS, went on
sale July 1, accompanied by an advertising campaign featuring
Jay-Z and other celebrities.  “It’s critical for us to expand our programs” and entice
more developers to create applications for the platform, DeWitt
said.  The WebOS operating system includes the ability to run
multiple applications at once and lets developers design apps
that talk to each other. For example, information from Facebook
can be shared in users’ contact lists. It also lessens Hewlett-
Packard’s reliance on Microsoft’s Windows software.  ‘Kicking the Tires’  Bradley said in an interview that July 1 was a “soft
launch” for the TouchPad and that more advertising will
commence on July 17. The company also plans to issue a software
update for the tablet in about 10 days, he said.  “We’ve had two weeks of kicking the tires at retail,” he
said. “We’ve got a phenomenal tablet product.”  Still, the company must compete with Apple’s best-selling
iPad tablet and devices running Android software. Hewlett-
Packard has “a really good opportunity to become No. 2 in
tablets fairly quickly,” Rubinstein said in a June interview.  Hewlett-Packard also is in talks to license the WebOS
mobile software to other hardware makers, Apotheker said in an
interview in Beijing last month. Samsung Electronics Co. held
talks to use WebOS in its smartphones, according to three people
with knowledge of the discussions.  Hewlett-Packard lost $1.14, or 3.1 percent, to $35.29 at 4
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have declined 16
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  