-- 
FCC Bureau Seeks Fine for Comcast in Tennis Channel Dispute

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-11T22:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/fcc-bureau-seeks-fine-for-comcast-in-placement-dispute-with-tennis-channel.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. pay
TV service, favored its own sports programming over the Tennis
Channel in violation of federal rules and should be forced to
distribute the network on equal terms, regulators said.  Comcast should include Tennis Channel on a broadly
distributed tier within 30 days on terms similar to its own Golf
Channel and Versus sports networks, the Federal Communications
Commission’s Enforcement Bureau said in a recommendation to
Chief Administrative Law Judge  Richard L. Sippel  in Washington.  The company “favored its affiliated networks” over Tennis
Channel, causing limited distribution and poor channel placement
for the independently owned network, the bureau said. The agency
argued that Philadelphia-based Comcast saw the three networks as
competitors, citing evidence of similar ratings and
demographics. Tennis Channel filed a complaint in January 2010.  The parties will make oral arguments to Sippel tomorrow at
the FCC in  Washington , according to Neil Grace, an agency
spokesman. Each side will get 30 minutes to present their
case. There is no deadline for Sippel’s decision, he said.  John Demming, a Comcast spokesman, declined to comment.  The FCC recommended Sippel fine Comcast $375,000 and force
the company to carry Tennis Channel near Golf Channel and Versus
or with other sports channels. Comcast frequently assigns Golf
Channel and Versus channel numbers in the 7 to 20 range while
Tennis Channel is typically assigned a dial number in the low
700s, according to evidence presented to the bureau.  “Because viewers frequently start at the lowest number and
surf up until they find a channel of interest, lower channel
assignments are always preferable,” the bureau said.  Channel Neighborhoods  DirecTV (DTV) ,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS carry Golf Channel, Versus and Tennis Channel in the
“same sports neighborhood,” according to the recommendation,
which was reported on July 9 by the trade publication
Multichannel News.  The closely held Tennis Channel, based in  Santa Monica ,
 California , is owned by  investors  that include Apollo Partners
and Bain Capital Ventures, according to the company’s website.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, filed a
complaint last month with the FCC accusing Comcast of refusing
to place Bloomberg Television in a channel grouping with other
news stations, such as CNBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  