-- 
Fed on Hold Longest Since 1940s as Curve Shows Slow Growth

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-11T17:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/fed-on-hold-longest-since-1940s.html
The  Federal Reserve  may keep
 interest rates  at record lows for the longest period since World
War II as the economic slowdown that sparked a four-month bond
rally worsens, according to Treasury market signals.  The 3-percentage-point gap between yields for three-month
and 10-year Treasuries indicates the economy may grow 1.1
percent in the 12 months ending June 2012, a study by the Fed
Bank of Cleveland says. That’s less than half the central bank’s
current forecast, and may delay any rate increase from the zero-
to-25 basis point range held since December 2008.  Slower expansion means the Fed is unlikely to tighten
credit until June 2012, the longest static period since the
government forced the central bank to buy Treasuries during the
1940s. Any spending cuts agreed by President  Barack Obama  and
Congress before the Aug. 2 deadline to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit may restrain the economy.  “No one is looking for very spectacular growth,” said
Krishna Memani, director of fixed income at OppenheimerFunds
Inc. in New York, who helps manage $70 billion. The chance of
the Fed lifting borrowing costs “is significantly lower today
than it was six months ago,” Memani said. “Growth expectations
in the U.S. and global growth expectations are probably lower
and more realistic.”  Waning Confidence  Confidence in the economy has waned since February, when
10-year Treasury yields reached a high for the year of 3.77
percent, and federal fund futures showed a 51 percent chance of
a central bank rate increase by December. That percentage dipped
to 39 percent in April and stands at 10 percent.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell to 3.03
percent on July 8, a drop of 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage
point, for the week. The 3.125 percent note due May 2021 rose 1
10/32, or $14.06 per $1,000 face amount to 100 26/32, Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices show. Three-month bill rates are 0.02
percent.  Treasuries advanced today, with the 10-year yield sliding
eight basis points to 2.94 percent at 1:08 p.m. in  New York .  Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes show Treasuries
have returned 4.7 percent since yields peaked Feb. 8, beating
the 2.3 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.  The economy’s inability to produce jobs may be the biggest
obstacle for the Fed before it can remove the support it has
provided with purchases of $2.3 trillion in assets and the
reduction of its overnight lending rate to near zero.  Rising Unemployment  The U.S. has added 1.7 million jobs since the start of
2010, after losing 8.7 million in 2008 and 2009. The
unemployment rate was 9.2 percent in June, up from 8.8 percent
in March and 4.4 percent in 2007.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 7 that policy makers
“cannot consider” the recovery to be established until they
see a “sustained period” of strong  job creation . The Fed said
it sees expansion of between 2.7 percent and 2.9 percent.  “Bernanke’s going to be comfortable at zero for quite a
while, and downright concerned about the direction and
momentum,” said John Fath, a principal at the investment firm
BTG Pactual in New York who helps manage $2.5 billion. “The
momentum was turning up from December through March. It’s
clearly gone the other way.”  Policy makers will wait until mid-2012 to raise rates for
the first time in six years, according to average forecast of 58
economists in a Bloomberg News survey published July 8.  ‘Rediscount Rate’  The last time the Fed maintained such prolonged monetary
support for the economy was from 1937 to 1947 when it kept its
“rediscount rate,” or the discount it applied to commercial
banks borrowing cash against high quality promissory notes they
had issued, at 1 percent.  From 1941 to 1951 the central bank also bought Treasuries
as America grappled with the need to fund World War II, convert
the U.S. back to a peacetime economy, and pay for the Marshall
Plan to rebuild Western Europe.  “We are fighting a war,” said  David Jones , 73, former
vice chairman of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., one of the original
primary dealers established by the Fed in 1960. “This time it’s
economic.”  U.S. employers added 18,000 workers in June, the fewest in
nine months, and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent, the
highest level this year, the Labor Department said July 8. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News of survey 85 economists
called for a gain of 105,000.  Predictive Powers  Economists use the yield curve to gauge the forecast the
economy’s direction. Three-month bill rates have topped 10-year
note yields eight times since 1960, with recessions following in
six of those cases. There hasn’t been a recession that wasn’t
preceded by an inverted curve in that period.  Rates on three-month bills rose past 10-year note yields in
July 2006 after the Fed boosted its target rate for overnight
loans between banks to 5.25 percent. The curve remained inverted
through May 2007, just months before the economy began
contracting, according to the  National Bureau of Economic
Research . The recession ended in June 2009.  “Few, if any” predictive measures are consistently better
at forecasting the economy’s direction, Joseph G. Haubrich, head
of banking and financial institutions research at the  Cleveland 
Fed, said in an e-mail response to questions last week.  Fed policy has made it “sort of pointless” to use the
curve to forecast growth because short-term yields are anchored
by a target rate near zero, said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates
strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, a primary
dealer. Misra said she now focuses on the difference between
five- and 30-year yields, which are less influenced by the Fed.  Widening Curve  That part of the curve has widened to 2.7 percentage points
from 2.23 percentage points March 31, with shorter-term yields
falling as traders increase bets on how long the Fed will be
“forced to be accommodative” and 30-year yields rising on the
“fiscal risk” that debt-ceiling talks fail, Misra said.  “Although our approach is somewhat pessimistic as regards
the level of growth over the next year, it is quite optimistic
about the recovery continuing,” Haubrich and Timothy Bianco, a
researcher at the Cleveland Fed, wrote in a June 30 report.  Even though the economy is struggling to add jobs, earnings
growth in the  S&P 500  is climbing back to the average rate since
the 1960s. Net income may rise 19 percent in 2011, according to
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed completed its $600 billion of purchases of Treasury
debt on June 30, though it could continue to reinvest about $300
billion of proceeds from maturing mortgage-related assets and
government securities into  U.S. government debt  in order not to
contract the supply of money.  ‘Further Away’  “Inflation risk is probably further away than we think and
strong growth is probably further away as well,” Eric Pellicciaro, head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc.
in New York, which manages $1.14 trillion in fixed income, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We ultimately think this
short-term rise in yields is more of an opportunity.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries are likely to remain within a
range between 2.75 percent and 3.5 percent, Pellicciaro said.  Obama urged Republican leaders to compromise on their
opposition to tax increases and achieve “the largest possible
deal” during a White House news conference today before resuming
talks with bipartisan congressional leaders toward a compromise
on reducing deficits and raising the debt ceiling.  Treasury 10-year yields near 3 percent reflect expectations
that lawmakers will reach an agreement on raising the debt
ceiling that will include significant spending cuts, and that
those cuts will impede growth in the short-run, said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , co-head of fixed-income strategy in New York at
Barclays Plc. The firm is another primary dealer.  “Everyone’s been calling for a sell-off at some point, the
logic being yields can’t stay low forever,” Rajadhyaksha said.
“You’ll have a hard time finding an economist who says cutting
deficits is good for near-term growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  