-- 
Fiat Said to Increase Credit Line This Week to $2.8 Billion

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-11T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/fiat-said-to-increase-credit-line-this-week-to-2-8-billion.html
Fiat SpA (F)  will expand a credit line
to as much as 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) this week as Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  aims to improve financing
flexibility after the Italian carmaker gained control of
Chrysler Group LLC, two people familiar with the matter said.  The loan will replace a 1 billion-euro revolving credit
line that expires in February 2012. Fiat agreed on the new
facility with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , which arranged the existing loan, and six other
banks, according to the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  A spokesman for Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , declined to
comment on the company’s financing plan.  Fiat, which had 13.1 billion euros of liquidity at the end
of March, has been bolstering its finances in preparation to
take a majority stake in Chrysler. The Italian carmaker sold 1.5
billion euros of bonds last week, after selling 1 billion euros
in April.  Fiat and Chrysler CEO Marchionne plans to merge the two
carmakers to reduce costs and improve integration. The timing of
the merger isn’t set and the combination isn’t likely this year,
Marchionne said May 25 in Turin. The automaker consolidated
Chrysler’s results starting May 24, a sign of the rapid
integration of the carmakers since the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based manufacturer exited bankruptcy in June 2009.  Fiat, which was initially granted a 20 percent stake in
Chrysler by the U.S. government, aims to hold 57 percent of the
third-biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011. The UAW trust
will have 41.5 percent of Chrysler at that time, Fiat said.  Fiat agreed June 3 to pay $500 million for the U.S.
government’s remaining 6 percent stake in Chrysler, boosting its
holding to 52 percent. The CEO expects to receive an additional
5 percent stake in the fourth quarter in return for developing a
fuel-efficient car for Chrysler.  Editors: Sara Marley, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  