-- 
FIFA Backs Board Members as Qatar Whistleblower Retracts Graft Claims

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-11T16:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/fifa-backs-board-members-as-qatar-whistleblower-retracts-graft-claims.html
Soccer’s governing body said today
it will back board members accused of corruption unless it gets
proof of wrongdoing after an ex-worker from Qatar’s successful
2022 World Cup bid retracted claims that the country bribed
officials.  FIFA confirmed receiving an e-mail from Phaedra Almajid,
who was replaced as Qatar’s international media officer partway
through the process that ended with FIFA choosing it over rivals
including the U.S. and  Australia .  “When only allegations are made and no evidence is given,
FIFA always stands firmly by its members,” FIFA said in a
statement today. Almajid had said African Football Confederation
president Issa Hayatou, Ivory Coast FIFA member Jacques Anouma
and  Nigeria ’s suspended official  Amos Adamu  were paid $1.5
million to vote for Qatar. They’ve denied wrongdoing and she
apologized to them.  In a statement released yesterday Almajid, a U.S. citizen,
said she “lied about all facts concerning the behavior and
practice of the Qatar 2022 Bid” and  the accusations  “were in
full a fabrication on my behalf.”  Qatar’s organizing committee hasn’t commented on Almajid’s
apology. Almajid pulled out of a planned meeting with FIFA in
May after the Zurich-based organization refused to agree to
demands including “an unlimited witness protection program.”  The claims were reported by the Sunday Times newspaper and
also presented to U.K. lawmakers, who used it in writing a
report about the  World Cup  bidding process. England finished
last of four bidders for the 2018 event while FIFA faced graft
allegations. Two of  FIFA’s  24-member executive committee, Adamu
and Reynald Temarii of Tahiti, were suspended after an internal
inquiry heard evidence of vote-buying.  Natural-Gas Billions  Qatar, whose bid was fueled by the billions of dollars it
generates as the world’s biggest supplier of liquefied natural
gas, was a surprise winner of the Dec. 2 ballot. It’s proposing
to stage the 32-team competition in 12 stadiums in an area
smaller than  Connecticut , the U.S.’s third-smallest state. The
bid also promised to develop air-cooling technology to protect
players and fans from the effects of temperatures that can get
higher than 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit).  FIFA struggled with graft accusations surrounding the World
Cup and its presidential election. June’s vote ended with
President Sepp Blatter winning a fourth term. His only
challenger, Mohamed Bin Hammam of Qatar, who headed  Asia ’s
soccer federation, was suspended after claims he paid $40,000 to
voters in the Caribbean to choose him. He denies the
allegations.  FIFA last month said its general secretary  Jerome Valcke 
wouldn’t face an internal probe after a private e-mail he sent
that said Qatar “bought” the World Cup was made public. He
said he meant Qataris used funds to “heavily promote their bid
all around the world in a very efficient manner.”  In her statement Almajid said her retraction had nothing to
do with Qatar’s bid committee.  “I also wish to state that the decision to make this
admission is entirely my own,” she said. “I have not been
subject to any form of pressure or been offered any financial
inducement to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 