-- 
Follow the Straight (and Dotted) Lines to Budget Truths: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-11T22:13:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/follow-the-straight-and-dotted-lines-to-budget-truths-view.html
In Washington, the weather has
heated up. So has the rhetoric in the hybrid budget/debt-ceiling
negotiations between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders. From the White House lectern on Monday, the president
insisted that U.S. lawmakers have “a moral imperative to tackle
our debt and deficit.” This means, generally speaking, that
Democrats need to accept spending cuts and entitlement reform
and that Republicans need to relent on tax increases.  Every so often, graphics can speak louder than words, and
to that end we suggest a quick look at this chart, using data
compiled by Bloomberg. It puts in stark perspective the
imperative mentioned by Obama and underscores that, on this
issue, he is solidly in the right.  The chart’s solid line -- the jagged mountain range in the
foreground -- shows that income taxes, as a percentage of gross
domestic product, are at 14.9 percent, the lowest since 1950.
The average in the last 60 years has been closer to 18 percent.
It is not hard to look at this line and think, as the president
and Democrats do, that it will be tough to solve our budget
problems without raising taxes.  The graphic’s dotted line -- the higher altitude range with
the plateau -- sheds light on another side of the  Washington 
debate. This graphic shows federal spending as a percentage of
GDP since World War II. It is not hard to look at this line and
think, as the president and Republicans do, that it will be
tough to solve our budget problems without cutting federal
spending and making changes to runaway entitlement programs like
Social Security and Medicare.  The president and leaders in Congress have pledged to keep
talking. All those involved say that they want to cut the
deficit and bring our long-term debt under control. The
specifics are in flux, but the general outlines are as clear as
the above graphs: Any viable plan will require spending cuts and
tax increases both.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 