-- 
EDF, Dong, Alstom Form Pact for $14 Billion French Wind Plan

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T17:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/france-opens-bidding-for-14-billion-offshore-wind-energy-plan.html
EDF Energies Nouvelles SA (EEN) , Dong
Energy A/S and  Alstom SA (ALO)  agreed to join in the 10 billion-euro
($14 billion) French offshore wind plan aimed at boosting the
nation’s clean energy sources and domestic industry.  The companies said in statement they’d pool expertise and
investment alongside Nass&Wind Offshore, the French developer of
wind at sea, Poweo ENR, a unit of renewables company Poweo and
Wpd Offshore, an arm of the German wind company. They were
responding to bidding  France  opened today.  France gets 38 percent of its electricity from atomic
plants, the most in the world, and is seeking to boost renewable
energy such as solar and wind. The country, which has no
offshore wind power now, proposes to install 6,000 megawatts, or
about 1,200  wind turbines , by 2020.  “In addition to the evolution of the energy mix in France,
the aim is to build a French industry sector and become a leader
in offshore wind and marine renewable energies,” Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said in the statement.  Today, the government began accepting proposals for the
plan to build five the projects with a combined capacity of 3
gigawatts. It’s seeking to generate 23 percent of its energy
from renewable sources by 2020. Energy Minister Eric Besson said
the program would support more than 10,000 jobs.  Bidding Group  EDF Energies is founder of the consortium formed to propose
five of the projects for the tender to be held by five dedicated
companies, the statement said. Alstom will supply the offshore
wind turbines and plans to build an industrial and technological
“hub” in France for the generators, blades and nacelles if the
consortium wins sufficient volumes, according to the statement.  Energy companies including  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Vinci SA (DG)  and Areva
SA also say they plan to work on the project.  France will open a second round in April 2012, according to
the statement, with ministers beginning a consultation to locate
zones for that segment. Candidates must submit proposals for the
first round by Jan. 11 followed by pre-selection in April.  Creating Alliances  A final decision is due in 2013 after risk and feasibility
assessments, according to the statement, while the farms are
scheduled to come into service from 2015 to 2020. Winning bids
will be chosen on criteria including the price of electricity,
and social “quality” of the wind farm such as  job creation .  Companies have been creating alliances in preparation for
the bidding. Areva, the world’s biggest maker of nuclear
equipment, and  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR)  are among companies that
have agreed to seek to jointly develop the projects.  Areva, which makes wind turbines, also signed an accord to
bid together for as much as 1,750 megawatts of the offshore wind
farms with the French energy producer GDF Suez SA and Vinci.  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA, based in Paris, and Alstom SA
signed an agreement on Jan. 19 to develop facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  