-- 
Gasoline Drops as Faltering Economic Recovery Threatens Demand

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-11T19:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/gasoline-drops-as-faltering-economic-recovery-threatens-demand.html
Gasoline dropped on concern that
economic recovery in  Europe  and the U.S. may falter, reducing
demand for the fuel.  Futures slipped 0.7 percent as a meeting of European Union
and European Commission chiefs today was expanded to include
discussions on Italy amid concern that the debt crisis in Greece
may spread. A U.S. Labor Department report on July 8 showed job
gains were the fewest in nine months.  “We know the demand for gasoline hasn’t been that strong
and it’s lower demand that’s putting pressure on the gas prices
today,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in Chicago.  Gasoline for August delivery dropped 2.21 cents to settle
at $3.0705 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The jobless rate reached a 2011 high of 9.2 percent in
June, according to the Labor Department. U.S. employers added
18,000 workers last month, while the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a gain of 105,000.  On a four-week average, gasoline consumption was 0.6
percent below a year earlier for the period ending July 1,
according to the Energy Department.  Regular gasoline at the pump rose 0.4 cent to $3.631 a
gallon yesterday, the sixth consecutive increase, according to
AAA data. The price has risen 6.9 cents since July 4.  President  Barack Obama  said he will continue to press
congressional leaders for “the largest possible deal” on a
package of significant deficit cuts.  News Conference  Obama held a news conference before resuming bipartisan
talks with congressional leaders toward a compromise on reducing
budget deficits and raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt
ceiling before the government exhausts its borrowing authority
on Aug. 2.  “You also have the saga in Europe continues with an
emergency meeting and Italy being the next peg to fall,” said
Flynn. The deal to roll over the  U.S. debt  also “looks like
it’s falling apart,” he said.  Gasoline traded as high as $3.1033 and heating oil touched
$3.115 as  Brent crude  rallied to $118.40 a barrel. Nymex product
futures delivered in  New York  Harbor can be affected by
movements in Brent, since refineries on the U.S. East Coast
process oil from West Africa and the North Sea that are priced
versus the European benchmark.  There was no news to correlate with the jump in prices,
said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at Truman
Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas .  Heating oil for August delivery fell 0.89 cent, or 0.3
percent, to $3.0875 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 