-- 
Germany Probing Disappearance of Spy Agency Blueprint

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-11T15:34:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/germany-investigating-disappearance-of-spy-agency-headquarters-blueprints.html
(Corrects spelling of USB in fifth paragraph.)  Germany  said it’s investigating the
possible disappearance of design plans for the  new headquarters 
of the country’s top spy agency in central Berlin.  The classified blueprints for Germany’s  Federal
Intelligence Service , or BND, were taken from the headquarters’
secure construction site in the German capital’s Mitte district,
Focus  magazine  reported on July 10. Officials are under “great
pressure” to find out the extent of any security breach.  “This is a serious situation,” government spokesman
Steffen Seibert told reporters today in Berlin. “The government
has keen interest in clarifying this situation quickly.”  A disappearance could be a blow for the spy agency,
possibly preventing foreign counterparts from sharing
intelligence. The designs contain sensitive data on the
building’s technology and logistics facilities as well as the
position of emergency exits, security and cable layouts, Focus
said. The magazine didn’t say how it obtained the information.  The data, likely stored in a USB stick, was stolen a year
ago, forcing building planners to redesign the interior of the
building, ARD television reported today, citing an unnamed
government official. The incident will likely add to the cost of
1.3 billion euros ($1.8 billion), the broadcaster said.  Thomas Oppermann, a floor leader for the opposition Social
Democrats in parliament, called for swift action by the
Transport Ministry, which is in charge of construction projects,
and criticized  Chancellor Angela Merkel  for the incident.  “The chancellery has to ask itself why it either knew
nothing about this case or why it didn’t inform the Bundestag,”
Oppermann said, referring to the lower house of parliament.  The government decided in 2003 to move the BND to Berlin
from the town of Pullach outside of Munich, where it’s been
located since after World War II. The complex, which will employ
4,000 employees, covers 260,000 square meters (2.8 million
square feet) and stands on a site once occupied by East
Germany’s Stadium of World Youth.  The BND was formed in 1956 as the successor to
“Organization Gehlen,” a U.S. Central Intelligence Agency-
backed spy network created under Reinhard Gehlen, a former Nazi
general. Gehlen’s intelligence activities on Germany’s eastern
front during the war were exploited by the American government
against the  Soviet Union .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  