-- 
German Yield Below ECB Rate as Crisis Deepens: Chart of the Day

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-07-11T10:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/german-yield-below-ecb-rate-as-crisis-deepens-chart-of-the-day.html
The German two-year note yield has
dropped below the  European Central Bank ’s key interest rate for
the first time since January as investors start to favor safety
over returns amid the escalating debt crisis in the region.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the difference in yield, or
spread, between the German two-year note and the ECB’s main
refinancing rate was at minus 8.7 basis points today. That’s the
biggest since Jan. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The two-year yield fell 20 basis points last week even after the
ECB lifted its key rate to 1.5 percent from 1.25 percent and
signaled further increases ahead.  “The drop below the refi rate indicates a strong safe-
haven bid,” said Norbert Aul, a European rates strategist at
 RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “If the situation in peripherals
deteriorates further we may see two-year yields stay low for a
sustained period. If this move becomes more pronounced, that may
suggest investors are becoming concerned about the return of
their capital.”  Investors have flocked to the relative haven of short-dated
German securities amid mounting concern the euro-region’s
sovereign debt crisis may spread to larger economies such as
Spain and  Italy , even as the ECB increases borrowing costs to
contain inflation. Italian 10-year yields climbed to a nine-year
high of 5.47 percent today, while the equivalent-maturity
Spanish yield reached the most since 2000.  The ECB is seeking to double the European Union’s bailout
fund to 1.5 trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a potential
Italian crisis, Die Welt reported yesterday, citing “high
ranking” people at central banks.  The yield on  Germany ’s two-year note fell for a fifth
consecutive day, dropping five basis points to 1.41 percent as
of 10:34 a.m. in London. The ECB will make its next interest-
rate decision on Aug. 4 after increasing the refinancing rate on
July 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  