-- 
GLG’s Lagrange Opens Hedge Fund to Retail Investors, Shuns Banking Shares

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-11T11:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/glg-s-lagrange-opens-hedge-fund-to-retail-investors-shuns-banks.html
Pierre Lagrange, co-founder of GLG
Partners Inc., said he favors industrial and energy stocks and
is shunning banks as he opened his European equities hedge fund
to retail investors.  The fund, which can hold both long and short positions,
will “focus on industrials, exporting companies and  oil
companies ,” Lagrange said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” today. It will make bullish bets on
“all these things that are more dominated by what’s happening
in the world and less by the European sovereign” debt crisis.  European stocks fell for a second day today as concern grew
that the region’s debt crisis, which has already forced  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts, will spread to  Italy . The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index has declined 6.5 percent since Feb. 17 on
concern austerity plans will stymie growth and government bond
losses will erode the value of banks’ holdings.  The flagship Cayman Islands-registered GLG European Long-
Short hedge fund has almost tripled over the past 10 years,
while the Stoxx 600 has fallen about 14 percent.  The fund, which will be managed by Lagrange, Simon Savage
and Darren Hodges, is not holding short bets on banks at the
moment, Lagrange said after the television interview. In a short
sale, speculators borrow securities to sell them on expectations
they will be able to repurchase them at lower prices before
returning the loan.  ‘Difficult to Analyze’  “It’s really very, very difficult to analyze” banks,
Lagrange said. “So we try to spend more time on other companies
where it’s slightly more logical over the medium term. There may
be extraordinary” possibilities in banks “but we find the
risk-return is better in other sectors.”  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index has dropped to about 0.8 times
the value of its companies’ assets, the cheapest since April
2009, according to Bloomberg data.  London-based  Man Group Plc (EMG)  bought GLG Partners for $1.6
billion in October 2010. Man Group, the world’s biggest hedge-
fund manager, oversees $71 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  