-- 
Goldman Erased From Blackboard Buyout After Tightening Terms

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-07-11T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/goldman-erased-from-blackboard-buyout-after-tightening-terms.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was left
out of financing  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB) ’s leveraged buyout after the
investment bank stiffened terms, another sign that private-
equity deals are becoming harder and more expensive to complete.  Goldman Sachs increased the so-called flex on the portion
of the financing it originally agreed to provide Blackboard, the
education-software maker being acquired by Providence Equity
Partners Inc., according to people with knowledge of the deal.
The change would have given Goldman Sachs a bigger cushion if
credit markets moved against the New York-based firm before the
$1.64 billion deal closed.  Providence balked at the new terms and the sale’s
announcement was put off while the firm lined up a new lender.
It’s the latest in a series of deals that have been delayed or
repriced as credit markets show signs of stress. New leveraged
loans fell 18 percent to $116.4 billion in the second quarter
from the first three months of this year, according to Standard
& Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  “A Greek sovereign debt default will most certainly lead
to risk contagion throughout the European banking system and
send shock waves through the global capital markets,” said
Michael Cerminaro, a co-founder of Sound Harbor Partners, a New
York investment firm that lends to middle-market companies.
Combined with a slowing U.S. economy, this “could put a damper
on deal activity over the near term.”  Rising Risk  The stiffer terms from Goldman Sachs reflect concern at the
firm that credit markets are overheated and that risks are
rising as speculation swirls about sovereign defaults in  Europe ,
according to one of the people with knowledge of the firm’s
decision. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the
bank’s strategies are confidential.  The so-called flex gives lenders the ability to raise the
interest rate on a loan so long as it stays within a preset
range that the bank and borrower agree on. If credit markets
weaken, driving rates higher than the upper limit, a lender
could be forced to absorb the difference or hold the loan until
it can sell it at a better price.  Buyouts are typically financed with leveraged loans and
 junk bonds , which carry some of the highest  interest rates  and
typically are among the first financing to be withdrawn when
credit tightens. While buyout activity more than tripled last
year to $95 billion, private-equity firms haven’t been able to
pull off the same kind of multibillion-dollar deals they
brokered before the credit crisis took hold.  Post-Crisis Deals  Del Monte  Foods Co. is the biggest private-equity buyout
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008
prompted banks to shun financing for leveraged transactions. A
group led by KKR & Co. agreed to buy Del Monte for about $4
billion, plus $1.3 billion in debt, in November 2010.  Blackboard managed to get $1.15 billion in debt-financing
commitments, according to a regulatory filing by the Washington-
based company, with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  stepping in for Goldman
Sachs. Deutsche Bank was joined by Morgan Stanley and Bank of
America Corp. in providing a $700 million first-lien  term loan ,
a $100 million first-lien revolving line of credit and a $350
million second-lien term loan, according to the July 1 filing.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment. Officials at Blackboard and Providence Equity didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Tighter Terms  The Blackboard deal follows two other buyouts crimped by
tighter terms. Another Providence Equity deal, SRA International
Inc., had to offer a bigger discount to sell its buyout loan.
The provider of technology and consulting services priced an
$875 million term loan at 95 cents on the dollar, less than the
initial 99-cent price.  Similarly,  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , acquired July 6 by Golden
Gate Capital Corp. and Infor Global Solutions for $1.81 billion,
sweetened terms for loan buyers by boosting the yield and
cutting the maturity on the loan funding the buyout. Banks
including Credit Suisse Group AG sold almost all of the $440
million portion of a $1.04 billion buyout term loan for  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based Lawson after declining the week before to
market that piece of the deal amid falling loan prices. The bank
group also included Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Royal Bank
of  Canada  and Deutsche Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  