-- 
Goldman Among Banks Preparing $3.7 Billion of Mortgage-Backed Securities

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-11T17:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/goldman-citi-market-1-5-billion-of-commercial-mortgage-bonds.html
Wall Street banks are marketing
about $3.7 billion of bonds tied to property loans, wagering
investor demand for the debt will withstand mounting concerns
that the U.S. economic recovery is stalling and the European
crisis is spreading.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are offering
$1.5 billion in bonds, while Wells Fargo & Co. and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are selling $1.48 billion of securities,
according to people with knowledge of the sales.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  is marketing $685 million of notes tied to hotel mortgages.  Banks are preparing as much as $10 billion in new sales of
commercial-mortgage bonds in the third quarter, according to a
July 8 report from JPMorgan Chase & Co. Even as the pipeline has
grown in the $700 billion market for debt tied to hotels,
offices and shopping centers, the U.S. unemployment rate has
increased to the highest level this year and credit markets have
been roiled by speculation that  Europe ’s debt crisis may engulf
 Italy .  Top-rated securities linked to commercial real estate yield
209 basis points more than Treasuries as of July 8, according to
a Barclays Plc index. The spread has narrowed from 227 basis
points on June 24 after the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
halted its sales of mortgage bonds acquired in the rescue of
American International Group Inc., which had curbed demand for
debt ranging from high-yield bonds to securities linked to
property. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The mortgage-bond deal from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup is
linked to 71 loans on 131 properties in states led by Texas,
Arizona and California, said a person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t public. The transaction from
Wells Fargo and RBS is linked to 76 loans on 132 properties in
states led by  California , Wisconsin and New York. Both
securities may be sold as soon as next week.  Hotel Debt  Deutsche Bank is selling debt linked to 168 hotels across
the U.S., said a person familiar with that offering. The
Marriott hotel franchise accounts for 60 percent of the pool.
Hilton properties are 17.5 percent, while Starwood accounts for
7.5 percent. The hotels are owned by Goldman Sachs’s
Whitehall Street real-estate unit.  The offerings will bring 2011 sales of the securities to
$19.3 billion, compared with $11.5 billion in all of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  