-- 
Televisa Advertising Sales Drop After Slim Stops Buying Spots Amid Dispute

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T21:32:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/grupo-televisa-net-income-little-changed-as-pay-tv-helps-sales-increase.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, reported a drop in second-
quarter advertising sales after a dispute with billionaire
 Carlos Slim  led to a slump in demand. The stock fell the most in
three months.  The broadcast division, Televisa’s largest unit, reported a
5.9 percent decline in sales to 5.48 billion pesos ($458
million), Mexico City-based Televisa said today in a  statement 
to the country’s stock exchange. Leaving out sales to Slim’s
businesses, the drop would have been 1 percent, Televisa said.  Slim’s companies stopped buying spots from Televisa this
year because of a disagreement over prices. The billionaire’s
land-line carrier, Telefonos de Mexico SAB, competes with
Televisa’s cable units for phone and Internet users, and the
companies filed antitrust complaints against each other this
year.  “We would welcome them back as clients anytime,” Jose Baston, Televisa’s president of television and content, said
today on a conference call. The companies aren’t in talks to
reach an agreement, he said.  Second-quarter net income was 1.8 billion pesos, even with
a year earlier. Sales rose 4.7 percent to 15.1 billion pesos,
compared with the 15 billion-peso estimate of three analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Televisa fell 1.13 pesos, or 2.1 percent, to 53.86 pesos at
4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the most since
April 7. The shares have lost 16 percent this year.  No  World Cup   The stock decline compared with an 0.38 percent drop in
Mexico’s benchmark IPC index and a 2.2 percent decrease in the
Bloomberg Hollywood Reporter Index, which includes Televisa,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and other companies with a large
presence in the entertainment business.  The advertising unit’s second-quarter operating profit fell
to 2.62 billion pesos from 8.7 percent a year earlier, when the
broadcasts of soccer’s World Cup drew more customers. The
company didn’t provide a figure for sales growth leaving out
revenue from the World Cup.  The division’s sales still beat the 5.43 billion-peso
estimate of Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Santander SA
in Mexico City, who said the company’s operational performance
was good.  “The valuation of the stock is still putting some more
expectations on results than what we are seeing here,” Tomassi,
who advises holding on to the shares, said today in a phone
interview. “I’m not sure the stock has room to react.”  The stock decline today, the seventh in the past eight
trading days, may have been the result of investors continuing
to collect profits after the shares reached a nearly three-month
high of 58.37 pesos on June 29, said Martin Lara, an analyst at
Corp. Actinver SAB in  Mexico  City who advises holding on to the
shares.  “When you have an in-line quarter like this, investors
take profits,” he said today in a phone interview.  Revenue from U.S. broadcaster Univision Communications
Inc., which pays royalties to Televisa for programming, gained
63 percent to $60.2 million. Televisa agreed in October to a new
royalty arrangement with higher payments as part of a plan to
invest $1.2 billion in Univision for a stake of as much as 35
percent.  Pay-TV Gains  Satellite subscriptions rose by almost 274,000 to 3.59
million, and the three cable carriers controlled by Televisa
added almost 80,000 TV customers for a total of 2.09 million.  During the quarter, the company paid $1 billion in cash as
part of its $1.6 billion transaction to acquire a 50 percent
stake in Grupo Iusacell SA, Mexico’s third-biggest wireless
carrier. The rest will be paid by the end of the year, the
company said.  The transaction, which is being considered by Mexico’s
antitrust agency, would put Televisa in direct competition in
the mobile-phone industry with Slim’s America Movil SAB, the
nation’s biggest wireless carrier, and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the
second-biggest. Televisa Executive Vice President Alfonso de Angoitia said today on the conference call that the company
expects antitrust approval of the deal.  ((Televisa held a conference call today to discuss second-
quarter results. To listen, click here.))  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  