-- 
Guidelines Don’t Curb Unnecessary Treatment for Heart Attack Patients

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-07-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/guidelines-don-t-curb-unnecessary-treatment-for-heart-attack-patients.html
Doctors aren’t following national
guidelines for treating heart attack survivors, according to a
study that found many receive an artery-clearing procedure even
though previous research shows it offers no benefit.  The analysis of 28,780 patient visits at 896 hospitals
found about 53 percent underwent the procedure to restore blood
flow to the heart through a blocked artery that caused a heart
attack more than 24 hours earlier. The approach often uses a
device known as a stent sold by  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ,
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  or  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to hold open the artery.  The percentage of patients getting treatment didn’t change
after a 2006 trial dubbed OAT found it failed to reduce the risk
of subsequent heart attacks, heart failure or death, the
researchers said. It didn’t change after guidelines issued the
next year by the  American Heart Association  and the American
College of Cardiology said the procedure shouldn’t be performed,
according to the report today in the  Archives of Internal
Medicine .  The procedure to clear totally blocked arteries that aren’t
found immediately after a heart attack “remains commonplace
despite little evidence to support its use in stable patients
and new clinical practice guidelines recommending against it,”
said the researchers led by Marc W. Deyell from the University
of British Columbia in  Vancouver .  The findings are worrisome because they suggest patients
are getting costly and unnecessary treatment, the researchers
said. In addition, the results show the significant time and
money that went into the study hasn’t been able to influence
medical practice in the U.S., they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  