-- 
U.S. Border Gun Stores Required to Alert Authorities After Some Arms Sales

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-07-11T21:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/gun-sellers-required-to-report-certain-rifle-purchases-in-u-s-.html
Gun sellers in states on the U.S.-
 Mexico  border will have to report to the federal government if a
customer buys two or more semiautomatic rifles over five days
that are greater than .22 caliber and include a detachable
magazine.  The regulation will improve the government’s ability to
detect illegal weapons-trafficking networks that divert firearms
to criminals, said Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  in a
statement today.  “The international expansion and increased violence of
transnational criminal networks pose a significant threat to the
United States,” Cole said. The requirement will help “confront
the problem of illegal gun trafficking into Mexico and along the
Southwest border.”  The reporting requirement, part of a one-year-pilot
program, will affect about 8,500 gun sellers in  California ,
Arizona,  New Mexico  and  Texas , said a Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity and wasn’t authorized to discuss the
matter. They will be required to report the purchases to the ATF
within 24 hours, the official said.  The ATF has been facing congressional criticism over an
operation called Fast and Furious that allowed guns to be
illegally purchased in the U.S. The operation was an effort by
the U.S. to track illegal shipments to Mexico and link the guns
to Mexican drug cartels.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who has been
investigating the ATF operation, criticized the reporting
requirement.  “We’ve learned from our investigation of Fast and Furious
that reporting multiple long-gun sales would do nothing to stop
the flow of firearms to known straw purchasers because many
federal firearms dealers are already voluntarily reporting
suspicious transactions,” Grassley said in a statement. The
policy is a “distraction” from the administration’s “reckless
policy to allow guns to walk into Mexico,” Grassley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  