-- 
Gupta Lawsuit Against SEC Can Go Forward, U.S. Judge Rules

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-11T18:52:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/gupta-lawsuit-against-sec-can-go-forward-federal-judge-in-new-york-rules.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director, can proceed with a suit claiming the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission violated his rights when
it filed an administrative action accusing him of passing
illegal stock tips.  The SEC initiated the administrative proceeding in
 Washington  on March 1, claiming Gupta passed information to
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs
and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also on the board.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff ruled today that Gupta, who
hasn’t been charged criminally, may argue that the agency
intentionally singled him out for unfair treatment in
retaliation for claiming his innocence. Rakoff said that all of
the other suits filed in the Galleon case, against 21 people and
seven companies, are in federal court.  “We have the unusual case where there is already a well-
developed public record of Gupta being treated substantially
disparately from 28 essentially identical defendants, with not
even a hint from the SEC, even in their instant papers, as to
why this should be so,” Rakoff wrote in an opinion today.  SEC spokesman John Nestor said the agency may appeal the
ruling.  Rajaratnam Verdict  Rajaratnam was found guilty of 14 criminal counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud on May 11. He is awaiting
sentencing.  In the administrative proceeding the SEC claimed Gupta gave
Rajaratnam information about Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
$5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs. The agency also alleges
Gupta told Rajaratnam about quarterly earnings of Goldman Sachs
and Procter & Gamble. Gupta hasn’t been criminally charged.  In his suit against the SEC, Gupta claims the agency is
unfairly trying to gain an advantage by denying him legal
protections he would have had if the suit had been filed in
federal court.  “The only plausible inference is that the Commission is
proceeding how and where it is against Mr. Gupta for the bad
faith purpose of shoring up a meritless case by disarming its
adversary,” Gupta claimed in his complaint.  In his ruling, Rakoff narrowed Gupta’s case to include only
his claim that the SEC is trying to deny his constitutional
right to equal protection of the laws. Rakoff said he intends to
hold an evidentiary hearing in the case within four months.  The case is Gupta v. SEC, 11-CV-1900, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 