-- 
Tiger Woods’s Agent Mark Steinberg Joins Excel Sports Management Group

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T15:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/tiger-woods-s-agent-mark-steinberg-joins-excel-sports-management-group.html
Tiger Woods’s agent,  Mark Steinberg ,
has joined Excel Sports Management, two months after leaving
International Management Group.  Steinberg, who has represented Woods since 1999, confirmed
the move in an e-mail. The Sports Business Daily reported the
change earlier today.  “After meeting with a number of agencies and businesses, I
decided Excel was the perfect fit,” Steinberg said in a
statement released by New York-based firm. “I’m excited to
serve as a partner in an agency positioned for growth.”  Steinberg, 43, announced he was leaving New York-based IMG
in May.  The announcement follows a Golf Channel report that Woods
would appear on the network today to make a “special
announcement.” Steinberg denied the report. NBC Sports reported
that Woods would sit down for an interview with the Golf
Channel’s Kelly Tilghman at 11 a.m. New York time. The Golf
Channel now plans to speak with Steinberg, according to its
 website . Both networks are owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   “No announcement today,” Steinberg said in an e-mail.
“Something taken out of context.”  Asked if Woods was still scheduled to be interviewed by
Tilghman, Steinberg said: “No. He never was.”  Dan Higgins, a spokesman for Golf Channel, referred
questions about the interview report to Jeremy Friedman, another
spokesman for the network, who didn’t immediately return an e-
mail and telephone message seeking comment.  Woods, the winner of 14 major golf championships, hasn’t
played in a tournament in two months. He said last week that
he’d skip this week’s British Open, the season’s third major, as
he recovers from knee and ankle injuries and wouldn’t return to
competition until he’s 100 percent healthy.  Woods hasn’t won a tournament since November 2009, one
month after he claimed the last of his 71 U.S. PGA Tour
victories. He’s fallen to No. 19 in the Official World Golf
Ranking after holding the top spot for a record 281 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 