-- 
Illinois ‘Jobs Now!’ Economic Stimulus Plan Upheld by State Supreme Court

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-11T17:23:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/illinois-jobs-now-economic-stimulus-plan-upheld-by-state-supreme-court.html
Illinois Jobs Now!, the $31 billion
economic stimulus package of Governor  Pat Quinn , was upheld by
the state Supreme Court in a ruling on the legality of the
legislation that created the program.  The court’s decision today reversed a Jan. 26 ruling by an
intermediate-level appellate panel that held the legislation
creating the plan violated a state constitutional requirement
that bills be limited to a single subject.  “What this means is our jobs recovery program can go
forward, full speed ahead,” Quinn said today in a televised
press conference.  The lower-court’s ruling derailed projects approved by the
state legislature in 2009 and cast doubt on the future of
economic-development plans that were part of the stimulus
package.  Among those plans were investments in state roads,
railways, schools and broadband  Internet access , said Quinn, who
said he wanted to be “the builder governor.”  The now-overturned decision had also blocked a revenue
stream generated by higher liquor taxes, privatization of the
state lottery and levies on video poker operations.  State, Federal Funds  The construction program was supported by a combination of
state debt and federal and local matching funds. The state’s
$13 billion portion of the project was backed by tax and fee
increases, according to a news release on the program.  Objecting to the tax increases, W. Rockwell Wirtz, the
owner of the Chicago Blackhawks hockey team, and his liquor
distributorship, Wirtz Beverage Illinois, sued to block the
program.  The  Supreme Court  on Feb. 1 put a hold on the lower-court
ruling pending its review of the state’s appeal. Attorneys for
Wirtz didn’t oppose the Quinn administration request.  “On the Act’s face, all of the provisions have a natural
and logical connection to the single subject of capital
projects,” the justices said in their unanimous  30-page ruling .  The  Wirtz group , in an e-mailed statement issued by outside
spokesman by Guy Chipparoni, said while it was disappointed by
the outcome, it respected the court’s opinion.  “Our issue was not with the lawmakers, but the law,”
Chipparoni said.  ‘Wine and Spirits’  “We said from day one that the arbitrary taxes on wine and
spirits were unfair and unconstitutional as was the manner in
which this bill was passed. While we have the utmost respect for
our state and its infrastructure needs, we have equal respect
for  Illinois  residents, who as consumers, are now saddled with
these unfair taxes,” he said.  A state judge in Chicago rejected the hockey team owner’s
complaint in October 2009. A three-judge intermediate appellate
panel overturned that ruling.  The Supreme Court, in today’s 7-0 ruling, said that “in
the interest of judicial economy,” it was choosing to address
and to reject the entirety of the Wirtz complaint and affirming
the Chicago court’s original decision.  Jobs are the state’s top priority, Quinn said today.  “The job recovery law is our No. 1 way of fighting for
jobs,” he said.  The case is Wirtz v. Quinn, 111903, Illinois Supreme Court
(Springfield).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .;
Tim Jones in Chicago
   tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 