-- 
Lilly Says Not Enough Transparency in German Drug Pricing

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-11T15:40:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/lilly-says-not-enough-transparency-in-german-drug-pricing-1-.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  Chief Executive
Officer John C. Lechleiter said  Germany ’s overhaul of drug
pricing lacked transparency and didn’t include enough input from
the pharmaceutical industry.  Following a price freeze and an increase in mandatory
rebates, Lechleiter told government officials last week the new
policy, which determines the price of a new drug based on
benefit, creates “uncertainty” for the company’s business
planning, he said.  “We discover and develop medicines because we think that
when they get to the market, they’re going to make a
difference,” he said. “We often don’t know that until they’ve
been used for a while, until physicians and patients begin to
experience medicines in the real world.”  Lilly is interested in the  animal-health  industry, after
making acquisitions recently, and wants to expand this business
further, Lechleiter also said in an interview in Frankfurt
today. He declined to comment specifically on Pfizer Inc.’s plan
to sell or spin off its veterinary business.  “You have to assume that we’re looking at everything in
the space,” he said.  The company will consider partnerships in neuroscience,
cancer and diabetes research, he said. The company still plans
to double sales in emerging markets between 2010 and 2015,
largely by organic growth, particularly in  China , he said. Lilly
faces increased generic competition over the next three years
which will reduce annual sales by $7 billion between 2010 and
2014, Lilly said in June.  With “animal health and the emerging markets, where there
is a compelling business case, we’re going to continue to be
thoughtful and sometimes aggressive as the case may dictate,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  