-- 
Imperial May Try to Buy European Logistics Business, Avior Research Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-07-11T13:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/imperial-falls-in-johannesburg-announces-process-of-offshore-acquisition.html
Imperial Holdings Ltd. (IPL) , a South
African transport company that today said it began talks to buy
a company outside its home market, may be trying to purchase a
European logistics business, Avior Research Ltd. said.  Imperial may aim to expand its  Imperial Logistics
International GmbH  unit through acquisitions, said Mark Hodgson,
an analyst at Avior Research, in a telephone interview.  Imperial Holdings got about a tenth of its 31.4 billion
rand ($4.6 billion) of first-half revenue from Imperial
Logistics, which is based in  Germany . Imperial Holdings said
Feb. 23 it planned acquisitions in  South Africa  and  Europe  to
expand in logistics.  “An acquisition would give them scale in Europe,” Hodgson
said. He rates the stock “buy.”  The Johannesburg-based company “entered into a process
relating to an offshore acquisition,” Imperial said in a
statement today without giving more details. Imperial Chief
Executive Officer Hubert Brody declined to comment further when
contacted by mobile phone.  Imperial stock fell after the announcement, declining as
much as 1.5 percent to 121.55 rand, before trading 0.9 percent
down at 122.28 rand by 2:52 p.m. in Johannesburg.  “ Interest rates  are low in Europe, the rand is strong,”
Avior’s Hodgson said, speaking from  Cape Town . “They can afford
to make an acquisition,” said Hodgson.  Imperial Holdings reported net income of 1.4 billion rand
in the half-year through December. The company had a net debt to
equity of 48 percent.  “The current debt level is still low against our target
gearing range of 60 percent to 80 percent and leaves room for
further expansion of the group,” said the company in an
earnings statement on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  