-- 
Indian Stock Values Approach 2-Year Low Lure F&C Asset’s Mahtani

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-12T10:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/india-stock-valuations-nearing-two-year-low-lure-reliance-f-c.html
Reliance Capital Asset Management
Ltd., India’s biggest money manager, and  F&C Asset Management
Plc (FCAM)  are buying the South Asian nation’s stocks as valuations
approach the lowest levels in two years.  Reliance, which has $23 billion of assets at its mutual
fund unit, has cut cash holdings in its biggest stock fund to
3.7 percent, the lowest since at least the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. U.K.-based F&C turned
“overweight” in June on the nation’s stocks from “neutral”
and expects equity returns of 20 percent over 12 months, said
Sam Mahtani, who helps oversee $6 billion in assets.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index is the second-
worst performer this year among key indexes in the world’s 10
biggest markets as the central bank raised  interest rates  to
curb inflation. The gauge is valued at 15 times estimated profit,
within 10 percent of the lowest level since May 9, 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Foreign funds have been net buyers
of local equities for 13 straight sessions, the longest stretch
in three months.  “There’s quite a lot of negativity priced in the markets,
be it in politics, inflation, interest rates and corruption,”
Mahtani, a director of emerging-market equities, said in a phone
interview from  London . “We have just gone overweight on India
and are looking to gradually add more exposure in the next six-
to-eight weeks.”  The fastest inflation among the so-called BRIC countries
after  Russia  spurred the Reserve Bank of  India  to extend its
longest streak of tightening in a decade. Government policy
approvals have fallen amid corruption allegations that have
dented investor confidence.  ‘No Shock Value’  The Sensex’s 8.1 percent decline in the six months ended
June 30 reflects these concerns, according to Sunil Singhania,
head of equities at Reliance Capital.  “The good thing is that these negatives are universal and
are known to all players,” Singhania said in an interview at
his office in Mumbai. “There’s no shock value left.”  Singhania said he favors banks, finance companies and drug
makers, sectors that made up 30 percent of the Reliance Growth
Fund at the end of May, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 70
billion-rupee ($1.6 billion) fund has risen 37.4 percent yearly
in the past 10 years, the most among active funds focused on
Indian stocks with a record going back a decade, the data show.  F&C, which has about $500 million in Indian equities, is
“most bullish on”  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s top producer of
the raw material, and  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s largest
engineering company, said Mahtani. He favors  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS)  and Infosys Ltd., the nation’s top software makers,
and lenders  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)   Borrowing Costs  F&C’s Indian Investment Co. fund has returned 18.3 percent
annually in dollars in the 10 years ended June, compared with a
4 percent gain in the MSCI Daily TR World Index, its benchmark.  Indian stocks have declined as the Reserve Bank increased
rates eight times in the past year, compared with five times in
 Brazil , four in China and two in Russia. India’s $1.4 trillion
economy expanded 7.8 percent in the three months ended March,
the weakest pace in five quarters.  The growth is still the fastest after  China  among  Asia ’s
biggest economies. The Indian economy may be “overheating” and
further rate increases are warranted,  Nouriel Roubini , the co-
founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC said June
13. India’s benchmark inflation rate has stayed above 8 percent
for 17 straight months.  Factory Output  Industrial output growth slowed in May as higher borrowing
costs restricted demand. Production at factories, utilities and
mines rose 5.6 percent from a year earlier following a revised
5.8 percent gain in the previous month, the  Central Statistical
Office  said today. The median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an 8.5 percent jump.  An 18 percent slide in oil from a 31-month high reached May
2 and a 7.8 percent drop by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
24 raw materials in the June quarter, the most since 2008, may
temper the need to raise borrowing costs further, said Deven Sangoi, who oversees about $2.5 billion as head of equities at
Birla Sunlife Insurance Co. in Mumbai.  “The central bank may raise rates by 25 basis points or 50
basis points at the most,” he said. Birla is adding to holdings
of lenders, automakers and capital goods as “the interest rate
cycle has peaked.”  The  Reserve Bank ’s next policy announcement is on July 26.  ‘More Positive’  Morgan Stanley said July 8 that it was “incrementally more
positive on domestic cyclicals as the mid-cycle central bank
policy action is coming closer to an end and the government is
showing signs of resuming reform action.”  The brokerage forecast on May 31 the Sensex to reach 22,100
this year. The measure lost 1.7 percent to 18,411.62 at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.
India offers “potential for strong returns” in the second half,
Citigroup Inc. said in a June 24 report, predicting the index to
climb to 21,500 by December.  Overseas investors have bought $2.6 billion more stock than
they sold since June 23, helping the Sensex to close at a two-
month high of 19,078.3 on July 7. They’ve made net purchases of
$2.14 billion this year, data from the market regulator show.  “For a change, we are seeing investors are looking for an
opportunity to enter the markets rather than approaching the
exit door,” Reliance’s Singhania said.  Policy Decisions  Foreigners were net sellers of Indian equities in January,
February and May, withdrawing a combined $3.6 billion, as higher
interest costs weighed on corporate earnings and the government
curtailed its decision making after a minister, bureaucrats and
company officials were jailed over corruption charges. The
number of policy approvals by cabinet dropped 39 percent to 33
in the first six months of the year from a year earlier,
government data show.  Allowing refiners last month to increase fuel prices for
the first time in a year “was a positive surprise” and a
signal the government is committed to sustaining economic growth,
Singhania said. The government caps diesel and cooking gas costs
to shield 75 percent of the population that lives on less than
$2 a day from price pressures.  “We’re turning more and more bullish after being cautious
for more than a year,” Sampath Reddy, chief investment officer
for equities at Mumbai-based Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.,
said in an interview. Reddy, who manages $6.7 billion, said he
has cut cash levels to 15 percent from 30 percent in December
and plans to invest the money in the next two months.  “Can we make about 15 percent per annum from current
levels? That is certainly possible,” Reddy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  