-- 
Indian Companies May See More Earnings Downgrades, Elara Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-07-11T12:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/indian-companies-may-see-more-earnings-downgrades-elara-says.html
Pralay Das and Mona Khetan, analysts
at Elara Securities ( India ) Pvt. in Mumbai, comment on the
earnings outlook for the April-June quarter. They made the
comments in a note dated July 8.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 0.7 percent
to 18,721.39 at the 3:30 close in Mumbai, the lowest since June
29.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software
maker, will announce its first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Elara expects net income for the 88 companies it covers to
grow an average 22.1 percent in the quarter from a year-earlier
period. Revenue may expand by an average 29 percent, it said.  On earnings:  “The margin-contraction story continues and we expect the
contraction to bottom out over the next quarter or so.”  Earnings for the Nifty companies “are in the process of
being downgraded and we think that it still has some way to go
with the policy-rate hangover and large parts of the commodity
complex prices remaining sticky.”  On monetary policy:  “We do not see central bankers relaxing their aggression
on the rates front and hence, still see some pain for financials
and other leveraged high-beta names.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised borrowing costs eight
times in the past year to curb inflation. Its next policy
announcement is on July 26.  On sector choices, Infosys:  Elara is overweight on software services, consumption and
infrastructure stocks. The brokerage expects earnings of metal
producers and cement companies to be impacted by higher costs
and lower volumes.  “We do not believe that Infosys will upgrade their FY12
top-line guidance but the odds that they might marginally up the
earnings-per-share guidance on better margin expectations are
high.”  Infosys may report a 16 percent jump in profit to 17.3
billion rupees, according to the median estimate of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 