-- 
Turkey’s Lira Weakens to Two-Year Low as Minister Unfazed by Depreciation

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-12T13:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/lira-weakens-versus-dollar-on-europe-debt-concern-current-account-deficit.html
The Turkish lira fell to the lowest
level in more than two years as concern grew that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen and Foreign Trade Minister Zafer Caglayan
said he wasn’t bothered by a weaker national currency.  The lira lost as much as 0.8 percent to 1.6593 per dollar
and traded down 0.1 percent at 1.6484 as of 3:41 p.m. in
Istanbul, the weakest since April 2009. The currency lost 0.1
percent to 1.9799 against the euro-dollar basket.  A weak lira is “no concern” and helps the Turkish
economy, Caglayan said at a meeting with reporters in Istanbul
today. Turkey aims to keep its currency weak and offer
incentives for local production as part of a strategy aimed at
boosting exports and narrowing the record current-account
deficit, he said.  The lira at a level stronger than 1.6 per dollar worsens
the deficit, Caglayan said.  Turkey ’s currency has dropped 6.3
percent against the dollar since the beginning of the year. The
country’s current-account deficit more than doubled to $7.8
billion in May, bringing the 12-month cumulative total deficit
to about 9 percent of the government estimate for 2011 gross
domestic product.  Emerging-market currencies, led by  Poland ’s zloty and
 Hungary ’s forint, tumbled against the dollar and the cost of
insuring borrowings by Spain and  Greece  climbed to a record
today as concern mounted that Europe’s debt crisis won’t be
contained to Greece.  “The Turkish lira has been hit by a bout of  risk aversion 
as markets fear a contagion of the debt crisis,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said
in response to e-mailed questions today. “We are seeing a
flight into safe havens, which is why the dollar has been
strengthening and risky currencies such as the lira are being
discarded.”  The lira may weaken to 1.67 per dollar, Nguyen said.  “As we are not expecting a short-term solution to the
euro-zone debt crisis, this is likely to continue for now, so we
very well could see the dollar-lira reach that upper level,” he
said.  Editors: John Kohut, Ana Monteiro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  