-- 
Israel 1967 Borders Are Central in Mideast Talks Restart Effort

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-11T22:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/israel-1967-borders-are-central-in-mideast-talks-restart-effort.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by starting with the
1967 borders will likely be adopted by the international group
trying to find a peace agreement.  The meeting today in Washington by the “Quartet” -- the
U.S., the European Union, the United Nations and  Russia  -- has
taken on added urgency as Palestinians plan to ask the UN to
recognize their state in a September vote. Israel and the U.S.
oppose the move, which would raise political and legal
questions.  Before going into the talks, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  issued a warning to Palestinians about their UN
ambitions and repeated her assertion that talks were the only
way to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian impasse.  “What we strongly advocate is a return to negotiations,”
Clinton said. “A resolution, a statement, an assertion is not
an agreement. The path to two states lying side by side in peace
lies in negotiation.”  The French foreign ministry said the Quartet meeting
represents “one of the last chances to lay the necessary
groundwork to resume negotiations and avoid a diplomatic
confrontation in September,” according to a statement released
Friday.  “They want to restart negotiations on the basis of Obama’s
speech and the 1967 borders and use that as a way to convince
the Palestinians not to go to the UN in September,” said  Marwan Muasher , a former foreign minister of Jordan and vice president
at the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in Washington.
“The chances of that are very slim,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Working Dinner  Clinton was to host the Quartet at the State Department,
meeting with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov, E.U. High Representative Catherine Ashton and Quartet representative  Tony Blair  over a working
dinner.  The Obama administration restarted talks between the
parties in September with the goal of reaching agreement on core
issues a year later -- a deadline now just weeks away. The talks
quickly stalled.  In a May speech, Obama called for an agreement that would
establish a Palestinian state “based on the 1967 lines” that
existed before  Israel  captured the  West Bank  and  Jerusalem  in
the Six-Day War with Arab nations.  Israel’s Security  The president said Israel’s security should be ensured
before other core issues, such as the fate of Jerusalem, are
settled. And he proposed that Israel retain major settlement
blocs in return for granting offsetting land to Palestinians.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said immediately
after the speech that the 1967 borders would be “indefensible”
and leave major Jewish population centers behind Palestinian
lines.  In the months since, U.S. envoys have repeatedly urged both
sides to consider the president’s proposal, said State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.  The U.S. feels that “going to the United Nations is not
helpful, it will not achieve the goal of a lasting peace of two
states living side by side” and it “could be detrimental to
our goal to get the parties back together,” Nuland said at a
July 8 briefing.  Palestinians decided to seek recognition at the UN because
they have given up on negotiating a peace agreement with Israel,
senior negotiator Mohammed Shtayyeh said June 16.  Less Attractive  As the vote has come closer, Palestinians have begun to
reconsider the effectiveness of their UN plan, said Hussein
Ibish, a senior fellow at the  American Task Force on Palestine ,
a Washington-based group that advocates for a peaceful solution
to the Mideast conflict.  “It’s become in so many ways a less attractive proposition
than it was a few months ago,” Ibish said in a telephone
interview. Palestinian leaders “feel that politically they have
to act,” he said, as negotiations have gotten them nowhere and
the Palestinian public watches protest movements lead to
political change across the Arab world.  Muasher was among several analysts who said that the
September vote might trigger Palestinians to take to their
streets “if it becomes clear this is just a vote on paper and
doesn’t result in a Palestinian state on the ground.”  “Time is running out for the parties involved, the
Quartet, Israel, the PLO, to find a way out of any kind of
damaging confrontation at the UN in September. That is not in
anyone’s interest,” Ibish said.  Something ‘Meaningful’  Riyad Mansour, the Palestinian Authority’s ambassador to
the  United Nations , said in an interview that he hoped something
“meaningful comes out the Quartet meeting, in the form of
parameters that would include the ideas in the speech of
President Barack Obama.”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , said both Israelis and Palestinians have an interest
in returning to talks. Danin, a former head of office for
Quartet representative Blair, has also worked on Israeli-
Palestinian issues for both the State Department and the White
House.  “Netanyahu sees an Israel that is increasingly isolated
and a pariah,” Danin said. Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  “has an administration in the U.S. that seems
more well-disposed to Palestinian positions and concerns than
they’ve seen in the past, and he recognizes that without a
negotiating process, he’s not going to gain anything.”  Another former U.S. diplomat with long experience in
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations said restarting the talks
wasn’t likely.  “The gaps are too big. The suspicions are too great. The
motivations of everyone are too questioned by the other,” said
 Aaron David Miller , a public policy fellow at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  