-- 
Israel Bonds Rise, Shekel Drops as Growth Risk Curbs Rate Bets

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-11T12:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/israel-bonds-rise-shekel-drops-as-growth-risk-curbs-rate-bets.html
The shekel fell the most in almost
three weeks and 10-year Israeli bonds advanced as signs of a
slower global economic expansion fueled speculation the Bank of
 Israel  will hold borrowing costs at the end of the month.  The shekel weakened 1.3 percent, the most since June 23, to
3.4438 against the dollar at 3:28 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The yield on
the government’s Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2020 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.05 percent,
the lowest level since Feb. 28.  “There is less dominant support for the shekel as a slower
recovery of the global economy is likely to lead to weaker
exports and industrial production,”  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by telephone. “A
slowdown in the pace of economic growth in the second quarter
increases the expectation that the  Bank of Israel  will leave
 interest rates  unchanged later this month.”  Central bank Governor Stanley Fischer said July 7 economic
expansion this year may trail the bank’s 5.2 percent forecast
because second-quarter growth may have been slower than
expected. The bank will probably keep rates on hold at 3.25
percent at its July 25 meeting, according to 13 of 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The remaining two predict the rate will
increase a quarter-percentage point.  The shekel was the third-worst performer among the 10 most-
active currencies in emerging Europe, the  Middle East , and
 Africa , according to Bloomberg data. The euro declined against
all but one of its 16 major peers tracked by Bloomberg on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will spread to  Italy  as
policy makers remain divided on how to structure aid for  Greece .  Slower U.S. Growth  Exports make up about 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic
product, with about 60 percent of goods sold to the U.S. and
Europe.  “There is growing concern over slower U.S. economic growth
and the worsening risks of debt problems in Europe and their
implications for Israel’s economy,” according to minutes of the
Bank of Israel policy meeting on June 27 released today.  Israel’s trade deficit narrowed from its widest in at least
16 years in June to a seasonally adjusted $1.58 billion from a
revised $1.95 billion the previous month as imports fell for the
first time in four months, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said on its website today. Exports were unchanged at
$3.73 billion shekels.  Fischer has been buying foreign currency since March 2008,
more than doubling reserves, in an effort to moderate shekel
gains and help exporters compete. The shekel has strengthened
2.3 percent against the dollar this year.  Bond Auctions  The Ministry of Finance raised 950 million shekels ($277
million) at debt auctions today. The government sold 250 million
shekels of notes due in August 2016 with a 4.25 percent coupon
and 200 million shekels of bonds maturing in January 2022 with a
5.5 percent coupon, according to data from the ministry on
Bloomberg.  The government also sold 200 million shekels of 2.75
percent inflation-linked bonds maturing in September 2022 and
300 million shekels of 190-day bills.  “The auction benefited from high demand as investors were
seeking safer assets amid concern the debt crisis in Europe will
deteriorate,” said Sagie Poznerson, a bond trader at Leader
Capital Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “Local government debt is
considered relatively safe compared with other developed markets
as the economy has been growing at a sound and stable pace.”  The auctions bring sales so far this month to 1.85 billion
shekels, almost half the 3.9 billion shekels the ministry plans
to raise in July.  Foreign Investors  The yield on the 3.5 percent government bond due September
2013 dropped one basis point to 3.87 percent, the lowest level
since March 17. The yield declined nine basis points last week.  Israel started taxing foreign investors on July 7 as much
as 24 percent on interest income from Makam bills, short-term
notes from the central bank, to curb a 12 percent gain in the
shekel over the past year.  The two-year government notes, which aren’t subject to the
tax, were the third most actively traded in Tel Aviv with 217.6
million shekels changing hands, according to Bloomberg data.  “We are still seeing a lot of demand from foreign
investors for these short-term  government bonds  since the new
tax regulations came into effect,” Leader’s Poznerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  