-- 
Italian Stocks, Bonds Plunge as EU Leqaders Plays Down Bailout Risk

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-11T16:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/italian-stocks-bonds-plunge-as-eu-leqaders-plays-down-bailout-risk.html
Italian bonds plunged and the
country’s stocks fell to the lowest in two years as euro-area
finance chiefs failed to convince investors that the region’s
second-most indebted nation will avoid following Greece, Ireland
and Portugal in needing a bailout.  The yield on the country’s 10-year bond rose 41 basis
points to 5.68 percent, the highest in more than a decade, while
declines in lenders  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Banca Sanpaolo Intesa SpA
pushed the benchmark FTSE MIB index down 4 percent, the largest
one-day drop in more than a year. Credit default swaps on
Italy’s debt also reached a record.  European Union finance ministers rallied behind Italy
before meeting in Brussels today. The nation’s 40 billion-euro
($56 billion) austerity plan to balance its budget in 2014 is
“very convincing,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said. “Italy can get out of this situation on its own,” added
Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado . Both said Italy won’t
need a bailout.  The Italian market meltdown overshadowed their efforts in
Brussels to finish a second rescue plan for Greece aimed at
ending contagion from the debt crisis. Warnings by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  over Italy’s ability to
finance its debt, coupled with internal opposition to the
government’s own budget plan, has fueled the sell-off.  Unsustainable Rates  “Over time, Italy cannot afford to pay the interest rates
it is paying right now,”  Andrew Bosomworth , head of  portfolio
management  at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Its debt is
unsustainable if we project into the future these sorts of
interest rate levels. We do need something to change, be that a
policy response or a change in attitude in the markets.”  The risk premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over German bunds rose 57 basis points to a euro-era
record 301 and has more than doubled since May 16.  At almost 120 percent of gross domestic product, Italy’s
debt is the EU’s second largest by that measure after  Greece .
Still, the country’s 1.8 trillion euros of borrowing in nominal
terms is more than the combined debt of Greece, Spain, Portugal
and Ireland.  Financing Costs  The Italian government will spend about 75 billion euros,
or almost 5 percent of GDP, servicing the shortfall this year
and that figure is expected to rise to 85 billion euros by 2014.
Jefferies International Ltd. estimates that if the average
interest rate on the debt rises to 6 percent over that period
rather than the 5 percent forecast, financing costs will jump by
another 35 billion euros.  Italy has more than 500 billion euros of bonds maturing in
the next three years. That’s about twice as much as the 256
billion euros extended to Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in their
three-year aid programs.  The two-day plunge in Italian stocks and bonds fueled
speculation that the EU would seek to increase the size of its
bailout fund in anticipation of an Italian rescue. Schaeuble
dismissed a report in  Germany ’s Die Welt newspaper yesterday
that the  European Central Bank  is seeking have the EU’s bailout
fund doubled to 1.5 trillion euros to cover a possible crisis in
Italy. “No, there can be no talk of that,” he said.  Avoiding Bubble  Until this month, Italy had avoided the worst of the
fallout from the debt crisis. Its budget deficit of 4.6 percent
of GDP last year was less than half the shortfalls in Greece,
 Spain  and Ireland. The country dodged the real-estate bubble
that devastated the Irish and Spanish economies.  Much of Italy’s debt is held domestically, shielding the
country from some of the turbulence in international markets,
and a high savings rate by households and companies also made
the country’s overall debt levels seem more manageable.  Confidence in Italy has eroded in recent weeks after both
Moody’s and S&P said they were reviewing their ratings as the
country’s anemic growth will make it difficult to tame the debt
even if the government achieves its goal of balancing the
budget. Moody’s has Italy at Aa2 and last cut the rating in
1993. S&P has an A+ rating and last cut in October 2006.  Italy ’s economy expanded an average 0.2 percent annually
from 2001 to 2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.
Growth was 0.1 percent in the first quarter, a fraction of the
0.8 percent for the euro region.  Investors have also been unnerved by opposition within
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government to the austerity
plan being pushed by Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti , who is
credited with containing spending and keeping the deficit under
control. Berlusconi held “a long and cordial working lunch”
with Tremonti on July 8, his office said in an e-mailed
statement, after press reports that Tremonti was poised to
resign over opposition to his budget plan.  Berlusconi and Tremonti haven’t spoken publicly since the
market slide deepened on July 8, when the benchmark index slid
3.5 percent. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she spoke with
Berlusconi yesterday and has “full trust” in Italy’s ability
to cut its deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 