-- 
Plunge Brings Europe Debt Crisis to Italy

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-12T10:47:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/italian-plunge-brings-debt-crisis-to-europe-s-biggest-borrower.html
The plunge in Italian markets
overshadowed policy makers’ efforts to fix Greek finances as the
euro-region’s debt crisis infected  Europe ’s largest borrower.  Italian bonds fell for a seventh day and the nation’s
borrowing costs jumped by more than half at an auction of 6.75
billion euros ($9.4 billion) of bills today. Stocks pared
declines after falling to a two-year low. Warnings by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  over Italy’s ability to
trim debt, coupled with infighting in Silvio Berlusconi’s
government over a budget-cutting plan, fueled the sell-off.  “Italy coming under severe market pressure, being the
third-largest economy and a founding member of the EU, signals
that the sovereign and banking crisis has reached a deeply
systemic phase,” Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , wrote in a note to investors today.  The rout in  Italy  underscored Europe’s inability to contain
the crisis that began in Greece in October 2009 and led to
bailouts in Ireland and  Portugal . Finance ministers last night
failed to agree on how to share with creditors the cost of a
second bailout for Greece to be financed primarily by its
European Union allies, including Italy.  The policy makers pledged to complete “soon” the Greek
aid blueprint, without giving more details. The meeting in
Brussels didn’t discuss Italy, though the ministers were aware
the country is now the “focus” of financial markets,
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said at a press conference late
yesterday.  Acknowledging Contagion  “Europe needs to recognize it’s no longer a crisis of
small sovereigns in the euro area,”  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc said in an
interview yesterday with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” “It is becoming a euro-area wide
crisis and European policy makers have struggled to accept that
for some time.”  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose 7 basis points to
5.76 percent, after reaching 5.96 percent earlier, the highest
since 1997. The yield premium investors demand to hold the debt
over German bunds to a euro-era reached a euro-era record 348
basis points, before narrowing to 311.  Bill Auction  The jump in bond yields translated into a surge in the
country’s borrowing costs today, when Italy priced 6.75 billion
euros of 1-year bills to yield 3.67 percent, compared with 2.147
percent at the previous sale a month ago. The Treasury is due to
sell 5 billion euros of bonds on July 14.  Italy’s bonds have suffered more than debt of Spain,
considered the euro-region’s next-weakest link after the three
bailed-out countries. The premium to hold Spanish debt over
Italian bonds narrowing to as low as 30 basis points, the least
since November 2010.  Trading in shares of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,
had to be suspended limit down after the stock plunged more than
7 percent, pushing the benchmark FTSE MIB index down as much as
4.8 percent. UniCredit, one of the biggest holders of Italian
bonds, pared losses and advanced 4.5 percent to 1.206 euros as
of 11:40 a.m. in Milan. Even with the rebound, UniCredit has
fallen by 22 percent this month, shedding about 9 billion euros
in market value.  Tremonti Leaves  Italian Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  left the Brussels
meeting early to return to  Rome  to prepare to present his 40
billion-euro budget-adjustment package to Parliament. The plan
seeks to eliminate the deficit in 2014. Neither he nor
Berlusconi has commented publicly on the Italian sell-off.  The bulk of the measures won’t be taken until 2013, when
general elections are due. Market turmoil has been stoked by
investor concern about the plan’s implementation and tensions
over the cuts between Berlusconi and Tremonti, including
speculation that the minister may resign.  “The recently announced fiscal adjustment profile is
heavily back-loaded to 2013-2014, by which point the plan may be
diluted. Besides, the general elections are scheduled for 2013,
further threatening the plan’s credibility,” Pillonca said.
“The political situation remains fragile. The rift between
Finance Minister Tremonti and Berlusconi reinforces the
political uncertainty.”  The market sell-off spurred opposition leaders to offer
quick passage of the plan, vowing to present few amendments that
would slow a vote. Italy’s Senate may approve the plan on July
14 with the Chamber of Deputies voting three days later, Anna Finocchiaro, head of the Senate delegation of the main
opposition  Democratic Party , told news agency Radiocor today.  ‘Disaster’  Italian bond yields are nearing “disaster,” according to
 Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at Evolution Securities Ltd.
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal all sought international assistance
after their 10-year yields rose past 7 percent.  Italy has more than 500 billion euros of bonds maturing in
the next three years. That’s about twice as much as the 256
billion euros extended to Greece, Ireland and Portugal in their
three-year aid programs.  At almost 120 percent of gross domestic product, Italy’s
debt is the EU’s second largest by that measure after Greece.
Its 1.8 trillion euros of borrowing in nominal terms is more
than the combined debt of Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland.  Borrowing Costs  The surge in Italy’s bond yields, if sustained, will
increase financing cost, which the government estimates will
total about 75 billion euros this year, or almost 5 percent of
GDP. That figure is expected to rise to 85 billion euros by
2014.  Jefferies International Ltd. estimates that if the average
interest rate on the debt rises to 6 percent over that period
rather than the 5 percent forecast, financing costs will jump by
another 35 billion euros.  Average financing costs of 5.5 percent means Italy would
need a primary surplus of at least 3 percent to stabilize debt
at around 120 percent of GDP, a level Italy won’t reach until
2015, Pillonca estimates.  Until this month, Italy had avoided the worst of the debt
crisis fallout. Tremonti’s fiscal rigor helped trim the  budget
deficit  to 4.6 percent of GDP last year, less than half the
shortfalls in Greece,  Spain  and Ireland. The country dodged the
real-estate bubble that devastated the Irish and Spanish
economies. More than half its bonds are held domestically, which
with the low level of  household debt , was seen as underpinning
demand and shielding Italy from some of the turbulence in
international markets.  ‘Better Shape’  “Italy is still in better shape,” Michael Spence, a
Nobel-winning economist, told Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” yesterday. “It has
a high amount of debt, but it has a high savings in the private
sector, and frankly I think it can manage its way through this
unless there is a huge attack on the euro and risks spreads go
way up.”  Confidence in Italy has eroded after both Moody’s and S&P
in the past month said they were reviewing their ratings. The
country’s anemic growth will make it difficult to tame the debt
even if the government achieves its goal of balancing the budget
in 2014, they said. Moody’s last cut Italy’s rating in 1993. S&P
has an A+ rating and last cut in October 2006.  Italy’s economy expanded an average 0.2 percent annually
from 2001 to 2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area.
Growth was 0.1 percent in the first quarter, a fraction of the
0.8 percent for the euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 