-- 
Resources Targeted in $12.8 Billion Deals by Mittal, Peabody, Li Ka-Shing

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-07-11T22:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/mittal-peabody-li-lead-12-8-billion-effort-to-buy-water-oil-companies.html
Li Ka-shing’s bid for a U.K. water
utility,  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ’s joint offer
for an Australian coal exporter and a Malaysian oilfield
services merger have combined to set up July to become the
biggest month for deals in the industries for four years.  The $12.8 billion in transactions reported yesterday take
the tally for July to $16.5 billion, compared with $28.9 billion
in coal, mining, water and oilfield services industries mergers
and acquisitions announced last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The figure for June was the highest since
July 2007 when $57.4 billion in transactions was unveiled, the
data show.  The deals show a “recognition that the large emerging
economies like China and  India  are driving demand for several
commodity items, therefore the profit margins are still quite
attractive,” said Alan Richardson, a Singapore-based fund
manager from Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$82 billion. “If growth continues over the next five years,
valuations could actually look quite cheap.”  Resources companies are reviving transactions after a two-
year commodities rally stalled, stemming a surge in prices for
projects. While Asian efforts to curb inflation stoked concerns
growth will slow, some forecasters are bullish on raw materials.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which correctly predicted a slump in
commodity prices in May, expects higher prices in six months for
17 of the 21 materials it covers, a June 14 report showed.  Cheung Kong, SupuraCrest  Peabody and ArcelorMittal plan to bid A$4.7 billion ($5.1
billion) for  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  through a jointly owned company,
the Brisbane-based company said yesterday. Billionaire Li’s
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  proposed to buy
 Northumbrian Water Group Plc (NWG)  for 2.4 billion pounds ($3.8
billion). Malaysia’s  SapuraCrest Petroleum Bhd. (SCRES)  and  Kencana
Petroleum Bhd. (KEPB)  received an 11.9 billion ringgit ($3.9 billion)
merger offer.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, and Peabody,
the biggest U.S. coal producer, offered A$15.50 cash a share for
Macarthur, a 40 percent premium to its price before the offer.
Its American depository receipts climbed 30 percent. The
steelmaker, 41 percent-owned by  Lakshmi Mittal , who topped the
latest Sunday Times list of the wealthiest people in the U.K.,
said yesterday it holds about 16 percent of Macarthur’s stock.  Buying Macarthur would give ArcelorMittal and Peabody
ownership of mines producing steelmaking coal in  Australia ’s
Queensland state, the world’s biggest exporter of the material,
as prices trade near a record and suitors vie for targets.  ‘Back as Targets’  The bid “puts the rest of the sector firmly back as
takeover targets,” Colin McLelland, a resources analyst at
Investec Bank Australia Ltd., said by phone from Sydney.  Takeovers this month also include Jinchuan Group Co.’s
$1.36 billion offer for African copper producer  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) ,
which topped a bid from Brazil’s  Vale SA. (VALE3)  Rio de Janeiro-based
Vale decided not to increase its offer, Metorex said yesterday.  “Companies are looking for producers of commodities that
have supply constraints such as coking coal and copper,” said
Ng Soo Nam, the Singapore-based chief investment officer at
Nikko Asset Management Co., which oversaw about $154 billion as
of March 31. “Demand for resources should continue to hold up
especially in places like China and India where economic
development is raw-material intensive.”  China, Australia  Cheung Kong Infrastructure, or CKI, made a revised offer of
465 pence a share for Northumbrian, the Durham, England-based
company said, sending its share up 5 percent. The proposal is
9.1 percent higher than the utility’s closing price on July 8.
CKI has invested in electricity, gas, water and road assets in
 New Zealand , Australia,  China , the U.K. and Canada and has been
looking for further acquisitions.  Integral Key Sdn., a special-purpose vehicle, bid 4.60
ringgit a share in stock and cash for SapuraCrest and the
equivalent of 3 ringgit a share for Kencana, the companies said
in separate Kuala Lumpur exchange filings. The deal would create
Malaysia’s second-largest listed oilfield services company.  There have been $104 billion worth of deals in coal, mining,
water and oilfield services this year, down 9 percent on the
$114 billion of transactions announced in those industries for
the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.  Commodities prices slumped 11 percent in May and June, the
worst losing streak since the end of 2008 on concern of a
slowdown in economic growth. The last time the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index fell for two consecutive months,
the gauge surged 36 percent in the next six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  