-- 
Janus Leads Fund Manager Declines on Withdrawals, Europe Debt Fears

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/janus-capital-leads-fund-manager-declines-on-withdrawals-eu-debt-crisis.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , owners of
the Janus, Perkins and Intech fund families, led asset-manager
declines, after investors continued to exit its funds in June.  The Denver-based firm fell 6.8 percent today in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, losing the most among Standard
& Poor’s 18-company index for asset managers and custody banks.
The index fell 3.9 percent over concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may threaten  Italy .  “It was a terrible month for the industry, but given they
are mostly in equities and the relative poor performance of
their funds, Janus will look worse than the others,” Jason Weyeneth, an analyst in New York with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.,
said in a telephone interview.  Janus’s 20 largest stock and bond mutual funds,
representing about 55 percent of assets under management, lost
an estimated $954 million to client withdrawals in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors pulled a net
$18.5 billion in the past seven quarters and more than $2
billion from mutual funds in the three months ended June 30.  Janus fell 67 cents to $9.16 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York .
Shares have declined 29 percent this year.  Intech, the Janus subsidiary that uses mathematical models
to choose securities, announced July 7 it had won a mandate to
manage $1.7 billion for Sydney-based AMP Capital Investors.
James Aber, a Janus spokesman, declined to comment on fund
withdrawals or whether the AMP mandate would be recorded in the
second quarter.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, fell
$9.07, or 4.6 percent, to $186.38 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Baltimore-based  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  declined
$1.67, or 5 percent, to $31.66.  A meeting of European officials today was enlarged amid
speculation Italy may be engulfed by the debt crisis and
divisions over how to structure aid for  Greece . The extra yield
investors demand to hold Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds
instead of German bonds rose to the highest since the euro was
introduced in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  