-- 
Japan to Hold Reactor Tests Before Restart

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-11T05:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/japan-to-hold-reactor-tests-before-restart.html
Japan  committed to keep reactors
halted by the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl idle until
after the completion of safety tests, raising concerns of
extended energy shortages.  The checks will be stricter than earlier tests, according
to a statement released today in Tokyo signed by Trade Minister
 Banri Kaieda  and Nuclear Crisis Management Minister  Goshi Hosono . It didn’t specify how they would be stricter.  Almost two-thirds of Japan’s 54 reactors have been shut by
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami or because of regular
checks, leading to power-saving measures in parts of the
country. The new tests will delay plant restarts and may further
burden companies including Sony Corp., Toyota Motor Corp. and
Panasonic Corp., which have already cut power usage to avoid
blackouts.  ‘There will have to be energy-saving measures,’’ said
Tomohiro Jikihara, a Tokyo-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“‘Western Japan might be harder hit by nuclear power plant
shutdowns because the region wasn’t expecting shortages” like
those that affected eastern Japan immediately after the disaster  The so-called stress tests on nuclear stations were
announced last week by Kaieda, almost three weeks after he
declared all reactors safe. The reversal has already led to a
delay in restarting plants belonging to Shikoku Electric Power
Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co.  Second Stage  “Some of the reactors stopped for routine maintenance may
not be restarted as planned,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters in  Tokyo  today after the statement’s
release. “This has to be done regardless of the outlook on
power demand and supply.”  A second stage of tests will determine whether operating
reactors should be halted, Edano said, without giving a time
frame. Some of the reactors may continue operating through the
tests, if their safety is confirmed, he said, declining to
comment on the difference between the first and second rounds of
testing.  Computer simulations will be used for the tests, not
requiring a reactor shutdown, Tetsuya Yamamoto, the director of
the nuclear power inspection division of the Nuclear and
Industrial Safety Agency, said prior to the announcement. He
declined to comment on how long they would take.  The remaining operating reactors in Japan, the world’s
third-biggest user of nuclear power, must be idled by May next
year, according to schedules provided to Bloomberg by Kyushu
Electric, Shikoku Electric, Tokyo Electric Power Co., Kansai
Electric Power Co. and the other power companies. All plants are
required to close for maintenance every 13 months.  Rolling Blackouts  “We are considering whether we should implement rolling
blackouts because the balance of electricity supply and demand
is likely to tighten,” said Kyushu Electric’s spokesman Minoru
Yasueda.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said last week new nuclear power
plant safety guidelines are needed. Kaieda didn’t consult
Japan’s Nuclear Safety Commission, which oversees NISA, before
announcing in June that the country’s plants are safe, Kan said.  Kaieda said on July 6 Japan’s safety checks will take into
consideration similar tests being carried out in  Europe  on
nuclear plants that evaluate whether reactors can withstand
disasters such as quakes and floods as well as plane crashes and
explosions.  Japan said today it will refer to the European Union model
for conducting stress tests, according to the government
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  