-- 
Japan, Australian Stock Futures Fall Over European Debt-Contagion Concern

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-11T23:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/japan-australian-stock-futures-fall-over-european-debt-contagion-concern.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell as concern increased that Greece’s debt crisis may
spread to bigger economies in  Europe  and after the euro weakened.  American depositary receipts of Sony Corp., which sells
about 20 percent of its PlayStation game consoles and other
products in Europe, retreated 2.1 percent from the closing share
price in Tokyo. Those of Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest
carmaker, lost 1.7 percent after the yen strengthened. ADRs of
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, sank 1.3 percent as oil and
metal prices fell.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,910 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
10,080 in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,930
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index dropped 0.9 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
lost 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “People are worried about the negative impact on financial
systems as it’s looking more and more like the debt crisis in
Europe will spread from Greece Ireland and Portugal to bigger
countries such as Italy and Spain,” said Yumi Nishimura, an
equity-market analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  Euro-area countries may have to double their bailout fund
to 1.5 trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in  Italy ,
the  European Central Bank  said, according to German newspaper
Die Welt, citing unidentified “high-ranking” people at central
banks.  ‘No Discussion’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “there’s
no discussion whatsoever” of doubling the European Union’s
rescue facility after the Die Welt report. The Financial Times
cited unidentified senior officials as saying European leaders
are prepared to accept that Greece should default on some of its
bonds.  Ten-year Italian yields soared to the highest level in 10
years. The spreads investors demand to hold Italian, Portuguese
and Spanish debt over German bunds widened to euro-era records.  The yen appreciated to 112.35 against the euro, compared
with 114.71 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday, a
level not seen since March 18. Against the dollar,  Japan ’s
currency strengthened to 80.11 from 80.76. A stronger yen
reduces income at Japanese companies when overseas revenue is
converted into their home currency.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. In  New York , the index retreated 1.8 percent to 1,319.49
yesterday as concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will spread
and American lawmakers failed to agree on cutting the deficit.  Obama Plea  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he will continue
to press congressional leaders for “the largest possible deal”
on a package of significant deficit cuts.  “Now is the time to deal with these issues,” Obama said
at a news conference before resuming talks with congressional
leaders from both parties to seek a compromise on reducing
deficits and raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling
before the government exhausts its borrowing authority on Aug. 2.
“If not now, when?” Obama said.  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, kicked off
the second-quarter earnings season in the U.S. by reporting
after the stock markets closed that profit excluding certain
items was 32 cents a share, missing the 33-cent average estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Alcoa dropped 0.6 percent
in after-hours trading.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 4.9 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.1 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for August delivery fell 1.1 percent to $95.15 a
barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest level since July 1. The
London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum dropped 1.6 percent, the biggest
drop since June 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 