-- 
Jeter Fan Who Returned Baseball Leaves $180,000 on Table to Do Right Thing

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-11T18:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/jeter-fan-who-returned-3-000-hit-ball-gives-up-180-000-to-do-right-thing.html
Derek Jeter  has his 3,000-hit ball.
Christian Lopez, who came up with it in the left-field stands,
traded it for New York Yankees memorabilia and tickets worth
$180,000 less because he sees it as the right thing to do.  Lopez, a mobile-phone salesman from Highland Mills, New
York, who graduated from college last year, returned the home-
run ball rather than sell it for as much as $250,000. The 
Yankees’ gifts to him are worth around $70,000.  “Mr. Jeter deserved it,” Lopez said during a press
conference at Yankee Stadium after Jeter reached the milestone
on July 9. “Yeah, money is cool and all, but I’m only 23 years
old. I have a lot of time to make that. His accomplishment is a
milestone.”  Lopez came away with three bats, three balls and two
jerseys signed by Jeter, the Yankees’ captain and 28th Major
League Baseball player to have 3,000 career hits. Jeter is the
only player to accomplish the feat as a Yankee, and the second,
after Wade Boggs, to do it with a home run.  The bats Lopez got in return are worth between $1,000 and
$1,200, the balls sell for $500 and the jerseys are worth
$1,500, said Brandon Steiner, chief executive officer of  Steiner
Sports Marketing Inc.  in New Rochelle, New York.  The Yankees also gave Lopez four Champions Suite tickets
for their remaining 31 regular-season home games and any playoff
games. The seats are worth between $37,000 and $62,000 for the
rest of the regular season, according to the Yankees’ website.
The Yankees don’t plan to offer Lopez any tickets beyond this
season, team spokesman Michael Margolis said.  “If he wanted to capitalize he probably could have made
more,” said Steiner, whose company has an exclusive partnership
to sell a line of products connected to Jeter’s 3,000th hit.
“But he did a very generous thing.”  $65 Seats  While tickets to the July 9 game against  Tampa Bay  were
selling for about $200 on the secondary market, Lopez said his
girlfriend paid about $65 apiece to buy seats 10 days earlier as
his birthday present.  A 2010 graduate of  St. Lawrence University  in Canton, New
York, Lopez said he jumped on the home run ball after it bounced
off his father’s hands. Although some fans tried to wrest the
ball from him, Lopez said he had some experience recovering
fumbles while playing football in college.  “I’ve been on the bottom of the pile a few times, so it
wasn’t really anything different,” said Lopez, who said he used
to play defensive tackle. “I’m just happy no one swung. But
security was right there. In a second they were dragging me up
the stairs.”  Maybe Worth More  Doug Allen, president of Chicago-based Legendary Auctions,
said last month that the ball may be worth as much as $250,000.
Since Jeter went 5 for 5 on the day and it was a home run, it
might have even brought more.  “He left money on the table,” Allen said in a telephone
interview today. “But at the end of the day he’s probably happy
with what he got, and what a cool thing for a Yankee fan to be
able to say that he caught that ball.”  Jeter now has 3,004 hits as MLB enters the All-Star break.
The Yankees next play the  Blue Jays  in Toronto on July 14.  Lopez said he planned to return the ball to Jeter, who’s
spent his 17-year career with the Yankees, and didn’t initially
think about what he might get in return.  “It didn’t even cross my mind until they asked me what I
wanted,” said Lopez, who works at the Verizon Wireless store in
Middletown, New York. “The only thing I could think of was a
signed ball would be nice and to meet him. It wasn’t about the
money, it’s about a milestone.”  ‘Star-Struck’  Lopez said he was “star-struck” to meet Jeter and was
thrilled about the memorabilia and experiences such as walking
through parts of the stadium most fans don’t get to see and
doing a live interview with the Yankees Entertainment & Sports
network. Lopez, who still has outstanding college loans, said
being a part of the historic moment was more important to him
than trying to sell the ball at auction.  “He probably could have gotten more money, but maybe
something good will come of it now that he has this relationship
with the Yankees and Derek,” Steiner said in a telephone
interview. “Meeting Derek and getting all those things signed
is still a pretty cool thing for a lot of people and valuable in
its own right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  