-- 
Jimmy Hoffa of Argentina Sidelined as Fernandez Courts Middle-Class Voters

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-07-11T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/jimmy-hoffa-of-argentina-sidelined-as-fernandez-courts-middle-class-voters.html
Teamsters’ leader Hugo Moyano helped
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and her late husband
dominate Argentine politics for eight years. Now she’s making
moves that amount to a snub of her old partner, one labor leader
says -- and Moyano and his allies are voicing their unhappiness.  Fernandez is pushing back against Moyano, head of the 5.5
million-strong General Workers Confederation, by limiting union
delegates on her Peronist party’s list of congressional
candidates and accusing them of “extortion,” said analysts
including pollster Jorge Giacobbe. By distancing herself from
Moyano as she seeks re-election, Fernandez hopes to woo middle-
class voters turned off by union-led road blockades, he said.  Since 2003, when Fernandez’s late husband  Nestor Kirchner 
became president, Moyano has rubbed shoulders with cabinet
ministers and orchestrated pro-government rallies. He also
brokered wage increases of as high as 30 percent, helping fuel
what economists estimate may be the world’s fastest inflation.
Moyano’s “forceful” tactics and ability to deliver working-
class votes are comparable with the power exercised by late U.S.
labor leader Jimmy Hoffa, said Claudio Loser, a former
International Monetary Fund official.  “He and his people are the armed forces of the Peronist
party,” said Loser, an Argentine who headed the Western
Hemisphere department at the IMF from 1994 to 2002. “Moyano has
the ability to mobilize a lot of people and create disturbances
for companies that oppose the government.”  Worsening Inflation  Argentine inflation could accelerate if ties between the
government and Moyano’s organization, known as the CGT,
deteriorate, said  Boris Segura , a Latin America strategist at
Nomura Securities International in  New York . The government says
consumer prices rose 9.7 percent in May from a year ago, while
analysts including former Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna
estimate inflation is running as high as 25 percent.  “The only way inflation won’t get totally out of control
is through wage negotiations, which are going to get much more
complicated now that the CGT is being ignored in the voting
lists,” said Segura. “Moyano is going to get out his cudgel.”  Argentina’s inflation-linked bonds have tumbled 11.7
percent this year as investors lost confidence in the
government’s efforts to improve the credibility of the monthly
price reports. Similar Brazilian notes have gained 3.5 percent.  The inclusion of just two union representatives, including
one of Moyano’s seven children, in the list of congressional
candidates for Fernandez’s ticket was a snub to organized labor,
said Omar Viviani, leader of the taxi drivers union and an ally
of Moyano.  “Everyone is angry,” Viviani said in a June 27 interview
on Radio La Red.  ‘Take to the Streets’  Moyano, 67, also expressed his frustration.  “Are we only here to vote?” he said in a July 5 speech to
union leaders in  Buenos Aires . “Are we only here to take to the
streets when they call us?”  Moyano didn’t return repeated phone calls and e-mails to
the CGT by Bloomberg.  For most of Fernandez’s presidency, Moyano was a stalwart
ally. When Kirchner died of a heart attack last October, Moyano
held a news conference hours later to reaffirm his support for
her administration. On Nov. 2, Cabinet Chief Anibal Fernandez
called Moyano’s labor movement the “backbone” of the
government.  Money Laundering  Fernandez began expressing her displeasure about union
disturbances in May, when a strike by truck drivers slowed
operations by oil producer  YPF SA (YPFD)  and threatened to create fuel
shortages in  South America ’s second-biggest economy. That
followed a threat from the CGT to call for a national strike in
March after Swiss authorities requested information about 
Moyano's finances as part of a  money laundering  investigation.  “We can’t be held hostage by those who, in pursuing their
own interests, hurt all of society,” Fernandez, 58, said in a
May 12 speech in Buenos Aires. “I’m tired of hypocrisy, of
those who chant ‘Go Cristina’ and then the following day do
whatever they can to knock everything down.”  The rebuke, while not singling out Moyano, was a signal she
wants to bring workers’ groups to heel to broaden her base of
support ahead of the Oct. 23 election she is favored to win in a
landslide, said Giacobbe, head of Buenos Aires-based pollster
Jorge Giacobbe & Asociados SA.  Building Power  “Moyano was useful for Kirchner when he needed to build
power, when he needed to connect with people,” said Giacobbe.
“Now Cristina is targeting public opinion, and there’s nobody
who defends Moyano. He has about an 85 percent negative image.”  Polls show Fernandez’s strategy may be working, aided in
part by economic growth that averaged 5.6 percent per year from
2008-2010. She had 50 percent support among eligible voters
compared with 10 percent for opposition candidate Ricardo Alfonsin, according to a June 22-24 poll by Buenos Aires-based
CEOP Opinion Publica. Under Argentine law a candidate must win
45 percent of votes or 40 percent and have a 10 percentage point
lead over the second-place finisher to avoid a runoff.  Moyano’s introduction to activism began at an early age. As
a child, he watched his mother Celina fight to win warm clothes
for workers forced to labor in refrigerated chambers at a fish
plant where she was employed, according to “The Trucker,” a
2008 biography by Emilia Delfino and Mariano Martin.  When Argentina returned to democracy after a seven-year
military dictatorship in 1983, Moyano was named secretary of the
Peronist party in his hometown Mar del Plata. He then became
leader of the Buenos Aires teamsters union, and in 2004 was
named head of the CGT after leading strikes against IMF-backed
budget cuts during the country’s 2001 financial crisis. He now
leads the Peronist party in  Buenos Aires province , the nation’s
biggest electoral district.  Bribery Scandal  Opposition congresswoman Patricia Bullrich, who as labor
minister in 2001 clashed regularly with Moyano, said she was
present at a meeting that year when the labor leader threatened
then-President Fernando de la Rua to his face to oust him. De la
Rua, who resigned later that year amid protests, was under
pressure by unions for allegedly paying bribes to congressmen to
pass legislation making it easier to fire workers.  “If his goals or interests are questioned, or you try to
modify his power structure, then things are going to end
badly,” said Bullrich, whom Moyano used to call “the kid” in
public. “It was his way of saying I should stay busy with
politics and let him manage the ministry.”  De la Rua declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  “The Trucker” includes a photo of Moyano locking arms
with James P. Hoffa, the head of the International Brotherhood
of Teamsters and son of Jimmy, who was convicted of fraud and
jury tampering in 1964.  Peronist Party  Fernandez’s move to distance herself from Moyano carries
risks, as governing without union support in  Argentina  has
proven impossible in the past. Her ruling Peronist party was
founded by former President Juan Domingo Peron, who rallied
working-class support to rule the country from 1946 to 1955 and
again from 1973 to 1974.  Former President Raul Alfonsin, who in 1983 became the
first democratically elected leader after the military
dictatorship, was forced to transfer power five months before
his term ended in 1989 after 13 national strikes paralyzed the
economy and annual inflation was 5,000 percent.  Moyano denies that his organization is generating conflict.  “I don’t get confrontational with anybody,” Moyano told
journalists in Buenos Aires May 27. “I’m even sweeter than
Lassie the dog with a muzzle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  