-- 
JPMorgan Plans Revival of Moribund Spanish Mortgage Bond Market

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-07-11T08:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/jpmorgan-plans-revival-of-moribund-spanish-mortgage-bond-market.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is aiming to
sell Spanish residential mortgage-backed securities this year,
kick-starting a market shut since 2007.  JPMorgan wants to repeat its feat of reviving the U.K.
mortgage bond market in 2009 when it shepherded a 4 billion-
pound ($6.4 billion) sale for Lloyds Banking Group Plc, and
restarting Italian issuance with a deal for Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA in November. Oldrich Masek, JPMorgan’s head
of securitized products origination for EMEA, said reopening
 Spain ’s market will be “our primary focus this year.”  Spanish home loan-backed bonds may be a tough sell for a
country with  Europe ’s highest jobless rate, three years of
falling home prices and a five-fold increase in mortgage arrears
since 2007. Confidence in the nation was dealt a blow last week
when Moody’s Investors Service downgraded its neighbor Portugal
to junk.  A deal “is a real challenge in the current market,” said
Luis Merino, a Madrid-based  fund manager  at  La Caixa  who helps
oversee 15 billion euros ($21 billion) including asset-backed
debt. A reopening of Spain’s mortgage bond market “would be one
of the most important milestones in the recovery of the Spanish
financial sector and the country’s economy,” he said.  Spain’s banks have been the third-largest issuers of the
notes in Europe after the U.K. and the Netherlands, with 189
billion euros ($270 billion) outstanding, according to the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe. No Spanish
mortgage-backed securities have been sold publicly since a deal
by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in July 2007.  Housing Boom  “Spain has historically been a big securitization market
and Spanish banks need to raise funds,” JPMorgan’s Masek said
in an interview. “Secured funding is the most efficient way to
raise a large financing in a market with the problems of
peripheral Europe.”  Mortgage-backed securities helped finance a decade-long
housing boom in Spain before losses from subprime mortgage bonds
in the U.S. caused investors to shun hard-to-value assets. Banks
pool home loans and sell them to investors as bonds, allowing
lenders to raise capital more cheaply than by issuing unsecured
debt.  JPMorgan arranged 17 asset-backed transactions totalling
19.3 billion euros in the first five months of the year, more
than any other bank, according to data compiled by  Structured
Credit Investor , a financial information provider in  London .  Lloyds, BMPS  “The first deals in the Spanish ABS market are likely to
be offered as short-dated fast-pay senior tranches” to make
them more attractive to investors, London-based Masek said.  JPMorgan’s transaction for Lloyds opened the U.K. market
after it had been virtually shut since 2008, according to
Bloomberg data. As well as finding investors for the bonds, the
U.S. bank bought a 1.25 billion-pound portion of the deal and
provided a loan to Lloyds using the securities as collateral,
Bloomberg data show.  In  Italy , JPMorgan helped reopen the residential mortgage
bond market with a 995 million-euro transaction for Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena in November, the first public sale of the
debt since June 2007, JPMorgan data show.  “JPMorgan is possibly the best-placed player to reopen the
Spanish RMBS market, since not only are they able to arrange the
deal, but also to put in a lead order and provide financing,”
said Stefano Loreti, a senior portfolio manager at Cairn Capital
in London, who helps oversee more than $20 billion of asset-
backed securities. “We haven’t heard of any new issue Spanish
RMBS being marketed for a long time.”  Higher Fees  A bank arranging Spain’s first mortgage securitization
would get a significant increase in fees compared with pre-
crisis levels, according to Santiago Ruiz-Morales, who was
Credit Agricole SA’s head of asset-backed securities for Spain
and  Portugal  until 2007.  “In the pre-crisis years, banks were organizing Spanish
RMBS transactions for fees ranging between 10 and 20 basis
points,” said Ruiz-Morales, now a partner at asset manager
Aguila Capital SL in  Madrid . “Now, a new transaction would face
a huge increase in fees to reflect the higher marketing efforts
needed to get the deal done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  