-- 
Karvy Says India Rate Cycle Nearing End, Favors Power Utilities

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-11T07:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/karvy-says-india-rate-cycle-nearing-end-favors-power-utilities.html
R. Murali Krishnan, head of
institutional equities at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. in Mumbai,
comments on the outlook for Indian equities. He spoke today in a
phone interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
0.6 percent to 18,733.68 as of 1 p.m. in Mumbai. The benchmark
gained 0.5 percent last week, its third week of gains.  On outlook for  interest rates :  “Investors are in a wait and watch mode. There is a clear
slowdown in capacity expansion by companies. However, we expect
inflation and interest rates to come down by end of this year,
which may boost stocks.”  “We like power, construction, infrastructure stocks as
we’re nearing the end of interest rate cycle. Our top power
sector picks are CESC Ltd., NTPC Ltd and Tata Power Co. Our top
picks in the infrastructure space are NCC Ltd. and KNR
Constructions Ltd.”  India’s central bank has raised borrowing costs 10 times
since the start of 2010 to curb inflation.  On software companies’ earnings  “Our top picks in the information technology sector are
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. and HCL Technologies Ltd. We
expect the top-six software companies to report a 3.8 percent
increase in revenue quarter-on-quarter, while profit may drop
4.3 percent, and margins may contract 99 basis points on a
quarter-to-quarter basis.”  Infosys Ltd.,  India ’s second-largest software maker, is due
to announce first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  “We have a ‘sell’ recommendation on large-capitalization
pharmaceutical stocks as we expect them to continue to be under
margin pressure.”  On oil prices:  “We expect Brent to come down to $75-$80 per barrel in the
next three months. Fundamentally, oil seems unsustainable above
$100 on a prolonged basis due to potential inflationary
pressures in emerging economies, the drivers of demand.  ‘‘We are bullish on upstream  oil companies  like ONGC Ltd.
and Oil India Ltd. as a decline in oil prices to the levels of
our assumptions would significantly improve their realization.
Oil-marketing companies Indian Oil Corp., Hindustan Petroleum
Corp. and Bharat Petroleum Corp., trading close to their book
values because of higher  oil prices , may be rerated.’’  On real-estate companies:  ‘‘We expect cash-flow stress for realty companies to
continue. Execution challenges may be visible across developers.
Our top picks in the realty space are Sobha Developers Ltd. and
Puravankara Projects Ltd.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  