-- 
Kinetic Luring LBO With Cheapest U.S. Medical Products Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-07-11T00:27:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/kinetic-luring-lbo-with-cheapest-u-s-medical-products-valuation-real-m-a.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI)  is enticing
private equity firms with the U.S. medical products industry’s
cheapest valuation for what would be the biggest leveraged
buyout since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Kinetic is discussing a sale with a group of at least two
LBO firms that may value the company at more than $5 billion
excluding debt, two people with knowledge of the talks said last
week. A deal at that price plus net debt would value Kinetic at
9.2 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the last 12 months, compared with a median
multiple of 12 times for all U.S. LBOs in the two years before
Lehman’s bankruptcy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While sales in Kinetic’s main wound-treatment business are
little changed since 2008, the San Antonio-based company’s free
 cash flow  yield of almost 9 percent and a new portable wound-
care device may still help a buyout firm generate a return of as
much as 40 percent in five years, Piper Jaffray Cos. estimates.
Kinetic is currently valued at 7.8 times estimated 2011 Ebitda,
the cheapest of any U.S. maker of medical products, instruments
or hospital beds with a market capitalization between $1 billion
and $10 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The numbers work for an LBO,” said Matt Miksic, a New
York-based analyst for Piper Jaffray. “It is a business that
throws off a fair amount of cash. You need to lay out the
potential upside of its new product and try to get a buyer to
pay for that, while also recognizing that you have to account
for some risks based on their core business.”  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for Kinetic, declined to
comment.  Biggest LBO  A takeover of Kinetic at an equity value of $5 billion plus
$684 million in net debt would surpass Del Monte Foods Co. as
the biggest private equity LBO since New York-based Lehman filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in September 2008, freezing credit
markets and cutting off financing for leveraged transactions.  A group led by KKR & Co. of  New York  agreed in November to
buy San Francisco-based Del Monte for about $3.8 billion, plus
$1.3 billion in net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show, after
near zero percent interest rates had helped the U.S. stock
market rebound from its worst slump since the Great Depression.  “Valuations are much more favorable in today’s market than
they were pre-Lehman,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment
officer at Solaris Asset Management in  Bedford Hills , New York,
which manages $2 billion. “The favorable interest rate picture
is also encouraging deals and making them financially attractive
to the LBO.”  Lehman’s Collapse  In the two years leading up to New York-based Lehman’s
collapse in September 2008, almost $514 billion worth of
leveraged buyouts were announced at a median of 12 times Ebitda,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kinetic is cheaper relative to its estimated Ebitda of
$690.8 million this year than 19 other U.S. and U.K. makers of
medical products, instruments or hospital beds with comparable
market values between $1 billion and $10 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It also has a price-to-earnings ratio of
16.6, almost half the industry average of 30.3, the data show.  The company could take on about $650 million of additional
debt without lowering its BB+ credit rating, which is one level
below investment grade, said Jesse Juliano, an analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in  Boston .  Credit Ratings  Increasing Kinetic’s long-term debt, including operating
leases, by $650 million to $2.1 billion would reduce its ranking
under Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings by one level to A2L,
the fourth-highest investing grade level. Bloomberg’s ratings
analyze borrowers based on their indebtedness, profitability and
other financial ratios.  Kinetic, founded in 1976 by emergency-room physician Jim Leininger, makes negative-pressure devices that use vacuums to
aid healing, tissue-regeneration products that use skin grafts
in hernia and breast reconstruction and hospital bed and related
equipment.  A judge invalidated two of Kinetic’s patents in October in
a case against  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of
shoulder and knee implants. Kinetic built its business around
its patents and the reputation of its clinical representatives,
said Suraj Kalia, an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw in New York..  With the patent setbacks, Kinetic faces rising competition
and pricing pressure from competitors Smith & Nephew,  Covidien
Plc (COV)  and C.R. Bard Inc., Miksic said. The company, which may be
too dependent on hospitals that are now diversifying supplies,
is using promotions and price cuts to hold onto its roughly 80
percent market share, he said.  Wound Treatment  Kinetic’s active healing solutions unit, which includes the
company’s wound-treatment products, accounted for 70 percent of
total revenue last year. The division’s sales have increased
less than 1 percent in each of the last two years to $1.4
billion in 2010.  The transaction to go private has become more difficult to
pull off in recent weeks because of tightening debt markets,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
situation is private.  Investor concerns about a slowing U.S. economy and Europe’s
debt crisis have also led to declines in U.S. leveraged loan
issuance, making it more difficult for LBO firms to secure
financing for buyouts. While offerings this year are the most
since 2007, second-quarter loan sales fell to $116.4 billion
from $141.2 billion in the three-month period ended March 31,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  ‘Recent Scare’  A U.S. Labor Department report last week that showed
American employers added jobs at the slowest pace in nine months
in June added urgency to efforts by President  Barack Obama  and
congressional leaders to find a compromise on cutting deficits
and raising the government’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling to head
off a default on U.S. debt obligations in early August.  “The recent scare around the U.S. debt ceiling and issues
and European debt issues have maybe put some brakes on that
momentum that we saw early on this year,” said Spencer Nam, a
Boston-based analyst at Madison Williams & Co. “Maybe that’s
the concern we’re hearing on this, and the banks are not willing
to lend cash as readily as they used to.”  While Kinetic’s slow sales growth may deter strategic
buyers, its free cash flow “automatically makes it a better
choice for private equity,” said Jason Wittes, an analyst at
Caris & Co. in New York. The company’s free cash flow yield of
almost 9 percent will give it the flexibility to easily add
leverage to its balance sheet, said Wittes.  ‘Better Opportunity’  “These companies that have great cash flow yields, that
really aren’t growing all that much, probably get a better value
or at least have a better opportunity as private companies than
they do as public companies,” said  Malcolm Polley , who oversees
$1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “The public, for whatever reason, wants
to see growth at any cost and, therefore, bigger multiples.”  According to Piper Jaffray’s Miksic, a private equity deal
may also help Kinetic boost its business without the pressure of
scrutiny from investors as a public company.  “What a financial sponsor can add is they can take the
cost-cutting transformation investment steps to a faster pace
and a higher level than the company might be able to do,” said
Miksic. “The goal being to make these changes, getting the
company repositioned to come public again at a multiple that in
the future might make more sense.”  If a private equity firm were to pay between 7.5 times and
8.5 times Kinetic’s 2011 Ebitda, the buyer may get a 30 percent
to 40 percent return in five years, Miksic estimated in a July 7
report. His analysis assumes an LBO would be made up of 55
percent debt.  ‘Perfect Candidate’  The company also has a pipeline of new products in new
markets. Kinetic introduced a disposable wound-care system
called V.A.C.Via in February that “will help further penetrate
the market opportunity in wound care,” said Tao Levy, an
analyst with Collins Stewart LLC in New York. The company
partnered with  Novadaq Technologies Inc. (NDQ)  in September on the SPY
Imaging System in breast reconstruction and head, neck and
colorectal surgeries.  Kinetic is also expanding in areas such as Japan and
 Brazil , Levy said.  “This is a pretty perfect candidate for a private equity
LBO,” Solaris’s Ghriskey said. “The product line and the sales
are fairly predictable. They’re not heavily influenced by
economic factors. The company has had a very strong free cash
flow, and the valuation is attractive. Those are all things LBO
looks for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 