-- 
Kohl’s Wife Suffered War Rape Trauma, Life in His Large Shadow

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-07-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/kohl-s-wife-suffered-war-rape-trauma-life-in-his-big-shadow-german-books.html
Helmut Kohl  is fed up. You can’t
really blame the man who reunified Germany and was the country’s
longest-serving chancellor since Otto von Bismarck.  First, his son Walter Kohl described his troubled childhood
and distant father in “Leben oder gelebt werden” (“Live or Be
Lived,”) which topped the Spiegel magazine’s non-fiction
bestseller list in March and is still at slot No. 5.  Now comes Heribert Schwan’s biography of Hannelore Kohl,
portraying a traumatized though strong woman leading a lonely
life in husband Helmut’s shadow until her suicide 10 years ago.
“Die Frau an seiner Seite” (“The Woman at His Side”) is the
current No. 1 on Spiegel’s non-fiction bestseller list.  Kohl, who is 81 and remarried, complained last month that
his private life is being “put on display and marketed.” He
was a notable absentee at a service in Speyer cathedral to
commemorate the 10th anniversary of Hannelore’s death on July 5
-- a rebuff to his two sons, who were present.  After reading both books, I feel I know more about Kohl
family life than is necessary from the public interest
perspective. Maybe even from the personal interest perspective.  Yet there is much about Hannelore that is worth telling.
With her curly blond tresses and Germanic features -- prominent
cheekbones, square jaw -- she was mocked by the media as a
provincial “Barbie.” That is unfair. She was an intelligent
woman and a talented linguist, a dedicated care-giver and a
committed philanthropist as president of her own  foundation to
help people with brain injuries .  Rape Trauma  She was burdened with suppressed memories of horrific
wartime experiences, Schwan says. His most shocking revelation
is that Hannelore was raped as a 12-year-old at the end of World
War II by conquering Red Army troops while she was fleeing the
Soviet occupation zone. Though she never used the word rape in
their discussions, she said “yes” when Schwan asked her
directly if she had been raped, he writes.  It was a fate she shared with as many as 1.9 million other
women and girls, according to Schwan’s figures. Hannelore
described being “thrown out of a window like a sack of cement
by the Russians.” An attack from that era left her with a
fractured vertebra and back pain for the rest of her life.  Born in Berlin, Hannelore moved with her family to Leipzig
at an early age, the city she still considered home after
decades in the western Palatinate region. Schwan portrays her
parents as enthusiastic Nazis -- her father was the ambitious,
wealthy director of a company that manufactured anti-tank
missiles and employed thousands of slave laborers during the
war.  Hannelore’s childhood was haunted by horrors of war. The
Leipzig street where her family lived was engulfed by a
firestorm and burned for days during the allied bombing,
creating indelible images in her mind, Schwan says. The death of
her dachshund in the bomb attack left her inconsolable, he
writes.  Horrors of War  As a schoolgirl, she was forced to help trainloads of
soldiers and refugees arriving at the station. Tasks included
separating the dead from the living and escorting maimed,
starving, frozen people to provisional clinics.  The family fled to the west in the postwar chaos, homeless
and destitute. When her father died suddenly in 1952, Hannelore
was forced to give up plans to study as an interpreter and took
a job at chemical maker BASF to support her mother.  Hannelore met Helmut at 15, though they didn’t marry until
1960, 12 years later. Their conjugal roles were strictly
divided: He focused on his career, she on the home and children.
His wife wielded no influence over Helmut’s political choices.
He even neglected to tell her he was running for chancellor. She
found out by watching the television news.  She also had no say in their vacation: Helmut insisted on
going to St. Gilgen in  Austria  every year, where he was
accessible to journalists, diplomats and fellow politicians.
Hannelore, who liked to keep a low profile, hated the holidays.  Light Allergy  Schwan marshals medical experts to support his theory that
the bizarre light allergy of her later years may have been a
psychosomatic reaction to the suppressed traumas of the war.
Hannelore refused psychotherapy, saying her position didn’t
allow her to bare her soul to a stranger, according to Schwan.  Toward the end of her life, she could only leave the house
by night. She took an overdose aged 68, explaining in letters to
loved ones that her incurable illness had become intolerable.  It seems unlikely that Hannelore, who did her utmost to
guard her family’s privacy, would have welcomed Schwan’s book.
Schwan, who collaborated with Kohl on the ex-chancellor’s
memoirs, justifies his decision by saying that she poured her
heart out to him knowing he was a journalist and “signaled”
that she expected him to publish her confidences one day.  Maybe not while poor Helmut is still alive. For all his
shortcomings as a husband and father, it’s clear from the book
that she loved him.  “Die Frau an seiner Seite” is published by  Heyne Verlag 
(320 pages, 19.99 euros in  Germany ).  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 