-- 
NCR to Buy Software Maker Radiant Systems for $1.2 Billion, or 31% Premium

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-11T22:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/ncr-to-buy-software-maker-radiant-systems-for-1-2-billion-or-31-premium.html
NCR Corp. (NCR)  agreed to acquire  Radiant
Systems Inc. (RADS) , a maker of customer-service sales equipment and
software, for $1.2 billion.  The $28-a-share purchase has been approved by both
companies’ boards, according to a statement NCR released today.
The price represents a 31 percent premium to Alpharetta,
Georgia-based Radiant’s closing price today of $21.45.  NCR plans to combine its portfolio of automated checkout
products with Radiant’s business serving fast-food and table-
service restaurants, specialty and convenience retailers and
entertainment venues, according to the statement. NCR has been
seeking to expand into areas similar to its main product line,
including ATM machines and self-check-in airport kiosks.  NCR, based in Duluth,  Georgia , will raise $1.1 billion in
new debt to finance the purchase, which is expected to close by
Sept. 30. Radiant Systems Chief Operating Officer Andrew Heyman
will run the new NCR unit, the company said.  Radiant Systems surged to $28 in extended trading after it
closed down 50 cents at $21.45 earlier on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. NCR added 2.1 percent to $19.50 in extended trading
after earlier falling 36 cents to $19.09 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  NCR also builds kiosks that allow customers to rent and
drop off movies in grocery stores and other outlets. It is
disputing Dish Network Corp.’s assertion that its contract to
license the Blockbuster Inc. name on those kiosks is invalid
following the satellite TV provider’s acquisition of bankrupt
Blockbuster’s assets in April.  NCR had paid Blockbuster for the use of its brand and
collects all revenue from rentals. NCR says the Blockbuster
Express name, design and related trademarks are held by a trust
that wasn’t part of Blockbuster’s bankruptcy filing.  If Dish successfully voids the contract, the Englewood,
Colorado-based company will decide whether it wants to own the
kiosk business, renegotiate deal terms with NCR or find another
company that makes kiosks to license the name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  