-- 
Nestle to Buy 60% Stake in Hsu Fu Chi for $1.7 Billion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T09:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/nestle-to-buy-60-stake-in-chinese-snack-maker-hsu-fu-chi-for-1-7-billion.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, agreed to buy 60 percent of  Hsu Fu Chi International
Ltd. (HFCI) , a Chinese snack and candy maker, for S$2.07 billion ($1.7
billion) to tap growth in the world’s most populous nation.  Nestle’s cash offer of S$4.35 for each share of Singapore-
listed Hsu Fu Chi is 8.8 percent above the stock’s closing price
on July 8. The controlling Hsu family will own 40 percent of the
confectioner after the acquisition, the companies said today.  The purchase by the Vevey, Switzerland-based company will
be its largest in China, where Hsu Fu Chi’s revenue in the last
fiscal year grew more than three times faster than Nestle’s
worldwide sales. It’s Nestle’s second major purchase in the
Asian country after the Swiss company in April agreed to buy 60
percent of Yinlu Foods Group. In addition to Hsu Fu Chi’s cakes
and traditional sweets, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  aims
to use the company’s distribution system for Nestle brands.  “It’s a good deal,” said Andreas Von Arx, an analyst at
Helvea in Zurich who rates Nestle “accumulate.” “Yinlu gave
Nestle a good footprint in beverages in China and today’s deal
gives them a good footprint in the confectionary business.”  Nestle fell 25 centimes, or 0.5 percent, to 52.35 Swiss
francs at 11:48 a.m. in Zurich trading. Hsu Fu Chi gained 10
percent to S$4.40 as of the 5:10 p.m. close of trading in
Singapore. The Dongguan, Guangdong-based company is trading at
26 times earnings, according to Bloomberg data, compared with
34.6 times for rival foodmaker Tingyi ( Cayman Islands ) Holding
Co. and 35.4 times for Want Want  China  Holdings Ltd., a snack
maker and flour supplier.  Nestle in China  “Hsu Fu Chi has an extensive network and quite a large
number of point-of-sales in China, that’s definitely what Nestle
will be looking for,” said Eugene Ng, a Singapore-based analyst
with UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd. ‘It seems a good deal for Nestle,
given the valuation comparison with its major peers.”  Nestle’sBulcke, 56, has set a goal of getting 45 percent
of revenue from  developing countries  by 2020, compared with
about a third now.  The maker of Nescafe instant coffee, After Eight mints and
Kit Kat candy bars has 23 factories and 14,000 employees in
China, with sales of 2.8 billion Swiss francs ($3.3 billion) in
2010, it said in a statement. Hsu Fu Chi, founded in 1992 by
four brothers from  Taiwan , has four factories and 16,000
employees in China making cereal-based snacks, packaged cakes
and traditional Chinese “sachima” sweets.  Shareholder Agreement  The purchase “enhances our ability to grow our portfolio
of international and local brands in this dynamic market,”
Bulcke said in the statement.  Hsu Fu Chi Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Hsu Chen,
the second oldest of the brothers, is the 25th richest man in
Taiwan, according to Forbes magazine. Hsu Chen will continue to
lead the company, the statement said.  Hsu Fu Chi’s two largest independent shareholders have
agreed to vote for the transaction, according to the statement.
Units of the  Baring Asia Private Equity Fund  hold 16.5 percent
of the stock, while Arisaig Partners Holdings owns 9 percent.
Hsu Fu Chi shares will be delisted from the  Singapore  exchange
after the acquisition is completed.  Hsu Fu Chi’s profit rose 31 percent to 602.2 million
Chinese yuan ($93 million) in fiscal 2010 as sales increased 14
percent to 4.31 billion yuan, according to Bloomberg data.  Sales of Sweets  “With Nestle, we will accelerate the development of the
Hsu Fu Chi brand, its production and distribution capabilities
and ensure Hsu Fu Chi’s continued growth,” Chairman Hsu Chen
said in the statement.  Sales of sweets in China rose 5 percent to 40 billion yuan
in 2010, according to researcher  Euromonitor International . Hsu
Fu Chi led the market with a 6.6 percent share in 2009.  Hsu Fu Chi’s strategy of offering almost 500 products
requires it maintain its own distribution network, Stephen Hui,
a Singapore-based analyst with Standard Chartered Bank, said in
a July 4 report.  “Hsu Fu Chi’s direct distribution network forms a large
barrier to entry” for competitors, Hui wrote in the report.
“Hsu Fu Chi’s wide product offering also targets a wide
audience and could help Nestle penetrate the mass market.”  Nestle had cash and near cash of 8 billion francs and
short-term investments worth 8.2 billion at the end of last year
after selling its majority stake in Alcon Inc. to Novartis AG.
Bulcke said June 8 that the company’s first priority with its
cash is investing in existing businesses, though it’s also
considering “bolt-on” acquisitions.  Credit Suisse is advising Nestle on the purchase.  -- Michael Wei , Dermot Doherty. Editors:  Dave McCombs , Paul Jarvis.  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at +41-22-317-9201 or
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  