-- 
New York City’s Newtown Creek to Get Exxon Cleanup, EPA Says

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/new-york-city-s-newtown-creek-to-get-exxon-cleanup-u-s-epa-says.html
The Obama administration reached an
agreement with oil and gas companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
to begin a Superfund cleanup of Newtown Creek, a waterway
separating Brooklyn and Queens.  The six parties responsible for cleaning up the
contaminated area -- Exxon; Chevron Corp.;  BP Plc (BP/) ; Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.;  National Grid Plc (NG/) ; and the City of
 New York  -- will conduct a study determining the best options
for detoxifying the area, the Environmental Protection Agency
said in a statement today.  The parties must pay EPA $750,000 for the agency’s prior
work at Newtown Creek and reimburse it for oversight costs. EPA
added the waterway to its list of the most hazardous Superfund
sites in September 2010. The water and sediment is contaminated
with pesticides, heavy metals and PCBs, or polychlorinated
biphenyls, a banned carcinogen, according to the EPA.  “Newtown Creek is one of the most polluted urban water
bodies in the country, and EPA is committed to making sure this
waterway receives a thorough cleanup,” EPA Regional
Administrator Judith Enck said in a statement.  The agreement announced today ensures that “the parties
responsible for the pollution, not the taxpayer, will foot the
bill,” she said.  The EPA said it expects to identify more parties
responsible for contaminating the 3.5 miles (5.6 kilometers) of
Newtown Creek.  Sediment, Water, Air  The investigation will begin within a few months, starting
with an analysis of contamination in the creek’s sediment,
surface water and surrounding air, according to the EPA. The
federal Superfund law seeks to make polluters pay for
eliminating environmental hazards.  In 2007, New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the
state’s governor, sued Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil, the
world’s largest oil company, over a Newtown Creek oil spill
first discovered in 1978. The company settled the case last year
for $25 million.  In addition to Exxon and London-based BP, companies
involved in the EPA agreement include Texaco, now owned by  San
Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest U.S.
oil company after Exxon; Keyspan Corp., based in Brooklyn and
now a unit of London-based National Grid Plc, owner of natural-
gas and power networks in Britain and the U.S.; and Phelps Dodge
Corp., which was acquired by Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the largest publicly traded copper producer,
in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  