-- 
News Corp., BSkyB Shares Drop After Bid Referred to U.K. Competition Body

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:17:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/news-corp-withdraws-sky-news-pledge-in-bid-for-outstanding-bskyb-shares.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 7.8 billion-pound
($12.4 billion) bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  faces
a review by the top U.K. competition authority that will take at
least six months as a probe into phone hacking widens.  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. declined $1.27, or 7.6 percent,
to $15.48 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. New York
time, the biggest drop since April 2009. BSkyB fell 4.6 percent
to 715.5 pence in London.  The  Competition Commission , now overseeing the regulatory
process for Murdoch’s 700 pence a share bid, will report in six
months, followed by “intensive discussions,” Culture Secretary
 Jeremy Hunt  told lawmakers in London today. Hunt sent the bid to
the antitrust body after News Corp. withdrew earlier pledges
aimed at avoiding a lengthy review, including the spinoff of
BSkyB’s Sky News channel.  The U.K. government is seeking to avoid ruling on the deal
in the wake of the public outcry after the escalating phone-
hacking allegations involving members of the public, celebrities
and sports figures.  “This has now become a completely politically driven
issue,” Liberum Capital analyst Ian Whittaker said. “It will
be hard for the government to approve the bid, either now or at
some point in the future.”  Public Outcry  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  asked Murdoch to
“reconsider” his bid following allegations that Murdoch’s News
of the World tabloid hacked into voicemails of terror and murder
victims such as murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler and paid police
for stories. News Corp. published the last issue of the 168-
year-old newspaper yesterday.  “Withdrawing the undertakings means that spinning off Sky
News is not relevant anymore and any preexisting thoughts on the
deal are scrapped,” Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London, said via telephone. “They approach it with a
fresh sheet of paper.”  In a statement, News Corp. said it “continues to believe
that, taking into account the only relevant legal test, its
proposed acquisition will not lead to there being insufficient
plurality in news provision in the U.K.”  News Corp., which also publishes the Sun, the Times and the
Sunday Times, also said today that it will investigate whether
its journalists broke the law to obtain the bank, medical and
legal records of former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown .  ‘Blagging’ Allegations  The Guardian reported that both the Sunday Times and the
Sun obtained files using techniques known as “blagging,” where
people impersonate someone over the phone in order to access
private information. The Sun obtained details of the private
medical files of Brown’s son Fraser, while someone working for
the Sunday Times acquired Brown’s legal records and tried to
gain access to bank statements, the Guardian said.  “We note the allegations made today concerning the
reporting of matters relating to Gordon Brown,” News Corp.’s
News International unit said in an e-mailed statement. “So that
we can investigate these matters further, we ask that all
information concerning these allegations is provided to us.”  London police have made at least seven arrests as part of
the phone-hacking investigation, including that of  Andy Coulson ,
one-time editor of the News of the World and former
communications chief for Prime Minister  David Cameron . Coulson
has denied any knowledge of reporters tapping phones when he led
the paper.  Independent Inquiry  BSkyB already dropped 12 percent last week as the four-
year-old phone-hacking scandal escalated, prompting Cameron to
pledge an independent inquiry. The scandal has wiped almost 2.4
billion pounds off BSkyB’s market value since the Guardian
reported the Milly Dowler allegations on July 4.  News Corp., which already owns 39 percent of BSkyB, wants
full control to gain access to the broadcaster’s increasing cash
flow. BSkyB may also help Murdoch make News Corp.’s newspapers
more profitable by allowing him to bundle print and pay-TV
subscriptions and spread content over media platforms.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  