-- 
Nomura Trader Fuchs Said to Plan Own $400 Million Hedge Fund

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-07-11T10:12:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/nomura-proprietary-trader-fuchs-said-to-plan-own-400-million-hedge-fund.html
Benjamin Fuchs, who leads the Global
Opportunities Group proprietary trading desk at  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , aims to start his own Hong Kong-based hedge fund with at
least $400 million, said two people with knowledge of the plan.  Nomura,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, will back the
“commingled” fund being planned by B.A.F. Capital Management,
the company named after Fuchs’s initials, with as much as $200
million, according to a marketing document seen by Bloomberg
News. A commingled fund pools assets from different investors
rather than keeping them in separate accounts.  The group, part of Nomura Principal Investments Asia Ltd.,
will start operation separately as B.A.F. later this year, said
the people, who declined to be identified as the information is
private. B.A.F. will have 24 employees including 13 investment
professionals, the document said.  “Sophisticated investors want to invest with managers with
a proven track-record of generating alpha in  Asia ,” said Joseph
Pacini, head of alternative investments of JP Morgan Private
Bank in Asia. “Some investors are viewing the recent spin-offs
of proprietary trading desks into hedge fund firms differently
than a traditional start fund. Some of these managers are
bringing entire teams with them and are only leaving given
regulatory changes.”  Hong Kong-based Fuchs declined to comment, and referred
inquiries to Nomura’s corporate communications staff. Felicity Albert, a Nomura spokeswoman in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Leaving Nomura  Fuchs and his team are leaving Nomura after global hedge
fund industry assets topped $2 trillion for the first time. An
estimated 298 new hedge funds started in the first quarter,
making it the busiest three months for new hedge funds since
2007, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Azentus Capital Management Ltd., a Hong Kong-based hedge
fund led by Morgan Sze, has raised $1.9 billion since it started
trading in April. The majority of his staff worked in the
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Principal Strategies proprietary
trading group that he once headed.  The Global Opportunities Group was initiated by  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in August 2007 to set up an Asia-based
internal fund to trade global assets, Fuchs said in an August
2009 interview. It was reborn when Nomura took over Lehman’s
Asian assets following the U.S. investment bank’s collapse in
September 2008. It started trading in mid-April 2009 with $300
million of capital from the Japanese company, focusing on Asia-
Pacific securities, he added.  Estimated Returns  B.A.F. is estimated to have returned 49 percent in 2009, 21
percent last year, and 1.6 percent in the first five months of
2011, said the document.  Nomura will also provide a working capital loan to B.A.F.
to enable its start up, one of the people said.  B.A.F. will trade equity-linked products such as
convertible bonds, equity volatility and credit, according to
the document. It will focus on Asian investment themes with the
possibility to benefit from global opportunities, it added.  The B.A.F. fund will target an annual return of 15 percent
to 20 percent after fees, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  