-- 
Nortel Resolves Main Objections to $4.5 Billion Patent Sale

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-11T15:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/nortel-says-main-objections-to-4-5-billion-patent-sale-resolved.html
Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ)  resolved the
main objections to the $4.5 billion sale of its patent portfolio
to a group led by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and only “secondary” objections
remain, a company lawyer said.  Lisa Schweitzer began a joint court hearing to seek
approval of the sale in Wilmington,  Delaware , and Toronto by
offering an official account of the auction of the more than
6,000 patents and applications related to wireless and Internet
technologies. Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, hopes to
close the sale to Apple Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and their partners
in the deal within a month, Schweitzer said.  No one challenged her summary of the testimony from two
Nortel advisers, which means that the basic facts surrounding
the auction, the biggest patent sale in history, will be used by
the two judges overseeing Nortel’s bankruptcy to decide whether
to approve the sale.  “This truly is a ‘wow’ transaction,” said David H. Botter, an
attorney for the main committee of Nortel’s unsecured, U.S.
creditors.  After Nortel filed for bankruptcy in 2009, it began selling
its businesses, raising about $3 billion before the June patent
auction. The patent portfolio was the last major asset Nortel
had to sell, and will boost creditor recoveries.  The winning group includes competitors-turned-partners of
Apple, such as Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., Nortel said in a statement.
Bankruptcy courts in the U.S. and  Canada  must approve the
bidding results before the sale is final.  The bankruptcy case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  