-- 
Li Ka-Shing Approaches Northumbrian Water With $3.8 Billion Takeover Offer

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-11T15:52:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/northumbrian-water-receives-3-8-billion-proposal-from-li-ka-shing-s-cki.html
Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing’s
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038)  made a 2.4 billion
pound ($3.8 billion) takeover proposal for  Northumbrian Water
Group Plc (NWG)  in its second foray into the U.K. in a year.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure, known as CKI, tabled a revised
465 pence-a-share non-binding offer for the Durham, England-
based company, according to a statement today. Northumbrian
Water jumped to an eight-year high in London trading.  CKI has invested in electricity, gas, water and road assets
in  New Zealand ,  Australia ,  China , the U.K. and  Canada  and has
been looking for further acquisitions. Last year, it led a group
that agreed to buy Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power
networks for 5.8 billion pounds. Northumbrian’s board agreed to
open its books to the potential buyer for a “limited period.”  The bid is “at the top end, it’s unlikely to be higher
than that,” said Dominic Nash, a London-based analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd. “If the bid was far too low, they wouldn’t
have opened the books” for due diligence.  Northumbrian rose 5 percent to 447.70 as of the 4:30 p.m.
close. That was the highest since 2003. The stock has climbed 35
percent this year.  The revised offer follows a July 1 indicative proposal from
CKI for Northumbrian, the supplier to about 4.4 million
customers in the U.K. CKI notified Northumbrian that it will
complete the sale of Cambridge Water Plc, which it acquired in
May 2004, before making any “announcement of a firm intention
to make an offer,” the U.K. utility said.  ‘No Certainty’  “There can be no certainty that any offer will be made for
Northumbrian Water, nor as to the terms on which any offer might
be made,” the U.K. company said today.  Northumbrian shareholders will receive a 9.57 pence-a-share
dividend due to be paid on Sept. 9, according to the revised
offer.  “The current bid level, including the final dividend, is
close to 475 pence, and we regard this as fair, and likely to be
recommended by the board,” said Angelos Anastasiou, an analyst
at Investec Securities.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which owns a 27 percent
stake in the utility, is likely to accept the offer based on the
asset valuation, he said.  Deborah Allan , a spokeswoman for Ontario Teachers Pension
Plan, declined to comment today.  Ontario Teachers’ bought a 25 percent interest in
Northumbrian from Suez SA for 259 million pounds in April 2005,
paying about 199 pence a share, according to a company statement
at the time.  In a separate statement,  Fitch Ratings  said CKI’s ratings
weren’t immediately affected by its proposal to buy
Northumbrian.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  