-- 
Obama Urges Independent Agencies to Shed Burdensome Rules

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-07-11T20:16:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/obama-urges-independent-agencies-to-shed-burdensome-rules-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
independent agencies to consider proposals that would cut
paperwork and eliminate outdated rules, broadening his effort to
remove or overhaul unnecessary U.S. regulations.  Obama’s order is aimed at bodies such as the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the  National Labor Relations Board ,
excluded from the effort among federal departments he started in
January to drop rules that stifle economic expansion without
helping consumers.  “I hope you see this as an opportunity to something big
and lasting -- to change the ways of  Washington ,” Obama said
today in a statement to the agencies. “We are taking immediate
steps to eliminate millions of hours in annual paperwork burdens
for large and small businesses and save more than $1 billion in
annual regulatory costs.”  The administration said in May that more than 30 agencies
from the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration  to the
 Food and Drug Administration  are seeking to repeal or modify
regulations to reduce reporting requirements and trim compliance
costs. As part of the effort, rules for vapor-recovery systems
at gas stations are being dropped and labeling requirements for
hazardous materials are being altered.  Obama’s order is an historic request by the White House to
the independent bodies, over which the president has limited
power to dismiss the agency head, Cass Sunstein, the White House
official in charge of regulatory overhaul proposals, said today
on a conference call with reporters.  ‘Traditional Understanding’  “The traditional understanding is that independent
agencies are just that, independent,” he said. “The
expectation is that the agencies will welcome this, and find
this a productive moment as far as the public interest is
concerned.”  The White House effort to eliminate unnecessary regulations
has so far failed to slow the process, Republicans such as
Representative Cliff Stearns of  Florida , chairman of the
subcommittee, have said.  “New regulations affecting many sectors of industry and
aspects of American life are being promulgated under the same
flawed system that produced the regulations identified” by the
White House, Stearns said June 3 at a hearing of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee panel on oversight and
investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  