-- 
McConnell, Republicans Attack Obama’s Bid to Forge ‘Grand Bargain’ on Debt

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-12T18:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/obama-urges-largest-possible-deal-on-debt.html
The top Senate Republican attacked
the credibility of President Barack Obama’s efforts to forge a
“grand bargain” of spending cuts and tax increases, saying the
president himself was an obstacle to an agreement on the debt.  Senator  Mitch McConnell  and other Republican leaders said
Obama is putting an expansion of government ahead of the goal of
reaching a bipartisan accord to cut the U.S. deficit. He said
Democrats’ “smoke and mirrors” proposals prevented the type of
$4 trillion deficit reduction that Obama is seeking.  “As long as this president is in the Oval Office, a real
solution is unattainable,” McConnell of  Kentucky  said on the
Senate floor today in his toughest comments about the
negotiations since bipartisan talks began.  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  called McConnell’s
remarks “unfortunate,” saying, “this president is going to be
in office for at least another 18 months, and I think that the
American people expect Congress to work with him.”  Carney said Obama has been willing to do “tough things
that will not be easy to convince Democrats to go along with.”  Obama has pressed Republican leaders to seek bigger deficit
savings than the range between $2 trillion and $2.5 trillion
they have targeted and to compromise on their opposition to tax
increases. The two parties are in talks aimed at raising the
$14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling before Aug. 2, the date when
the government is projected to exhaust its borrowing authority.  ‘Now is the Time’  “Now is the time to deal with these issues,” Obama said
at a White House news conference yesterday. “If not now,
when?”  In an interview for “CBS Evening News with  Scott Pelley ,”
Obama raised the possibility that the federal government might
not be able to pay Social Security and veterans’ benefits if an
agreement isn’t reached in time.  “I cannot guarantee that those checks go out on Aug. 3 if
we haven’t resolved this issue,” Obama said. “Because there
may simply not be the money in the coffers to do it.”  The parties are divided over taxes and entitlement
programs. In addition to rebuffing Democratic calls for more tax
revenue, Republicans are pushing to cut programs such as
Medicare and Social Security. The White House has indicated a
willingness to consider savings including an increase in the
Medicare-eligibility age as part of a larger deal.  ‘Something Big’  “I was one of those who had long hoped we could do
something big for the country,” McConnell said. “But in my
view the president has presented us with three choices: smoke
and mirrors, tax hikes, or default. Republicans choose none of
the above.”  McConnell’s criticism was echoed by House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, who said the “president talks a
good game, but when it comes to actually putting these issues on
the table and making decisions, he can’t quite pull the
trigger.”  McConnell held a private meeting with Senate Republicans to
get their views on the negotiations at the White House scheduled
to resume at 3:45 p.m. today.  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican and member of the
Republican leadership team, said the lawmakers discussed options
going forward in the talks, which are at a standoff over tax
increases. He said Republicans want to pressure Democrats by
highlighting some of the ideas they are pushing that aren’t
popular with the public and can’t pass Congress.  Senate Votes  He said McConnell is weighing a plan to take some of
Obama’s ideas and try to put them before the Senate for a vote.  Another potential option for Republicans is to see whether
the Republican-led House would pass a short-term debt limit
increase to “put pressure” on Democrats to accept spending
cuts, Cornyn said.  Obama yesterday rejected any short-term extension. He also
rebuffed a Republican presentation on spending cuts discussed in
earlier talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden , a Democratic
official said. Obama said the total -- which a Democratic
official put at $1.7 trillion -- fell short of both his goal and
the threshold Republicans set for a debt-limit increase large
enough to carry the nation through the 2012 elections, another
Democrat said.  Letter From Chamber  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the  Business Roundtable  and
other organizations today released a letter to Obama and
Congress urging action “to raise the debt ceiling as
expeditiously as possible.”  The letter, which the chamber said was signed by 470 chief
executives, supports long-term efforts to reduce federal
deficits while saying that failure to increase the government’s
borrowing authority “would create uncertainty and fear, and
threaten the credit rating of the  United States .”  House Democrats met this morning to review the bigger deal
that Obama is offering to Republicans even as aides said the
Medicare and Social Security compromises Obama has been willing
to consider are largely moot given that Republicans refusal to
engage on revenue. Democrats said the debt negotiations have
become so strained, it may take  Wall Street  and business groups
stepping in with a warning to force an agreement.  “We certainly would hope that the Chamber of Commerce
would step up,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson of  Connecticut . “We have heard from Wall Street but I
think they have to be more vociferous and more present in terms
of the looming, impending danger.”  U.S. Stocks  U.S. stocks rose, after the biggest two-day drop since
March for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The S&P index rose
0.1 percent to 1,320.60 at 12:32 p.m. in  New York .  Yields on benchmark Treasury 10-year notes were little
changed after surging earlier as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may spread stoked demand for the U.S. government debt’s
safety. The 10-year note yield fell as much as 11 basis points
to 2.81 percent, the lowest since Dec. 1, before trading little
changed at 2.91 percent, at 1:45 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices show.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said the Obama
administration is aiming to reach a deal on raising the debt
ceiling as soon as this week.  “We want to wrap up the broad outlines of this agreement
by the end of this week, certainly by the end of next week,”
Geithner said today at a symposium in  Washington .  Republicans have demanded at least a dollar in spending
cuts over 10 years for every dollar they agree to raise the debt
limit, which would have to go up more than $2 trillion to get
through the elections. The Republicans last weekend lowered
their objective for deficit reduction to the range of $2
trillion to $2.5 trillion.  Democratic congressional leaders also objected to the
figure presented yesterday by Republicans, saying spending cuts
that had been discussed in the Biden-led talks were contingent
on  tax-revenue  increases, said a Democratic official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  