-- 
Obama Challenges Republicans for Debt-Plan Details

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-11T12:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/obama-said-to-challenge-republicans-for-details-of-debt-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  is
challenging Republican lawmakers to present a plan for a
smaller-scale deficit reduction program as he attempts to steer
them toward his $4 trillion goal, a Democratic aide said.  Obama plans to hold a press conference at 11 a.m. in
Washington today, his fifth public remarks on the debt in a
week, as he presses lawmakers to reach an agreement to raise the
$14.3 trillion U.S. borrowing ceiling before an Aug. 2 deadline.
The president and bipartisan congressional negotiators agreed to
meet every day until they reach a deal, said one legislative
aide on condition of anonymity.  They are divided over taxes and entitlements. Republicans
reject Democrats’ call for more  tax revenue  and instead are
pressing to cut entitlement programs such as Medicare and Social
Security. Democrats insist even the Republicans’ proposal for a
smaller deficit-cutting plan must include more taxes from
higher-income Americans. Obama has said he is willing to cut
entitlements in exchange for a Republican agreement to increase
taxes.  Democrats want to “enact an agreement that ensures America
pays its bills and reduces the deficit in a balanced way without
putting all of the burden on seniors and the middle class,”
Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the second-ranking House
Democrat, said in a statement after a 75-minute negotiating
session yesterday at the White House.  Don Stewart , spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, underscored Republicans’ opposition to
any tax increases.  ‘It’s Baffling’  “It’s baffling that the president and his party continue
to insist on massive tax hikes in the middle of a jobs crisis
while refusing to take significant action on spending reductions
at a time of record deficits,” Stewart said after the meeting.  Talks are scheduled to resume today at 2 p.m.,  Brendan
Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , said in an e-
mail.  U.S. stock futures declined, indicating that the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will fall for a second day. Futures
on the  S&P 500  expiring in September fell 1.3 percent to 1,323.7
at 8:35 a.m. in  New York . Futures on the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  declined 122 points, or 1 percent, to 12,493.  Obama and congressional leaders are seeking a deal to pave
the way for a vote in Congress to increase the debt limit, a
move the Treasury Department says is needed by Aug. 2 to avert a
default on the nation’s financial obligations.  ‘Catastrophic Consequences’  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  said on “Face the Nation”
yesterday that the administration wants the most comprehensive
deficit-cutting deal possible. He reiterated that failing to
raise the debt limit could have “catastrophic” consequences
for the economy.  On July 9, Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said following a
phone conversation with Obama that, amid the stalemate over
taxes, all sides must settle for a smaller plan than the
president seeks. Before yesterday’s White House meeting, Obama
said “we need to” reach an agreement within the next 10 days.  During the meeting, Obama said he believed a bigger deal
might be politically easier, with both sides making
philosophically difficult concessions, said a Democrat familiar
with the discussions. The president asked Republicans to return
today with details of their proposal, including numbers, the
person said.  ‘Huge Hit’  Christine Lagarde, managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , said on ABC’s “This Week” yesterday that the
unresolved situation with the debt ceiling could mean higher
 interest rates , a higher burden on U.S. taxpayers and “stock
markets taking a huge hit and real nasty consequences not just
for the United States but for the entire global economy.”  Boehner and the president had both been aiming for a larger
compromise that would extend the debt ceiling through the next
election in 2012. House and Senate Republicans are insisting
that spending cuts exceed any increase in the debt ceiling.  Republicans including Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of
Virginia, a participant in previous bipartisan debt talks led by
Vice President Joe Biden, say that group had identified between
$2 trillion and $2.5 trillion in spending cuts that could serve
as a framework for an agreement between Obama and congressional
leaders.  Democrats, including  Maryland  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , who participated in the Biden effort, say Democrats
never agreed to that amount without new revenue in the mix.  “What we talked about was $1.1 trillion in cuts and
savings,” Van Hollen said today on “The Early Show” on CBS.
“We did not get close to $2 trillion in cuts. And again, the
gap there was closing these corporate tax loopholes.”  Doesn’t Get Easier  The conflicting accounts underscore the difficulty of
reaching a speedy resolution, said  Robert Bixby , executive
director of the Arlington, Virginia-based Concord Coalition.  “It’s not a simple matter of going back to what everybody
agreed to in the Biden talks because everybody didn’t agree to
it,” said Bixby. “It doesn’t get any easier just to get a
short-term deal.”  McConnell said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday” that he
also favors “the biggest deal possible. We’re just not going to
raise taxes in the middle of this horrible situation.”  The Labor Department reported July 8 that the  unemployment
rate  in June unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent, the highest
this year. Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest growth since
September 2010. Payroll growth for May also was revised
downward, to 25,000.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
expressed frustration yesterday that Republicans had repeatedly
walked away from the table, according to one congressional aide.
Cantor left the Biden negotiations in a similar stalemate on
taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  