-- 
Obama Aide Brennan Visits Sana’a, Urges Saleh to Step Down

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-07-11T16:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/obama-aide-brennan-visits-sana-a-urges-saleh-to-step-down.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top
counterterrorism aide met with senior Yemeni officials in
Sana’a, the capital, a day after urging President Ali Abdullah Saleh to honor a promise to end his three-decade rule.  John Brennan , Obama’s assistant for counterterrorism and
homeland security, met Vice President Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi,
the state-run Saba news agency reported. He also held talks with
Ahmed al-Ashwal, a son of Saleh who heads the Republican Guards,
and Foreign Minister Abubakr al Qirbi, with whom he discussed a
proposal by the Gulf Cooperation Council for Saleh to step down.  In  Saudi Arabia  yesterday, Brennan asked Saleh “to fulfill
expeditiously his pledge to sign the GCC-brokered agreement for
peaceful and constitutional political transition in  Yemen ,”
according to a  White House statement . Saleh is in  Riyadh ,
recovering from injuries sustained during a June 3 attack on his
presidential compound in Sana’a.  Tens of thousands protested today in Sana’a, Taiz and other
cities to denounce U.S.-Saudi interference and urge the Saudi
government to hand Saleh over for prosecution. They also
demanded the removal of Saleh’s relatives from government
positions and the formation of a transitional council to run the
Arab Peninsula nation.  Pro-democracy protesters have called for an end to Saleh’s
rule since January. Hundreds of people have died in clashes
between activists and government forces since then as Yemen’s
economy and security worsens. Saleh has refused to sign the GCC
plan on three occasions since May, after initially backing it.  Saleh Plans Return  Saleh will return to Yemen on July 17, the 33rd anniversary
of his taking office,  Al Arabiya  television said over the
weekend, citing an unidentified official. Saleh chose that date
to send a message that he’s still the legitimate president of
Yemen until September 2013, Al Arabiya cited the official as
saying.  The GCC accord requires Saleh to step down within 30 days
of it being signed and hand power over to his deputy in exchange
for immunity from prosecution. The handover would be followed by
elections.  Once the pledge is signed “much needed assistance will
flow to Yemen,” according to the U.S. statement. “The  United
States  believes that a transition in Yemen should begin
immediately so that the Yemeni people can realize their
aspirations.”  Brennan “emphasized the importance of resolving the
political crisis in Sana’a” and wished Saleh “a speedy
recovery,” according to the statement. He also reiterated the
U.S. government’s condemnation of the attack on Saleh.  Hundreds of Yemeni citizens have been killed in attacks by
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the statement said. An end to
the political crisis is needed “so that the Yemeni government
and people can successfully confront the serious challenges they
face,” it said.  Forces in the province of Abyan killed four al-Qaeda
militants and wounded two others in clashes, Saba said
yesterday. A Yemeni soldier was also killed and four others
injured in the fight, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 