-- 
Tokyo-Osaka Merger Cheapest in Asia as No. 2 World Market Fades: Real M&A

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i
-- 
2011-07-12T08:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/tokyo-osaka-merger-cheapest-in-asia-as-no-2-world-market-fades-real-m-a.html
The cheapest valuation in  Asia  and
$37 billion of offers worldwide may spur  Tokyo  Stock Exchange
Group Inc. to join the industry’s biggest wave of consolidation.  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co., the smaller of the two main
bourses for the world’s second-largest equity market, traded at
13.9 times earnings last month, the lowest level since at least
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The OSE is still
the least expensive exchange in Asia relative to earnings even
after speculation that the TSE would purchase the Osaka bourse
pushed the shares up 10 percent last week.  An alliance with Osaka would enable the Tokyo exchange to
gain trading in Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures as derivatives
transactions in Asia outstrip the U.S. and volume on the TSE
stagnates. Still, with initial public offerings from  Hong Kong 
to Singapore outpacing  Japan  by more than 19-fold and the
Deutsche Boerse AG- NYSE Euronext (NYX)  merger set to create the
world’s largest exchange, the deal won’t boost Japan’s standing
as a financial center after the country’s equities posted the
world’s biggest slump since the end of the 1980s, Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. and Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. say.  “It makes sense to combine their energies and resources
within Japan and then look overseas,” said  Yuuki Sakurai ,
president of Fukoku Capital Management, which oversees about $7
billion in Tokyo. “The exchanges are struggling amongst
themselves within this small island, without looking at the
entire Asian continent.”  Merger Discussions  TSE President  Atsushi Saito , 71, said in an interview on
March 10 that he was planning to hold merger discussions with
the Osaka exchange. The TSE also was set to start preparing an
IPO after reporting its earnings for the period ending that
month, he said.  Dealmaking in Japan then ground to a halt the next day as
the country was hit by its worst earthquake. The 9-magnitude
temblor and nuclear crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant sent
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average down 18 percent in three days.  The OSE posted its biggest weekly gain since February last
week, climbing 10 percent as the Asahi newspaper said that the
TSE was seeking a takeover of the Osaka bourse, which was
 established in 1878  and has its roots in the futures exchanges
for rice during Japan’s Edo period. Shares of the Osaka bourse
lost 0.6 percent to 395,500 yen today. The OSE is resisting the
bid, the newspaper said on July 5.  The TSE’s Saito said last month a merger could create
“synergies,” while OSE President Michio Yoneda, 62, told
shareholders at the exchange’s annual meeting in Osaka on June
22 that he didn’t oppose a merger.  IPO Preparations  Nothing has been decided, said Yukari Hozumi, a spokeswoman
for the TSE. The OSE’s Masahiro Yada said in a phone interview
that the bourse hasn’t announced anything about the merger.  Last week’s rally helped increase the OSE’s market
capitalization to 107.5 billion yen ($1.3 billion) as of
yesterday’s close of 398,000 yen. That compares with HK$178.1
billion ($22.9 billion) for Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s biggest bourse operator by market value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The TSE, home to companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to Sony
Corp., is pressing ahead with preparations for an IPO, Hiroyuki Iwakuma, the bourse’s general manager, said at a shareholders’
meeting on June 21. The exchange delayed a share sale in March
2009 as the worst global financial crisis since the Great
Depression pushed the Nikkei to the lowest level in 26 years.  Relative Value  Even after last week’s surge, the OSE is valued at 17.1
times profit, the least expensive of Asia’s five publicly traded
bourses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At that price,
the TSE would gain the world’s fourth-biggest exchange for stock
index futures, as well as the  Jasdaq Securities Exchange Inc. ,
the venue for startups that merged with the OSE in April 2010.
Companies from Nintendo Co. to McDonald’s Holdings Co. (Japan)
have their primary listings in Osaka.  Derivatives trading in the Asia-Pacific region increased
more than in the Americas and in Europe, Africa and the Middle
East last year, according to  data  compiled by the Paris-based
World Federation of Exchanges. Asia now accounts for the largest
portion of derivatives transactions with 8.9 billion contracts
traded in 2010, compared with 8.8 billion in the Americas.  “The Osaka exchange is more derivatives focused, so that’s
another reason why it makes sense for them to merge because they
can both expand their product offerings,” said Colin Whitehead,
an equity analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “The environment
for exchanges is certainly one that’s tilting toward
consolidation.”  Arrowhead, J-Gate  A combination of the Tokyo and Osaka bourses would also cut
costs through the sharing of trading technology, according to
 Larry Tabb , founder of Westborough, Massachusetts-based
financial-market research and advisory firm Tabb Group LLC.  The TSE introduced a faster trading platform in January
2010 called Arrowhead, developed by Fujitsu Ltd. and other
companies. Osaka started using J-Gate in February, which relies
on technology from New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)   “They’re trying to create cost synergies, as well as
create a larger entity to at least keep them somewhat in the
game,” Tabb said. “By merging with Osaka, they can leverage
the new Tokyo infrastructure and be able to reduce their cost
and basically maintain virtually all of their revenue.”  While a deal may help the TSE cut costs, it would be
acquiring an exchange with the lowest operating margin among
Asia’s publicly traded bourses. The OSE converted 34 cents of
each dollar of revenue into operating income, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Operating Margins  Hong Kong Exchanges has the highest operating margin
globally, at 82 percent. Investors are willing to pay about 35
times earnings to own shares of the Hong Kong bourse, the
second-highest valuation for any exchanges with a market value
of more than $1 billion after  Dubai Financial Market (DFM)  PJSC.
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  has an operating margin of 57 percent
and trades for 27 times profit, the data show.  IPOs in Japan have also lagged behind Hong Kong since the
start of 2005 and  China  since 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. So far this year, Hong Kong attracted more than
$15 billion in IPOs, while $7 billion of offerings have been
completed in Singapore. About $25 billion has been raised on
China’s exchanges in Shanghai and Shenzhen in 2011, almost 70
times more than the $357.3 million sold in Japan, the data show.  ‘It’s Too Late’  “The merger means little unless it gives them a next step
for bigger achievements,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management in Tokyo.
“If it had happened ten years ago, the merger could have made
them the Asian center, but it’s too late.”  The Nikkei has retreated about 74 percent from its peak of
38,915.87 on the last day of trading in 1989, before the
bursting of an asset bubble triggered what’s known as Japan’s
lost decade of the 1990s. The decline is the worst performance
among the world’s major markets since the end of the 1980s, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The TSE and OSE are also facing increased competition on
the domestic front from alternative exchanges such as Chi-X
Japan Ltd. The average value of shares traded daily on the first
section of the TSE, 1.21 trillion yen during the past 60 days,
is little changed from when the market bottomed in March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chi-X Japan, an alternative venue that began trading in
July 2010, accounted for  2.4 percent  of trading in Nikkei 225
stocks on TSE’s auction market in June, according to a statement
from the company. That’s up from 1.6 percent in April. Parent
company Chi-X Global Inc. is owned by Instinet Inc., which is a
subsidiary of Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo.  ‘Great Advertisement’  “If the Japanese government ever came to me and said what
do you think we should do with our capital markets, I would
merge” the TSE and OSE, said  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. “Osaka is
cheap. Merging Tokyo and Osaka, making them public, would be a
great advertisement for the country and would draw money into
the companies listed on them.”  A deal between the TSE and OSE is unlikely in the “near
term,” according to Caldwell, whose firm oversees about $1
billion, including shares of NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse and
Hong Kong Exchanges, with its affiliates. They previously owned
OSE shares and sold them, he said.  Even if a deal between Tokyo and Osaka is reached, it’s not
likely to lead to a “big, transnational” international merger,
particularly with another Asian bourse, according to Caldwell.  Global Deals  While shareholders of New York-based NYSE Euronext approved
the company’s takeover by Deutsche Boerse of Frankfurt last
week, Singapore Exchange’s acquisition of Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX) 
was blocked by Australia’s government in April.  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  scrapped its bid for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  of
Toronto last month after it failed to win shareholder support.  There have been $37 billion of exchange merger
announcements since Singapore Exchange announced its bid for ASX
in October, according to Bloomberg data that include planned,
unsolicited and terminated bids.  Japan’s bourses still need an alliance to remain globally
competitive, according to Amir Anvarzadeh, a sales manager for
BGC Partners Inc.’s Asian equity sales team in Singapore.  “The merger is absolutely imperative,” he said. “A
consolidation of exchanges is definitely on the cards globally.
A lot of things in Japan come too late. It’s late but it’s
better late than never.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Iwatani in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at +852-2977-6545 or  ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 