-- 
Lonza to Buy Arch for $1.2 Billion in Cash to Expand in Microbial Control

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-11T20:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/lonza-agrees-to-buy-arch-chemicals-for-1-4-billion-grow-microbial-sales.html
Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the world’s biggest
maker of drug ingredients, agreed to buy  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  for
$1.2 billion in cash to create the global leader in the business
of killing bacteria and fungi.  Lonza will pay $47.20 a share, 12 percent more than the
closing price on July 8, the Basel, Switzerland-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Arch rose above the offer
price, gaining $5.20, or 12 percent, to $47.37 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest climb in
15 months.  Arch’s products are used to kill microbes in swimming
pools, protect wood from fungus, deter the growth of mold and
mildew in paint and treat dandruff, according to the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based company’s website. The deal will make Lonza
the leader in a market valued at  $10 billion  that’s growing as
much as 6 percent a year, and reduce its dependence on making
pharmaceutical ingredients for drugmakers, the company said.  The acquisition has “a strong strategic rationale”
because it allows the two companies to combine complementary
businesses and increases Lonza’s sales in emerging markets,
Peter Welford, an analyst with Jefferies International Ltd. in
 London , wrote in a note today.  Lonza rose 60 centimes to 67.40 Swiss francs at 5:30 p.m.
local time in Zurich.  Earnings Boost  The purchase values Arch at as much as 17.2 times forecast
earnings per share for 2011, according to Bloomberg
calculations. Acquirers of specialty chemical companies paid a
median of 19.1 times earnings in the past two years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Including debt, the acquisition
values Arch at $1.4 billion.  The acquisition will create a unit with $1.4 billion in
sales, boosting earnings by at least 40 centimes a share in the
first year after it’s completed, Lonza said. The company expects
cost savings of at least $50 million annually by the second year
after the purchase, with $40 million of increased sales. The
purchase will result in about $85 million in expenses during the
next two years, it said.  “This thing makes a hell of a lot of financial sense for
all of the people involved,” Lonza Chief Executive Officer
Stefan Borgas said at a briefing with analysts in Zurich. “We
can create the clear leader in microbial control in the world by
putting our two businesses together.”  Deal Financing  The purchase will boost Lonza’s sales in  China ,  India ,
 Brazil  and  South Africa  to $249 million from $35 million now,
the company said. The two companies plan to sell Arch’s
performance products unit, a division that makes chemicals for
coatings, adhesives, antifreeze and cleaning products, Borgas
said in the briefing.  Lonza plans to complete the purchase this year, the
companies said. Lonza will use bridge loans from banks to pay
for Arch, and then refinance those loans using bonds and new
loans. The deal was recommended by the boards of both companies,
Lonza said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the law firm Jenner & Block LLP
advised Lonza. Morgan Stanley and Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP
worked for Arch.  July 8 Jump  Arch jumped 11 percent, its biggest gain in 14 months, on
July 8, the last trading day before the purchase was announced.
Trading volume rose to 1.2 million shares, compared with a daily
average of 197,000 shares for the past three months.  “It’s not up to us really to make any speculations about
it,” Borgas said of the stock price move on a telephone
briefing with reporters. “The fact is there was absolutely no
rumor about Arch anywhere, there was absolutely no rumor about
Lonza anywhere. We really at the end don’t know what happened.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  