-- 
Moody’s Defends Danish Mortgage Downgrades

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-07-11T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/moody-s-defends-danish-mortgage-downgrades.html
Moody’s Investors Service defended
its downgrades of  Denmark ’s mortgage bond market, the world’s
third-largest, after the industry’s biggest lenders said the
rating company based its cuts on misunderstandings.  Moody’s, which in June warned that the Danish market for
home loans was growing less stable amid a rise in the proportion
of adjustable-rate loans, said the securities are putting
issuers at risk because they need to tap debt markets more
frequently to refinance mortgages.  “If you look at a comparison between adjustable-rate
mortgage bonds and a more traditional product, then - in terms
of credit risk - the adjustable-rate mortgage bonds are
riskier,” Moody’s analyst Alexander Zeidler said in a phone
interview out of  London  yesterday.  The view is in contrast with  Standard & Poor’s  take on
Denmark’s mortgage market, where credit analyst Casper Rahbek Andersen said last week he doesn’t expect a departure from
fixed-rate debt to weaken lenders’ access to stable funding.
Danske Bank A/S mortgage unit Realkredit Danmark A/S said June
23 it will no longer use Moody’s to rank its bonds after the
rating company said the lender needed to find an extra $6.3
billion in capital to protect its AAA graded debt.  Zeidler declined to comment on Realkredit Danmark’s
decision to drop the rating company. The Danske Bank unit, which
already uses S&P, has signaled it may also approach  Fitch
Ratings .  The split between how Moody’s and S&P rate Denmark’s
covered debt is making it difficult for issuers to fulfill
ratings criteria, said Jacob Skinhoj, chief fixed-income analyst
in Copenhagen at Nordea Bank AB, the biggest Nordic lender.  ‘Somewhat Strange’  “We find it somewhat strange that the two credit rating
institutions can have such different views on Danish
mortgages,” Skinhoj said by phone. “Danish issuers have to
focus on keeping both rating institutions happy, which seems to
be quite hard these days.”  According to Jesper Berg, senior vice president and head of
ratings at Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of covered
bonds backed by mortgage debt, the current ratings disparities
ultimately hurt transparency.  “There is scope for some rating agencies to advance the
way they model these risks and thereby improve the associated
transparency,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Rating companies have been criticized by European officials
for exacerbating market turmoil by announcing sovereign
downgrades as policy makers struggle to end Europe’s debt crisis.  EU Criticism  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  on July 6
faulted Moody’s on the timing and size of downgrades, warning
credit actions can fuel speculation.  Moody’s argues that Denmark’s adjustable-rate mortgage
bonds represent a bigger refinancing risk because they, unlike
other Danish covered bonds, don’t match the maturities on the
loans linked to them. The adjustable-rate bonds tend to have
maturities of one to three years compared with an average loan
maturity of 20 to 30 years.  The outstanding volume of bonds for financing adjustable-
rate loans increased to 1.22 trillion kroner ($235 billion) from
636 billion kroner between 2008 and 2011, Moody’s said June 10,
citing data provided by Denmark’s central bank. That's roughly
half the country's covered debt market, it said.  “For traditional covered bonds, it has always been the
case that the maturity of the loan and covered bond is exactly
the same,” Zeidler said. “Issuers need to be able to access
the market for adjustable-rate mortgage bonds and that is not
the case for traditional bonds.”  Market Shifts  In the past 15 years, Denmark’s mortgage-bond market has
moved away from traditional fixed-rate, callable-at-par
securities into more varied debt instruments. Adjustable-rate
mortgages were introduced in 1996. Interest-only loans, which
the central bank has criticized for exacerbating volatility in
the country’s property market, were sold from 2003. So-called
capped floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a
ceiling on how high borrow costs can rise, came in 2004.  Berg at Nykredit says Moody’s doesn’t properly take account
of the fact that issuers pass on interest rate costs to
borrowers from investors.  “We agree that risks on adjustable-rate mortgages are
higher than on traditional covered bonds,” he said. “However,
by far the major additional risk in relation to ARMs is the
credit risk that arises if  interest rates  go up, and not a
market risk. Even in the event of an issuer default, the
administrator is obliged to pass on the cost of financing to the
borrower.”  Issuer Dependency  Moody’s on June 10 lowered the timely payment indicator on
some mortgage bonds, including those issued by Nykredit and
Realkredit Danmark, to ‘high’ from ‘very high,’ arguing the
surge in adjustable-rate debt has added risk to the market. The
rating company also raised the over-collateralization rates on
some covered bonds that it said are needed to avoid downgrades
on the debt.  On July 1, Moody’s cut Nykredit Realkredit’s issuer rating
to A2 from A1, and its Tier 1 hybrid rating to Baa2 from Baa1.  “For adjustable-rate covered bonds, there is a dependency
of the issuer to be able to access the market to refinance the
loans,” Zeidler said. “In Danish traditional covered bonds,
that is simply not the case.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 