-- 
How Prisoner Release Could Benefit California: Michael Jacobson

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J a c o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/how-prisoner-release-could-benefit-california-michael-jacobson.html
Justices Antonin Scalia and  Samuel Alito  appealed to fear with their dissents to the U.S.  Supreme
Court ’s May 23 decision ordering California to shed more than
30,000 inmates from its bloated system.  Alito predicted a “grim roster of victims” resulting from
willy-nilly early release of prisoners; Scalia imagined tens of
thousands of “happy-go-lucky felons” on the loose, many with
“intimidating muscles” developed while “pumping iron in the
prison gym.” It is true that the court’s decision places the
state in a bind, yet it should be an opportunity to carry out
proven reforms that will make California’s criminal justice
system more just and improve public safety.  The current system, which holds more than 150,000 people in
quarters meant for 80,000, is failing both inmates and
taxpayers. Although  California  spends billions on incarceration,
its  recidivism rate  is the second highest in the nation: 58
percent of released inmates return to prison within three years.
The Pew Center on the States reports that 40 percent of these
returns are for violations of parole rules such as missing
appointments with a parole officer or failing a drug test -- not
for new crimes.  Governor  Jerry Brown  understands the scope of the crisis.
Even before the Supreme Court weighed in to uphold a lower court
order requiring California to cut its prison population, he had
proposed easing overcrowding by sending thousands of inmates to
county custody -- in other words, by transferring them to local
jails. A second  proposal  would require the counties to assume
responsibility for low-risk parolees.  Los Angeles County  Both measures would be accompanied by state money to defray
the costs -- but certainly not as much as the state currently
spends on its prisons. Los Angeles County, which has
historically had an overcrowded jail system, expects to receive
under the plan an additional 5,000 to 8,000 incarcerated people
annually, along with responsibility for 11,000 to 15,000 more
parolees who are potentially just one dirty urine test away from
joining them.  Fortunately, there is a way to deal with this influx safely
and humanely. Over the past three decades, jurisdictions across
the U.S. have ensured that only those who present a genuine
threat to public safety fill prison beds, while those who can
thrive with supervision and services in the community get the
help they need. California officials can begin emulating three
steps, starting immediately:  -- Statistical analysis has made it possible to accurately
predict who is likely to commit new crimes and who isn’t.
California officials, especially at the county level, should put
in place risk assessment instruments based on this data to
decide who needs to be held and who can be supervised safely in
the community. Research has shown that overpunishing offenders
who present little risk will in many cases turn them into real
threats to public safety. Scarce taxpayer dollars need to be
used explicitly for strategies and programs that we know will
reduce crime, and not increase it.  -- Invest in a network of community-based services that can
serve those released under supervision, including formerly
incarcerated people. Workforce development programs or drug
treatment can go a long way toward ensuring that people can
remain safely in the community. For instance, in a  multiyear
evaluation  of the Center for Employment Opportunities, a
transitional jobs program for former prisoners based in  New York
City , the nonpartisan education and social policy research
organization MDRC found significant drops in recidivism, with
the strongest reductions for former prisoners who are at the
highest risk.  -- Strapped local officials should resist the
understandable temptation to use the money that accompanies
redirected inmates and parolees for other needed programs,
including general services that are being cut. Although public
safety need not be as expensive as we currently make it, it
can’t be done on the cheap. Besides, the  Justice Reinvestment
Initiative  of the  Department of Justice  is designed to show that
a shift in spending from incarceration to policies like those
listed above actually makes communities safer.  The Supreme Court has rightly affirmed that the status quo
is unsustainable. No doubt, some people who might be released
will commit crimes. Some may even be the intimidating musclemen
of Scalia’s imagination. But given that incarceration rates must
now go down, Californians have a right to expect their officials
will make informed choices -- not freeze in fear. Although the
process may seem overwhelming, this is a unique opportunity for
the state to re-imagine its criminal justice system and
ultimately make its communities safer.  (Michael Jacobson is president and director of the Vera
Institute of Justice, a nonprofit criminal justice research
group in  New York . He served as commissioner of the  New York
City Department of Correction  from 1995 to 1998 and as probation
commissioner from 1992 to 1996. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds . 