-- 
Pakistan Military Push on Taliban Bastion May Avoid Primary Target of U.S.

-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-07-12T07:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/pakistan-army-push-on-taliban-bastion-may-avoid-a-main-u-s-foe.html
Pakistan ’s military encirclement of
the country’s biggest concentration of Taliban guerrillas, which
intensified this month, may fail to yield a decisive blow
against the faction that is a primary target of the U.S.  Pakistan is seeking to preserve ties with the Taliban and
other militants that it has used for decades to gain political
influence in Afghanistan,  according to  Imtiaz Gul, director of
Islamabad’s  Center for Research and Security Studies .  The reliance on guerrillas to project power across
Pakistan’s borders is part of an effort to compensate for its
smaller size compared with arch-foe India, against which it has
fought three wars since the countries separated at independence
from the U.K.  Any army offensive “is not going to give satisfaction to
the Americans, because Pakistan wants to keep a relationship
with some of the groups there,” including the one led by Afghan
tribal leader  Jalaluddin Haqqani , said Gul.  The U.S., which is withdrawing some troops and planning to
end its combat role in Afghanistan by 2014, is pushing Pakistan
to crush the Taliban in its territory while helping bring its
leaders to peace talks. The U.S.-led coalition forces in
Afghanistan describe Haqqani as a major enemy.  At army headquarters in Rawalpindi, spokesman Major General
Athar Abbas described the armed forces’ constraints as he sat in
his office near a wall of TV screens showing footage of the
conflict on Pakistani channels.  Our Compulsions  “We have our own compulsions, and so we have our own time
lines” for acting, he said. “Whatever we do, we will have to
carry the people with us, and that slows the pace of any
operation.”  The reluctance to assault North Waziristan is one of many
U.S. complaints about the relationship. White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley  on July 10 said the U.S. is suspending $800
million in military aid to Pakistan.  “They’ve taken some steps that have given us reason to
pause,” Daley said on ABC’s “This Week” program.  Pakistan won’t be able to afford to keep troops at some
security posts along the Afghan border after the U.S. decision
to withhold assistance and may pull them back, the Express
Tribune newspaper  reported  today, citing Defense Minister Ahmad
Mukhtar. The minister was not immediately available for comment.  A U.S. aid cut would worsen Pakistan’s economic plight, in
which growth has slowed to about 2.4 percent this fiscal year
while annual inflation, at more than 13.1 percent in June, is
 Asia ’s worst after  Vietnam . Pakistan will need U.S. support
within the  International Monetary Fund  if it is to end the
organization’s year-long freeze on lending to the country,
imposed last year over the government’s budget deficits.  Bin Laden   Since U.S. commandos killed  Osama bin Laden  in Abbottabad,
Pakistan, on May 2, Pakistan’s 6.875 percent, 10-year dollar
bond has fallen 7 percent, according to Bloomberg prices. The
rupee, which traded at 85.95 to the dollar yesterday, has lost
1.6 percent, while the Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index rose 2
percent during the same period, closing at 12,291.90 yesterday.  Since last week, thousands of Pakistani troops supported by
artillery and helicopter gunships have taken Taliban-controlled
areas in the Safed Koh mountains on the  border with Afghanistan ,
Abbas said by phone July 7. In the past two years, the army has
mounted offensives in six of the seven semi-autonomous tribal
districts, where the Taliban established most of its armed
strongholds.  The latest advance cuts a potential escape route from the
remaining district, North Waziristan, where various Taliban and
al-Qaeda-linked groups mount attacks on U.S. forces in
Afghanistan as well as on Pakistan’s army and government.  Proxy Forces  While Pakistan denies secretly backing militant groups,
many of them classified by the U.S.,  India  and European
governments as terrorist organizations, Pakistani analysts
including Ahmed Rashid say they are used in disputes with
neighbors.  For decades, the army and its  Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate  “have controlled the extremist groups, arming and
training them in exchange for their continuing to serve as proxy
forces in Afghanistan and Kashmir” in India, Rashid wrote in  a
March essay  in the New York Review of Books.  Should the army strike in the district, “its main targets
will be the groups that attack the Pakistani state,” said Gul,
author of “The Most Dangerous Place: Pakistan’s Lawless
Frontier,”  published in 2010 . He added that he was referring to
 Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan  and some al-Qaeda affiliates, and not
Haqqani.  Fizzle Out?  Pakistan’s army, which has supported the Haqqani faction
since the 1980s, still has a relationship with it, Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
April 20.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said last month that
while dealing with Pakistan was a “frustrating, frankly
sometimes very outraging kind of experience,” American
interests mean there’s no alternative.  Pakistan also needs to keep its ties to the U.S., said
Ishtiaq Ahmed, a Pakistani political scientist and fellow at the
U.K.’s University of Oxford.  “If America and the free world were to leave Pakistan as
it is now, the growth of extremism would continue unchecked and
the liberal sections of our society would fizzle out,” he said.  In the 1980s, Pakistan armed Afghan guerrilla groups,
including Haqqani’s, with CIA funds to combat the occupying
Soviet army in  Afghanistan .  Peace Talks  Pakistan’s army co-exists uneasily with militants in North
Waziristan. Unidentified guerrillas July 6 killed four soldiers
in a fight with one of the convoys that supply several thousand
troops at border posts, said Rehman Shah, an official of
Pakistan’s  Federally Administered Tribal Areas , which include
Waziristan.  American pressure for Pakistan to turn on the Haqqanis is
less likely to succeed after the U.S. government confirmed last
month it is holding preliminary talks with Taliban
representatives for a peace deal in Afghanistan, Gul said.  “The Americans are trying to open avenues for negotiation
with the Taliban, and at the same time, they want Pakistan to
start a war with a Taliban group that would jeopardize
Pakistan’s relations with a dangerous tribe along the border,”
Gul said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  