-- 
Panetta Presses Iraq for Decision on Keeping U.S. Troops Past End of Year

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-11T21:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/panetta-says-u-s-to-act-alone-against-iran-backed-attacks-1-.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  urged
Iraqi leaders to decide quickly on whether they want U.S. troops
to stay in the country longer and he pressed them to act
forcefully against alleged Iranian-backed militias targeting the
force.  In separate meetings with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and
President Jalal Talabani, Panetta stressed the U.S. is running
out of time to alter its plan to withdraw the 46,000 soldiers
that remain in the country by Dec. 31, said Doug Wilson, a
Pentagon spokesman who attended the meetings in Baghdad
yesterday. Panetta didn’t express a position on whether  Iraq 
should request an extension, he said.  “The Secretary made clear that we are neither pressuring
nor pleading for U.S. troops to remain here and that we are
continuing to withdraw our forces,” Wilson told reporters. “He
said we need to know as soon as possible.”  The two countries have begun joint operations to halt a
spate of attacks on American troops by a type of mortar and
particularly powerful roadside bombs. The U.S. military
attributes the assaults to an Iranian-backed militia with
weapons from  Iran .  Panetta, who was sworn in July 1, “was very strong in his
encouragement to both Prime Minister Maliki and President
Talabani to move aggressively” to thwart the attacks, Wilson
said. The Iraqi leaders agreed the trend posed a challenge to
their country, too, Wilson said.  ‘Blunt’ Discussion  The death toll for American troops in Iraq spiked to 15 in
June, the biggest one-month loss of U.S. lives in at least two
years. Panetta’s comments reflect U.S. concern over possible
efforts by Shiite-led Iran to exert influence in a region thrown
into further turmoil by this year’s “Arab Spring” revolts
against authoritarian rulers.  Panetta, who has met with the Iraqi leaders in his previous
position as director of the Central Intelligence Agency, was
direct with the two Iraqi leaders, Wilson said.  “He was very honest,” Wilson said. “He was blunt, and I
think he was received in an honest and positive way.”  Panetta told troops at the U.S. military’s Camp Victory
outside of  Baghdad  that the U.S. also will “do what we can
unilaterally” to forestall further attacks.  “We’ll do what we need to do to protect ourselves,” Army
General Lloyd Austin, the commander of American forces in Iraq,
told reporters, citing examples such as increased patrols.  Bomb Forensics  U.S. commanders and explosives experts showed reporters an
array of parts recovered from recent attacks with explosively
formed penetrators, a particularly deadly type of roadside bomb,
and from “improvised rocket-assisted munitions,” or IRAMs,
that are more powerful than conventional mortars.  Many of the attacks “have been attributed by forensics
evidence to” an Iraqi militia group created, supplied and
trained by the elite Quds Force of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard
Corps, said Major General Jeffrey Buchanan, a spokesman for U.S.
forces in Iraq.  Military explosives experts at the demonstration cited
electronics, chemical signs and biometric data such as
fingerprints. That evidence that can be matched with other
intelligence information to determine the origin, down to
identifying the factory where they were made, Buchanan said.  Matt Schroeder, a small-arms specialist at the Federation
of American Scientists, a policy group in  Washington , has seen
published reports of Iranian weapons ending up in the hands of
insurgents in Iraq.  Iran’s Inventories  “The models of at least some of the weapons are consistent
with what is publicly known about Iran’s inventories and weapons
production,” Schroeder said in an e-mail. “Whether and to what
extent the Iranian regime itself was directly involved in the
diversion of these weapons is much more difficult to assess.”  Panetta arrived in Baghdad July 10 from  Afghanistan  on his
first visit to the war zones as defense secretary.  Iraq’s delays on major decisions, such as naming ministers
of defense and the interior after elections almost a year ago,
“can be frustrating,” Panetta told the troops.  “Do they want us to stay or don’t they want us to stay?”
he said in remarks peppered by curse words. “They want to get a
minister of defense or don’t they want to get a minister of
defense?”  Panetta has said the U.S. would “seriously consider” a
proposal to keep some forces in Iraq.  Time Running Out  Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has cited his force’s
limited capabilities for intelligence collection, logistics,
border security and protection of airspace as concerns, Austin,
the commander, told reporters traveling with Panetta. Still,
time is running out to change withdrawal plans, he said.  “When you get into the October-November time frame, you’re
really taking things apart that are difficult to put back
together,” Austin said.  A “residual” troop presence isn’t likely to rise to the
level of a treaty that requires approval by the  U.S. Senate ,
said Colin Kahl, deputy assistant secretary of defense for the
 Middle East , who attended Panetta’s meetings. Still, negotiating
specific terms might take months, Kahl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  