-- 
Papandreou Criticizes Proposal for Creditor Role in Bailout

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J a m e s   H e r t l i n g
-- 
2011-07-11T22:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/papandreou-criticizes-proposal-for-creditor-role-in-bailout-1-.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  criticized proposals being considered to share the
cost of a bailout with creditors, adding pressure on European
finance ministers to find alternative plans.  The proposal “seems to be flawed,” Papandreou said in a
letter to Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
chairs meetings of euro-area finance ministers. “It could prove
to be too expensive, too little and too dangerous. Too expensive
for Greece and too little or inadequate to effectively deal with
the management of Greek debt. And with these meager results one
may still not avoid a selective default.”  The criticism, aimed at a French proposal under which
investors would reinvest 70 percent of their holdings in 30-year
Greek bonds, suggests that  Greece ’s debt-load would be
unsustainable under such a plan.  Standard & Poor’s  said last
week that the plan would amount to a “selective default.”  Euro area finance ministers met in Brussels late yesterday
to consider the plan and an alternative bond-swap proposal
revived last week by  Germany . Ministers from all 27 EU countries
will have further discussions in Brussels today.  “I am now convinced, after 14 months, that no matter what
Greece does -- and we have proven ready to live up to our
responsibilities -- if  Europe  does not make the right,
collective forceful decisions now, we risk new and possibly
global market calamities due to a contagion of doubt,”
Papandreou said. “Strong and visionary European leadership is
needed.”  Bonds of debt-strapped countries plunged, the euro sank and
stocks dropped amid concern that European governments are
powerless to prevent the financial distress spreading from
Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Brussels at  mdeen@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling in Brussels at  jhertling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  