-- 
Polish Stocks Hit Four-Month Low, Zloty Drops on Italy Concerns

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-07-11T16:24:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/polish-stocks-retreat-for-second-day-as-bank-pekao-pge-drop.html
Polish stocks dropped to an almost
four-month low and the zloty retreated on concern  Europe ’s
credit crisis may spread to  Italy  while Chinese inflation
accelerated to a three-year high.  The WIG20 Index shed 1.8 percent to close at 2,743.44 at
5:30 p.m. in Warsaw as  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  led financial stocks lower.
The zloty depreciated 0.9 percent to 3.9858 per euro, the
second-biggest decline among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on 10-year bonds rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.86 percent,
the highest in two weeks.  A meeting of European Union and European Commission chiefs
today was enlarged amid speculation Italy may be engulfed by the
crisis and divisions on how to structure aid for  Greece . Italian
and Spanish bonds fell, sending borrowing costs for those
nations to euro-era records relative to German bunds.  China ’s
consumer prices rose the most in three years in June and exports
increased the least since December, adding to signs that  Asia ’s
largest economy cooled last quarter.  “The newsflow over the last 72 hours has been almost
uniformly bad for risk taking,” BNP Paribas SA emerging-market
strategists wrote in a note to clients. “We think that the
Chinese inflation could prove most problematic in the medium
term but markets will focus on the Italian debt issue in the
coming days.”  The euro area is Poland’s biggest trading partner
accounting for 57 percent of exports in the first four months of
the year, according to the  statistics office . The central bank
cut its growth forecast today, projecting the economy of the
European Union’s largest eastern member will expand by 3.2
percent next year, down from March’s projection of 3.6 percent.  Bank Pekao SA, the Polish unit of Italy’s UniCredit SpA,
slid 3.7 percent to 161 zloty for the biggest drop since May 19.
 Getin Holding SA (GTN) , the financial-services group controlled by
Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, lost 3.7 percent to 12.81
zloty. Bank Handlowy SA, the Polish unit of Citgroup Inc.,
retreated 3.4 percent to 81.15 zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  