-- 
Potassium-Rich Foods May Offset Heart Risk of High Sodium, Researchers Say

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/potassium-rich-foods-may-offset-heart-risk-of-high-sodium-researchers-say.html
Foods rich in potassium such as
blueberries and sweet potatoes may help offset heart risks
associated with high-salt diets, a study suggests.  The research, which examined the diets of more than 12,000
people over an average of 15 years, found higher death rates
from  heart disease  in those who had elevated sodium to potassium
ratios. The report from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention was published today in the  Archives of Internal
Medicine .  Public health authorities in most developed countries
recommend reducing salt intake by roughly half. Still, studies
that looked at sodium levels alone in relationship to heart
disease have shown mixed results, with some finding no evidence
that a low-salt diet reduces death rate or cuts cardiovascular
complications. Today’s study found a higher correlation between
the ratio of sodium to potassium and heart disease and death
than just looking at salt or potassium alone.  “The association between sodium and cardiovascular disease
is not straight forward and remains an area of controversy
today,” said Elena Kuklina, one of the study’s authors and an
epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based CDC, in an interview.  The results may be due to the nutrients offsetting each
other, Kuklina said.  High levels of sodium can stiffen endothelial cells,
thicken and narrow resistance arteries and block nitric oxide
synthesis, while high potassium levels can spur nitric oxide
release, counteracting the effects of sodium.  “Reduced sodium intake accompanied by increased potassium
intake could achieve greater health benefits than restricting
sodium alone,” the study said.  Processed Food Ratios  Processed foods, such as cheese, cooked meats and fast
food tend to have a higher sodium-to-potassium ratio, whereas
fruits, dairy products and vegetables tend to have a lower
ratio, according to the study.  “If you just try to stick to unprocessed food, you would
have low sodium and high potassium intake,” Kuklina said.  The findings are from the CDC’s  National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey,  a program that uses surveys and
physical examinations to assess the health and nutrition status
of Americans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 