-- 
Prescription-Drug Abuse Is Focus of U.S. Drug-Control Strategy

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m
-- 
2011-07-11T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/prescription-drug-abuse-is-focus-of-u-s-drug-control-strategy.html
The Obama administration will focus
on curbing rates of drug abuse, particularly of prescription
medications, among high-risk groups such as veterans and college
students, the  Office of National Drug Control Policy  director
said.  The 2011 National Drug Control Strategy will expand its
reach from last year’s report, while remaining focused on the
ideas of prevention and treatment, director Gil Kerlikowske
said.  “Treatment is about half the cost of incarceration,”
Kerlikowske said in a telephone interview, “so we think that in
many ways, that makes a lot of sense.”  Active-duty military and veterans, college students, and
women and their dependent children will all be targeted in the
updated strategy report released today. According to a fact
sheet accompanying the report, cocaine abuse has fallen 46
percent over the last five years among young adults aged 18 to
25. Prescription drug abuse hasn’t seen the same decline,
Kerlikowske said.  “We’re seeing more initiation for drug use by young people
through the medicine cabinet than through marijuana,” he said,
adding that binge drinking is another pervasive problem for
people in this age group.  About 375,000 veterans were diagnosed with a substance
abuse disorder in 2007, the fact sheet said. The 2011 strategy
will encourage support for special courts designed for veterans
with mental illness and substance issues, of which there are 60
nationwide, Kerlikowske said.  Family-Based Treatment  The administration’s latest plans will also include family-
based treatment as an effective way of dealing with substance
abuse among women. Women are being treated less frequently than
men, a problem Kerlikowske attributed to their fear of being
separated from their children either during treatment or
permanently.  The federal budget allocates about $26 billion toward drug
abuse matters, with about half going to enforcement and half to
prevention and treatment, Kerlikowske said. Funding for next
year’s drug control strategy is subject to change as budget
discussions continue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Pelham in Washington at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  