-- 
Pro-Assad Mobs Attack U.S., French Embassies

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-07-11T18:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/pro-assad-mobs-attack-u-s-french-embassies-in-damascus-as-tensions-rise.html
Syrian demonstrators incited by pro-
regime television attacked the U.S. and French embassies in
Damascus, climbing over compound walls and hurting three French
guards as tensions mount in the Middle Eastern country.  A mob of about 300 people infiltrated the compound of the
U.S. embassy today, with some violent demonstrators succeeding
in climbing the roof before they were dispersed by U.S. Marines,
State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said in  Washington .
Protesters wrote anti-American graffiti on the walls of the
mission, broke windows and security cameras, Nuland said.  The attack followed a visit to the city of Hama last week
by  Robert Ford , the U.S. ambassador to Syria, where thousands of
anti-government protesters had gathered calling for the fall of
President Bashar al-Assad and his regime. In the past days, mobs
threw eggs and tomatoes at the embassy.  “If they cared about their fellow Syrians, the protesters
would stop throwing this food at us and donate it to those
Syrians who don’t have enough to eat,” Ford said in an entry
yesterday on Facebook before today’s violent escalation. “How
ironic that the Syrian government lets an anti-U.S.
demonstration proceed freely while their security thugs beat
down olive branch-carrying peaceful protesters elsewhere.”  Ford traveled through a military and civilian checkpoint to
reach the city of Hama July 7, where he spoke to more than a
dozen residents and visited a hospital. The French Ambassador to
 Syria , Eric Chevalier, also went to Hama and visited wounded
people and their families at a hospital.  Guards Injured  The French embassy also was attacked today for the second
day in a row in assaults that left three guards hurt and
destroyed the French ambassador’s car, according to a statement
by the French Foreign Ministry. French security fired shots in
the air to disperse the mob, the statement said.  Anti-regime protests that began in March have posed the
biggest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited power from
his father, the late President Hafez al-Assad, 11 years ago.
They have been part of a wave of unrest across the  Middle East 
and North Africa this year that has unseated the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia .  Syrian forces entered the city of Homs late yesterday,
killing at least three anti-government protesters and wounding
dozens of demonstrators, as opposition leaders boycotted a
second day of regime-sponsored reconciliation talks, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria, said by telephone today.  30 Arrests  More than 30 people were arrested in the port city of
Latakia and the southern province of Daraa where the protests
against Assad’s regime began four months ago, according to
Merhi. Door-to-door searches were being conducted by Syrian
security forces in Homs, Qurabi said.  Fifteen cars were burned and more than 28 people were
wounded in the operation that followed rallies over the weekend
by hundreds of thousands of anti-government protesters opposing
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, Qurabi said.  The Syrian government said the U.S. envoy’s visit was an
effort to “incite” unrest.  At least 20 people were killed July 8 as 500,000 people
rallied in Hama to call for the fall of Assad’s government,
according to Merhi and Qurabi.  Foreign Conspiracy  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while saying that the demands of demonstrators “have merit”
and that changes are needed. The crackdown in Syria has left
more than 1,700 dead, according to rights groups. At least
20,000 people have been arrested since the demonstrations began,
with half still in detention, Qurabi said.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries. A total of 8,579 Syrians remain in camps
in Turkey set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the province of
Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency Management
Presidency said today in a statement. As many as 15,441 people
entered Turkey during the upheaval, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  