-- 
Qantas May Scrap Routes, Seek Ventures to Stem Losses on Overseas Flights

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-12T06:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/qantas-may-scrap-routes-seek-ventures-to-stem-losses-on-overseas-flights.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  may cut routes
and seek tie-ups with competitors as  Australia ’s largest carrier
works to reverse losses at its international business, according
to analysts.  The airline may stop flying to  South Africa  and  South
America  to focus on routes to London and  Los Angeles , said Neil Hansford, chairman of  Strategic Aviation Solutions , a Sydney-
based industry consultant. It may also shift Hawaiian services
to the Jetstar budget unit, he said.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce has promised a
“ruthless” review of operations after forecasting two years of
annual losses at the international unit following a loss in
market share. The airline is losing travelers as  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Dubai-based Emirates lure business class
customers with newer planes and free rides to airports.  “Qantas international has stood still for decades and
everyone caught up and overtook them,” said  Chris Weston , an
institutional dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “When I fly
with them for business it doesn’t feel like the others.”  The Sydney-based carrier’s  share of travelers  to and from
Australia has fallen to 19 percent in April from 35 percent in
2001, according to data compiled by the Australian government.
It has maintained a two-thirds share of the domestic market for
almost a decade.  Qantas fell 4.9 percent, the most in almost four months, to
A$1.84 at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney trading. The stock has
slumped 28 percent this year, compared with a 5.3 percent
decline in Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  “Making Cuts”  Qantas’s plans to revamp its international business include
“making cuts where we need to make them,” Joyce told the
Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business” program on
July 10. The airline will announce its strategy to turn around
the long-haul business with annual earnings on Aug. 24.  Joyce has said he will inject some of the savings squeezed
from the international network into the luxury end of the
division to win back corporate customers. The strategy’s two
other elements involve addressing partnerships with other
carriers and targeting expansion in  Asia .  Thomas Woodward, a Sydney-based spokesman for Qantas,
declined to comment beyond Joyce’s public statements.  Forging alliances with carriers such as  Malaysian Airline
System Bhd. (MAS)  will help Qantas add destinations without having to
fly all its own jets and provide the infrastructure, according
to the  Center for Asia-Pacific Aviation.   “Big Opportunity”  “Qantas need to look at alliances,” said Derek Sadubin,
chief operating officer of the Sydney-based consultancy. “The
Asian market is something that Alan Joyce is very much focused
on. It’s the big opportunity for Qantas.”  The carrier flies to eight countries in Asia. Its only
African destination is Johannesburg, and in South America it
serves  Buenos Aires  with its own jets. The airline also operates
to Los Angeles and  Dallas /Fort Worth in the U.S. and London and
 Frankfurt  in  Europe .  Qantas forecast on June 22 an A$200 million ($214 million)
loss at the international arm for the year ended June 30 and a
bigger loss this year. The airline has scaled back capacity-
growth plans twice this year, including scrapping plane orders.  In addition to the task of winning back travelers, Joyce
also faces challenges from rising fuel costs, natural disasters
such as floods in Queensland and the tsunami in  Japan  that
curbed travel, and a record-high Australian dollar that makes it
more expensive for tourists to visit.  Industrial Action  He also has to deal with a looming strike threat from long-
haul pilots. The Australian & International Pilots Association,
which represents the long-haul pilots, yesterday voted to take
its first industrial action at the carrier since 1966, while the
engineers union plans disruptions across the network in support
of higher wages.  With a reputation built on safety, including no fatalities
in the jet age, Qantas is also limited by Australian laws in any
bid to pare in-flight staffing. The rules stipulate that there
has to be at least one flight attendant for every 36 passengers
on most commercial flights. Pilot roles are determined by the
type of aircraft.  Strategic Aviation’s Hansford said the carrier may drop
routes where it doesn’t get a high proportion of business class
or premium economy passengers, leaving it with likely
destinations including Los Angeles and  London .  Focusing on the U.K. and U.S. also enables Joyce to tap
into the networks of airlines such as British Airways and AMR
Corp.’s American Airlines, both fellow members of the Oneworld
group of carriers.  “The money is made at the front end of the plane,” said
Hansford. “If it’s a leisure destination, it makes more sense
to use Jetstar. Jetstar can make somewhere like Hawaii viable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  