-- 
Traci Des Jardins Expands Beyond $110 Tasting Menus to $4 Tacos

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-07-11T19:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/traci-des-jardins-expands-beyond-110-tasting-menus-to-4-tacos.html
Chef Traci Des Jardins has built a name
for herself as a restaurant owner, consultant, and TV star in
the highly competitive restaurant industry. A master in French
cuisine, the 45-year-old Des Jardins started her budding empire
in 1997 by co-founding the exclusive  Jardinière , a James Beard
Foundation Award winner considered among  San Francisco ’s finest
tables.  Then, in 2004, she went from serving $110 tasting menus of duck
and wild boar to selling $4 tacos to the average Joe with the
opening of Mijita, a San Francisco taqueria that uses mostly
organic ingredients. Over the past two years, Des Jardins’ two
restaurants, which employ a total of about 100 people, have had
a combined revenue of roughly $6.8 million each year.  Besides running her own restaurants, Des Jardins worked as a
consultant to help open Manzanita, a 94-seat establishment,
specializing in French-inspired California cuisine, at the Ritz-
Carlton in  Lake Tahoe , Calif., in 2009. Early last year, she
assisted in launching the Public House brewpub at AT&T Park,
home of the  San Francisco Giants . (She also licenses the Mijita
brand to an outpost at the ballpark.) In between restaurant
openings, Des Jardins has been building name recognition through
TV appearances, including on Bravo’s “Top Chef Masters” in June.  In the coming months, Des Jardins plans to focus on expansion
projects, including taking Mijita to the East Coast next year.
“I’m interested in the low end,” she says. Des Jardins spoke
recently to Bloomberg.com contributor Antone Gonsalves about
expanding her business. Edited excerpts from their conversation
follow:  Antone Gonsalves: Why do you believe Mijita could be successful
on the East Coast, given that in San Francisco the restaurant’s
revenue has been roughly the same for several years?  Traci Des Jardins: The West Coast is fairly saturated with
Mexican food. On the East Coast, I don’t think it’s even begun
there yet. If you look at the growth of, say, a  Chipotle (CMG) 
[the Mexican food chain that spun off from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
(MCD) in 2006], you can see what the opportunity looks like. I
would like to parlay the Mijita concept into some growth in
different markets that might have potential beyond  California 
and the West Coast. New York, absolutely, and other cities as
well -- Boston, Washington, D.C.  Q: The restaurant industry has declined in revenue every year
since 2008. This year, revenue is expected to rise by just over
1 percent in inflation-adjusted terms. Why do you believe now is
the time to look at expanding Mijita?  A: People are looking for less expensive alternatives to fine
dining. It’s the top end that’s going to be most affected [by
the economy]. The wealthy are still trying to conserve. We’ve
seen [at Jardinière] a real falloff in our average check,
trending toward economizing. They’re still coming, but rather
than spend $150, $160 on a bottle of wine, they’re looking for
that $60 or $70 bottle of wine. The low end has been more
consistent.  Q: You built Mijita around your experiences as a child helping
your Mexican grandmother in the kitchen. How do you plan to
differentiate your business?  A: I grew up with that food as sort of my soul food. What you
get in this country primarily is very Americanized. I want to
give a little nod to more authentic Mexican street food: tacos
and stuff you would actually find in  Mexico .  Q: Do you expect business to get a bump from your appearance
this year on the Bravo reality TV show “Top Chef Masters?”  A: It’s kind of hard to analyze. We’ll have to see over time.
We’re not polling our guests on a regular basis to ask them why
they came in, but we can get a sense of it. I talked to several
parties last night who had never been in Jardinière before, and
they were here because of the TV show.  Q: Would you do more TV appearances?  A: It’s not my great love, but I feel it’s an opportunity to
promote my businesses. The power of television can’t be denied.  Q: You opened Jardinière in 1997, in the middle of the dot-com
boom. How has the restaurant business changed?  A: During the fat of the ‘90s we all became sloppy operators.
You might have 10 waiters at night and four of them would be
standing around not really being active. Now we make sure we
don’t have any of that fat.  Q: In 1989, you worked in  Los Angeles  for chef Joachim Splichal,
founder of the Patina Restaurant Group, which today includes
more than 60 restaurants and cafes around the country. How much
of an influence was Splichal?  A: He had such a big mark on how I approach everything that I
do. He trained me in most of what I know about business and how
you need to focus and pay attention to numbers and make those
work. A lot of chefs refuse to take a look at the whole picture
and consider the business side of what we do.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net  