-- 
Rand Slips to Weakest This Month on Europe Debt Crisis and Growth Concern

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-11T15:37:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/rand-slips-to-weakest-this-month-on-europe-debt-crisis-and-growth-concern.html
The rand slipped the most in two
months against the dollar on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis will spread to  Italy  and on speculation China will take
action to cool growth, sapping demand for riskier assets.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy weakened as much
as 2.1 percent to 6.8480 per dollar, the biggest intraday
decline since May 13. It traded 1.9 percent down at 6.8335 as of
5:17 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand depreciated 0.1 percent to
9.5815 per euro.  The euro tumbled to a more than six-week low against the
dollar after  Austria ’s Finance Minister Maria Fekter said Italy
will be discussed today at the monthly gathering of euro-area
finance ministers. Commodity prices slipped and  South Africa ’s
benchmark stock index dropped to the lowest in more than a week,
led by commodity exporters including Anglo American Plc, after
 China ’s consumer price index quickened more than analysts’
expectations in June.  “The news flow over the last 72 hours has been almost
uniformly bad for risk-taking,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee said in an e-mailed research
note. “We think that Chinese inflation could prove most
problematic in the medium term but markets will focus on the
Italian debt issue in the coming days.”  A European bailout fund may have to be doubled to 1.5
trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in Italy, the
ECB said, according to the German newspaper Die Welt. The yield
on Italy’s 10-year bond rose as much as 31 basis points to 5.58
percent, driving the premium over German bunds to a euro-
lifetime record of 283 basis points.  Emerging-Market Selloff  “Reports that the ECB might need to provide additional
assistance for debt-laden Italy have seen risk aversion
return,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-
based  Michael Keenan  said in a research note. “The dollar, gold
price and Swiss franc are benefiting from their traditional
safe-haven status, while risky asset classes such as equities
and emerging-market currencies are selling off.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets stock index retreated the most in
three weeks and the dollar rose against all except one of more
than 20 emerging-market currencies monitored by Bloomberg.  China’s consumer-price index increased 6.4 percent in June
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
July 9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The government will say on July 13 that
gross domestic product expanded 9.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year before, according to a separate survey, down
from 9.7 percent the previous quarter.  Yields Rise  China is the biggest buyer of South African exports,
according to  Department of Trade and Industry  data.  “China will likely continue to slow money growth to
contain rising price inflation,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note. “This risks causing a substantial slowdown in
the economy.”  Bonds declined, snapping a five-day rally. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 dropped 25 cents to 121.25 rand, boosting the
yield six basis points, or 0.062 percentage point, to 7.465
percent. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 fell 37 cents to
89.47 rand, driving the yield up six basis points to 8.356
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  