-- 
Rand Weakens for 2nd Day on Europe Debt, China Growth Concerns

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-11T08:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/rand-weakens-for-second-day-to-dollar-on-europe-debt-china-growth-concern.html
The rand weakened for a second day
against the dollar on concern  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread to  Italy  and on speculation China will take action
to cool growth, sapping demand for riskier assets.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy declined as much
as 0.7 percent to 6.7569 per dollar, and traded 0.6 percent
weaker at 6.7490 as of 10:36 a.m. in Johannesburg. It gained 0.3
percent to 9.5450 per euro.  The euro fell to a two-week low against the dollar after
Die Welt reported that the  European Central Bank  is seeking to
expand a fund so it could aid Italy. Commodity prices tumbled
and  South Africa ’s benchmark stock index dropped to the lowest
in more than a week, led by commodity exporters including Anglo
American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd., after  China ’s consumer price
index quickened more than analysts’ expectations in June.  “The news flow over the last 72 hours has been almost
uniformly bad for risk-taking,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
London-based Paul Mortimer-Lee said in an e-mailed research
note. “We think that Chinese inflation could prove most
problematic in the medium term but markets will focus on the
Italian debt issue in the coming days.”  A European bailout fund may have to be doubled to 1.5
trillion euros ($2.1 trillion) to cover a crisis in Italy, the
ECB said, according to the German newspaper Die Welt. The
Financial Times cited unidentified senior officials as saying
European leaders are prepared to accept that  Greece  should
default on some of its bonds as part of a new bailout plan for
the country that would put its total debt levels on a
sustainable footing.  Emerging-Market Selloff  “Reports that the ECB might need to provide additional
assistance for debt-laden Italy have seen risk aversion
return,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-
based  Michael Keenan  said in a research note. “The dollar, gold
price and Swiss franc are benefiting from their traditional
safe-haven status, while risky asset classes such as equities
and emerging-market currencies are selling off.”  China’s consumer-price index increased 6.4 percent in June
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
July 9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The government will say on July 13 that
gross domestic product expanded 9.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year before, according to a separate survey, down
from 9.7 percent the previous quarter.  China is the biggest buyer of South African exports,
according to  Department of Trade and Industry  data.  “China will likely continue to slow money growth to
contain rising price inflation,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw said in
a research note. “This risks causing a substantial slowdown in
the economy.”  Bonds declined, snapping a five-day rally. The 13.5 percent
notes due 2015 dropped 8 cents to 121.42 rand, boosting the
yield two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.42
percent. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 fell 10 cents to
89.74 rand, driving the yield up two basis points to 8.31
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  