-- 
U.S. Yield Is Two Basis Points From The Month’s Low on U.S. Growth Outlook

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-11T05:58:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/treasuries-rise-after-u-s-employment-data-fuels-outlook-for-slower-growth.html
Treasury yields were within one
basis point of the lowest level this month on speculation a
government report this week will show U.S. retail sales failed
to grow in June as unemployment rose.  Federal funds futures contracts indicate traders pushed
back forecasts for when the  Federal Reserve  will start raising
interest rates until December 2012. Demand for the relative
safety of  U.S. government debt  increased on concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread to  Italy .  “There is room for yields to go down,” said Masazumi Fukuoka, chief dealer at the Singapore branch of Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., which is part of Japan’s largest lender.
“The American economy is not so good.”  U.S. 10-year notes yielded 3.02 percent as of 6:45 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent note due in May 2021 traded at 100 29/32. The rate fell
to 3.01 percent earlier today, the lowest since June 28.  Fukuoka said he hopes to buy 10-year notes at a yield of
3.10 percent and predicts the rate will fall to 2.65 percent by
the end of September.  Thirty-day federal funds futures contracts for delivery in
December next year yielded 0.5 percent, indicating investors
expect the Fed will wait until then to raise rates. The yield
has declined from 1 percent in May.  Japan ’s 10-year rate dropped 3.5 basis points to 1.14
percent, the biggest decline in three weeks. The government sold
a total of 299 billion yen ($3.7 billion) of 20- and 30-year
bonds today to increase liquidity in those securities.  Italy Bailout?  The euro weakened for a second day after Die Welt reported
yesterday the  European Central Bank  is seeking to expand an aid
fund to include help for Italy. The 17-nation currency slid 0.6
percent to $1.4186. Concern  Greece  may default on its debt
helped drive Treasuries to a 2.44 percent return in the second
quarter, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Sales at U.S. retailers were unchanged in June from the
month before, after declining 0.2 percent in May, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Commerce
Department report on July 14. A government report the following
day will show the cost of living decreased, the surveys showed.  China ’s economy grew 9.3 percent last quarter, the least in
almost two years, contributing to a global weakening, according
to economists surveyed before the government’s July 13 report.  U.S. 10-year yields dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, on July 8 after the Labor Department report
said U.S. added fewer jobs in June than economists forecast.  Debt Sales  Treasuries trimmed initial gains today as investors
prepared for three auctions this week.  The U.S. plans to sell $32 billion of three-year notes
tomorrow, $21 billion of 10-year debt on July 13 and $13 billion
of 30-year bonds on July 14. The sizes are unchanged from the
last time the U.S. auctioned these securities in June.  The Fed plans to purchase $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion of
Treasuries due from July 2015 to December 2016 today, according
to its  website , as part of its effort to support the economy by
investing the principal payments from its debt holdings in
 government securities .  Investors became less bearish on their outlook for
Treasuries through year-end, according to a survey of money
managers by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., the New Jersey-based unit
of the world’s largest interdealer broker. The company’s
sentiment index climbed to 43 for the seven days ended July 8
from 41 the week before. A figure less than 50 indicates
investors expect prices to fall.  Rate Outlook  The Fed may keep  interest rates  at record lows for the
longest period since World War II as the economic slowdown that
sparked a four-month bond rally worsens, according to Treasury
market signals.  The 3 percentage point gap between yields for three-month
and 10-year Treasuries indicates the economy may grow 1.1
percent in the 12 months ending June 2012, a study by the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland  says. That’s less than half
the central bank’s current forecast, and may delay any rate
increase from the zero-to-25 basis point range held since 2008.  Slower expansion means the Fed is unlikely to tighten
credit until June 2012, the longest static period since the
government forced the central bank to buy Treasuries during the
1940s. Any spending cuts agreed by President  Barack Obama  and
Congress before the Aug. 2 deadline to raise the $14.3 trillion
debt limit may restrain the economy.  “No one is looking for very spectacular growth,” said
Krishna Memani, director of fixed income at OppenheimerFunds Inc.
in  New York , who helps manage $70 billion. The chance of the Fed
lifting borrowing costs “is significantly lower today than it
was six months ago,” Memani said. “Growth expectations in the
U.S. and global growth expectations are probably lower and more
realistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  