-- 
Treasuries Rally as 10-Year Note Yields Post Biggest 2-Day Drop in a Year

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-07-11T21:10:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/treasury-10-year-yield-slips-to-july-low-on-growth-outlook-debt-concern.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields to the biggest two-day loss in more than a year, as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified and before data this
week forecast to show the U.S. economic recovery is slowing.  U.S. two- and 10-year yields fell to the lowest in two
weeks as European finance chiefs clashed over how to dig Greece
out of its financial hole. Italian 10-year yields rose to the
highest in more than a decade. Federal funds futures contracts
indicated traders pushed back forecasts for when the  Federal
Reserve  will start raising  interest rates  until December 2012.  “Europe’s scaring people more than anything right now,”
said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “The longer it goes with the
uncertainty, the more people are just going to throw in the
towel, sell stocks and buy Treasuries.”  Ten-year note yields dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.92 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.91
percent, the lowest since June 28. They have dropped 21.9 basis
points over the past two days. The 3.125 percent note due May
2021 rose 29/32, or $9.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/4.
Two-year yields fell four basis points to 0.36 percent, the
least since June 27.  Yields on 10-year notes fell 22.2 basis points on Friday
and Monday, June 4 and 7, 2010, as investors sought refuge amid
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis would worsen and after U.S.
payrolls for May 2010 added fewer jobs than forecast.  Stocks tumbled today, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropping 1.8 percent.  Interest-Rate Bets  Thirty-day federal funds futures contracts for delivery in
December next year yielded 0.44 percent, indicating investors
expect the Fed will wait until then to raise rates. The yield
has declined from 1 percent in May.  Sales at U.S. retailers slipped 0.1 percent in June, after
declining 0.2 percent in May, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce
Department report on July 14. A government report the following
day will show the cost of living decreased last month for the
first time in a year, according to a separate survey.  Ten-year yields dropped 11 basis points on July 8 after the
Labor Department said the U.S. added 18,000 jobs in June,
compared with a Bloomberg survey forecast of 105,000.  “The disappointing employment report has lowered people’s
expectations of this stage of the recovery,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  Obama Pressing Congress  President  Barack Obama  said he’ll continue to press
congressional leaders for “the largest possible deal” on a
package of deficit cuts as he seeks to raise the $14.3 trillion
federal debt ceiling before the U.S. exhausts its borrowing
authority on Aug. 2. He spoke at a White House press conference.  Obama said he won’t sign a short-term extension of the debt
limit and plans to continue meeting with members of Congress
every day until an acceptable agreement is reached.  A U.S. default “would be a shocker,” said  Andrew Bosomworth  of Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
largest bond fund manager. “Yields on U.S. Treasury bonds at
present do not reflect the appropriate risks, be those inflation
risks, be those risks of the government not coming to an
agreement on the debt ceiling. We’re not buying those bonds.”  Bosomworth spoke in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” with Francine Lacqua and  Owen Thomas .  The yield on the one-month Treasury bill maturing Aug. 4,
two days after the Aug. 2 deadline for the U.S. to reach an
agreement on extending the debt ceiling or risk default, fell to
0.01 percent, from 0.02 percent on July 8.  ‘No Contingency Plan’  “The bill market isn’t pricing in any possibility of a
default,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in
 New York  at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “There is no contingency plan. Everyone is
just crossing their fingers and trusting that policy makers will
fix this.”  The euro weakened for a second day as European finance
ministers weighed how to get private bondholders to maintain
their exposure to Greek debt in a way that doesn’t prompt
credit-rating companies to declare a formal default. The aim is
to keep governments from picking up the tab when bonds come due
between 2012 and 2014.  The 17-nation currency tumbled as much as 2 percent to
$1.3987, the lowest level since May 23. Italian bonds plunged as
the euro-area finance chiefs failed to convince investors the
region’s second-most indebted nation will avoid following
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in needing a bailout. The yield on
the country’s 10-year bond rose 41 basis points to 5.68 percent,
the highest since 2000.  Treasury Auctions  The U.S. plans to auction $32 billion of three-year notes
tomorrow, $21 billion of 10-year debt on July 13 and $13 billion
of 30-year bonds on July 14. The sizes are unchanged from the
last time the U.S. auctioned these securities in June.  The $66 billion of offerings will be the first note and
bond sales since the end on June 30 of the Fed’s $600 billion of
Treasury purchases in its second round of quantitative easing.  “Dealers will have no buybacks to put paper back to after
the auctions,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford , Connecticut, a primary dealer. “Normally I
would have said I’d be concerned. But as long as we have this
flight-to-quality bid based on Europe, I’m not as concerned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  