-- 
Singapore’s Cost of Living Overtakes Hong Kong for First Time, Mercer Says

-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-12T09:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/rio-sao-paolo-climb-list-of-world-s-most-expensive-cities.html
Singapore overtook  Hong Kong  as a
more expensive city for expatriates for the first time, driven
by a stronger currency and higher rents, according to Mercer’s
Worldwide Cost of Living Survey.  The island-nation was ranked the eighth-most expensive city
worldwide, rising from the 11th spot last year following a
“substantial increase” in housing costs, Mercer said in an e-
mailed statement today. Hong Kong dropped one level to ninth
place, the survey showed.  Singapore’s record economic growth last year helped the
city to become home to the world’s highest proportion of
millionaire households at 15.5 percent of the population,
according to a Boston Consulting Group report in May. Inflation
rose 4.5 percent in May, exceeding economists’ estimates, as
food and transportation costs climbed, supporting the central
bank’s decision to allow the currency to appreciate further.  “You have got high inflation and we’re talking generally
about consumer price pressures, rise in property prices, the
strong  Singapore  dollar and tight labor markets,”  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics Asia Pte. in
Singapore, said by telephone. “So it’s quite clear how
Singapore managed to edge out Hong Kong.”  Strengthening Currency  The Singapore dollar has risen about 13 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  in the past year, matching the South Korean won as
the best performers among the 10 most actively traded currencies
in Asia outside  Japan . The city-state uses exchange rates as its
main tool to manage inflation and has allowed its currency to
appreciate to a record to contain price gains.  The Hong Kong dollar’s peg to the weakening U.S. dollar had
little impact on the city’s ranking due to increasing housing
costs, the report said.  Mercer benchmarked the costs of each city against  New York 
and compared prices in U.S. dollar terms. While Hong Kong’s
housing costs increased 30 percent during the survey period,
exceeding Singapore’s 23 percent gain, the appreciation of the
island-state’s currency made it a more expensive place to live,
according to Phil Stanley, Mercer’s Asia Pacific global mobility
leader for information products.  “Changes in exchange rates impact the rankings
significantly,” Stanley said in an e-mailed response to queries
from Bloomberg News. “It should also be kept in mind that just
because a location may have moved up in its ranking, it doesn’t
necessarily mean that the location’s costs have increased in
local currency terms.”  Ranking Decline  Singapore’s ranking may fall relative to Hong Kong when the
 U.S. economy  begins to recover and the U.S. dollar strengthens,
Stanley said.  Hong Kong’s ranking in this survey may also have been hurt
by  China ’s efforts to cool the economy through housing curbs and
five interest rate increases since October.  “One might argue that the China effect on Hong Kong might
be a little bit more pronounced,” Capital Economics’s Varathan
said. “So if China’s engineering of a soft landing is in fact
quite effective, then Singapore might remain ahead of Hong Kong
in that sense.”  Singapore’s economic expansion has pushed the  unemployment
rate  to a three-year low and economists including Irvin Seah
from DBS Group Holdings Ltd. say rising labor costs are adding
to the risk that inflation may accelerate. The city’s home
prices have climbed for eight straight quarters to a record,
prompting the government to introduce measures to curb
speculative buying.  Luanda in  Angola  retained its title of the world’s most
expensive city, while  Tokyo  was ranked No. 2, Mercer said. New
York City, the most expensive U.S. city, dropped to 32nd spot
from 27th, while  London  slipped one place to 18th.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho29@bloomberg.net ;
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  