-- 
Chief Risk Officer Rises to $10 Million Job Following Derivatives Meltdown

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-07-11T18:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/risk-officer-rises-to-10-million-job-after-derivatives-meltdown.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Risk
Officer Bruce Thompson received $11.4 million in compensation in
2010, the most awarded to an executive at the bank and this year
he was promoted to chief financial officer. His stature isn’t an
anomaly.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and  UBS
AG (UBSN)  are among other companies raising the profile of risk
executives. The derivatives meltdown that sparked the 2008
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse and an 18-month recession
catapulted the role from obscurity to contention for future
chief executive officers.  “The person sitting in the risk chair now is reporting to
the CEO so the caliber has to be higher,” said Neil Hindle, who
runs the CRO search practice at Egon Zehnder International in
New York. “There has been a real increase in power over the
last two years.”  That’s evident in the compensation, which can reach $10
million at large financial institutions now, compared with
$500,000 as recently as 2001, Hindle said. Five years ago, a CRO
typically reported no higher than the CFO, he said.  Citigroup Chief Risk Officer Brian Leach said it’s expected
he’ll have a seat at the table when Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  makes key decisions. A decade ago, a bank risk
executive often wasn’t in the room, he said.  Risk Mindset  “It has to be embedded now from the top to the bottom of
the company,” said Leach, who helped with the rescue of hedge
fund Long-Term Capital Management LP in 1998 when he was at
Morgan Stanley. “The CEO has to have a risk mindset and really
be able to live that foundational element of risk management.”  Leach, like Thompson at Bank of America, and Barry Zubrow
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , reports to the CEO. That was not the
case at banks including Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns Cos.
that had the most serious problems in the economic crisis,
Hindle said. Private equity and hedge funds are also seeking
risk executives, Hindle said.  Pandit and Leach left Morgan Stanley in 2005 to form hedge
fund company Old Lane LP, which Citigroup bought two years
later. When Pandit was tapped to run Citigroup in December 2007,
he brought Leach into the risk job because of their previous
experience dealing with  risk assessment , Leach said.  Old Habits  In the 1970s, risk for banks was limited because most
trades were on behalf of customers, Leach said. In the ensuing
40 years, financial institutions bore more of the exposure to
losses directly in trades. The addition of derivatives made it
harder to understand the full risks -- and the unexpected risks
were what ultimately overwhelmed old habits, he said.  Companies have had plenty of warning about unexpected risk,
Leach said, pointing to his experiences with Long-Term Capital
Management. The hedge fund, whose partners included Nobel
laureates  Myron Scholes  and Robert Merton, lost $4 billion in
1998 after a debt default by  Russia  and had to be rescued by a
group of 14 securities firms and banks.  After  Lehman Brothers , Long-Term Capital seems “quaint,”
Leach said.  “The value of the job has gone up because people have seen
how badly things can go if you aren’t paying attention,” said
Kevin Blakely, chief risk officer at Huntington Bancshares Inc.
in Columbus,  Ohio , and former CEO of the Risk Management
Association. “There is no shortage of companies that will pay
for a good risk officer now.”  Direct Access  They typically have direct access to the board of
directors’ risk committee and ensure that all areas of the
company have considered the risks of their business activity,
said Blakely, 60, who has worked in the CRO field for more than
two decades. He was also a regulator with the U.S. Comptroller
of the Currency.  Another change is the CRO’s role in working with the board
to define what the appropriate risk is for the company and for
each business unit so that operating executives have to take
responsibility for avoiding risk that doesn’t fit the company
rules, he said.  Thompson was appointed to the Bank of America risk job in
January 2010 as CEO Brian Moynihan put together a new leadership
team. The team is working to recover from mortgage losses
inherited in the 2008 purchase of Countrywide Financial Corp.
and restore the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank into a
“growth company.” Thompson wasn’t available to comment.  Thompson’s Contribution  He was one of three executives at the nation’s largest bank
whose 2010 compensation exceeded Moynihan’s $1.94 million,
according to a company regulatory filing.  Sallie Krawcheck ,
president of global wealth and  investment management  and Neil Cotty, chief accounting officer, also received more than
Moynihan, the filing showed. Moynihan’s $950,000 base salary was
the highest among all the executives where pay was disclosed,
exceeding Thompson by $150,000 for the year.  Much of Thompson’s 2010 variable pay related to his
performance in 2009 as head of the company’s global capital
markets business, the company said in a statement.  Under Thompson, the company “successfully created and
implemented a new enterprise risk framework and further expanded
its international risk-governance programs,” and positioned the
bank for regulatory changes this year, the company said.  Bank of America selected Terry Laughlin, the company’s top
manager for sour loans and foreclosures, to take over as chief
risk officer late in the third quarter, according to an internal
memo obtained July 8 by Bloomberg News.  Rising Profile  Membership in the Global Association of Risk Professionals
rose to 175,000 this year from 55,000 in 2006, the group said.
At smaller financial companies, pay ranging from $3 million to
$8 million is more common, said Tim Holt, who helps recruit risk
officers for Heidrick & Struggles in  New York .  Some experience as a risk officer or in a similar job is
increasingly required for CEO candidates at financial companies,
said Tom Flannery, managing director for the Pittsburgh office
of executive search company Boyden.  “The risk chief used to be like the human resources
leader. You had to have one, but generally speaking, the risk
guy was never going to be CEO of the company,” Flannery said.
“That’s changed.”  A client, which Flannery wouldn’t identify, set up a
succession plan so that when the CEO retires and is replaced,
the next candidate in line will serve a rotation in the chief
risk officer job as part of training for the CEO job, he said.  Like a Fad  “Business, by its very nature, is risky” and the focus on
risk managers feels “kind of like a fad” as companies want to
show investors they are working to avoid the pitfalls that led
to the recession, said Jay Lorsch, a corporate governance
professor at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston .  Directors need to ensure they are taking responsibility for
setting a real strategy for the executives, he said.  “It’s clear that risk has everybody’s attention,” said
Elaine Eisenman, dean of executive and enterprise education at
Babson College in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , and a director at
shoe retailer  DSW Inc. (DSW)  and corporate bartering company Active
International.  She worked with the CFO and treasurer at one of the
companies where she is a director to use  a so-called dashboard
to communicate the risk related to decisions to the board,
ranging from green to red, Eisenman said.  “The meltdown of the market was the first time many people
really started to wake up,” said Eisenman, who helps educate
executives at Babson in management issues. “What the focus on
risk is doing is sensitizing people to issues they weren’t
paying attention to. This is how a board gets blindsided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Detroit at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net  