-- 
Roche Sues Teva, Sandoz, Dr. Reddy’s Over Generic Aloxi

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-12T02:04:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/roche-sues-teva-sandoz-dr-reddy-s-to-block-sales-of-generic-aloxi.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  filed a lawsuit
seeking to block generic-drug companies including  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Sandoz and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  from selling a
low-cost version of the anti-nausea drug Aloxi.  Sandoz, Teva and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. are seeking
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to sell generic
versions of the medicine. Roche and partner Helsinn Healthcare
SA contend the versions would infringe two patents that expire
in 2024.  Aloxi, first approved by regulators in 2003, is an
injection used to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by surgery
or chemotherapy. Roche and Helsinn are seeking a court ruling
that would uphold the validity of their patents and block the
FDA from granting approval to the copycat medicines.  Sandoz, a unit of  Basel , Switzerland-based Novartis, is the
world’s second-biggest generic-drug maker, behind Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva. Dr. Reddy’s, based in Hyderabad, India, is
that country’s second-biggest drugmaker.  Roche, based in Basel, and Helsinn, a closely held Swiss
company, filed the complaint July 8 in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey, claiming they will be “irreparably harmed” by the
alleged infringements. The patents were issued on May 24,
according to the complaint.  Rachel Zabinski, a spokeswoman for Novartis, said in an
e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.
Denise Bradley, a Teva spokeswoman, declined to comment. A
representative of Dr. Reddy’s didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment.  The case is Helsinn Healthcare v. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories,
11-cv-3962, U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey 
(Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  