-- 
Roger Clemens Perjury Case Jury Selection Enters Final Stage in U.S. Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-12T14:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/roger-clemens-perjury-case-jury-selection-enters-final-stage-in-u-s-court.html
Jury selection in the perjury trial
of former New York Yankees pitcher  Roger Clemens  continues today
after a pool of potential panelists was narrowed to 35
 Washington  residents from 50 over three days of questioning.  The 35 were ordered by U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  to
return this afternoon to his courtroom, where prosecutors and
Clemens’s lawyers will use so-called peremptory strikes to
whittle the remainder down to a panel of 12 jurors and four
alternates.  This morning, an additional 10 potential jurors will be
vetted by Walton and the lawyers to have a final pool of 36.  Among them are a retired chef for the Washington Redskins
football team, the Financial Reform Project director at the Pew
Charitable Trusts, a lawyer with the Federal Communications
Commission, two yoga instructors and a young mother who works
two part-time jobs.  The defense will be allowed to dismiss 10 potential jurors
and two alternates. The government may strike six plus two
alternates.  Opening statements in the case are expected to begin
tomorrow.  Clemens, 48, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury in connection with a congressional probe of the use of
performance-enhancing drugs by ballplayers.  If convicted on all charges, Clemens faces as long as 30
years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  Baseball’s Biggest Names  Prosecutors asked jury candidates about some of baseball’s
biggest names, including former St. Louis Cardinals first
baseman  Mark McGwire , former San Francisco Giants outfielder
 Barry Bonds  and current Yankees designated hitter Jorge Posada.
The government named more than 80 individuals that it said may
be mentioned or called as witnesses.  Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , added more than 30,
including former Yankees pitcher David Cone; Hall of Famer Wade Boggs; and Phil Garner, a former  Major League Baseball  player
and manager.  Potential jurors received 82 written questions asking
whether they had any familiarity with those names, harbored
specific feelings about steroid use and sports, and were fans of
Major League Baseball. They were then questioned individually by
Walton, prosecutors and Hardin.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 