-- 
Romania June Inflation Rate Unexpectedly Declines on Food

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-07-11T08:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/romanian-june-inflation-rate-unexpectedly-falls-to-7-9-in-year.html
Romania ’s inflation rate
unexpectedly fell in June as the farm harvest boosted supply and
cut food costs, giving the country’s central bank more room to
keep rates steady to help an economic recovery this year.  The rate dropped to a four-month low of 7.9 percent from a
year earlier, the lowest since February, from 8.4 percent in
May, the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest said today
in an e-mailed statement. The median forecast of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase in price
growth to 8.5 percent. Prices fell 0.3 percent on the month.  Romanian policy makers left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 6.25 percent, the European Union’s highest, for a
13th month on June 29 to slow inflation sparked by a government
tax increase last year and rising global commodity prices, as
the central bank expects the effects of a value-added tax
increase on inflation to fade in the second half of the year.  “The National Bank of Romania should not hurry to tighten
monetary policy in 2011, especially if we think that inflation
will continue to decline in the second half and household
consumption is still weak,” Eugen Sinca, a Bucharest-based
economist at Banca Comerciala Romana SA, wrote in a note to
clients. “We foresee the first 25 basis-point hike in the key
rate in the first quarter of 2012.”  Global Increases  The leu weakened 0.4 percent to 4.2248 per euro at 11:01
a.m. in Bucharest. The Bucharest Stock Exchange’s benchmark BET
Index fell 0.5 percent to 5562.91.  Central banks around the globe have raised interest rates
in the past three months to slow price increases sparked by
surging commodity prices, including the  European Central Bank ,
which signaled more rate increases after raising the benchmark
to 1.5 percent last week.  Romania has kept the benchmark rate unchanged since June
2010 after the government raised the VAT by 5 percentage points
to 24 percent to meet international bailout pledges. The central
bank stopped cutting borrowing costs last year after lowering
them four times to combat the worst recession in two decades.  The economic decline ended in the first quarter, when gross
domestic product expanded an annual 1.7 percent, helped by
surging exports and industrial output.  Central Bank Target  Romania’s falling inflation rate was “not much of a
surprise” for the central bank, Lucian Croitoru, a monetary-
policy adviser to Governor Mugur Isarescu, said in a phone
interview today. The central bank targets an inflation rate of 3
percent, plus or minus 1 percentage point, this year and next.  “The current decline in prices increases the chances for
the inflation rate to get closer to our forecast for the end of
the year of 5.1 percent,” Croitoru said. “The drop comes from
food and oil prices, but it’s also a result of a prudent
monetary policy. If the central bank had bowed to pressures to
increase the interest rates, it would have been a big mistake.”  Food-price growth slowed to 9.8 percent in June from a year
earlier, compared with 11.2 percent in May, on lower vegetable,
milk and fruit prices, the institute said.  Non-food costs were unchanged at 7.7 percent from the
previous month, while price growth for services accelerated to
4.8 percent from 4.7 percent in May as a 2.6 percent loss by the
leu currency to the euro boosted telephone and rent costs gauged
in the common currency.  Romania’s trade deficit widened in May to 1.12 billion
euros ($1.6 billion) from 1 billion euros a year ago, the
statistics institute said in a separate statement today. The
shortfall was revised to 985.9 million euros for April from
897.3 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  