-- 
RTS Stock-Index Futures Fall as Euro Weakens, Crude Oil Drops

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-07-11T21:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/rts-stock-index-futures-fall-as-euro-weakens-crude-oil-drops.html
Russia’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling shares may drop today in Moscow, as oil declined
and the euro tumbled to a seven-week low against the dollar on
speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis in deepening.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September fell 0.2 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO Gazprom,
the world’s biggest gas producer, fell 0.2 percent. Contracts on
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, gained 0.4 percent,
while those on OAO Lukoil, the second-largest, rose 0.2 percent.  “With the European debt crisis at its current stage, we
may be seeing just the tip of the iceberg,” Elena Matrosova, a
Moscow-based economist at BDO International, a financial adviser
that lists the central bank among its clients, said in a
telephone interview. “There is a certain nervousness in the
market. The euro falls, and prices of oil may fall further.”  Russia  is the world’s largest energy exporter. Oil and
natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output. The
country also exports precious metals such as gold, silver and
palladium.  Oil for August delivery declined 1.1 percent to settle
$95.15 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
level since July 1. Prices have increased 25 percent in the past
year.  The 17-nation euro dropped 1.7 percent to $1.4032 at 5:01
p.m. in  New York , after touching $1.3987, the lowest intraday
price since May 23. A weaker euro and stronger dollar curb the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment to the U.S.
currency.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
tumbled 0.8 percent, to 680.28.  Europe  European leaders are prepared to accept that  Greece  should
default on some of its bonds as part of a new bailout plan for
the country that would put its debt levels on a sustainable
footing, the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified
senior officials. The  European Central Bank  is seeking advice
from a private lender on what to do in the event of a default in
the euro area, Handelsblatt said, without citing anyone.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, fell 2.9 percent yesterday. American
depositary receipts of Lukoil fell 1.7 percent, while ADRs of
Gazprom fell 2.5 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.8 percent to
1,319.49 at 4 p.m. in New York, its lowest level since June 29.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.8 percent, its biggest
decline since May 23.  Russia’s 30-stock, ruble-denominated  Micex index (INDEXCF)  1.3
percent yesterday in Moscow, its steepest drop since June 23.
The dollar-denominated RTS Index dropped 2 percent to 1,919.08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  