-- 
Ruble Weakens Most in 7 Weeks Versus Dollar as Oil Drops, EU Woes Spread

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-07-11T15:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/ruble-weakens-to-lowest-in-eight-days-versus-dollar-as-crude-oil-declines.html
The ruble slid the most in seven
weeks against the dollar as concern  Italy  may become the next
victim of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis drove investors away
from riskier emerging-market currencies.  Russia’s currency depreciated one percent to 28.275 per
dollar at the 7 p.m. close in Moscow, the biggest depreciation
since May 23. The ruble appreciated 0.9 percent to 39.57 per
euro, leaving it little changed at 33.3577 against the central
bank’s target dollar-euro basket.  A meeting of European officials today was enlarged amid
speculation Italy may be engulfed by the crisis and divisions on
how to structure aid for Greece. The euro tumbled to a seven-
week low against the dollar, while the yield spread of Italian
ten-year bonds over German bunds rose to a euro-lifetime record.  “We are currently seeing a surge in  risk aversion  again as
the Eurozone debt crisis is going into a new round,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
said in response to e-mailed questions today. “We see European,
Middle Eastern and African currencies weaken while investors are
fleeing into the safe-haven currencies, among them the dollar.”  Oil declined to a one-week low in  New York  after  China ’s
net oil imports shrank 10 percent in June to the lowest in eight
months, according to Bloomberg calculations based on General
Administration of Customs Data released yesterday. Crude for
August delivery lost as much as $2.06 cents a barrel, and last
traded down 1.5 percent at $94.77 a barrel.  Global Markets  “The main directional driver of Moscow’s bourses continues
to be the trend, and news flow, in global markets rather than
the improving domestic picture,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist
at ING Groep NV in Moscow, wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“That is unlikely to change all summer.”  Russian  government bonds  fell for the first day in three,
pushing the yield on the ruble Eurobond due in 2018 up four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.895 percent. Non-
deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and allow companies to hedge against them,
show the ruble at 28.4889 per dollar in three months, compared
with 28.5162 July 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  