-- 
Russian Cruise Ship Carrying More Than 200 Sank in Minutes in Volga River

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-07-11T08:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/russian-cruise-ship-carrying-more-than-200-sank-in-minutes-in-volga-river.html
Emergency workers have found 12
bodies and are searching for more than 110 people after a
Russian cruise ship sank in the  Volga River , according to
Emergency Ministry officials.  The Bulgaria may have been carrying 207 people when the
ship went down yesterday, the Tatarstan division of  Russia ’s
Emergency Ministry said today in  a statement  on its website.
Seventy-nine people were saved, according to the ministry.  The vessel was returning to Kazan, the capital of
Tatarstan, from the town of Bolgar when it sank about 740
kilometers (460 miles) east from Moscow.  “It sank in two or three minutes,” Liliya Khaziyeva, a
spokeswoman for the Rescue Service from the neighboring Udmurtia
region, said by phone from a rescue boat near the accident site.
“We found dead people wearing safety jackets, people who were
simply unable to leave the ship.”  Workers are combing river banks and islands, she said. The
river is as wide as 30 kilometers in the area, she said.  “About 30 children were being entertained in one room,
according to passenger reports,” Khaziyeva said. “Divers are
looking for this room now.”  The numbers of travelers and missing are changing as the
list of registered and unregistered passengers is updated,
Andrei Rodygin, a spokesman for the Tatarstan division of the
Emergency Ministry, said by phone.  The Bulgaria, built in the former  Czechoslovakia , sank
three kilometers from shore yesterday at 1:58 p.m. local time,
according to a statement on the Emergency Ministry’s website.
The weather was stormy, said Rodygin.  The vessel, built in 1955, passed an inspection earlier
this year, the Rossiya 24 state television channel reported.  A criminal investigation has been opened into violations of
transportation safety regulations, according to the national
Investigative Committee’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  