-- 
Russian Cruise Boat Sank in ‘Minutes’ in Volga River, Killing Up to 129

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-07-11T17:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/russian-cruise-ship-sinks-on-volga-river.html
As many as 129 people may have died
when a 56-year-old Russian tourist boat sank in the  Volga River 
yesterday, sparking a probe into safety violations on the
unlicensed cruise.  Almost no hope remains for finding additional survivors
from the Bulgaria two-deck river cruise ship, Emergency Minister
 Sergei Shoigu  told President Dmitry Medvedev today outside
Moscow. Of 208 people on board, 79 people were rescued, while 55
bodies have been recovered, according to the ministry.  Medvedev declared tomorrow a day of mourning, and he and
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  expressed condolences. Medvedev,
who pledged to fight corruption during his term, ordered an
investigation into the operator and officials responsible.  “It sank in two or three minutes, very fast,” Liliya
Khaziyeva, a spokeswoman for the Rescue Service from the
neighboring Udmurtia region, said by phone from a boat near the
accident site. “We found dead people wearing life vests, people
who were simply unable to leave the ship.”  The incident is one of  Russia ’s deadliest passenger
accidents since the collapse of the  Soviet Union  in 1991. Plane
crashes in Irkutsk killed 125 people in 2006 and 145 people in
2001, according to the Aviation Safety Network’s  website . It is
the worst shipping disaster in more than 25 years, according to
Alexei Klyavin, president of the Association of Shipping
Companies.  Without Help  Nikolai Chernov, a survivor, said on state television that
he saw at least two ships pass by without offering help.  The ship was returning to Kazan, the capital of Tatarstan,
from the town of Bolgar when it sank about 740 kilometers (460
miles) east of Moscow at 1:58 p.m. local time on July 10. It
sank about three kilometers from shore, according to a statement
on the Emergency Ministry’s website.  “About 30 children were being entertained in one room,
according to passenger reports,” Khaziyeva said. Divers are
working at depths of 7 to 14 meters, she said. Workers have
combed the river banks and islands in an area where the water
stretches into a reservoir about 30 kilometers across, she said.  The Bulgaria hadn’t been overhauled since 1980 and was
running with a malfunctioning left engine, while the cruise was
operated without a license to carry passengers, the Prosecutor
General’s Office said on its website. The boat had passed an
inspection this year, according to state television.  ‘Complete Review’  The Bulgaria was listing to the right when it left Kazan,
which may be one of the reasons it sank, Vladimir Markin,
spokesman for the Investigative Committee said on state
television. A criminal investigation has been opened into
violations of transportation safety regulations, according to
the Investigative Committee’s  website .  Medvedev ordered “a complete review” of passenger ships,
to be followed by repair or decommissioning for older boats.
“The number of old tubs in operation exceeds all limits,” he
said. “The government owns only a small number of these ships,
but that doesn’t mean that the government should shirk
control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  