-- 
Russia’s Kolobnev Withdraws From Tour de France After Positive Doping Test

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-12T00:06:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/russian-rider-alexandr-kolobnev-becomes-first-tour-de-france-doping-case.html
Alexandr Kolobnev  of  Russia  withdrew
from the  Tour de France  after becoming the first cyclist to be
accused of doping during this year’s race.  Kolobnev, who rides for the Katusha team, was found with
the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide in the first part of a urine
sample taken July 6, the  International Cycling Union , or UCI,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Kolobnev decided to suspend himself while he awaits the
result of the secondary sample. The 30-year-old has the right to
request and attend the analysis of the second part of his sample.  “If the B-sample also tests positive, he will be fired and
will have to pay five times his salary as a fine,” his Geneva-
based team said in a  statement  on its website.  Hydrochlorothiazide helps athletes to process salt and
water, and can be used to mask the presence of other drugs, the
Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI said.  Two-time defending champion  Alberto Contador  of  Spain  is
riding in the tour amid doubt over a positive drug test from
last year’s race. Contador will have a hearing in the Court of
Arbitration for Sport in August regarding the failed test, which
he blamed on eating contaminated beef.  Kolobnev is 69th in the Tour’s overall standings, 22
minutes, 15 seconds behind the leader,  France ’s Thomas Voeckler.
In the climber category, he’s tied on one point with eight
riders, 21 points behind Johnny Hoogerland of the Netherlands.  Kolobnev won a bronze medal in the men’s individual road
race in the 2008 Olympics in Beijing after second-place finisher
David Rebellin was disqualified because of a positive drug test.
A one-day specialist, Kolobnev also won World Championship
silver medals in 2007 and 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  