-- 
TSA’s Forced Indignities Don’t Make Us Safer: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/tsa-s-forced-indignities-don-t-make-us-safer-jeffrey-goldberg.html
And now, two stories about the
thrill of American  air travel  today. The subject of our first
story is 24-year-old Olajide Oluwaseun Noibi, a Nigerian-
American who was once enrolled as an engineering student at the
University of  Michigan . The subject of our second story is 95-
year-old Lena Reppert, a terminally ill cancer patient.  On June 24, Noibi boarded a Los Angeles-bound Virgin
America flight at  New York ’s Kennedy International Airport, FBI
officials said, by using someone else’s boarding pass. Days
later, he unsuccessfully attempted to board a Delta Air Lines
flight from  Los Angeles  to Atlanta using a boarding pass for a
flight that departed the day before, also in someone else’s
name. When police searched Noibi’s bag, they discovered 10 other
boarding passes, none of which bore his name.  Reppert was traveling with an authentic boarding pass, but
she almost missed her flight from  Florida  to Michigan last month
because Transportation Security Administration officials decided
they couldn’t clear her through security. The reason? A
suspicious anomaly in her adult diaper, which was discovered
during a pat-down.  Reppert, who was traveling home to die in the company of
her family, uses a wheelchair and could not pass through either
an X-ray machine or the full-body scanner -- one of the very
expensive machines now installed in many airports that can peer
through your clothing and take pictures of your genitals.  Because the TSA could not reassure itself about the nature
of the alarming anomaly, Reppert’s daughter wheeled her mother
(her dying mother, let me repeat) to a bathroom, where, in the
interest of securing the American homeland, she removed the
diaper. Reppert was patted down again, and then allowed to pass
through security. She flew home without the protection of a
diaper, or the benefit of underwear.  Behavioral Profiling  I’m not one to automatically assume that the diaper and its
owner were harmless, simply because they appeared to have been
harmless. I once watched an obese nun in a wheelchair board a
plane, and I suspected at that moment that she could have been
the ne plus ultra of clandestine al-Qaeda operatives. Unlikely,
yes, but terrorists can be clever.  If Reppert had been profiled -- not racially, but through
behavioral observation and a background check -- it wouldn’t
have been necessary to order off her diaper. And the U.S.
government, if it really applied itself, could probably
ascertain whether the owner of a soiled diaper posed a threat
without profiling her, and without humiliating her. But since
the airport-security system is not interested in people, but in
the things they possess, it was necessary to suspect that
Reppert was a terrorist until proved otherwise.  The Pat-Down  I’m writing this column aboard a flight from  Detroit  to
Amsterdam. I first entered the TSA matrix for this trip at
Reagan National Airport. As is my practice, I opted out of the
body imager and asked for a pat-down. I do this in part because
I don’t trust the government’s assurances that the radiation
emitted by the machines is harmless. And also because I don’t
enjoy raising my hands like a mugging victim inside a
radioactive box so a government agent can look at me naked.  During this pat-down, the TSA agent, while running his
hands carefully up my leg, came across a small bump near my left
knee. He asked me to describe the nature of the bump. I told him
it was a benign cyst. (I realize I’m oversharing, but there’s a
purpose to this story.) The agent called over a supervisor. The
supervisor questioned me about the cyst. The supervisor and the
agent then discussed the cyst. This has happened to me at two
other checkpoints. My dermatologist is much less interested in
this cyst than is the Department of  Homeland Security .
Eventually, the supervisor ruled that the cyst (or, I should
say, “alleged cyst”) was too small to be a threat to a
commercial airliner.  An Experiment  Three years ago,  as an experiment , I carried aboard
airliners objects such as knives, Hezbollah flags, matches from
hotels in Peshawar and  Beirut , and box-cutters, in addition to
my benign cyst. I was never caught. It’s not hard to sneak
banned objects on planes. (You should see the size of my
toothpaste -- gargantuan.)  As part of this experiment, which I wrote about originally
for the Atlantic, I collaborated with security expert Bruce Schneier to see whether we could penetrate TSA checkpoints
carrying fake boarding passes. Schneier manufactured these
passes on his home computer. We didn’t attempt to board
airplanes with these passes, but they did get us through
security without delay.  Which brings me back to the intrepid Mr. Noibi. At roughly
the same time the TSA was humiliating Lena Reppert and her
family, the TSA was itself being humiliated by Noibi, who seemed
to beat the system because the TSA, almost 10 years after the
Sept. 11 attacks, still has no way to ascertain at its
checkpoints whether a boarding pass is genuine.  A Brighter Idea  The TSA’s defenders argue that the agency is more nimble
than ever technologically, and they point to the new body-
imaging machines as proof that its agents are equipped to
discover weapons and explosives hidden under clothing. Except
for one thing. The Obama administration announced last week that
terrorists may be trying to carry surgically implanted bombs
onto commercial flights. The body-imaging machines can’t see
beneath the skin. So these machines are now officially
irrelevant, thanks to the surgical innovators of al-Qaeda. The
TSA is in a losing battle.  So here’s a brighter idea: The government could recognize
that it’s impossible to screen passengers (and cargo) for every
type of banned material. If a terrorist plot has gone
undiscovered by the world’s intelligence agencies, by the U.S.
military, by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and by local
 law enforcement , the chance is high that the plotters are also
more sophisticated than the TSA. It’s better to accept some
level of risk, minimize the TSA’s ever more intrusive
disruptions to American life, and redirect some of its enormous
budget to agencies that can eliminate terrorist plots before
they mature to the point that conspirators are boarding planes.  The Noibi case shows that the TSA hasn’t proved it can
secure our airports. And the Reppert scandal suggests that we
pay, in dignity and privacy, far too high a price for security
that is entirely symbolic.  (Jeffrey Goldberg, a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read More  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 