-- 
Sanofi’s Lemtrada Helps Multiple Sclerosis Patients in Study

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-11T16:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sanofi-s-lemtrada-cut-relapse-rates-from-ms-in-late-stage-study.html
Sanofi’s experimental multiple
sclerosis drug Lemtrada, acquired in the purchase of Genzyme
Corp., helped patients more than  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s older medicine
Rebif in a key study. The shares fell after the medicine failed
to meet a second goal of the trial.  The product cut relapse rates by 55 percent over two years
compared with Rebif in the late-stage trial, the Paris-based
company said in a statement today. The study didn’t show that
Lemtrada was statistically better than Rebif in helping stave
off disability for the duration of the test, researchers found.  “The treatment is relatively effective but we need to have
more details on the side effects, which are key in MS drugs,”
Jean-Jacques Le Fur, an analyst at Oddo & Cie. in Paris, said by
phone today. “It’s a bit surprising” that the second target
wasn’t reached, said Le Fur, who has a “neutral”
recommendation on Sanofi shares. “Questions remain and we need
to dig deeper.”  The medicine’s prospects were at the heart of the Genzyme
takeover talks this year. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme
was projecting peak annual sales of as much as $3.5 billion,
saying Lemtrada was likely to become its bestseller. Sanofi said
in October that analysts’ estimates of about $700 million were a
valuation “probably closer to the reality of the product.”  CVR  To hedge its bets, Sanofi carved out, as part of the deal
struck in February, a so-called contingent value right tied to
Lemtrada’s future sales. The CVR, which helped reconcile the
conflicting views, was designed to protect the French drugmaker
against the potential failure of the high-profile treatment,
acquired to buttress its own products in development.  Genzyme stockholders were given one CVR for each share they
owned. Owners of the rights, which are listed on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, stand to receive payments of as much as $14 per
CVR if Lemtrada wins U.S. approval and reaches sales goals.  The rights plunged 26 cents, or 10 percent to $2.28 at
12:10 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq trading today, the steepest
decline since they started trading on April 1.  Sanofi shares fell 95 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 54.57 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris. Sanofi has gained 14
percent this year, giving it a market value of 73.7 billion
euros ($103.4 billion).  Multiple sclerosis , which affects about 2.1 million people
worldwide, is a chronic and incurable disease that destroys the
nerves and robs patients of their ability to control their
movements. Many patients have trouble staying on current
therapies because they’re difficult to use or cause side
effects, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  Adverse Events  Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker, said today the most
common adverse events associated with Lemtrada, also known as
alemtuzumab, were reactions linked to infusion of the drug, such
as headaches, rashes, fever, nausea, flushing and chills. No
patient dropped out of the study, dubbed CARE-MS 1, because of
side effects, Sanofi said.  Patients also developed more infections, the company said.
The most common involved the upper respiratory and urinary tract
and oral herpes, it said. The infections were for the most part
mild to moderate in severity and there were no life-threatening
or fatal infections, Sanofi said.  Analysis of the full data is continuing, the company said.
Sanofi will present detailed results of the study, which
enrolled 581 patients at an early stage of MS, at a medical
meeting this year, the company said.  Lemtrada Expectations  “Expectations for Lemtrada are relatively low, with
investors concerned over the safety profile,” Sanford C.
Bernstein analysts including  Jack Scannell  wrote in a note to
clients today. “We think these new data make approval more
likely, but they don’t show the overwhelming efficacy that could
disrupt the market for early stage MS drugs.”  Sanofi said today that results from a second advanced-stage
clinical trial for Lemtrada, still under way, will be available
in the fourth quarter.  The company plans to seek regulatory approval for the drug
in the U.S. and European Union in early 2012, Sanofi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  