-- 
SapuraCrest, Kencana Plan $3.9 Billion Malaysia Oil Merger

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-07-11T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sapuracrest-kencana-to-merge-as-malaysia-boosts-oil-exploration.html
SapuraCrest Petroleum Bhd. (SCRES)  and
 Kencana Petroleum Bhd. (KEPB)  plan to combine in an 11.9 billion
ringgit ($3.9 billion) deal, creating Malaysia’s biggest listed
oilfield services company by assets.  Integral Key Sdn., a company set up by a bank to facilitate
the merger, bid 4.60 ringgit per share in stock and cash for
SapuraCrest and the equivalent of 3 ringgit per share for
Kencana, the companies said yesterday. They would have combined
assets of about 6 billion ringgit when the merger is completed
in eight months, they said.  The proposed merger, the nation’s biggest this year, comes
six months after Prime Minister Najib Razak introduced tax
incentives to encourage the exploration of less-profitable
fields to boost petroleum reserves. SapuraCrest and Kencana won
a contract in January from  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , or Petronas,
to jointly develop an oil field off the nation’s eastern coast
with Petrofac Ltd.  “The merged entity will be in a strong position to
undertake larger and more complex projects, thus significantly
improving business prospects,” Integral said in its letter of
offer to both companies. The tie-up will “create a full-fledged
integrated oil and gas services provider with strong delivery
capabilities across the value chain,” it said.  Key Shareholders  Sapura Technology Bhd., a company controlled by the family
of SapuraCrest Vice Chairman Shahril Shamsuddin, would be
Integral Key’s biggest shareholder with a 20 percent stake, the
statement said. Kencana Chief Executive Officer Mokhzani Mahathir would emerge with 16.2 percent. The two men would
jointly run the combined company, it said.  “The principal shareholders of SapuraCrest and Kencana are
keen to consider the merger,” E. Sreesanthan, Integrated Key’s
legal adviser, told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday.  The offer represents a 2.4 percent premium to SapuraCrest’s
last traded price of 4.49 ringgit on July 8, while Kencana
shareholders were offered a 7.1 percent premium to its last
price of 2.80 ringgit, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Both
stocks were suspended yesterday for the announcement.  “Kencana is mainly in fabrication and SapuraCrest is in
offshore works, pipe-laying and rigs, so there’s a fit,”
Kaladher Govindan, an analyst at TA Securities Holdings Bhd.,
said yesterday in a telephone interview in Kuala Lumpur. “This
will lead to other mergers of smaller players. They have to as
competition will become steep.”  Tax Incentives  SapuraCrest operates drilling rigs, installs pipelines, and
develops oil and gas fields and Kuala Lumpur-based Kencana
provides engineering and fabrication services. The government’s
tax incentives, announced Nov. 30, included reducing income tax
development of marginal oilfields to 25 percent from 38 percent.  “SapuraCrest wants to grow bigger, modeling itself on
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,” the world’s largest oilfield services
provider, Arhnue Tan, an analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn., said
by interview from Kuala Lumpur. “It wants to capture the whole
value chain and might want to get into fabrication.”  At 4.60 ringgit per SapuraCrest share, the offer equates to
a price-earnings ratio of 20 times, based on the company’s
projected 2012 profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Kencana’s 3 ringgit per share offer translates into a 25 times
ratio, according to calculations by Bloomberg. This compares to
a median of 11 times for 13 oil and gas deals in emerging Asia-
Pacific over the last five years, data on the Bloomberg show.  Market Value  Selangor-based SapuraCrest has a market capitalization of
5.7 billion ringgit, compared with Kencana’s 5.1 billion ringgit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The proposed merger will create a company with a market
value of 10.9 billion ringgit based on current prices, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. SapuraCrest and Kencana would be
de-listed upon completion of the deal, with Integrated Key
assuming one of their places on the Kuala Lumpur exchange, the
statement said.  Malaysia  Marine and Heavy Engineering Bhd. is currently
country’s largest oil and gas services provider, with a market
value of 13.4 billion ringgit and assets of 5.3 billion ringgit.  The offer is biggest merger and acquisition in Malaysia
since UEM Group Bhd. and the Employees Provident Fund announced
a takeover for toll-road operator PLUS Expressways Bhd. in
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  