-- 
HSBC to Sell Motor Insurance Division to Syndicate Holding

-- B y   Y i n g   D i a o
-- 
2011-07-11T13:30:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/hsbc-to-sell-motor-insurance-division-to-syndicate-holding-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, agreed to sell its U.K. motor insurance division to
Syndicate Holding Corp. as the lender exits from an industry
that loses money in Britain.  Syndicate, an insurer based in  Puerto Rico  with most of its
operations in London, will buy the unit for 68.5 million pounds
($110 million) in cash, London-based HSBC said today in a
statement. The division stopped writing new business in 2009.
Syndicate manages an insurance fund of more than $1 billion.  “This sale completes HSBC’s exit from underwriting motor
insurance in the U.K.,” the bank said in the statement.  The deal with HSBC is Syndicate’s first purchase of an
insurance company, according to Nigel Rogers, its chief
executive officer. “The acquisition of the HSBC division will
give us a platform to further expand into the company market in
the U.K. and international market,” Rogers said in a telephone
interview today.  Syndicate has done all of its 11 transactions, valued at
$800 million, in the Lloyd’s of  London  market since the company
was started in 2007 with the backing of billionaire investor
 George Soros , Rogers said.  British motor insurers posted a record loss of 1.6 billion
pounds in 2009 as personal injury claims soared, according to a
research by Deloitte LLP. Towers Watson Ltd., the London-based
insurance broker, estimates motor insurers to pay out 1.14
pounds for every pound of revenue in 2010.  The deal, subject to regulatory approvals, is expected to
be completed in the third quarter this year. The bank will
continue to offer motor insurance through third-party insurers,
it said in the statement.  HSBC is the U.K.’s 18th biggest private motor insurer and
the 16th largest commercial motor insurer based on net written
premiums, according to the  Association of British Insurers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Diao in London at 
 dying6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans2@bloomberg.net . 