-- 
Scene Last Night: Adam Sender in Hamptons, Michael Gordon

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-11T11:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/scene-last-night-adam-sender-in-hamptons-michael-gordon-in-berkshires.html
Adam Sender, general partner and
founder of Exis Capital Management Inc., threw a birthday party
for his daughter on Saturday.  “It was low-key,” Sender reported that night from his
table at the  Parrish Art Museum  Midsummer Party.  Nearby, Doug Polley, portfolio manager at P Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP, said he too had spent the day playing with
his kids.  Sender and Polley represent new talent on the museum’s
board. Both are helping the museum prepare for its new home
designed by  Herzog & de Meuron .  “It’s an easy pitch,” Polley said of his fundraising
efforts as board co-chairman. “We have a big building going up
to go look at.”  This new complex, on 14 acres in Watermill,  New York , is
set to be finished in 2012.  Until then, the Parrish remains in its old digs in downtown
Southampton, which is just fine by artist  Dorothea Rockburne .  “I chose to be the closing exhibition in the old space
rather than the opening exhibition in the new space,” said
Rockburne of her retrospective on view through Aug. 14. “The
old is big and yet it’s intimate.”  The party had an intimate feel, with lots of people willing
to share what they’d done earlier in the day.  Dorothy Lichtenstein, widow of the artist  Roy Lichtenstein ,
said she left her houseguest, Christy MacLear, head of the
 Rauschenberg Foundation , to visit her sick dog Peanut, a Bouvier
with black curly hair.  Pia Lindstrom said she taught a little girl how to swim.
Her husband, attorney Jack Carley, played tennis, weeded and
watched Yankee  Derek Jeter  take his 3,000th hit.  Rockburne spent the day with her hostess, Barbara Grodd,
whose family owns  Paul Stuart .  “We sat around and swam and we ate marvelous corn and
fresh asparagus,” Grodd said. “We laughed a lot.”  Bella in Berkshires  The  Boston Symphony Orchestra  arrived at Tanglewood Friday
with an Italian program (Bellini, Rossini, Verdi, Respighi) and
supper (frittata, bistecca, ravioli, cannoli).  Gathered in the Berkshire hills of Lenox,  Massachusetts ,
were 400 gala guests who weren’t speaking Italian.  They included the orchestra’s co-chairman, Stephen B. Kay,
a senior director at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.; Robert Grien,
managing director of TM Capital Corp.; Michael Judlowe, managing
director at Jefferies & Co. Inc. and trustee  Michael Gordon ,
chief investment officer at Angelo Gordon & Co.  Gordon and his wife, Sally, made a $25,000 contribution to
the gala, which raised $330,000 in total.  Tuscan Sunflowers  “Here’s the thing,” Gordon said at his dinner table,
decorated with very Tuscan sunflowers, artichokes, lemons and
rosemary. “When you give money to an organization you want to
make sure they’re spending it wisely.”  Gordon gives “to the BSO because it is really well run,”
he said. “It all comes down to management and people. The
people here are smarter than most.”  They were smart enough not to get grumpy about the
evening’s rainstorms, humidity and mud.  “We’re used to it,” Boston Symphony Orchestra cellist
Owen Young said. “We play with whatever we’re given.”  “I don’t wish it were something other than what it is,”
said choreographer Mark Morris after dinner on his way to the
concert.  In the Koussevitzky Shed, the Tuscan sun came out. Soprano
 Angela Meade  and tenor  Roberto De Biasio  were wonderful,
expressive singers. Conductor Charles Dutoit led the orchestra
though Respighi’s “Pines of  Rome ” accompanied by a recording
of a nightingale. It was a bella “La Prima di Tanglewood.” The
season runs through Aug. 28.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 