-- 
San Francisco’s Bay Bridge Gets 5,300-Ton Steel Span Delivery from China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T06:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sf-bay-bridge-gets-5-300-ton-delivery-from-china.html
The final segments for  San Francisco
Bay ’s new  suspension bridge  are being loaded onto a ship in
 Shanghai  today, moving California’s largest current public works
project a step closer to completion.  The four steel modules, weighing a combined 5,300 tons,
will then make a 22-day journey across the  Pacific Ocean , before
being joined with 24 other sections already in place. Together,
they will help form the world’s longest single-tower, self-
anchored suspension bridge, stretching 2,047 feet (624 meters).  The structure is part of the Bay’s new $6.4 billion East
Span, due to open in 2013, which also includes a 1.2-mile
viaduct. Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries Co.’s work making the
525-foot tower at the heart of the  suspension bridge  and the 28
steel deck sections for it, highlights how Chinese engineers are
expanding overseas and winning contracts for more complicated
projects.  “It’s a one-of-a-kind-project,”  William Ibbs , professor
of construction management at the University of  California ,
Berkeley, said in a telephone interview. “Seeing something of
this magnitude go up is astounding.”  The full East Span will stretch 2.2 miles from Yerba Buena
Island in the middle of San Francisco Bay to the Oakland shore.
The new Span, featuring two parallel roadways with five lanes
each, will replace the current Bay Bridge’s existing eastern
section, which was damaged by the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake.  Five Months Early  Shanghai Zhenhua, a unit of Hong Kong-listed China
Communications Construction Co., completed its work five months
ahead of schedule, according to Chairman Zhou Jichang. The first
of the  sections  arrived in California in January 2010. Loading
the modules onto the ship will be completed by July 16,
according to Tan Guangren, head of enterprise cultural division
at the company.  The Shanghai-based company employed as many as 2,500
workers at peak times on the project, including 1,000 welders,
who gained U.S. qualifications specifically for the work, he
said. In total, it used 43,000 tons of steel on the project.
Another Chinese company, Shanghai Pujiang Cable Co. made the 1-
mile main cable for the bridge, Zhou said.  “Chinese engineering companies’ expertise has improved
rapidly, thanks to their heavy investments in research and
development,” said Hou Yankun, an analyst at Nomura
International  Hong Kong  Ltd. “They realize they can’t be
competitive in the long term just by making low-skill
products.”  The main contractor on the suspension bridge is a venture
between Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based American Bridge Co. and
Irving, Texas-based  Fluor Corp. (FLR)   Link to Oakland  The viaduct that will link the suspension bridge to Oakland
consists of 452 deck sections fabricated in Stockton,
California. The structure, called the  skyway , sits on 28 columns
that are supported by piles driven 300 feet into bay mud,
according to the project’s website.  Shanghai Zhenhua only expects a small profit from its part
of the project, which it won in 2006 with a $250 million bid,
Zhou said, without elaboration. Instead, the group hopes the
bridge will help it win more contracts as it expands into new
products, including equipment for offshore drilling and wind-
power generation.  “Making money wasn’t the first priority for us,” Zhou
said. “We want to build a name for ourselves in a new area.”  --Jasmine Wang and Dan Levy with assistance for Hunter Holcombe
in  San Francisco , Christine Hah and Emma Dong in Beijing.
Editors: Neil Denslow, Jeffrey Taylor  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 