-- 
China’s Stocks Rise on Speculation Inflation Rate Will Drop; SAIC Jumps

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-11T07:26:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/shanghai-stocks-drop-as-u-s-jobs-slump-china-inflation-data-hurt-outlook.html
China ’s stocks rose, spurring the
biggest gain for the benchmark index in a week, on speculation
inflation will decelerate the rest of the year and the nation’s
economic growth may sustain earnings.  SAIC Motor Corp. climbed 1.9 percent after the nation’s car
sales rebounded in June after dropping the previous month. Anhui
Water Resources Development Co. jumped the most this month after
Xinhua News Agency reported the government will speed up
investment in water projects. China Shenhua Energy Co. led
declines among coal companies as raw-material prices fell.
China’s pork prices may retreat beginning in July and August,
Xinhua reported, after a government report showed consumer
prices rose at the fastest pace in three years last month.  “The June inflation number had already been widely
expected by the market and its impact will be minor,” said Ling Peng, chief strategist at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Inflation may have already peaked.”  The Shanghai Composite, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, rose 4.92 point, or 0.2 percent, to 2,802.69 at
the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1 percent to
3,113.21.  The Shanghai gauge has fallen 0.2 percent this year. The
index has pared a loss of as much as 6.7 percent on speculation
fiscal policies such as spending in affordable housing will
support the economy and after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on June 24
efforts to stem inflation have worked. The central bank raised
interest rates last week for a fifth time since the start of
2010.  Inflation Peak  Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June, mainly driven by
a 14 percent gain in food costs, the statistics bureau said on
its website over the week-end. The pace exceeded the 6.2 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.
Producer prices gained 7.1 percent, the bureau said. That
compared with the median estimate of 6.9 percent.  June inflation may be the peak this inflationary cycle as
price increases are slowing on a month-on-month basis, according
to Citic Securities Co. Consumer prices may rise about 6 percent
this month and the central bank isn’t likely to raise  interest
rates  the rest of the year, analysts led by  Zhu Jianfang  wrote
in a report today.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, gained 1.9 percent to 18.65
yuan. FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, advanced 2.7 percent to 15.14 yuan. Chongqing
Changan Automobile Co., the Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co.
and Mazda Motor Corp., added 1 percent to 5.32 yuan.  Economic Growth  Deliveries of cars including multipurpose and sport-utility
vehicles to dealerships rose 6.2 percent to 1.1 million units
last month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said in a statement July 8. The increase follows a 0.1 percent
decline in May, the first drop since January 2009.  China’s economy  probably grew 9.3 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
It expanded 9.7 percent in the first quarter. The figure is due
July 13.  Exports climbed 17.9 percent in June, the least since
December, the customs bureau said on its website yesterday.
Imports jumped 19.3 percent, the weakest expansion since gains
resumed in November 2009. The  trade surplus  widened to $22.3
billion in June, the highest level in seven months.  “Policy tightening may ease with inflation peaking soon,
and economic growth may pick up again,” said Shen Yang, a
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Lombarda China Fund Management
Co., a venture with  Italy ’s fourth-biggest bank. “That’s
positive for the stock market.”  Pork Prices  China’s pork prices may fall beginning in July and August
as more maturing pigs boost supply, Xinhua reported, citing Wang
Zhicai, director of animal husbandry at the Ministry of
Agriculture. The country’s total hog inventory has risen for a
fourth month and farmers have actively increased production,
Xinhua said, citing Wang.  Anhui Water Resources surged 3.8 percent to 15.65 yuan.
China Gezhouba Group Co. added 2 percent to 12 yuan. Gansu Dayu
Water-saving Group Co. jumped 8.2 percent to 12.56 yuan.  China will accelerate investment in water projects, Xinhua
reported over the week-end, citing a politburo meeting chaired
by President  Hu Jintao . China will make agricultural irrigation
projects a priority and boost construction of dams and
reservoirs, Hu said in the Xinhua statement posted on the
central government’s website.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the largest international carrier, rose 1.7
percent to 10.37 yuan. China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s
biggest carrier by fleet size, gained 2.5 percent to 8.48 yuan.  Coal Stocks  Investment in the aviation industry may exceed 1.5 trillion
yuan ($232 billion) over the next five years, according to
Shanghai Securities News. China should form two to three large
and internationally competitive airlines through consolidation,
the newspaper reported, citing Li Jiaxiang, director of the
Civil Aviation Administration of China.  Shenhua dropped 1.7 percent to 30.89 yuan. China Coal
Energy Co., the nation’s second-largest coal producer, slipped 1
percent to 10.09 yuan. Datong Coal Industry Co., the third
biggest, retreated 1.8 percent to 17.56 yuan.  Crude oil for August delivery declined 2.5 percent to
settle at $96.20 a barrel in  New York  on July 8, the biggest
drop since June 23.  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  