-- 
SK Telecom Tumbles to Eight-Year Low, STX Units Fall on Hynix Bid Concerns

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-11T08:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sk-telecom-shares-fall-to-lowest-in-eight-years-on-concern-about-hynix-bid.html
SK Telecom Co.,  South Korea ’s
largest mobile-phone operator, and units of shipping magnate
Kang Duk Soo’s STX Group fell in Seoul trading after they
disclosed plans to bid for  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)   SK Telecom, the phone unit of billionaire Chey Tae Won’s  SK
Group , retreated 3.7 percent to 144,000 won, falling for a fifth
day to the lowest closing level since March 2003. STX Offshore &
Shipbuilding Co. lost 4 percent, while STX Corp. and STX Engine
Co. both fell 2.9 percent.  Morgan Stanley cut its stock rating on SK Telecom today,
underscoring a concern the nation’s business groups are reviving
over-expansion practices that led to a financial crisis in the
late-1990s. The biggest sale of a Korean technology asset since
1999 will pit Chey against Kang for control of the world’s
second-largest maker of computer-memory chips, a sector marked
by boom-and-bust cycles and billions of dollars in investments
each year.  “Investors are worried about the deal given the target
offers no foreseeable synergies for either bidder,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion.
“Sentiment on those stocks will be weak until a decision” on
the successful bidder, he said.  SK Telecom and STX Group said July 8 they submitted letters
of interest. Korea Exchange Bank, which is leading the financial
institutions seeking to unload their 2.4 trillion won ($2.3
billion) Hynix stake, said it expects to receive final bids by
the end of August and sign a deal by year-end.  Return of the Chaebol  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. last week cut its share-price
estimate on SK Telecom by 6.1 percent to 162,500 won, and
Daishin Securities Co. today reduced its stock-price projection
by 15 percent to 200,000 won.  While supporters praise the family-run Korean business
groups known as chaebol for pulling the country out of poverty
after the 1950-1953  Korean War , the  International Monetary Fund 
cited the debt-driven model as part of the reason the nation’s
economy landed in a financial crisis at the end of 1997.  The stake of about 15 percent being sold would make the
buyer the biggest shareholder in the chipmaker. The disposal
would also be the largest share sale of a Korean technology
company since July 1999, when Hynix bought a majority holding in
Hyundai Microelectronics Co. for 2.56 trillion won, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mystery Partner  SK Group, whose roots stretch back seven decades to when it
was a textiles maker, has grown into the nation’s third-largest
chaebol with 86 units sprawled across energy, financial services
and telecommunications. Chey’s wealth is estimated at about $2
billion, making the 50-year-old South Korea’s  seventh-richest
man , according to Forbes magazine.  SK Telecom said it’s seeking to diversify its businesses by
buying Hynix and will make a final decision on whether to
proceed after “thorough reviews.” STX, which plans to team up
with a unidentified Middle East sovereign wealth fund, expects
the deal to help reduce dependency on shipping and shipbuilding,
according to Vice Chairman Lee Jong Chul.  Hynix wouldn’t be SK Telecom’s first investment in a
business that strays from its main operations. In 2003, the
company bought a stake in  Posco (005490)  as part of a deal to stop the
nation’s biggest steelmaker from selling its stake in the
carrier, which was valued at $942 million at the time.  Acquisition Spree  STX  has grown into South Korea’s 14th-biggest business
group since it was founded by Kang, 60, a decade ago through
acquisitions. The group took over STX Offshore in 2001 and STX
Pan Ocean Co., the nation’s biggest commodities shipping
company, in November 2004.  It acquired Aker Yards ASA,  Europe ’s largest shipyard, for
about 1.4 trillion won in 2007. Buying Hynix would be STX
Group’s biggest acquisition.  STX Group’s five listed units had cash and equivalents of
about 2.9 trillion won at the end of March, according to their
financial statements.  For Hynix, the sale may result in the end of a decade under
bank supervision. Hynix was bailed out by creditors including
 Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  and Woori Bank in 2001 after they swapped
debt for equity.  Hynix posted record sales and profit in 2010, helped by
cost cuts and demand for chips used in mobile devices, leading
the company to pay a cash dividend to investors for the first
time. It reduced debt by more than 1 trillion won last year and
had more than 2 trillion won in cash, according to the company.  The chipmaker plans to spend about 3.4 trillion won this
year to expand production and upgrade factories, after investing
the same amount in capital expenditure in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  