-- 
Soskic Says Serbian June Inflation Probably Slowed Below 13%

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-07-11T14:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/soskic-says-serbian-june-inflation-probably-slowed-below-13-1-.html
Serbian inflation probably slowed to
less than 13 percent for the first time in four months in June
and the pace of future interest rate cuts will depend on food
and fuel- price stability , central bank Governor Dejan Soskic
said.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije cut its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter-point to 11.75 percent on July 7 on
expectations a new harvest will lower food prices, while weak
consumer demand also meant inflationary pressures were easing.
The inflation rate fell to 13.4 percent in May from 14.7 percent
in April. June price data is due to be released tomorrow.  “We see a significant decline in inflation and one
shouldn’t be surprised if we see price stability or negative
inflation in the coming months,” Soskic told reporters today in
Belgrade. Serbia last had monthly deflation in December 2009.  Policy makers in Belgrade have lowered borrowing costs by
three-quarters of a percentage point in the past two months on
the assumption that price growth has peaked.  Serbia  has seen a
rise in its risk premium, which along with the Greek crisis
pushed the Serbian dinar 5.4 percent down against the euro in
June, Soskic said.  With domestic food prices no longer the main source of
inflationary pressures, the central bank will watch for risks
that may come from fiscal policy, Soskic said.  Budget Target  The National Bank of Serbia expects the government of Prime
Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  to stick with its self-imposed budget
targets that set limits for the fiscal gap and the public debt.
The  Finance Ministry  released budget figures today for the first
half of 2011. The six-month shortfall totaled 67.3 billion dinar
($937.5 million), half of the planned full-year deficit.  “One should respect the law we adopted late last year”
and “limit the spending to levels which are realistically
possible to finance,” Soskic said, referring to new fiscal
responsibility rules that require Serbia to cut its 2012 fiscal
gap by one percentage point to 3.2 percent of economic output.  The rising  risk premium  may also affect the government’s
planned borrowing in dinar abroad, Soskic said. The price of
medium-term dinar borrowing should reflect expected inflation
levels or the bank’s two-week repurchase rate and an
“anticipated risk-free yield,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  