-- 
South African Energy Workers Join Metal Industry Strike Over Pay Increases

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-11T14:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/south-african-energy-workers-join-metal-industry-strike-over-pay-increases.html
South African oil workers at
refineries run by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and Sasol
Ltd. joined in a weeklong metal industry strike today to demand
higher pay. Gold miners are also threatening to walk out.  About 70,000 workers in the oil industry stopped work after
employers failed to heed their demands for wage increases of 11
percent to 13 percent and for the use of contract workers to be
terminated, Clement Chitja, head of negotiations at the
 Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers
Union , said by phone today. Employers offered 4 percent to 7
percent, he said.  Striking oil workers could threaten fuel supplies in a
nation whose six refineries have a combined processing capacity
of about 692,000 barrels a day. Rising wage settlements may also
push up consumer prices and increase pressure on the central
bank of  Africa ’s largest economy to raise  interest rates  from a
30-year low.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the country’s largest producer of motor fuels,
said in an e-mail that, while all its “major” refineries are
fully operational, it’s preparing contingency measures to cope
with any disruption. Chevron said in a separate e-mail that
adequate fuel supplies can’t be guaranteed.  Members of the  National Union of Metalworkers of South
Africa  went on strike for a 13 percent wage increase on July 4.
Anglo American Plc’s Scaw Metals Group unit said July 5 it’s
trying to mitigate the impact on operations. A settlement may be
close, the Steel and Engineering Industries Federation said on
its website today.  Rejected Offers  Gold and coal mines in the country also face strikes after
workers rejected offers by companies including  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-largest gold producer, and Xstrata Plc,
the biggest exporter of coal used in  power plants .  Shell and BP Plc’s jointly-owned Sapref unit,  South
Africa ’s largest oil refinery, said in an e-mail it will
continue operating “for as long as it is safe to do so.” It
isn’t clear what the extent of the stoppage is at this stage,
Herb Payne, a spokesman for Petroliam Nasional Bhd’s Engen Ltd.
refinery, said by mobile phone today.  Wage settlements negotiated on an industry-wide basis
averaged 8.2 percent in the first quarter, according to data
collated by Andrew Levy Employment Publications, a Johannesburg-
based research company.  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
largest labor federation, said today it noted “with anger” a
report that shows that the median pay of executive directors of
the 40 largest companies on the Johannesburg-based JSE stock
exchange increased by 23 percent last year.  State employees won a 7.5 percent raise last year and a 60
percent increase in housing allowances after nine months of
negotiations and a strike that shut schools and interrupted
services at hospitals and courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net 
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net 
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  