-- 
Spain’s Castilla Has ‘Extremely Serious’ Deficit, Leader Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-11T10:33:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/spain-s-castilla-has-extremely-serious-deficit-leader-says.html
Spain ’s Castilla-La Mancha region
requested an urgent meeting with the  Finance Ministry  about its
“extremely serious” fiscal situation as the nation’s borrowing
costs reached a record on concern about debt-crisis contagion.  “The deficit is much higher than what we were told, the
situation is extremely serious,” the region’s president, Maria
Dolores de Cospedal, told Onda Cero radio in an interview today.
“In the first quarter alone, the deficit reached 1.7 percent of
gross domestic product compared with an annual target of 1.3
percent,” said Cospedal, elected on May 22 when the opposition
People’s Party ended three decades of local Socialist rule.  Cospedal said she sent a letter to Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  seeking talks to find out “if the government knew about
the reality of Castilla La Mancha’s fiscal situation.”  Deepening deficits in the regions are sparking investor
concern that the Socialist-led central government will struggle
to rein in the euro area’s third  budget deficit  and prevent the
nation from following  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking a
bailout. Of 17 semi-autonomous regions, Castilla-La Mancha had
the widest budget deficit in 2010 at 6.5 percent of GDP and the
third-biggest debt at 16.9 percent of GDP in the first quarter.  Spanish and Italian bonds tumbled today as contagion from
Greece’s debt crisis threatened to spread to bigger economies.
The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond rose to 5.83
percent, pushing the gap between German and Spanish yields to a
euro-era record of 305 basis points as of 11:02 a.m. in  London .  Spain’s regions’ efforts are crucial to the country’s
overall deficit targets as they hire half of public workers and
control spending on health and education. Elections in Catalonia
last year disclosed a 2010 budget shortfall that was 60 percent
larger than the previous government had acknowledged, leading
some investors to expect similar revisions after the May vote in
13 other regions.  The Socialists face a general election by next March that
polls show they will lose to the PP. Mariano Rajoy, who leads
the opposition party, has pledged austerity in the regions it
already governs and greater budget discipline nationally if the
PP comes to power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  