-- 
Spanish Spending Vote Looms as Zapatero Seeks to Stave Off Election Risk

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-11T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/spanish-lawmakers-mull-2012-spending-plan-as-election-risk-looms.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero will seek lawmaker backing today for a
spending plan for next year as his Socialist government prepares
a budget that may determine whether he can finish his mandate.  Parliament in  Madrid  will vote on Zapatero’s proposed 3.8
percent reduction in central government expenditure for 2012,
which would limit it to 117.4 billion euros ($165 billion).
That’s a first step toward submitting a budget in September that
would need approval by the end of the year.  Zapatero faces the twin challenges of keeping  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis at bay while staying in power until his
term ends in March 2012 as he resists calls for early elections
that may intensify if the budget fails to pass. Socialist Party
spokesman Jose Antonio Alonso said yesterday that negotiations
with lawmakers to secure backing for today’s vote are still not
concluded, Spanish agency EFE reported.  “The government is under a lot of pressure because it can
lose investors’ confidence, which could start a crisis like in
Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal ,” said Antonio Fatas, an economics
professor at the Paris-based INSEAD business school who has
consulted for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World
Bank . “Spain can fall into the same category even though its
fundamentals are stronger.”  The deepest budget cuts in at least three decades, as well
as measures to raise the  retirement age  and reduce firing costs,
have prompted protests throughout Spain and failed to stem an
increase in borrowing costs. The yield premium investors demand
to hold Spanish 10-year bonds over comparable German debt rose
to a euro-era record of 339 basis points yesterday.  Minority Government  Zapatero’s challenge in reining in the euro area’s third-
largest  budget deficit  has become tougher as support for his
minority government falters. Catalan nationalist party CiU,
whose 10 lawmakers are enough to give the Socialists a majority,
said on June 28 it won’t support the 2012 budget.  A poll published by El Pais on July 3 showed 50 percent of
Spaniards want early elections. The opposition  People’s Party ,
which handed the Socialists their worst local-election defeat in
three decades in May, would win 45.9 percent in an election now,
compared with 32.1 percent for the Socialists, a poll by El
Mundo newspaper showed on June 5.  Zapatero declined to comment on the timing of the elections
yesterday, saying that the country currently needs stability
above all. Lawmakers will vote on the government’s proposed
spending limit during a session that starts at 4 p.m. today.  Fatas said the vote masks more fundamental issues affecting
the country’s finances.  ‘Real Problem’  “The real problem is much deeper,” Fatas said. “ Spain 
has a structural budget deficit and a new government won’t be
able to do much more than the present one,” he said, citing
regional overspending among the country’s most pressing issues.  Spain’s Castilla-La Mancha region yesterday requested an
urgent meeting with the  Finance Ministry  after the newly elected
government there said it uncovered a deficit larger than 4
percent of gross domestic product in the first half, compared
with a 1.3 percent full-year target.  “The deficit is much higher than what we were told,” the
region’s president, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, told Onda Cero
radio in an interview yesterday. “The situation is extremely
serious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  