-- 
AT&T, Sprint Face 9 State Subpoenas in Reviews of T-Mobile Bid

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sprint-subpoenaed-by-u-s-nine-states-in-reviews-of-at-t-t-mobile-deal.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. prompted subpoenas of AT&T
and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  by nine states in connection with
antitrust reviews.  Sprint’s subpoenas came from Arizona, Florida, Hawaii,
Illinois, Minnesota,  New York , Pennsylvania, Texas and
Washington, and the U.S. Justice Department, the company said in
a June 28 letter posted on the Federal Communications
Commission’s website. AT&T Inc. got requests for data from the
same states, Michael Balmoris, a company spokesman, said.  “Pennsylvania and a number of states are looking at the
transaction,” James Donahue, Pennsylvania’s chief deputy
attorney general, said in an interview. “We’re taking in all
the information and have reached no conclusion.”  The disclosure of the states’ subpoenas reveals a growing
scrutiny of AT&T’s bid to combine the second- and fourth-largest
wireless carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of No. 1
Verizon Wireless. The states are seeking data for customer
habits, including when consumers switch carriers, which would
help their regulators evaluate the level of competition in their
respective markets.  Broadened Demands  AT&T disclosed on June 21 the  Justice Department  had
broadened its demands for information on the proposed deal.  “Not unexpectedly, some state  attorneys general  offices
have sought information about our merger, and we have responded
in an appropriate and timely manner,” Balmoris said in an e-
mail.  Sprint was required to disclose the requests for
information under terms of a protective order issued by the FCC,
which is reviewing the transaction announced on March 20 in
tandem with the Justice Department’s antitrust division.  Sprint said in the letter that the states and department
also sent “civil investigation demands,” which are similar to
subpoenas, requiring the company to provide “full, unredacted
copies of all materials that it has submitted to the commission
regarding the proposed transaction.”  David Kerwin, a Washington state assistant attorney
general, said in an interview that the acquisition is “a large
matter that potentially affects a number of people.”  ‘Hard to See’  Minnesota  Attorney General Lori Swanson “is concerned
about the merger,” said Ben Wogsland, a spokesman for her
office. “It’s hard to see how four companies going down to
three, basically less competition, would benefit consumers,” he
said.  Florida issued a civil investigation demand to Sprint,
said Jennifer Davis, a spokeswoman for the state’s attorney
general.  Tom Kelley , a spokesman for the Texas attorney general’s
office, confirmed the investigation, declining to comment
further. Rod Kimura, Hawaii’s deputy attorney general, declined
to comment.  Representatives for attorneys general in Arizona, Illinois,
and New York didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking
comment yesterday.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said “the investigation is ongoing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 