-- 
Insurers Will Share Revenue Under U.S. Health Market Rules

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-11T20:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/states-face-new-rules-to-establish-markets-for-health-coverage.html
Insurers with healthier, lower-cost
patients would share revenue with rivals whose customers run up
higher bills under U.S. rules to stabilize insurance markets
within the 2010 health-care law.  Insurers such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  would also qualify
for $20 billion in subsidies from 2014 to 2016 when they take on
the sickest patients, according to the regulations. The money
would come from fees levied on the  insurance industry .  Rules issued by the Obama administration today attempt to
make good on the law’s goal of discouraging private health plans
from cherry-picking patients while easing market disruptions
when top changes in the medical system take effect in 2014.  “This is a fundamental shift in how insurers are going to
think about their marketplace,” said Peter Harbage, a health-
policy consultant who has worked for both Democrats and
Republicans. “They always looked to limit risk. These rules
make them think about how they can manage the broader population
with an aim of coordinating care and lowering costs.”  Health-care stocks fell. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Managed Health-Care Index slid 2.6 percent at 4
p.m.  New York  time.  The rules set standards for U.S. states seeking to offer
coverage to the uninsured under the 2010 law using marketplaces
called exchanges. Regulated markets where uncovered individuals
buy coverage from private insurers are central to the law’s aim
to  expand coverage  to as much as 95 percent of Americans from
about 83 percent now.  Exchange Guidelines  Guidelines for exchanges are essential to the law’s aim of
fundamentally reshaping health coverage. The administration
would offer conditional approval to states that have made
progress creating an exchange by 2013, and would let states
delay start-up past a final deadline of 2014 when they need more
time.  The administration is fighting U.S. court challenges by 27
states to strike down the law’s requirement that Americans
obtain coverage or face a tax penalty.  “Insurance companies will compete for business on a
transparent, level playing field, driving down costs,” Health
and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said at an
appearance in Washington.  The rules have “a couple of positive areas” for insurers,
analyst Justin Lake of UBS Securities in New York, said in a
note to clients, including steps to help plans manage the risk
of high medical costs. Insurers will also benefit from a
requirement that people sign up for coverage during annual open-
enrollment periods each year, he said.  The Washington lobbying group for health insurers,
America’s Health Insurance Plans, said it was still reviewing
the regulations. In a statement, Chief Executive Officer Karen Ignagni said the U.S. should leave it up to states to regulate
the new insurance exchanges and that they should allow all plans
to sell their products.  Taking Insurer Money  The rules create a “risk-adjustment” program that would
take money from insurers in a state with low-cost patients and
give it to plans whose customers run up the highest bills. The
policy applies both to insurers selling coverage within the
exchanges and those operating independently.  “The risk-adjustment program serves to level the playing
field, both inside and outside of the exchange,” the government
said in a description.  The rules also provide a temporary mechanism for revenue-
sharing among plans inside exchanges. An insurer with $10
million of projected costs in a market that incurs a $500,000
overrun would get $100,000 from the U.S. to make up for the
extra cost. The same plan only spending $9.3 million in a year
would have to give the U.S. $200,000 under the rules.  Costliest Patients  A government-run reinsurance program also will help cover
the most costly patients with chronic conditions for three years
starting in 2014. The effort is intended to defray costs from
sicker people signing up for coverage in early years of the
exchanges and discourage insurers from cherry-picking customers.  In the first year of the exchanges, the annual penalty for
not buying coverage is $95 in 2014. It rises to $695 in 2016.  “The transitional reinsurance program is a critical
element in helping to even out the health insurance market,
moderate premium increases and set the foundation for the
establishment of the exchanges,” the government said in a fact
sheet describing the policy.  The public has 75 days to comment.  States are most concerned about “the boundaries on
flexibility” when designing exchanges, said Cindy Gillespie,
who leads the health-care policy group at McKenna Long &
Aldridge, a  Washington  lobbying firm. Gillespie helped former
Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney design that state’s exchange.  The rules provide “a helpful framework for states” while
giving consumers more choices, said  Ron Pollack , executive
director of the advocacy group Families USA, which lobbies for
the health-care law, in a statement.  Final Say Sought  Some states seek to allow as many insurers as possible to
sell plans through the exchanges and want a final say on details
such as length of enrollment in plans, Gillespie said by phone
before the rules were released.  Under the law, states can operate their own exchanges or
leave the job to the federal government. Administrators in
either case will decide whether coverage applicants are eligible
for Medicaid, the federal-state health plan for the poor, or can
buy subsidized policies from companies such as UnitedHealth and
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP)   The  Congressional Budget Office  expects 24 million
Americans to obtain insurance through exchanges by 2019.  Nine states enacted laws creating exchanges this year,
according to a database maintained by the  National Conference of
State Legislatures , the group representing state lawmakers.  Massachusetts and  Utah  already operate exchanges, though it
isn’t clear whether they comply with the U.S. law. California
enacted an exchange law last year, and  Louisiana ’s governor,
Bobby Jindal, has said his state won’t run its own exchange.  The states that passed exchange laws this year include
 Connecticut ,  Hawaii , Washington,  Colorado ,  Maryland ,  Nevada ,
 Oregon , Vermont and  West Virginia , according to the  NCSL
database . Virginia and  North Dakota  passed laws saying they plan
to run their own exchanges, while  Indiana ’s governor issued an
executive order saying his state will run one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington, DC on 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington, DC on 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 