-- 
Stocks in New York Drop for First Day in 10: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-07-11T21:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/stocks-in-new-york-drop-for-first-day-in-10-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks traded in New York
fell, sending an index of the largest companies lower for the
first time in 10 days, on concern Europe’s debt crisis will
spread and as U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on a plan to cut
the deficit.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of Israeli-based companies
traded in New York fell 0.9 percent yesterday to 621.17, the
first decline since June 24.  Hadera Paper Ltd. (HAP) , a manufacturer
of paper and paper products, led declines, dropping 5.4 percent.
 SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , a producer of homemade soda
machines, retreated 3.7 percent.  Stocks dropped worldwide as European finance chiefs clashed
over how to dig Greece out of its financial hole and markets
battered the bonds of Spain and Italy, opening a new front in
the debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its
biggest two-day drop in a month, Spanish 10-year bond yields
topped 6 percent for the first time since 1997 and  U.S.
Treasuries  rallied as investors sought the safest assets.  “The overall sentiment in the market is pulling everything
down,” Jay Srivatsa, the managing director of Chardan Capital
Markets LLC, said by telephone from New York. “I would look at
this as an opportunity to buy some of these names. As we get
into earning season we’ll see some of the Israeli companies
putting out good numbers.”  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-
largest network-security company, will probably report second-
quarter adjusted earnings of 66 cents a share on July 18,
according to the median estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  ‘Mostly Negative’  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 58 companies traded on the Nasdaq, the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell 1.7 percent yesterday,
the most in two weeks, to 1,247.38. The Tel Aviv measure has
lost 6 percent this year, or 3.2 percent in dollar terms, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index is
down 1.1 percent this year.  Israel ’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May last year, the same month the 63-
year-old country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  The shekel weakened 1 percent to 3.4350 per  U.S. dollar  by
4:16 p.m. in New York, the most since June 15. The currency has
dropped 0.8 percent versus the dollar over the past month.  Economic developments in May were “mostly negative,” the
 Finance Ministry  said in a report yesterday, citing export
figures and retail sales. Central bank Governor Stanley Fischer
said July 7 that Israel’s economic expansion this year may trail
the bank’s 5.2 percent forecast because second-quarter growth
may have been slower than expected.  Teva Drops  American depositary receipts of  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest generic-drug company, fell
the most since June 24, dropping 0.3 percent to $49.30 in New
York yesterday. The Israeli-traded shares declined 0.9 percent
to 167.50 shekels, or the equivalent of $48.76.  Roche AG filed a lawsuit seeking to block generic-drug
companies including Novartis AG’s Sandoz and Teva from selling a
low-cost version of the anti-nausea drug Aloxi. Roche filed the
complaint July 8 in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey ,
claiming it would be “irreparably harmed” by the alleged
infringements.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the maker of pill-sized cameras for
diagnosing digestive ailments, climbed 1 percent to $21.56, the
biggest gainer among the index of Israeli stocks trading in the
U.S. The Tel Aviv-traded shares dropped 1.7 percent to 73.16
shekels, or the equivalent of $21.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  