-- 
Stop Cable Boxes From Draining Nation’s Power Supply: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-11T15:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/stop-cable-boxes-from-draining-the-nation-s-power-supply-view.html
Try to imagine how much electricity
is contained in 18 billion kilowatt hours. Six power plants
operating round-the-clock would take a year to produce that
much. And all the households in  Colorado  would need a year to
use it up.  That’s how much energy Americans consume a year to
needlessly power the energy-gorging devices they use to tap into
cable, satellite and other pay TV services, according to  a study
by the Natural Resources Defense Council , an advocacy group.
(The study was financed by the Environmental Protection Agency.)  Having come to a similar conclusion as the council about
the overall appetites of these set-top boxes, the  Department of
Energy  has plans to regulate the devices. This would be a
helpful move, if done effectively. Given the limitations of
regulation, electric utilities and consumer groups should
consider actions that would encourage pay TV providers to stop
the energy drain voluntarily.  The problem with set-top boxes is that, as currently
deployed, they are always running, even when people think
they’ve turned them off. (In most cases, the off button merely
dims the clock.) Two-thirds of the total energy they burn is
consumed when they are not in use, the NRDC study found.  A typical household setup -- one high-definition TV set-top
box plus one high-definition digital video recorder (DVR) --
uses 7 percent more electricity than a new, 21-cubic-foot Energy
Star refrigerator. Powering such a system costs on average $4 a
month, not much for the individual consumer but plenty when
multiplied by the estimated 82 million households with boxes.  Much more efficient systems exist. In  Europe , Sky
Broadcasting gives its customers a box that has light- and deep-
sleep states and takes only 90 seconds to wake from full
slumber. In the U.S., pay-TV vendors, like cable and satellite
TV companies, offer no such options.  Efficiency Plans  The Energy Department aims to address the problem by
putting in place mandatory efficiency standards for set-top
boxes, as it does for many other appliances. (Manufacturers of
shower heads, for instance, must ensure that their products use
no more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.) The department is
accepting public comments until Sept. 30, after which its plan
could still be amended. It could take as long as five years for
standards to take effect, and they would apply only to new
boxes.  In any case, regulations might not solve the problem.
Energy Department efficiency rules apply to a device’s
manufacturers. Makers of late-model set-top boxes used in the
U.S. already equip them with a light-sleep option. But when
cable companies and other pay-TV vendors -- who buy the boxes
and lease them to their customers -- add on their software, they
rarely activate that mode because they aren’t the ones footing
the electric bill. For a government standard to be meaningful,
it would have to ensure that the box remains efficient after
it’s delivered to the consumer.  Another way to address the issue, using a market mechanism,
is through utility incentives. These are programs, typically
required by public-utility commissions and run by utilities,
that fund energy conservation initiatives as a way to offset the
need to build additional  power plants . Utilities could offer
pay-TV vendors rewards for reducing energy use by activating the
light-sleep functions on existing boxes and adopting new boxes
that also have a deep sleep mode.  Consumer groups can also bring pressure on the pay-TV
industry. Vendors may worry that, unlike Europeans, Americans
won’t tolerate a 90-second wait for their set-top box to wake
from a scheduled deep sleep (should they, say, decide to watch
TV at 4 a.m.). But consumers should at least have the choice of
an energy-efficient box. (On the Sky Broadcasting box, the
consumer has the option to disable deep sleep.)  With sufficient motivation, set-top-box engineers may
eventually figure out ways to significantly reduce that 90-
second delay, just as creators of the iPad delivered something
close to instant computer startup. In the meantime, Americans
might want to consider that theoretical, wee-hour wait a small
price to pay for 18 billion kilowatt hours a year of wasted
electricity.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 