-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyers Agree to Delay Hearing in Sex-Assault Case to Aug. 1

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/strauss-kahn-lawyers-agree-to-delay-sexual-assault-hearing-set-for-july-18.html
Lawyers for Ex-International
Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn and  Manhattan 
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. agreed to delay a court
hearing until Aug. 1 to allow for further investigation.  Strauss-Kahn, accused of sexually assaulting and attempting
to rape a midtown Manhattan hotel housekeeper on May 14, had
been due back in New York state  Supreme Court  on July 18.  “The purpose of this adjournment is to facilitate both
parties’ continued investigation in this matter,” Assistant
District Attorney Joan Illuzzi-Orbon wrote in a letter yesterday
to Justice Michael Obus, who’s presiding over the case.  Defense attorneys  Benjamin Brafman  and William W. Taylor
also said in a statement that, by Aug. 1, they hope Vance will
be ready to throw out the case. Vance disclosed in a letter
dated June 30 that the 32-year-old housekeeper, a native of
Guinea, lied about key aspects of her life and her actions
immediately after the incident.  “We hope that during this time the  district attorney  will
make the necessary decision to dismiss the case against Mr.
Strauss-Kahn,” Brafman and Taylor said in the statement
yesterday.  Kenneth P. Thompson, the lawyer for Strauss-Kahn’s accuser,
asked Vance in a July 6 letter to recuse himself from the case,
accusing prosecutors of “repeated and damaging leaks to the
media” to discredit his client and undermine her charges.  “At the end of its investigation, we expect the district
attorney’s office to stand by the victim and take her case to
trial,,” Thompson said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Justice requires no less.”  ‘Lot of Money’  In his July 6 letter, Thompson said Daniel R. Alonso, chief
assistant district attorney, told him on June 30 about a
recorded telephone conversation between the alleged victim and a
man in jail that took place the day after the alleged assault.  Thompson said Alonso told him the victim, who was speaking
in her native Fulani, said “words to the effect” that “this
guy has a lot of money. I know what I’m doing.”  Alonso said the victim’s description of the sexual assault
during the call was consistent with what she had told
prosecutors about the alleged attack, Thompson said.  Thompson said Alonso agreed to let him have a copy of the
recording or be permitted to listen it. Thompson said in his
July 6 letter that he hadn’t received a copy at that time.  Erin Duggan, spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment on
Thompson or the recording.  ‘Routine Request’  On the adjournment, Duggan said in an e-mail, “This is a
routine request for additional time, as the investigation is
continuing.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was detained the day of the alleged
attack and kept from taking an Air  France  flight at John F.
Kennedy Airport. He was originally held without bail, after
prosecutors argued he was a flight risk because France doesn’t
extradite its citizens.  On May 20, Strauss-Kahn was released on bail under
restrictions that included home confinement under tight security
measures. He was released from house arrest, in a rented
townhouse in lower Manhattan, July 1 after prosecutors told the
judge that the case had been hurt by “substantial credibility
issues.”  His $1 million bail and $5 million bond were ordered
returned and he was no longer required to remain under armed
guard and electronic monitoring. He is now allowed to travel
throughout the U.S., though prosecutors have kept his travel
documents.  Sexual Encounter  Prosecutors reassessed the strength of their case after
finding that the housekeeper falsely claimed to have been gang
raped in  Guinea , cheated on her tax returns and changed her
story about what she did immediately after the alleged attack.
Illuzzi-Orbon said July 1 that a sexual encounter between
Strauss-Kahn and the housekeeper is corroborated by forensic
evidence.  “The very brief time period inside the hotel suite
strongly suggests something other than a consensual act,” the
prosecutor said.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  