-- 
Subbarao Says India Needs Calibrated Approach to Convertibility

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-11T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/subbarao-says-india-needs-calibrated-approach-to-convertibility.html
India  must gradually make the rupee
freely tradable against other currencies, central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said, pointing to the need for adequate
foreign-exchange reserves for such a move.  “We need a calibrated approach to capital account
convertibility, and of course we need foreign reserves that are
sufficient to buffer against uncertainties,” Subbarao said in a
speech in Mumbai yesterday.  India permits the rupee to be freely convertible on the
trade and current account and places restrictions for the
capital account. An advisory panel formed by the  Reserve Bank of
India  in 2006 suggested the currency be made fully convertible
in five years.  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 44.48 per dollar in
 Mumbai  yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the 7.8 percent bond due in April 2021 declined three
basis points to 8.32 percent.  “We need to focus on the external sector, which means
looking at a sustainable level of current-account deficit, a
market-determined  exchange rate , but an exchange rate that is
managed by the Reserve Bank of India such that there is no
volatility,” Subbarao said.  India’s current-account deficit widened to $44.3 billion or
2.6 percent of the gross domestic product, in the year ended
March 31, 2011 from $38.4 billion in the previous 12 months, the
central bank said June 30.  The nation’s foreign-exchange reserves climbed $6.7 billion
to $315.7 billion in the week ended July 1, according to the
central bank.  Manufacturing Push  Subbarao said India needs to “focus” on manufacturing to
create jobs and spur economic growth and not just rely on
services, which make up about three-fifths of the economy.  India can sustain growth rates of as much as 9.5 percent
without stoking inflation, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of
the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said yesterday.  The  Reserve Bank  has increased interest rates 10 times
since the start of 2010, the longest streak of monetary
tightening in a decade, to curb inflation that accelerated to
9.06 percent in May.  India’s $1.4 trillion economy may expand between 8 percent
and 8.5 percent in the current fiscal year, while inflation may
slow to 6.5 percent by March 31, Rangarajan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  