-- 
Sugar Will Be Scarce Until Brazil Starts Harvest, FCStone Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-11T12:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/sugar-will-be-scarce-until-brazil-starts-harvest-fcstone-says.html
Sugar supplies will remain limited
until the 2012-13 harvest begins in top producer Brazil, broker
FCStone do Brasil said, citing futures traded in  New York .  Raw sugar for delivery in March 2012 more than tripled its
premium to the May contract in a month, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. The wider gap indicates that a projected
surplus will only come about with the start of the next harvest
in the South American nation, Bruno Zaneti, a consultant at
FCStone, said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  “The sugar harvest in the Northern Hemisphere will have
just started in the fourth quarter and, with Brazilian
production dropping sharply, we will see tight supplies until
the start of the next harvest,” he said, referring to the South
American country’s current crop. “This is being reflected in
the spread between March and May 2012, with the May contract
capped by the new crop” in  Brazil .  Brazil usually starts harvesting its sugar-cane crop in
April, while the Northern Hemisphere harvest often begins in
October. Macquarie Group Ltd. cited reduced Brazilian output in
the current season when the bank this month cut its forecast for
the sugar market’s surplus in the 2011-12 season to 7 million
metric tons from 8.3 million tons.  Raw sugar for March 2012 delivery traded 1.41 cents a pound
above the May contract by 12:59 p.m. London time on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, compared with 0.44 cent a month ago.  The cane crop in the South American country will fall this
season for the first time in 10 years to 535 million metric tons
for the current season, broker C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd.
said July 6. Industry group Unica is expected to lower its 568.5
million-ton estimate this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 