-- 
Swiss Stocks Fall for Second Day; UBS, Credit Suisse Decline

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-11T14:23:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/swiss-stocks-fall-for-second-day-ubs-credit-suisse-decline.html
Stocks in Switzerland retreated for
a second day, extending last week’s decline, as European Union
President Herman van Rompuy meets with other leaders amid
concern the region’s debt crisis will spread to Italy.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, dropped more than 2.5 percent.  Zurich Financial Services
AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest insurer, slid 2.7 percent.  Holcim
Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, fell 2.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, declined 1.5 percent to 6,062.31 at
4:02 p.m. in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
retreated 1.5 percent.  “It will be difficult for the Swiss equity market to move
forward this week,” Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner
Kantonalbank in Lucerne, Switzerland, wrote in a note. “The
uncertainties in the crisis-shaken European countries have not
been overcome, but rather have been put off to the future.”  The SMI has tumbled 9.8 percent since its high this year on
Feb. 18 as U.S. manufacturing and job reports fueled concern
that the recovery is faltering and as investors speculated that
Greece will default on its debt.  The euro-region’s bailout fund may have to be doubled to
1.5 trillion euros ($2.13 trillion) to cover a crisis in Italy,
German newspaper Die Welt said, citing unidentified “high
ranking” people at central banks. European leaders are prepared
to accept that Greece should default on some of its bonds as
part of a new bailout plan for the country that would put its
total debt levels on a sustainable footing, the Financial Times
reported, citing unnamed senior officials.  EU Meeting  EU President  Van Rompuy  and European Commission President
 Jose Manuel Barroso  are meeting today with European Central Bank
President Jean-Claude Trichet, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker and European Economic Commissioner Olli Rehn
ahead of a meeting of euro-area finance ministers later.  “What causes the most uncertainty today is that Van Rompuy
arranged for a meeting,” Luzerner Kantonalbank’s Buergler said
by phone. “That shows that the EU is taking the situation in
Italy very seriously.”  China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in three
years, highlighting the challenge for policy makers of
sustaining growth while taming prices. The  consumer price index 
increased 6.4 percent in June, the National Bureau of Statistics
said on July 9, exceeding the 6.2 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Banks Fall  UBS declined 2.4 percent to 14.37 Swiss francs and Credit
Suisse slipped 2.8 percent to 30.94 francs, its lowest price in
two years. Banks fell after CA Cheuvreux said second-quarter net
profit at the 31 largest European banks covered by the firm is
expected to fall 19 percent from the previous period.  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager, slipped 3.1
percent to 33.26 francs.  Zurich Financial slid 2.7 percent to 202.10 francs as a
gauge of European insurers was the worst performer of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, dropping 3.5
percent, the most in a year.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  lost 4.7
percent to 131.30 francs and  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  fell 2.9 percent
to 83.25 francs, the most in two months. Swiss Reinsurance Co.,
the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, declined 2.4 percent to
45.99 francs.  Holcim dropped 2.1 percent to 59.45 francs as BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research added the company to its least-preferred
list of building and construction shares.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission
gear, retreated 2.8 percent to 21.38 francs. The company said
today that it agreed to acquire Trasfor Group, a manufacturer of
dry-type transformers and inductors for low-voltage and medium-
voltage applications.  Barry Callebaut  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , the world’s largest maker of bulk
chocolate, dropped 0.9 percent to 849 francs. The company agreed
to sell its European consumer-products unit to Belgium’s Baronie
Group. The Swiss company has been seeking a buyer for the unit,
Stollwerck Group, since canceling plans to merge it with Spain’s
Natra SA in 2009.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest producer of crop-
protection chemicals, fell 1.7 percent to 282.20 francs after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Neil C. Tyler said he expects
“more modest” second-quarter crop protection volume growth.  “Unfavorable weather conditions in northern  Europe  and the
U.S. will likely have lessened demand for fungicides in
particular,” he wrote in a note to clients. “The seasonal
nature of Syngenta’s business leaves little scope for positive
catalysts over the remainder of 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  