-- 
Syrian Forces Raid Homs After Opposition Boycotts Talks

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-11T15:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/syrian-forces-raid-homs-after-opposition-boycotts-talks-1-.html
Syrian forces entered the city of
Homs late yesterday, killing at least three anti-government
protesters, as opposition leaders boycotted a second day of
regime-sponsored reconciliation talks.  In a sign of rising tension between  Syria  and the U.S., a
mob attacked and damaged the U.S. embassy in Damascus today
after being encouraged to do so by a pro-government television
station, according to a State Department spokesman. The attack
followed a visit to the city of Hama last week by  Robert Ford ,
the American ambassador to Syria, where thousands of anti-
government protesters had gathered calling for the fall of
President Bashar al-Assad and his regime.  Anti-regime protests which began in March have posed the
biggest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited power from
his father, the late President Hafez al-Assad, 11 years ago.
They have been part of a wave of unrest across the  Middle East 
and North Africa this year that has unseated the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia .  Security forces wounded dozens of demonstrators in Homs
yesterday, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization
for Human Rights in Syria, said by telephone today. Fifteen cars
were burned and more than 28 people were wounded in the
operation that followed rallies over the weekend by hundreds of
thousands of anti-government protesters across the country
against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, Qurabi said.  Embassy Attacks  In Damascus, demonstrators broke windows of the compound of
the U.S. mission and wrote anti-American graffiti on the walls
of the mission. No embassy personnel were injured in the attack,
the official said. The Syrian government has given assurances it
will provide additional security measures, the official said.  Protesters also gathered outside the French embassy in
Damascus, Merhi and Qurabi said. A French embassy official
declined to comment when reached by phone on reports the mission
had also been attacked and that guards had fired in the air to
hold back supporters of the Syrian government.  Ford traveled through a military and civilian checkpoint to
reach the city of Hama July 7, where he spoke to more than a
dozen residents and visited a hospital. The French Ambassador to
Syria Eric Chevalier also visited Hama and visited wounded
people and their families at a hospital.  Hama Rallies  The Syrian government said the US envoy’s visit was an
effort to “incite” unrest.  At least 20 people were killed July 8 as 500,000 people
rallied in Hama to call for the fall of Assad’s government,
according to Merhi and Qurabi said.  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while also saying that the demands of demonstrators “have
merit” and that changes are needed. The crackdown in Syria has
left more than 1,700 dead, according to rights groups. At least
20,000 people have been arrested since the demonstrations began,
with half still in detention, Qurabi said.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to  Turkey 
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries. A total of 8,579 Syrians remain in camps
in Turkey set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the province of
Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency Management
Presidency said today in a statement. As many as 15,441 people
entered Turkey during the upheaval, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 