-- 
U.K. Wind Farm Applications Reach Five-Year Low, McGrigors Says

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-11T19:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/u-k-wind-farm-applications-reach-five-year-low-mcgrigors-says.html
The number of applications for U.K.
onshore wind farms in 2010 was the lowest in at least five
years, according to data obtained by the Scottish commercial law
firm  McGrigors LLP .  There were 66 applications submitted last year, down from
121 in 2009 and 104 in 2008, Edinburgh-based McGrigors said
today in a  statement  on its website.  The figures from the Department of Energy and  Climate
Change , released to McGrigors under the Freedom of Information
Act, show that nearly half of last year’s applications were
refused planning permission.  “Onshore potential in the U.K. is limited, as there is a
very high population density and they oppose having a wind farm
close to their homes,” said Eduardo Tabbush, an industry
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London. “Policy has
also focused on the offshore sector and these numbers reflect
that players are focusing their efforts offshore.”  The U.K. government plans to generate a third of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020 as it seeks to meet
international emissions-reduction targets. The latest figures
from the department show that renewable power account for 7.4
percent of all electricity produced. Wind currently provides
almost 5,600 megawatts, enough to power 3.1 million homes,
according to data compiled by RenewableUK, a trade group for
wind and marine energy companies in the U.K.  McGrigors said the numbers support wind developers’
concerns that applications are being rejected because of local
complaints.  ‘Visual Impact’  “Objections based around the visual impact of  wind
turbines  are overriding the wider need to deliver  energy
security  and mitigate the impact of climate change,” Jacqueline
Harris, a partner at McGrigors, said in the statement.  The U.K. government is making changes to its planning
system to encourage sustainable growth and renewable energy
while allowing communities to have their say on local projects,
Minister for Decentralization Greg Clark said in an e-mailed
statement.  According to the data obtained by McGrigors, applications
for onshore wind projects in 2010 would have added as much as
1,250 megawatts of capacity, the lowest level in at least five
years. McGrigors said it couldn’t obtain data prior to 2005 due
to cost limits imposed by the Freedom of Information Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in  London  at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  