-- 
Pound Weakens Versus Dollar as BCC Says Economy is Fragile, Stocks Decline

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-07-11T15:30:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/u-k-pound-declines-versus-dollar-yen-as-falling-stocks-sap-risk-demand.html
The pound fell to the lowest against
the dollar since January as a business lobby group said the
U.K.’s recovery is fragile, strengthening the case for the
central bank to keep  interest rates  at a record low.  Sterling weakened the most against the yen and Swiss franc
among its 16 major peers tracked by Bloomberg. The U.K.’s gross
domestic product probably grew 0.3 percent in the three months
through June, the British Chambers of Commerce’s quarterly
survey of companies showed today. The FTSE 100 Index lost 1.1
percent. U.K. government bonds gained, pushing the 10-year yield
to the lowest since November, as investors sought a haven amid
declines in Italian and Spanish government debt.  “The pound will stay weak,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “The market is factoring out any chance of monetary
tightening in the short term. That should keep sterling on a
weak footing.”  Britain’s currency fell 1 percent to $1.5895 as of 4:06
p.m. in  London  after reaching $1.5883, the least since Jan. 31.
It weakened 1.3 percent to 127.77 yen, after slumping to the
weakest since March 18. It was 1 percent lower at 1.3302 francs.
It advanced 0.8 percent to 88.12 pence per euro.  Sterling has lost 6.6 percent in the past year, the second-
biggest decline after the dollar, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track 10 developed-
market currencies. The Swiss franc jumped 14 percent.  Retail Sales  Britain’s legal tender declined and the country’s bonds
rose amid speculation that worsening economic growth will limit
the Bank of England’s ability to raise rates, while the  Federal
Reserve  ends its quantitative easing program and the  European
Central Bank  tightens its monetary policy.  The British Retail Consortium will say tomorrow that sales
fell by 1.4 percent in June, adding to concern the economic
recovery will stall, according to the median estimate of six
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The U.K. economy may have
shrunk by as much as 0.2 percent over the past three months, the
Sunday Times reported yesterday, citing estimates by Citigroup
Inc. and Scotia Capital.  The 10-year gilt yield fell 12 basis points to 3.08 percent
after earlier falling to 3.06 percent, the least since Nov. 10.
Yields on two-year notes declined three basis points to 0.72
percent, adding to a five-basis point drop on July 8.  Gilts have handed investors 1.2 percent since the end of
June, compared with a 2.1 percent decline for Italian bonds,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Spanish
bonds have lost 1 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  