-- 
U.S. June Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-11T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/u-s-june-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. employment trends index
from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index increased slightly in June to
100.0, up from May’s revised figure of 99.5. The June figure is up 5.4 percent from
a year ago.  Says Gad Levanon, Associate Director, Macroeconomic Research at The Conference
Board: “The behavior of the Employment Trends Index in recent months is consistent
with weak job growth, rather than an outright decline. The abysmal uptick in
employment in the past two months is not just a reaction to the slowdown in economic
activity in the first half of 2011, but also a result of employers becoming downbeat
about their hiring needs in the coming months.”  This month’s increase in the ETI was driven by positive contributions from
three out of the eight components. The improving indicators include Initial Claims
for  Unemployment Insurance , Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill
Right Now and Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales, which is a forecasted component.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market indicators, each of
which has proven accurate in its own area. Aggregating individual indicators into a
composite index filters out so-called “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the Employment Trends Index
include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to Get” (The Conference
Board Consumer Confidence Survey)  Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance (U.S. Department of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right Now (National
Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry ( U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics )  Part-Time Workers for Economic Reasons (BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis)  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index monthly, at 10 a.m.
ET on the Monday that follows each Friday release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
employment situation report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard . org/data/eti.cfm.  ETI 2011 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET)                  Data for the Month
Monday, August 8                               July
*Tuesday, September 6                          August
*Tuesday, October 11                           September
Monday, November 7                             October
Monday, December 5                             November  *Tuesday releases due to holidays  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
