-- 
China Says U.S. Navy Drills in Region ‘Inappropriate’ Amid Island Disputes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-12T03:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/u-s-joint-navy-drills-inappropriate-china.html
China ’s army chief said the timing
of U.S. naval exercises in the South China Sea was
“inappropriate” given the ongoing bilateral disagreements in
the region between China and other Asian nations.  Disputes over the sea’s islands and surrounding waters
should be resolved through “dialogue and diplomatic measures,”
Chen Bingde, chief of staff of the  People’s Liberation Army , was
cited as saying by the official Xinhua News agency.  China asserts jurisdiction over most of the South China
Sea, including oil and gas blocks more than 1,000 kilometers
(625 miles) from its shores. The  Philippines  and Vietnam have in
recent months accused China of incursions into sensitive areas.
China has responded by accusing them of provocative acts.  Vietnam  has announced joint naval exercises with the U.S.
later this month, a few weeks after the Philippines completed
similar drills with U.S. warships. The activities sent “mixed
signals” to China, Xinhua cited Chen as saying.  China and the U.S., the world’s two biggest economies, have
pushed to strengthen military ties that have been strained on
several occasions because of issues including a 2010 U.S.
decision to sell arms to  Taiwan  and naval confrontations in
2009.  While some progress in improving military ties had been
made, there were a number of challenges, Cheng said at a joint
press conference yesterday in Beijing with Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  ‘Absolutely Vital’  “Some existing issues have yet to be properly addressed
and solved, and we are also having some new issues too,” Cheng
said.  Military ties with China are “absolutely vital,” Mullen
said in Beijing July 10, at the start of the visit that ends
tomorrow. The U.S. has urged China to be more transparent about
its military expansion and modernization plans.  Cheng yesterday confirmed China is developing a ballistic
missile with a maximum range of 2,700 kilometers (1,700 miles)
and the ability to strike moving targets including aircraft
carriers, the  China Daily  reported. The Dongfeng-21D is
undergoing experimental testing and will be used as a defensive
weapon, the state-owned paper cited him saying.  Underestimated Development  In January, the Pentagon said it had underestimated the
speed of China’s military development, including a fighter jet
with stealth capabilities that was unveiled in test flights this
year. The Office of Naval Intelligence last year estimated the
DF-21D missile had a range of almost 900 miles.  The weapon would be fired from mobile, land-based launchers
and is “specifically designed to defeat U.S. carrier strike
groups,” the report said.  Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for East Asian
and Pacific affairs, said last month the U.S. has “no
intention” of inflaming territorial disputes in the  South China
Sea . “We want recent tensions to subside and cooler heads to
prevail,” he said in  Washington .  The Philippines said yesterday it is considering bringing
its dispute with China over the sea’s Spratly Islands before a
United Nations tribunal.  ‘No Clear Response’  Foreign Secretary Albert del Rosario received “no clear
response” when he asked his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi in
Beijing last week if the Philippines and China could approach
the UN’s International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea over
their disputes in the South China Sea, foreign affairs
department spokesman Raul Hernandez said in  Manila .  “We will have to study” whether Manila can bring the
matter before the body on its own, Hernandez said.  Claims to various islands in the South China Sea have 
been made by the Philippines, Vietnam, Taiwan, Malaysia and 
Brunei. Vietnamese and Chinese boats have clashed twice in 
the waters since late May.  The Philippines and Vietnam have rejected China’s claims as
a basis for joint oil and gas exploration, setting the stage for
clashes in areas where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ,
 Forum Energy Plc (FEP)  and Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, known as
PetroVietnam, have operations.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  