-- 
How Hubris, Free Sushi Fueled Google’s Rise to Internet Riches

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/hubris-free-sushi-fueled-google-s-rise-to-internet-riches-book-review.html
Here’s convincing evidence that
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  isn’t growing arrogant in its success.  Google was, in fact, born arrogant, as illustrated by
Douglas Edwards in his highly entertaining new memoir, “ I’m
Feeling Lucky .” He recalls company co-founder and current chief
executive  Larry Page  asking in a puzzled tone at a 2002 meeting,
“When were we ever wrong?” To be fair, in the realm of
Internet search, the answer was not very often.  If Edwards wasn’t quite present at Google’s creation, he
was pretty close. Hired in 1999 from the San Jose Mercury News
to head up brand marketing, he was Employee No. 59, leaving in
2005 after the company’s initial public offering.  “I’m Feeling Lucky” is at its best, and most hilarious,
in its account of the company’s earliest days. Edwards recalls
his hiring interview with co-founder  Sergey Brin , which set off
a warning light in his brain: “This was the guy who didn’t
think there should be a marketing budget, and he had hired a
chef and dual massage therapists?”  But then the free sushi appeared. “Concerns about a
business plan and revenue streams and organizational structure
faded away,” Edwards writes. Once Google ran out of money, he
figured, he could bail for the next start-up, or maybe return to
the Merc. “In the meantime, I thought, I’ll eat well and maybe
learn something useful.”  What Edwards brought to Google was experience and a sense
of professionalism from the world outside the Googleplex -- only
to see those values gleefully shredded. What’s worse, he learned
that those doing the shredding were largely right -- and he was
wrong.  Doodling  Take, for instance, his firmly held belief in the
inviolability of the corporate nameplate: “This is our logo. It
looks like this. If it looks like this, it’s our logo. Because
our logo looks like this.” Over his horrified objections, Brin
insists on playing with the logo regularly: aliens abducting it,
a beating heart for Valentine’s Day. Today,  Google Doodles  are
as much a trademark of the site as the logo itself.  “Google’s brilliant strategy of humanizing an otherwise
sterile interface with cute little cartoon creatures was an
enormous hit -- and as the company’s online brand manager, the
person responsible for building Google’s awareness and brand
equity, I had opposed it as adamantly as I could,” Edwards
writes.  The Google of those days, he concludes, “did that to you
-- made you challenge all your assumptions and experience-based
beliefs until you began to wonder if up was really up, or if it
might not actually be a different kind of down.”  Vanquishing Foes  Eventually, Edwards shed his big-media background to the
extent that he won an intense dispute over a branding issue by
vanquishing his adversary in a video game. More important, he
established a voice for the company’s communications with its
users that was clear without being condescending and informative
without being impenetrable. In doing so, he helped set an us-
versus-them tone that put Google on the side of users against
the forces of control and conformity -- most especially the
Beast of Redmond,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Edwards’s story gets less fun at about the same point the
company does, morphing from an Old-Media-Guy-in-Wonderland tale
into a more straightforward chronicle of corporate missteps --
many more of them by Google’s competitors than by Google itself
-- and internal bureaucratic struggles.  For the most part, Edwards is a charitable guide who avoids
the memoirist’s pitfall of excessive score-settling. But the
most surprising aspect of “I’m Feeling Lucky” is its less-
than-flattering portrayal of engineer and senior executive
 Marissa Mayer , dubbed by one magazine the “gorgeously geeky
Googler.”  Romantic Relationship  In these pages, Mayer emerges as brainy, intense and
passionate. But Edwards also suggests she benefited from a
romantic relationship with Page, her power and role expanding
while other executives tiptoed around the issue. Edwards also
finds her thin-skinned when she accuses him of misappropriating
her idea for a privacy advisory group, a proposal of which he
had been unaware.  Edwards’s account ends when he leaves the company after one
too many bureaucratic run-ins -- and after the IPO that made
millionaires of many colleagues and, one assumes, Edwards
himself. While he’s notably circumspect about the impact of the
IPO on employees’ lifestyles, one thing is clear: You can’t
blame it for introducing hubris into the corporate culture. That
was there from the get-go.  “I’m Feeling Lucky: The Confessions of Google Employee
Number 59” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (416
pages, $27). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is the technology columnist for Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 