-- 
Murdoch Goes From Darling to Pariah in Watershed Moment

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-12T12:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/murdoch-goes-from-party-darling-to-pariah.html
At the News International party last
month,  Rupert Murdoch  got the reception he’s used to in London,
with political figures of every stripe and from the prime
minister down paying court at the Kensington Palace event.  When he returned to the city two days ago, the 80-year-old
was jostled by camera crews and faced shouted questions. Asked
if  David Cameron  was likely to speak to Murdoch during this
week’s visit, an official in the prime minister’s office
struggled to answer over laughter at the idea.  Allegations last week that News Corp. staff hacked into the
phones of murdered schoolgirls and terror victims and paid
police for stories prompted Murdoch to close the 168-year-old
News of the World tabloid on which his U.K. media empire was
founded. Politicians from all parties have called for his
planned purchase of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  to be
scrapped and some question whether his company is fit to own a
broadcasting license at all.  “The days of Rupert Murdoch as a man that people will fly
halfway around the world to see, whose phone calls get taken,
are over,” said Tim Bale, professor of politics at Sussex
University and the author of “The  Conservative Party  From
Thatcher to Cameron.” “All the party leaders have been
distancing themselves.”  Thatcher Backer  U.K. prime ministers have felt the need to curry favor with
Murdoch since he was allowed by  Margaret Thatcher ’s government
in 1981 to add the Times and Sunday Times to his stable of
newspapers, which already included the Sun and the News of the
World. He was the only newspaper owner invited to a lunch to
celebrate Thatcher’s decade in power in 1989 and was more than
once invited to spend Christmas with her family, according to
 John Campbell ’s biography of Thatcher.  (For a related story on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s market value slump,
click here. To read a story on the BSkyB review, click here.)  Cameron’s predecessor,  Gordon Brown , also courted Murdoch
and is now the victim of the latest twist of the phone-hacking
scandal. Brown today accused News Corp. newspapers of using
criminals to get stories about him whilst he was in office and
said he was reduced to tears when the Sun tabloid phoned him to
say it was going to report his son Fraser’s diagnosis of cystic
fibrosis.  Brown Allegations  “The level of criminality involved, which is going to be
exposed, meant that there were links between that newspaper, and
that group of newspapers, and well-known criminals in this
country,” Brown said in an interview with BBC television
broadcast today. “This is an issue and will become an issue
about the abuse of political power as well as the abuse of civil
liberties.”  News International said in a statement today it is
satisfied that the Sun obtained the story from a legitimate
source and pledged to look into the allegations made by Brown.  Despite his upset over the reporting, Brown still invited
Murdoch to a dinner for historians during U.S. President  George Bush ’s last visit to the U.K. Brown’s wife, Sarah, had Murdoch’s
wife, Wendi Deng, for a “sleepover party” at their Chequers
official country residence, the Telegraph  reported  in 2008.  Also entertained by the Browns at Chequers was Rebekah Brooks, the former editor of the Sun and News of the World, now
chief executive officer of News International, the publisher of
Murdoch’s British papers. Cameron, whose house in his
Oxfordshire electoral district is close to Brooks’s, has
followed suit, attending a drinks party she held at Christmas.  Courted by Cameron  It was  Tony Blair  who did fly halfway around the world,
visiting  Australia  when he became Labour Party leader in 1995,
two years before he became Prime Minister. After the
vilification Murdoch papers, especially the tabloid Sun, had
poured on his predecessor as Labour leader, Neil Kinnock, the
decision was controversial within his party.  “People would be horrified,” Blair wrote in his memoir
“A Journey,” explaining the decision. “Not to go was to say
carry on and do your worst, and we knew their worst was very bad
indeed,” he wrote. “No, you sat down to sup; or not. So we
did.”  Cameron has been assiduous in courting Murdoch, hiring
former News of the World editor  Andy Coulson  as his press
adviser. Coulson took the fall for the original phone-hacking
scandal, resigning in 2007 after one of his reporters was jailed
for intercepting voicemails of members of the royal household.  Coulson Connection  At the time, he insisted it had been the work of a single
rogue reporter and that he had known nothing. Even when News
Corp. executives in 2009 said  James Murdoch , Rupert’s son, had
approved payments to other phone-hacking victims, both the
company and Cameron stuck to the line that the activity hadn’t
been widespread.  That line broke at the start of the year, when, under a
weight of lawsuits, News International said illegal behavior had
been more widespread. Shortly before that announcement, Coulson
quit his post in Cameron’s office.  Since then, the government and News Corp. have followed
diverging paths, culminating last week in Cameron insisting
nothing had been proved against Coulson. James Murdoch had put
out a statement the day before saying that, during Coulson’s
time at the News of the World, “wrongdoers had turned a good
newsroom bad,” and closing the paper. Coulson was arrested and
questioned on July 8.  ‘We Are Afraid’  While standing by Coulson, whom he said remains a friend
and has yet to be charged or convicted, Cameron said he had been
wrong to focus on “courting support” from the press, turning a
“blind eye” to claims of wrongdoing.  Tom Watson , the Labour party lawmaker who has pursued the
phone-hacking scandal for two years, on Sept. 9 offered his
fellow lawmakers an assessment of why it was being ignored.  “In this House we are all, in our own way, scared of the
Rebekah Brookses of this world,” he said. “The barons of the
media, with their red-topped assassins, are the biggest beasts
in the modern jungle. Prime Ministers quail before them, and
that is how they like it. We are afraid.”  The balance from fear to outrage shifted July 4, when the
 Guardian newspaper  reported that a News of the World employee
intercepted messages left on the phone of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler.  Distress Signal  Cameron was in  Afghanistan  at the time. As they prepared
for a press conference with President  Hamid Karzai  in Kabul, one
of Cameron’s staff spotted that the union flag behind the prime
minister was flying the wrong way up -- historically a distress
signal.  It was appropriate. Aides traveling with the prime minister
said the story had stopped being something of interest only to
media-watchers and opposition politicians, and would arouse
public fury. What one aide described as their hands-off attitude
to the BSkyB deal would not help them to deal with what was to
come.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  