-- 
Murdoch Buys Time for Hacking Furor to Subside With BSkyB Regulator Review

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-12T14:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/murdoch-buys-time-with-bskyb-review.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  bought itself time to
weather the furor over phone hacking at the now-defunct News of
the World by pushing U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  to refer
its bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  to regulators.  Hunt was forced to send the offer for the pay-TV operator
to the U.K. Competition Commission for review after  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. yesterday dropped its previous offer to
spin off Sky News into a separate company to complete the BSkyB
deal. Lawyers called the decision by News Corp. “a clever
tactic” and a “smart move.”  Revelations of phone hacking at News of the World have
overwhelmed the company’s bid for BSkyB. Accusations the paper
hacked into the mobile phone of a 13-year-old murder victim in
2002 and bribed police officers provoked widespread criticism
from politicians over whether the New York-based company was
“fit and proper” to own a U.K. broadcaster.  “The  Competition Commission  will take six months to a year
to look at it and they’re hoping the media storm will die
down,” said  Rosemary Choueka , a competition and regulation
lawyer at Lawrence Graham LLP, who called it a “clever
tactic.” When the review is completed “they may have to make
some internal changes, but everyone isn’t talking about it in
the media and there’s not huge political pressure.”  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition  Labour Party , who had
called for a parliamentary vote on the bid, said the “cloud of
allegations” makes closing the deal impossible.  Deal Review  (For a related story on Murdoch’s political influence,
click  here. To read a story on News Corp.’s share price, click
here.)  The Competition Commission has at least 24 weeks to review
the deal, said Siobhan Allen, a spokeswoman for the regulator in
 London . The agency will issue a report to Hunt and he will have
the final decision on whether to approve or block the deal.  Hunt said the latest review, which follows investigations
by U.K. media regulator Ofcom and the  Office of Fair Trading ,
will focus on media plurality, whether the deal would reduce the
number of voices, and the fit and proper test. Ofcom, which has
the power to revoke BSkyB’s license, can still hold up the deal
as it considers the fit and proper criteria.  ‘Properly and Fully’  “The Competition Commission are considering media
plurality just as I was” and the “fit and proper” test will
also be important, Hunt told lawmakers in the House of Commons
in London. “All issues will be considered properly and fully.”  News Corp., which also publishes The Sun, The Times and The
Sunday Times, had agreed to carve out the Sky News channel as a
separate company. It also offered to nominate a monitoring
trustee to oversee the spinoff process, and the inclusion of an
independent director. The British government said previously it
was likely to accept News Corp.’s undertakings.  Murdoch last week decided to close the 168-year-old News of
the World, Britain’s biggest Sunday newspaper. The last issue
was published July 10.  The scandal has wiped about 2.6 billion pounds off BSkyB’s
market value since the Guardian reported allegations about
murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler on July 4. BSkyB dropped as
much as 2.9 percent to 695 pence in London trading today and was
at 702 pence at 3:28 p.m. in London. News Corp. rose 13 cents to
$16.23 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading at 10:32 a.m. in  New York .  ‘Not Relevant’  “Withdrawing the undertakings means that spinning off Sky
News is not relevant anymore and any pre-existing thoughts on
the deal are scrapped,” Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London, said in a telephone interview.  The pay-TV broadcaster is now an “attractive opportunity”
as the stock is likely to rebound, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts.  Robert Vidal, a competition lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP in
London, called the decision to withdraw the so-called
undertakings on Sky News a “smart move.”  “The demise of the News of the World is actually going to
help News Corp.’s position,” Vidal said. “The current outcry
is evidence of media plurality because if News Corp. had
complete control over the media, then none of this would be
happening.”  Politicians have pushed News Corp. to drop the BSkyB bid as
the phone-hacking scandal has widened. Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg  said the company should “do the decent and sensible
thing.”  `Not Interested'  Forcing the referral to the Competition Commission may mean
that the company is more confident in their legal arguments than
in the political firestorm, said  Jason Chess , a media lawyer at
Wiggin & Co. in London.  “It would be very, very unlike News International or BSkyB
to do something that they weren’t comfortable with,” Chess
said. “They are not in the habit of losing legal or regulatory
disputes. So they’re saying that we’re not interested in this
speculation about fit and proper.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  