-- 
Turkish Current-Account Deficit More Than Doubled in May to $7.8 Billion

-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-11T07:52:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/turkish-current-account-deficit-more-than-doubled-in-may-to-7-8-billion.html
Turkey ’s current-account deficit
more than doubled in May from a year earlier, as central bank
efforts to slow domestic demand failed to trim the import bill.  The deficit widened to $7.8 billion from a revised $2.9
billion in the same month of 2010, the state statistics agency
in Ankara said on its website today.  Gross domestic product expanded 11 percent in the first
quarter from the year-earlier period, the fastest pace in the
Group of 20 major economies, drawing in imports of raw materials
and  consumer goods . Central bank Governor Erdem Basci is trying
to slow growth by restricting bank lending while keeping
 interest rates  at a historic low to weaken the lira.  “What matters is sustainable financing of the deficit and
we are a long way from that,” Levent Durusoy, chief economist
for Yatirim Finansman Securities in Istanbul, said in a
telephone interview. “The quality of financing has been weak
all year and this month half of it came from net errors.”  The central bank recorded $4.5 billion under net errors and
omissions, the item that records movements the bank can’t
account for, the biggest inflow this year.  The lira weakened after the data was released, heading for
its lowest in two weeks at 1.6361 per dollar in Istanbul at
10:27 a.m. Yields on two-year lira bonds rose five basis points
to 8.96 percent.  The deficit in the 12 months including May rose to $68.2
billion, equivalent to about 9 percent of the government’s
estimate for 2011 GDP, the statistics agency said today.  The trade deficit, a major component of the current-account
gap, widened to $10.1 billion in May, the biggest shortfall on
record, the agency said June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 