-- 
Chelsea Condos Get Magic Glass Walls; Behemoth Rises in Midtown

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-07-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/luxury-chelsea-condos-sport-magic-glass-walls-behemoth-rises-in-midtown.html
At the push of a button, the 20-
foot-high wall of glass opened with an electric hum, folding
itself flat against the ceiling. A breeze and muted street noise
wafted in.  Shigeru Ban’s 11-story boutique condo with its duplex
apartments is a world away from another luxury apartment
building now nearing completion:  Arquitectonica ’s 63 story,
blue-black glass behemoth containing 150 condos atop 500
rentals.  The New York real estate market has gotten pretty strange.  At Shigeru Ban’s Chelsea building, another button controls
the motorized metal mesh rising from outside the apartment’s
balcony. Push that, and daylight pours in, revealing a view of
mottled red brick and lush street trees.  With such simple gestures, Ban transforms the quality of
light and space in the apartment.  The building is called the “ Metal Shutter House ” because
the condos disappear behind the vertical Shoji screens. All the
units but a $13-million penthouse have long been sold.  Midtown Behemoth  By contrast, consider the $800-million project on 42nd
Street in an area developers have named  MiMA  (for Middle of
 Manhattan ) .  Arquitectonica , the prolific firm based in Miami, has
perpetrated its worst work here for Related Companies. On the
skyline, MiMA looks like a giant headstone.  And it’s just one of a forest of new high rises in flimsy
glass, ill-fitted metal and dingy masonry that have sprouted
along the stolid commercial streets southwest of Times Square.  The MiMA apartments I toured sacrificed space for views and
were of the functional, generic style perfected by the
apartment-layout specialist Ismael Leyva. David Rockwell
decorated in diluted browns typical of today’s mainstream-modern
interiors.  Rentals go from $3,200 for a studio to more than $11,000
for a two-bedroom. Condo prices will be set soon since sales are
just about to begin.  Your Yotel  Into this mammoth mix, Related stirred in a Yotel with 669
ultra-tiny rooms in “Star Trek” style. (Rockwell lent a hand
in this, too.)  Frank Gehry  designed three jaunty, plywood-paneled
auditoriums for the Signature Theater, but neither the theater
nor the Yotel can enliven the neighborhood because Related
conceals them behind relentless tinted-glass walls. A lazy
applique of precast concrete panels pretending to be stone rubs
salt into the aesthetic wound.  MiMA tries to compensate by providing a full-floor adult
playground. Beyond a screening room, the pool sparkles within a
massive empty Equinox gym. The Dog City spa has treadmills and
groomers.  This raft of goodies will cost renters $1,000 a year. Such
heavy “amenities packages” make good come-ons but don’t
dependably last. Dozens of early 20th-century apartment
buildings came with clubs and dining rooms. I know of none that
still operate.  Gushing Cash  The rest of us will be living with this overbearing
architecture for a long time. Unlike upscale residential
neighborhoods, these blocks aren’t defended by anti-development
activists and lawyers.  Developers could have rejoiced in such freedom, using it to
show how inventively their projects gush cash while enhancing
their surroundings.  Instead we got a rush to the architectural bottom.  I thought of Ban, who has made a career of teasing out
unusual beauty from the ordinary. He first came to fame making
shelter out of paper tubes for disaster victims in  Japan ,
 Turkey , and  India .  Why couldn’t Related and Arquitectonica think like him?  Related and its brethren should not whine when
neighborhoods fight developers to the death. When not lashed by
activists, too many do their worst.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press has just
published his book, “The Agile City.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 