-- 
Vale Abandons Metorex Bid, Paving Way for China’s Jinchuan to Takeover

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-11T16:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/vale-won-t-raise-metorex-bid-paving-way-for-purchase-by-china-s-jinchuan.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it agreed to terminate its proposed
acquisition of  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , paving the way for a rival $1.36
billion bid from  China ’s Jinchuan Group Co. to win control of
the copper company.  “ Vale  has no intention to match the terms of the recently
announced offer for Metorex,” the Rio de Janeiro-based company
said in a statement today. Metorex asked Vale to terminate its
proposal after Vale notified the Johannesburg-based company that
it won’t amend its 7.35 rand ($1.08) a share offer to beat
Jinchuan’s 8.90 rand a share.  Vale’s withdrawal will become effective once Metorex pays
Vale a previously agreed 75 million-rand ($11 million) break-up
fee, Metorex spokesman Jacques de Bie said today by telephone.  The battle for Metorex’s copper and cobalt mines in  Zambia 
and the Democratic Republic of Congo pitted Vale against China’s
biggest nickel producer as companies from the largest natural-
resource consumers scour  Africa  for mines. The Chinese are
“aggressive and hungry” for raw materials, Liberian President
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said last month.  “The decision is consistent with Vale’s rigorous
discipline in capital allocation,” the company said in the
statement today, adding it has “significant growth
opportunities.”  ‘Not At Any Price’  “Vale plans to grow in copper, but not at any price,”
Marcos Assumpcao, an analyst at Itau Unibanco Holding SA, said
by phone from  Sao Paulo  today. “They will seek to pursue small
copper assets in the future,” said Assumpcao, who rates the
stock “outperform.”  Vale, seeking to boost copper output almost fivefold to 1
million metric tons in 2015, had until July 15 to counter the
bid for Metorex, which controls almost 5 million tons of African
copper resources and produced 26,358 tons in the second half of
2010. Jinchuan’s bid is 21 percent higher than Vale’s offer.  “I suspect they will take it,” Byron Lotter, an analyst
at Vestact said in a note today to Metorex shareholders.  It’s Vale’s second failed bid for copper assets in less
than a year. In September, Paranapanema SA, a copper smelter in
Dias D’Avila,  Brazil , rejected a proposal from Vale.  Stocks Fall  Vale fell 55 centavos, or 1.2 percent, to 45.55 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 11:30 a.m. New York time. Metorex fell 3.2
percent to 8.40 rand by the 5 p.m. close of trade in
Johannesburg and is up 18 percent since April 7, the day before
Vale’s offer was announced.  The purchase of Metorex would give Jinchuan control of the
Ruashi open-pit mine in Congo and the Chibuluma copper project
in Zambia. Jinchuan last year bought Vancouver-based Continental
Minerals Corp. for C$432 million ($447 million) and Toronto-
based nickel producer Crowflight Minerals Inc. for $140 million.  This year, the Gansu, China-based company acquired 45
percent of  Wesizwe (WEZ)  Platinum Ltd., a South African platinum
explorer, with the China-Africa Development Fund.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies seek to
replace aging deposits and China’s industrial growth stokes
consumption. Announced deals rose 58 percent to $18.6 billion in
the first quarter from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
data. Demand in China for copper used in construction and
appliances pushed the price of the metal to a record $10,190 a
pound on Feb. 15.  Copper for delivery in three months traded at $9,560 a
pound as of 4:29 p.m. in London  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 