-- 
TVN Sale Price May Be 20% Above Market, Fit for Yandex, UBS Says

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-07-11T12:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/tvn-sale-price-may-be-20-above-market-fit-for-yandex-ubs-says.html
TVN SA (TVN) , Poland’s largest television
network, may be sold at 20 percent more than the market price
and its Internet unit would be the “best” fit for Yandex NV,
owner of  Russia ’s most-popular search engine, UBS AG said.  TVN was given a “breakup scenario” valuation of 20.2
zloty ($7.18) a share at UBS, which initiated coverage of the
stock with a “buy” recommendation. That represents a 20
percent jump from the closing price of 16.9 zloty on July 8. The
stock rose 0.8 percent to 17.04 zloty at 2:25 p.m. in Warsaw.  ITI Holdings SA may sell its entire 56 percent stake in
TVN, the media company, whose assets include Internet portal
Onet.pl, said July 7. Time Warner Inc., Fox Entertainment Group
Inc. and Bertelsmann AG are among the companies ITI has
approached for the sale, Polish newspaper Puls Biznesu said July
7. The company may also have spoken with  France ’s Vivendi SA,
 Germany ’s ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG and Discovery Communications
Inc., Parkiet reported on July 8, citing people close to the
transaction.  “Onet.pl would be the best strategic fit with Yandex’s
existing Internet assets,” Kiran Ganesh, a London-based media
analyst at UBS, wrote in a report today.  ITI, advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura Holdings
Inc., hasn’t made any decisions on a “potential sale” of its
stake, TVN said.  A breakup of TVN’s assets, which also include a
broadcasting service and a pay-TV service, would be “the most
likely scenario” and may attract a higher multiple for the
“most highly valued broadcasting business,” Ganesh said. If a
“large international corporation” buys TVN, it would also
purchase its debt, which would then trade at the same grade as
the buyer, he said.  The yield on TVN’s bond due in 2018 was little changed at
7.25 percent today after a 42 basis-point drop last week. The
bonds, rated B+ by  Standard & Poor’s , its fourth-highest non-
investment grade rating, were issued by TVN Finance Corp III AB,
a unit of TVN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London on 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  