-- 
Volkswagen Group First-Half Sales Exceed 4 Million Vehicles for First Time

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-12T09:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/volkswagen-first-half-sales-crack-4-million-vehicles-globally.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
automaker, said global first-half deliveries exceeded 4 million
cars and sport-utility vehicles for the first time, powered by
demand in all markets.  Sales at VW’s namesake car division rose 12 percent in the
first six months of the year to 2.53 million vehicles, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
Deliveries in June gained 9.8 percent to 438,500 vehicles. The
manufacturer will release sales figures for all its brands,
including the Audi, Bentley and Lamborghini marques, on July 15.  “Volkswagen continues to stay on the accelerator in all
markets and vehicle segments,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said late yesterday at a reception in Berlin.  Volkswagen is counting on growth in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and  China  to help surpass Toyota Motor Corp. as the world’s
biggest carmaker no later than 2018. VW has forecast global
sales will increase 5 percent this year after posting a record
7.2 million deliveries of cars, SUVs and vans in 2010.  The German manufacturer said last month that it will expand
third-quarter production of the VW Golf hatchback and Tiguan
compact SUV at its main factory in Wolfsburg to meet strong
order growth. VW will maintain reduced-shift production during
workers’ three-week summer vacation at two German plants and add
several weekend shifts following the summer break.  ‘Good’ First Half  VW may post “good” results for the first six months,
Winterkorn said, without specifying numbers. The carmaker is
scheduled to publish first-half earnings on July 28.  The sales expansion at VW’s main automotive unit was
powered by a 22 percent jump to more than 237,700 vehicles in
 North America , a 13 percent gain to 852,800 units in China, the
carmaker’s biggest market, and a 42 percent surge to 92,300
vehicles in central and eastern Europe, VW said today.  VW plans to invest 51.6 billion euros ($71.8 billion) in
its automotive business over the next five years, with an
additional 10.6 billion euros to be spent through its two joint
ventures in China, the world’s largest auto market. VW will hire
more than 50,000 workers through 2018 to increase full-year
sales to more than 10 million vehicles.  North America Strategy  Winterkorn said yesterday that no decisions have been made
yet on plans by the Audi luxury brand to build a factory in
North America, though “very intensive discussions” to that end
are ongoing. Audi may build an engine and transmission plant,
which could be shared with the VW brand, according to an
 Automotive News Europe  report this week that cited unidentified
company officials.  Volkswagen aims to seize the “great potential for growth”
in the commercial-vehicle market by pushing for a three-way
alliance of its van division with  MAN SE (MAN) , the Munich-based
truckmaker that the car manufacturer is buying, and VW’s  Scania
AB (SCVB)  division in  Sweden , Winterkorn said.  VW will own 55.9 percent of MAN’s voting rights following
regulatory clearance of a tender offer that ended June 29. The
carmaker aims for the three-way combination to save as much as 1
billion euros in vehicle-development and purchasing costs.  “VW wants to and will use those chances,” the CEO said.
“The basis for this is substantial cooperation between MAN,
Scania and VW in all areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  