-- 
West Spot Gasoline Strengthens on Work at California Refineries

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-07-11T19:41:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/west-spot-gasoline-strengthens-on-work-at-california-refineries.html
Los Angeles  spot gasoline
strengthened for the first time in six days after  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) 
extended flaring at its Los Angeles refinery and  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO) ’s Benicia refinery reported a coker valve failure.  Prompt-delivery of California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
Los Angeles strengthened 1.25 cents to a discount of 9.25 cents
versus futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as
1:55 p.m. New York time. The fuel’s discount had widened for
five days on weak demand and high inventories.  Tesoro Corp. extended a notice of potential flaring at its
Wilmington, California, refinery until tomorrow as it completes
scheduled work on a unit. The San Antonio-based company filed
the notice “as a contingency” in case it needs more time to
finish maintenance, said Mike Marcy, a company spokesman based
in Martinez,  California .  “These activities are not anticipated to have any impact
on facility throughput or Tesoro’s ability to fulfill its
regional product supply commitments,” Marcy said in an e-mailed
statement.  Valero reported a failed check valve on a coker at its
Benicia refinery, north of San Francisco. Production at the
plant wasn’t affected, said Bill Day, a spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in San Antonio.  Carbob in San Francisco gained 2.5 cents to a discount of 9
cents a gallon versus futures.  “Looks like Bay is just tagging along with LA,” said
Randy Simpson, vice president of supply and trading at Idemitsu
Apollo Corp. in  Sacramento , California. “It might have been
Tesoro flaring, but that turned out to be nothing so they are
kind of backing off again.”  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland , Oregon, narrowed 1 cent to 1.5 cents versus futures.  The premium for low-sulfur California diesel in Los Angeles
was unchanged at 6 cents a gallon versus Nymex heating oil
futures. The premium for the same fuel in  San Francisco  weakened
1 cent to 5.5 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 