-- 
Moody’s Sparks West China Cement Rout on ‘Red Flags’ Report

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a d i
-- 
2011-07-12T07:06:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/west-china-cement-raises-most-red-flags-of-chinese-firms-moody-s-says.html
Moody’s Investors Service cited five
Chinese companies as having more “red flags” on corporate
governance than others it examined, sending shares of  West China
Cement Ltd. (2233)  to a record decline.  The ratings company looked at criteria that “highlight
issues meriting scrutiny to identify possible governance or
accounting risks,” analysts led by Elizabeth Allen in Hong Kong
wrote in a report issued yesterday. All 61 companies Moody’s
examined raised “red flags,” with West China Cement, Winsway
Coking Coal Holding, China Lumena New Materials Corp.,  Hidili
Industry International Development Ltd. (1393)  and LDK Solar Co. cited
as “negative outliers.”  These companies all raised at least nine out of 20 possible
red flags, more than were raised by  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the tree-
plantation owner that fell 83 percent last month after being
targeted by short seller Carson Block. West China Cement
Chairman Zhang Jimin’s 41 percent stake in the company, cited as
having the most red flags, dropped by as much as HK$1.3 billion
($167 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors have already been nervous about this kind of
news and it’s making them lose confidence in some private
Chinese companies,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at
KGI Asia Ltd. “In the short term, investors will be more
prudent in investing in them.”  Sin Lik Man, West China Cement’s board secretary, said that
the company is “absolutely” in line with international
financial reporting standards.  ‘Misleading’ Report  “I disagree with Moody’s claim and think it is
misleading,” Sin said by telephone today.  Huang Lanyi, Hidili Industry’s board secretary who is in
charge of  investor relations , said by phone today that the
Moody’s report is “not based on fact.”  LDK Solar spokesman Frank Yao said he couldn’t immediately
comment on the report.  Winsway Coking Coal issued a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today saying the company had taken notice of the
Moody’s report and that it doesn’t believe it appropriate to
comment at this moment.  Calls to China Lumena New Materials offices in the city of
Chengdu went unanswered and an employee at its  Hong Kong  office,
who refused to give her name, declined to comment. Stan Neve, an
external spokesman for Sino-Forest in  New York , declined to
comment.  Shares of West China Cement fell 10.3 percent to HK$2.54
yuan as of 2:13 p.m. in Hong Kong, poised for the biggest drop
since its listing in August 2010.  Bond Yields  Yields on West China Cement’s $400 million of 7.5 percent
bonds due January 2016 jumped 85 basis points to 9.434 percent
as of 9:48 a.m. in Hong Kong. That’s the biggest jump since June
8 and set for the highest level since June 27, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Winsway Coking Coal’s stock fell 6.8 percent to HK$3.00 as
of 2:13 p.m., poised for the biggest drop in five months. The
company’s $500 million of 8.5 percent, five-year notes sold in
April were on track for their biggest one-day drop as of 10:05
a.m. in  Singapore , falling to 91 cents on the dollar to yield
10.982 cents from a close of 93 cents yesterday, according to
BNP Paribas SA prices.  Hidili Industry’s shares fell 5.7 percent to HK$6.15 as of
the trading break. The yield on Hidili Industry’s $400 million
of 8.625 percent notes due November 2015 rose 51 basis points to
9.705 percent, on track for their biggest one-day gain since
June 3, RBS prices show.  Shares of Lumena New Materials fell 9.2 percent in Hong
Kong trading to HK$2.76 as of 2:13 p.m. in Hong Kong.  LDK Solar Debt  The yield on LDK Solar Ltd.’s 1.7 billion yuan ($263
million) of 10 percent notes due 2014 rose to 12.753 percent as
of 10:00 a.m. in Singapore from 12.512 percent yesterday, Credit
Suisse Group AG prices show. Investors haven’t demanded a higher
 risk premium  to hold the solar wafer maker’s notes since they
were sold in February. LDK Solar’s stock fell 1.8 percent to
$6.59 in New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.  Moody’s didn’t change debt ratings on any of the companies
in its report. “We don’t find the results surprising, in a way,
because the issues we flagged are issues we are aware of and are
in the rating,” Moody’s analyst Allen said today by telephone.
“We are not looking at new information and saying these make
these companies look more or less risky.”  West China Cement’s chairman and his daughter own 44
percent of the shares, it’s changed auditors twice and had
inadequate compliance with International Financial Reporting
Standards before listing in Hong Kong in August 2010, Moody’s
said in its report.  Board Secretary Sin said West China Cement switched its
auditor to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP so it could list shares in
Hong Kong and then switched to  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu  “purely
due to lower costs.” The chairman and his daughter’s stake in
the company “poses no risk at all,” Sin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net 
Mohammed Hadi in Hong Kong at   mhadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  