-- 
Wheat Falls as Slowing Growth, Dollar Rally May Erode Demand

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-07-11T19:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/wheat-falls-as-slowing-growth-dollar-rally-may-erode-demand.html
Wheat fell the most this month on
concern that demand for U.S. exports will shrink as  Europe ’s
fiscal woes threaten global growth and as the dollar gains.  Stocks declined around the world and the dollar climbed to
a six-week high against a basket of six currencies on
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will spread to  Italy . A
rising greenback makes U.S. commodities more expensive for
importers. About 21.1 million bushels of wheat were inspected
for export in the week ended July 7, down 17 percent from a week
earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today.  “The outside markets are playing a role, with equities
weaker, the dollar stronger and energies down a bit,” said
Frank Cholly Sr., a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock in
Chicago. “There’s concern that the Euro-zone debt crisis is
going to spread, and we also saw  China ’s inflation report over
the weekend,” indicating demand may slow, he said.  Wheat futures for September delivery dropped 12 cents, or
1.8 percent, to settle at $6.3925 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, capping the biggest loss since June 30.  Prices also fell on signs that countries around the world
will boost output. The USDA may report tomorrow that U.S. and
world wheat inventories before next year’s harvest will be
larger than forecast last month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey.  “It’s going to be interesting to see what kind of numbers
the USDA throws out,” said  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler
Commodities LLC in Augusta,  Kansas .  India , the world’s largest grower after China, is
considering lifting a four-year prohibition on exports after a
record harvest in the past year. Russia, which ended a ban on
shipments July 1, may produce as much as 92 million metric tons
of grain this year, more than estimated, Moscow-based researcher
SovEcon said today.  The U.S. is the world’s leading exporter of wheat. The
grain is the nation’s fourth-largest crop, valued at $13 billion
in 2010, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in New York at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 