-- 
Twitter Says Social-Networking Site Has Attracted 1 Million Applications

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-11T20:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/twitter-passes-1-million-registered-applications-as-u-s-scrutiny-grows.html
Twitter Inc. , facing regulatory
scrutiny into its relationship with outside developers, said
support from programmers continues to grow, evidenced by the
platform’s more than 1 million registered applications.  The number of apps is up from 150,000 a year ago, Twitter
said today in a  blog posting . More than 750,000 developers are
working with the company. Twitter also is starting a new
developer site where people can connect directly with staff,
exchange ideas and find resources for products or businesses.  “The entire Twitter team is committed to investing in the
ecosystem by listening to developers and enabling them with the
right tools and information,” the San Francisco-based company
said in the blog posting.  The move follows criticism that Twitter is squeezing out
programmers by co-opting their features. The U.S. Federal Trade
Commission began contacting software makers as part of a
preliminary inquiry into Twitter’s business practices, two
people familiar with the matter said this month. The agency is
responding to complaints that Twitter is making it harder for
some software developers to design applications that run in
concert with the company’s service, said one of the people.  Ecosystem Competition  “It’s the ecosystem of applications built around these
services that will allow them to continue to grow in
popularity,” said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. “The problem that they’ve had is
that the ecosystem model works, except when suddenly you find
yourself in competition with partners in your ecosystem.”  Twitter, which lets people communicate in 140-character
messages, has seen its usage surge -- helped by celebrities,
politicians and journalists adopting the service. It’s used by
13 percent of U.S. online adults, up from 8 percent in November,
as more older Americans embrace Twitter, according to a report
last month by the  Pew Research Center  in  Washington .  Twitter is raising money in an investment round that values
the company at $7 billion, people familiar with the deal said
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  