-- 
Zapatero Calls for ‘Clarification’ on Banks’ Role in Greece

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-11T12:22:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-11/zapatero-calls-for-clarification-on-banks-role-in-greece-1-.html
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero called on  Europe  to clarify plans for involving private
investors in a new aid plan for  Greece , as Spanish borrowing
costs soared to a record high.  The “fundamental problem” pushing up euro-region bond
yields is uncertainty over Greece’s ability to pay debt and “in
particular” the debate on private-sector involvement, Zapatero
told a news conference in Madrid today. “This must be clarified
rapidly and precisely.”  European finance chiefs are meeting in Brussels today to
consider how to dig Greece out of its financial hole as markets
batter the bonds of  Spain  and  Italy , opening a new front in the
debt crisis. The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond rose to
5.91 percent, pushing the gap between German and Spanish yields
to a euro-era record of 321 basis points as of 2 p.m. in  Madrid .  Zapatero said Development Minister Jose Blanco will take
over as government spokesman after Deputy Prime Minister Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba resigned to run as the Socialist candidate for
premier in general elections. Antonio Camacho will replace
Rubalcaba as interior minister, Zapatero said.  Zapatero declined to comment on the timing of the
elections. The opposition People’s Party, the third-largest
party in parliament, and Jose Maria Barreda, a senior Socialist
Party member, have called for the poll to be held before a March
2012 voting deadline.  “Fiscal consolidation, the restructuring of the Spanish
financial sector and reforms to increase competitiveness and
create jobs require the government’s entire dedication,”
Zapatero said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  