-- 
M&A Profit Potential Surges on Stock Losses: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/m-a-profit-potential-surges-on-stock-losses-chart-of-the-day.html
Anticipating the completion of U.S.
mergers and acquisitions has become a more lucrative investment
strategy during the past two weeks as stocks have tumbled.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the average percentage gap
between the share prices of takeover targets and the value of
offers for 10 of the largest pending purchases. The differential
rose for six straight days and more than doubled, to 15 percent,
before falling yesterday.  The chart begins on July 21 because it’s the day that
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  offered to acquire  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS)  in the biggest takeover now pending. The cash-and-stock
offer was valued at $32.4 billion as of yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Medco’s stockholders stand to receive 25 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price. The premium rose from 15 percent on
the day that  Express Scripts , based in  St. Louis , moved to buy
the  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based company. The gap was the
second-biggest among offers used to calculate the average.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  had the largest premium, based on
a bid by billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz  that was spurned in
March. The $7.7 billion that Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP
agreed to pay for the Matthews, North Carolina-based closeout
retailer amounted to 27 percent more than yesterday’s close.  Southern Union Co. (SUG) , on the other hand, closed at a price
almost equal to the value of  Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE) ’s bid for
the Houston-based pipeline operator. Southern Union accepted the
offer over a competing proposal from Williams Cos., which
carried a 7.6 percent premium as of yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  