-- 
‘Angry Birds’ Maker Urges Court to Let Apple Join Patent Lawsuit

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-10T15:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/-angry-birds-maker-urges-court-to-let-apple-join-patent-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  should be allowed to
intervene in a patent-infringement lawsuit against developers of
iPhone applications, according to a court filing by  Electronic
Arts Inc. (ERTS)  and ‘Angry Birds’ maker Rovio Entertainment Oy.  Closely held  Lodsys LLC  filed suit in May, contending that
two of its patents for ways to interact with customers are
infringed by iPhone applications including “Angry Birds,”
Combay Inc.’s “Mega Poker Online Texas Holdem,” and “The Sims
3” by Electronic Arts. Apple has argued in court papers that
its license with Lodsys covers the app developers as well and
wants to join the case on their behalf.  “The participation of Apple as a party in this lawsuit is
critical to the development of the very evidence needed to
establish what may prove to be a complete defense to the
infringement claims in this action,” the app developers said in
a federal court filing yesterday in support of Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s request.  Lodsys, based in Marshall,  Texas , where the lawsuit was
filed, objected to Apple’s request. It said companies such as
Electronic Arts and Rovio are big enough to handle their own
defense, and there is no evidence that the lawsuit disrupts
Apple’s relationship with developers.  Electronic Arts, based in  Redwood City ,  California , is the
second-largest U.S. video-game publisher. Espoo, Finland-based
Rovio has had more than 250 million downloads of its “Angry
Birds” game on mobile phones and other electronic devices.  Other Developers  Other app developers named in the Lodsys complaint are
 Atari SA (ATA) ’s Atari Interactive Inc., maker of Atari’s Greatest
Hits for the iPhone and iPad; Iconfactory Inc., maker of
Twitterrific; Illusion Labs AB, maker of Labyrinth; Michael G.
Karr, maker of Shovelmate’s 69 Positions; Quickoffice Inc.,
maker of Quickoffice Connect; Square Enix Ltd., maker of Big Hit
Baseball; and  Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , maker of 2K
Sports NHL.  All of the developers named in the complaint also signed
the statement in support of Apple being allowed to join the
case. Apple has said it needs to be able to protect agreements
it has covering more than 425,000 apps.  “This litigation has fundamentally disrupted Apple’s
relationships with the developers and with other developers, and
places in jeopardy the revenue that Apple derives from those
relationships,” the company said in a June filing.  No date has been sent for U.S. District Judge T. John Ward
to decide on Apple’s request.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 11cv272, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  