-- 
‘Too Early’ for OPEC to Consider Oil Output Cut, IEF Says

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-08-10T17:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/-too-early-for-opec-to-consider-cutting-oil-output-ief-says.html
It’s “too early” for OPEC
countries to consider cutting oil output, even as prices tumbled
below $100 a barrel this week, according to Noe van Hulst,
secretary general of the  International Energy Forum .  Brent crude  fell yesterday to as low as $98.74, its weakest
in six months, triggering concerns that  Saudi Arabia  and other
producers in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
may cut outputs on concerns that slowing economic growth will
sap oil revenue.  Reacting to daily fluctuations in prices was possible
during the spring when the market was affected by the sudden
fall in  Libya ’s output and everyone “needed to assess whether
this situation would persist or not,” van Hulst said. The
situation today is entirely different as prices are going down,
yet it’s still “unwise” to react to short-term price
fluctuations, the head of the Riyadh-based organization, known
as IEF, said in an e-mail today.  Both OPEC and IEA have slightly revised demand growth
projections for 2011, and van Hulst said “it is too early to
make any strong calls about 2012 since so much will depend on
where the broader world economy will be heading.”  Consumption Estimate  OPEC, responsible for about 40 percent of world oil supply,
reduced its consumption estimate for this year by 150,000
barrels a day. That means global demand will rise by 1.2 million
a day, or 1.4 percent, to 88.1 million a day, the organization
said yesterday in its monthly market report.  Global oil demand will increase by 1.2 million barrels a
day, or 1.4 percent, this year to 89.5 million, according to the
International Energy Agency monthly report published today.
That’s 60,000 barrels a day less than what the agency predicted
in last month’s report.  “I think we all first need to get a clearer view, over the
next month or so, on where oil demand will be heading in 2012
and beyond. Obviously, that is the main concern now,” he said.  IEF is the largest global gathering of energy ministers
with over 80 countries including OPEC member states, the U.S.,
 China ,  India ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and  Japan .  At the last OPEC meeting in June, the Saudi oil minister
Ali al-Naimi confirmed his intention to help the global recovery
by preventing runaway  oil prices , Sadad al-Husseini, Aramco’s
former executive vice president for exploration and development,
said today by e-mail.  “I doubt very much that the Saudi leadership will rush to
any hasty action in relation to reducing oil production
allocations until they see much more of the direction in which
the global economy is headed,” said al-Husseini, who runs
Husseini Energy, an energy consultant based at Dhahran, Saudi
Arabia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  