-- 
A Speculator Takes Blame for the Mortgage Mess: Leonard Goodman

-- B y   L e o n a r d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-10T00:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/a-speculator-takes-blame-for-mortgage-mess-commentary-by-leonard-goodman.html
In July, following a
monthlong trial, a federal jury in  Chicago  convicted my
client, Calvin Townsend, of four counts of bank and
mortgage fraud. Later this year, he will probably be
sentenced to federal prison.  Townsend is one of many minor players paying a
heavy price for their roles in the mortgage meltdown,
while the major figures avoid any responsibility.  Townsend is a 52-year-old black man from the South
Side of Chicago. He had been a train conductor and a
part-time real-estate agent until 2005, when he
attended a seminar on how to use other people’s good
credit to invest in property with no money down.  During the next two years, Townsend used such
“nominee purchasers” to buy 21 homes. Eager-to-please
mortgage lenders provided 100 percent financing for the
loans, which were then repackaged by  Wall Street 
investment banks and sold to investors.  About a week after each home purchase, Townsend
would enter into a written contract with the nominee
buyer in which he agreed to make all the mortgage
payments and to pay the buyer a flat fee of about
$15,000. In return, Townsend got the right to re-sell
the property and realize the anticipated gains from the
then-rising housing market.  Townsend was true to his word, using the large
commissions he earned as the agent on these sales to
make 210 mortgage payments on his properties. But in
2007, after the housing market collapsed and none of
the properties would sell, his money ran out, and all
of his loans went into default. He lost everything,
including his own house, and moved his wife and two
children into a Comfort Inn.  In 2008, the U.S. government indicted Townsend,
together with 20 others on the bottom rung of the
mortgage mess, for fraud. Townsend pleaded not guilty
and was tried along with a loan officer he had worked
with; the girlfriend of the man who ran the how-to-get-
rich-in-real-estate seminars; and three nominee
purchasers who had bought properties for the seminar
leader. All of the defendants were indigent and
qualified for court-appointed counsel. I was picked to
represent Townsend and, at the conclusion of the case,
I will be paid $125 an hour by the U.S. taxpayers.  Accusations of Fraud  During the trial, the prosecutors argued that
Townsend had defrauded the mortgage lenders --
including Countrywide Bank, Fremont Investment & Loan
and Washington Mutual Bank -- by failing to disclose
his arrangements with the nominee buyers. Executives
from these lenders testified about their strict
underwriting policies on  mortgage loans .  On cross-examination, I tried to point out that the
lenders, banking on short-term profits, had encouraged
people such as Townsend to bring them more and more
loans, regardless of the borrowers’ ability to repay,
and then sold their bad loans to Wall Street. These
very lenders had been advertising “liar loans” with “no
income verification required.” In a rare unscripted
moment, one nominee buyer (who was a cooperating
government witness), said the lending banks “just feel
your pulse and see if your heart is beating and give
you a loan.”  I tried to convince the judge that the jury needed
to know the truth about the lenders in order to
determine whether Townsend had had any intent to
defraud and whether he had made any material
misrepresentations. But the judge accepted the federal
prosecutors’ argument that the sins of the lenders were
“irrelevant,” and that if such evidence were introduced
at trial, there would be a risk of “jury nullification”
-- that is, the jury might be tempted to acquit the
defendants because others not on trial were more
culpable. No evidence or argument about the corrupt
practices of the lenders was allowed.  It was not technically illegal for Townsend to make
his financial arrangements with the buyers after their
purchases. Nor did he have any obligation to disclose
them on the federal Housing and Urban Development
closing statement, which requires disclosure only of
payments made at the time of closing. Nevertheless, the
prosecutor asked the jury in summation about Townsend’s
arrangements with the buyers, “Don’t you think the
lenders would have wanted to know?”  In all likelihood, the true answer is no.  Townsend and the other defendants were convicted on
all counts, and each one accepted the jury’s verdict
quietly.  On the way out of the courthouse, the former loan
officer lamented that she had stayed out of trouble all
her 45 years and now faced a lengthy prison sentence
merely for doing what the bankers had wanted.  Three days after the verdict, I received a letter
from a distraught juror, who said she had held out for
Townsend longer than the others, indicating that she
knew the lenders’ loan practices had been predatory.
“It is small consolation, I know, but I will tell you
that my conscience is not clear.”  In the 1980s, Operation Greylord exposed rampant
corruption and bribery in Chicago’s state criminal
courts. One side effect of this corruption was that
criminal defendants who didn’t pay bribes were given
maximum prison time so that the corrupt judges could
appear to be tough on crime. A similar thing is
happening now in the cleanup of the mortgage mess. The
politically powerless are getting clobbered to make it
appear that the government is serious about cracking
down on fraud.  It’s easy for prosecutors to win convictions by
going after the little guys. But this strategy does
nothing to punish those most responsible for bad
mortgages; nor will it deter future incidents of fraud.  (Leonard Goodman is a criminal defense lawyer in
Chicago. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Leonard Goodman at  lcgoodman@rcn.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at 
 mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 