-- 
Adecco Beats Estimates as Industrial Hiring Drives Growth

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-08-10T07:44:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/adecco-beats-estimates-as-industrial-hiring-drives-growth-1-.html
Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest
provider of temporary staffing, said second-quarter profit rose
45 percent as the industrial hiring business continued to grow.  Net income increased to 141 million euros ($202.6 million)
from 97 million euros a year earlier, the Glattbrugg,
Switzerland-based company said today in a statement. That beat
the 114 million-euro average estimate of six analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Sales gained 11 percent to 5.17 billion euros.  Industrial staffing accounted for 53 percent of Adecco’s
revenue, up from 48 percent for the same quarter a year ago.
That’s despite the company’s stated aim of expanding the placing
of skilled workers like doctors, IT experts and accountants,
which yields higher margins.  “The industrial business outgrew the average of the group
by 6 percent, which is very unusual at this part of the cycle,”
said Chief Executive Officer Patrick de Maeseneire in a
telephone interview.  Growth is “still driven by the industrial segment,” where
sales rose 19 percent, said  Michael Foeth , an analyst at
Vontobel Equity Research who has a ‘buy’ recommendation on the
stock, in an e-mail to investors.  Adecco stock rose as much as 3.2 percent in Zurich, trading
at 39.15 francs at 9:11 a.m., a 1.2 percent rise on yesterday’s
closing price.  Sales from office and professional hiring have been hit by
government spending cutbacks in the U.K., where austerity
measures have seen Adecco’s government staffing sales in the
U.K. decline 38 percent, de Maeseneire said.  ‘Difficult Environment’  “The U.K. environment is very difficult and we are exposed
to government, so it has had some impact,” De Maeseneire said.
“In terms of professional staffing, the U.K. is the most
important market for us after the U.S.”  While other governments are slashing spending too, that’s
not a problem for Adecco in  Europe  or  North America , de
Maeseneire said. “It’s a U.K.-only thing. In other countries
we’re not exposed to government.”  De Maeseneire said he expects professional staffing to pick
up in the second half of 2011 as IT hiring accelerates and the
company completes integrating MPS Group Inc. in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 