-- 
Thai Finance Minister Thirachai to ‘Focus on Fiscal Discipline’

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-10T05:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/thai-finance-minister-thirachai-to-focus-on-fiscal-discipline-.html
Thailand ’s incoming Finance Minister
Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala comments on the new government’s
policies. He made the remarks on his official  Facebook  page
today. Thirachai, in a mobile-phone text message, confirmed the
comments.  On fiscal policy:  “I will focus on fiscal discipline. Though I didn’t take
part in drafting Pheu Thai’s policies, I agree with them because
they will help improve the standard of living for people,
especially low-income earners. So I will give full support on
that. Still, we need to consider our fiscal stability at the
same time. We have to balance the political dream with the
possibility. I will be the coordinator between government
officials and the party’s policies to ensure they are in
harmony.”  On the plan to raise the minimum wage:  “The wage hike will affect cost-push inflation and will
boost prices in the year the wage is raised. It won’t have a
continued impact every year like demand-pull inflation when the
economy is overheating. So, this is less of a concern than an
overheating economy.  ‘‘Still, the government through the commerce ministry will
monitor to make sure product-price increases are appropriate and
necessary. I think some producers can handle rising wage costs
from narrowing profit. They may not need to raise prices.  ‘‘The best way to adjust to wage rises is to increase
productivity.  ‘‘I will look at  Brazil  as an example. They collect revenue
from oil and natural gas production and use it to set up a fund
for training workers from SMEs to increase productivity. The
fund is also used to improve production processes to reduce
costs and add value to products. I will talk to related parties
about the possibility of doing the same thing.  ‘‘Those SMEs who produce the same products and use a lot of
labor will be affected more than others. They should take this
opportunity to help the government and private sector by
developing their products and modernize their working method. I
will talk to the Science and Technology Ministry to facilitate
that.’’  On the impact of the global economic slowdown and the need for
 capital controls :  ‘‘The weakening U.S. and European economies show that Asian
countries need to rely more on domestic demand in the future.
So, the wage increase and social welfare are good policies for
 Asia  if we use them at an appropriate level. I hope other Asian
countries will follow this. Asia should rely more on local
trade, intra-regional trade and invest more in Asia.  ‘‘On inflows, when economies in the U.S. and  Europe  are
less attractive than Asia that will raise investors’ interest to
invest more in this region. So, all Asian central banks need to
monitor and analyze the situation closely. For now, I don’t plan
to use any particular policies’’ to curb inflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  