-- 
Alabama Will Seek State Supreme Court’s Opinion in Immigration Lawsuit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-11T00:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/alabama-asks-for-state-supreme-court-opinion-in-case-on-immigration-law.html
Alabama  asked a U.S. judge to refer
to the state’s highest court the question of how two provisions
of its newly passed immigration law must be interpreted in light
of a state constitution’s protection of religious freedom.  Governor Robert Bentley’s administration filed the request
late yesterday with U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn, chief judge of the Birmingham-based court, in a case
challenging the law slated to take effect on Sept. 1.  Religious leaders, the U.S. government and a coalition of
immigrant and labor organizations have sued to invalidate the
law in a trio of cases now consolidated before Blackburn.  “A proper construction from the Supreme Court of Alabama
may moot the entire litigation,” the state said in its filing.  The measure requires police to verify the immigration
status of people they stop who they suspect may be in the U.S.
illegally. Businesses must use E-Verify, a federal database, to
determine whether job applicants are eligible to work. The act
also makes it a crime to rent housing to or transport illegal
immigrants.  Leaders of Episcopal, Methodist and Roman Catholic churches
representing 338,000 Alabama residents filed their complaint on
Aug. 1, alleging that the new law prevents the free exercise of
religion.  Alabama, in its filing, argues that the U.S. Constitution
bars Blackburn from reconciling the interplay of the state
constitution’s religious freedom provision and parts of the new
law that prohibit the harboring and transporting of illegal
immigrants and limits the enforceability of contracts with them.  Law Provisions  The state has asked the judge to “certify to the  Supreme
Court  of Alabama” the question of what the challenged
immigration law provisions mean in light of the state
constitution’s Religious Freedom Amendment.  “This suggests to me they know they have significant
issues with this act and the First Amendment of the U.S.
Constitution,” which also guarantees religious freedom, one of
the Episcopal Diocese’s attorneys, Augusta Dowd, said today in a
phone interview.  “I read their filing to acknowledge they do believe it to
be illegal” under federal law. The federal court has
jurisdiction to decide a constitutional question and the case
should not be moved to an Alabama court to be considered under
the Alabama Constitution, she said.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the Alabama filing.  The case is U.S. v. State of Alabama, 11-cv-02746, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  