-- 
Malaysian Production Unexpectedly Rose in June on Manufacturing

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/malaysian-production-unexpectedly-rose-in-june-on-manufacturing.html
Malaysia ’s industrial production
unexpectedly rose in June as manufacturers increased output, a
gain that may ease as faltering growth in advanced economies
hurts global demand.  Production at factories, utilities and mines climbed 1
percent from a year earlier after declining a revised 5.6
percent in May, the Putrajaya-based statistics department said
in a statement today. That compares with the median estimate for
a 0.8 percent drop in a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. economy have
damped the outlook for exports, putting pressure on Asian policy
makers to delay further monetary tightening even as inflation
remains elevated. Malaysia’s central bank unexpectedly refrained
from raising  interest rates  on July 7, choosing instead to order
lenders to set aside more cash as it pledged to consider further
policy moves after assessing economic conditions.  “The demand outlook is going to be softer,” Kit Wei Zheng,
a Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said before the
report. “Malaysia’s exports were better than expected but that
predates the current round of financial turmoil and weakness in
leading global indicators.”  Malaysia’s export expansion accelerated in June as rising
Asian demand for commodities countered falling shipments to the
U.S. and Europe. Overseas shipments climbed 8.6 percent in June
from a year earlier after gaining 5.4 percent in May.  Manufacturing output by companies such as semiconductor-
assembler Unisem (M) Bhd. gained 4.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. Mining dropped 8.6 percent,
while electricity production climbed 3.6 percent.  Manufacturing sales rose 12.9 percent in June from a year
earlier, quickening from a revised 7.5 percent gain in May, the
statistics department said in a separate report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  