-- 
Tam Reverses Loss on Greater Air Travel Demand; Shares Rise

-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-08-10T20:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/tam-reverses-loss-on-greater-air-travel-demand-shares-rise-3-.html
Tam SA (TAMM4) , the owner of  Brazil ’s
biggest airline by market share, posted a second-quarter profit,
reversing a year-earlier loss, on greater-than-expected demand
for air travel in  Latin America ’s largest economy. The shares
gained.  Net income was 60.3 million reais ($37 million), or 40
centavos a share, in the second quarter, compared with a loss of
174.8 million reais, or 1.2 reais, a year earlier, Tam said in a
regulatory filing today. Net sales jumped 17 percent to 3.1
billion reais. The average estimate from three analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 11.9 million reais.  Shares gained 4 percent to 25.70 reais at the close of  Sao
Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, after increasing as
much as 7.1 percent earlier. They have risen 10 percent since
Aug. 8, the biggest two-day gain since Aug. 2010. Tam had
dropped 37 percent this year through yesterday’s close, compared
with a 57 percent plunge for Gol and a 26 percent decline in the
benchmark Bovespa index, which entered a  bear market  on July 27.  Demand for  air travel  in Brazil grew 21 percent in the
first half of the year, exceeding Tam’s estimates, because of
increasing numbers of business and leisure travelers, according
to the statement. The company’s airplanes flew 74 percent full
in the quarter, compared with 67 percent a year earlier.  Tam’s “good results” were due to higher occupancy rates
in both the domestic and international markets, an increase in
the amount paid per passenger and increased revenue from the
Multiplus loyalty program, Edigimar Maximiliano Jr. and Luiz Pecanha, analysts at Banco Bradesco BBI SA in Sao Paulo, wrote
in a report today. “We also highlight that second-quarter
results are usually weaker for airline companies in Brazil.”  Expansion Forecasts  Tam forecasts a 15 percent to 18 percent expansion in
domestic flight demand through the end of the year, with total
seat supply growing 10 percent to 13 percent. The company
estimates a load factor, or percentage of seats taken, of 73
percent to 75 percent for the year.  Tam kept all its forecasts unchanged from the first
quarter, even as smaller rival  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) 
cut its estimates last month, spurring recommendation cuts from
banks including Banco BTG Pactual SA and Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Historically, the second quarter is the weakest of the
year in terms of demand, however this year we had a truly strong
industry with record load factors for the period,” Tam said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  