-- 
Manhattan Apartment Rents Jump 9% Amid Few Vacancies, Citi Habitats Says

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/manhattan-apartment-rents-climbed-9-in-july-citi-habitats-says.html
Manhattan  apartment rents increased
9 percent in July from a year earlier as landlords tested how
high they could push prices amid few vacancies.  The average apartment in the borough commanded $3,358 in
July, up from $3,084 a year earlier and 1 percent below the
market peak in May 2007, according to a report today by broker
 Citi Habitats . Rents averaged $3,754 for two-bedroom units and
$5,052 for three-bedroom apartments, both up 9 percent.  “Owners are smart, savvy individuals who are going to keep
pushing their rents and pushing their rents until such time when
the tenant population speaks back,” Gary Malin, president of
Citi Habitats, said in a telephone interview.  A stagnant sales market is leading to a tighter rental
supply and greater competition for apartments, encouraging
landlords to raise rents in the busiest leasing season. Sales of
Manhattan co-ops and condos declined 3.8 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and
broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate said on July 1.  Compared with the previous month, July rents slipped 1
percent for apartments of all sizes except three-bedrooms, Citi
Habitats said. Rents for those units rose 1 percent.  Manhattan’s apartment vacancy rate was 0.9 percent, little
changed from a year earlier and up from 0.7 percent in June.  New York City ’s jobless rate climbed in June, to 8.7
percent from 8.6 percent the prior month, according to the
state’s  Department of Labor .  “The prices are so high right now, there comes a point at
which the pain threshold for tenants hits that point of ‘This is
very expensive,’” Malin said. “It just gets to that level at
which tenants can’t pay it anymore.”  Landlords cut back on concessions, offering deal sweeteners
such as a month’s free rent in only 7 percent of new leases in
July, Citi Habitats said. A year earlier, they offered
incentives for 25 percent of new rental transactions.  “We’ll see what happens over the month of August,” Malin
said. “Up until the last few days, people were feeling better
about the overall economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  