-- 
Apple Accused in Suit of E-Book Price Fixing With Publishers

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/apple-publishers-sued-over-claims-they-fixed-prices-of-electronic-books.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in connection with last
year’s introduction of the iPad, colluded with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
HarperCollins Publishers unit and four other publishers to fix
prices of electronic books, according to a lawsuit.  Apple, threatened by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle e-book reader
and its potential to distribute other digital media, agreed with
the publishers on or before January 2010 to announce a so-called
agency model to “force the e-book sales model to be entirely
restructured,” according to the complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Oakland, California.  The traditional “brick-and-mortar” publishers agreed to
the price-fixing because they were threatened by Amazon’s “pro-
consumer” e-book titles priced at $9.99, according to the suit.  “Fortunately for the publishers, they had a co-conspirator
as terrified as they were over Amazon’s popularity and pricing
structure, and that was Apple,”  Steve Berman , an attorney
representing consumers in the case, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We intend to prove that Apple needed a way to neutralize
Amazon’s Kindle before its popularity could challenge the
upcoming introduction of the iPad, a device Apple intended to
compete as an e-reader,” Berman said in the statement. Berman
seeks to represent all e-book consumers in the complaint.  ‘Restrained Trade’  The publishers and Cupertino, California-based Apple
thwarted the discounting of e-books and “restrained trade by
coordinating their pricing to directly set retail prices higher
than had existed in the previously competitive market,”
according to the complaint.  A representative of Apple didn’t immediately return phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment after regular business hours
yesterday. Tina Andreadis, a HarperCollins spokeswoman, also
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment after regular
business hours.  The other publishers named as defendants in the suit are
Hachette Livre SA’s Hachette Book Group unit, U.K.-based
MacMillan Publishers Ltd.,  Pearson PLC (PSON) ’s Penguin Group and CBS
Corp.’s Simon & Schuster.  The case is Petru v. Apple Inc., 11-03892, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  