-- 
Marco Polo Reaches Agreement to Use Cash in Bankruptcy

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-10T18:55:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/marco-polo-reaches-agreement-to-use-cash-in-bankruptcy.html
Marco Polo Seatrade BV reached an
agreement with creditors Credit Agricole SA and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  to use its cash collateral amid criticism
from the banks that it wrongly filed for bankruptcy in  New York .  Robert G. Burns, a lawyer for Marco Polo, told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  in  Manhattan  today that the
parties reached the agreement. Burns said the company was also
working on a longer-range cash-flow budget.  “We will use our best efforts to get that produced next
week,” he said.  Marco Polo and affiliates  Seaarland Shipping Management BV ,
Magellano Marine CV and Cargoship Maritime BV filed for  Chapter
11 bankruptcy protection  July 29. Marco Polo said in court
papers it was forced to file for bankruptcy because of Credit
Agricole’s effort to arrest three vessels in the days leading up
to the filing. Arrest is a technical term in maritime law
meaning seizure to carry out foreclosure.  Marco Polo, the Amsterdam-based owner of six vessels,
withdrew its request for a $1 million debtor-in-possession, or
bankruptcy-financing, loan. Burns told Peck that Edinburgh-based
RBS had found accounts with $1.1 million unencumbered by liens.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , an agent to lenders owed $89.7 million,
said in court papers the ship owner has no connection with New
York, where its bankruptcy was filed. Paris-based Credit
Agricole had sought to block Marco Polo from using cash
collateral on those grounds.  ‘A Sham’  “These bankruptcy proceedings are a sham perpetrated by
these Dutch debtors, who have no actual connection with this
jurisdiction, to harass Credit Agricole and attempt to thwart
its ability to realize on its secured interest in its
collateral,” Credit Agricole said in Aug. 2 court papers.  Before the bankruptcy filing, the bank had arrested one
ship after Marco Polo and its affiliates failed to make
repayments and had warrants outstanding for the arrest of two
others, according to court papers.  Credit Agricole  “swiftly swept nearly $1.8 million from”
its operating accounts, Marco Polo said in court papers.  The other three vessels are collateral for $117.7 million
owed to RBS as lenders’ agent.  “There appears to be distress in the relationship between
this family of borrowers and its existing lenders,” Peck said
today.  Cash Collateral  Today’s agreements call for none of the cash collateral
from one lender to go toward paying expenses of the other
lender’s ships.  “We are going to move to dismiss this case,” Gregory
Petrick, a lawyer for RBS, told Peck today. “I believe that
Credit Agricole will too.”  “We believe that the U.S. is not only an appropriate
jurisdiction, it is the most appropriate jurisdiction,” Evan D.
Flaschen, another lawyer for Marco Polo, told the judge.
“Shipping companies have no country.”  The case is In re Marco Polo Seatrade BV, 11-bk-13634,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 