-- 
Argentina Omits Playmaker Juan Martin Hernandez From Rugby World Cup Squad

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-10T00:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/argentina-omits-playmaker-juan-martin-hernandez-from-rugby-world-cup-squad.html
Playmaker Juan Martin Hernandez
failed to recover from knee-ligament surgery in time to be
included in  Argentina ’s squad for the  Rugby World Cup  starting
next month.  Nicknamed “El Mago,” or the Magician, the 29-year-old
Hernandez was shortlisted for the International Rugby Board’s
Player of the Year award after helping the Pumas to finish third
at the 2007 World Cup. He has been hampered by injuries since
playing the last of his 32 Tests two years ago.  “It’s a very big loss for any team as he’s a big attacking
threat,” Pumas coach Santiago Phelan said in comments on the
Argentine rugby union’s website. “Although including him would
have been a great addition for us, we couldn’t count on his
presence.”  Nine other players from the provisional 2011  World Cup 
squad also failed to make the final 30-man roster: Agustin
Figuerola, Genaro Fessia, Lucas Borges, Martin Bustos Moyano,
Eusebio Guinazu, Rafael Carballo, Santiago Guzman, Andres Bordoy
and Gabriel Ascarate.  Bordoy and Ascarate will travel with the squad as backup
players for the Aug. 20 warmup Test against  Wales  in Cardiff.
The Pumas will face English Premiership club Worcester Warriors
three days later.  Argentina opens its World Cup campaign Sept. 10 against
2003 champion England in Dunedin,  New Zealand , before playing
Romania, Scotland and Georgia in Pool B.  ARGENTINA WORLD CUP SQUAD: Horacio Agulla, Patricio
Albacete, Marcos Ayerza, Marcelo Bosh, Maximiliano Bustos,
Gonzalo Camacho, Alejandro Campos, Manuel Carizza, Felipe Contepomi, Agustin Creevy, Julio Farias Cabello, Juan Fernandez
Lobbe, Santiago Fernandez, Juan Figallo, Mariano Galarza, Alvaro
Galindo, Lucas Gonzalez Ambrosio, Agustin Gosio, Juan Imhoff,
Alfredo Lalanne, Mario Ledesma, Juan Manuel Leguizamon, Martin
Rodriguez, Rodrigo Roncero, Federico Sanchez, Martin Scelzo,
Leonardo Senatore, Gonzalo Tiesi, Tomas Vallejos, Nicolas
Vergallo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 