-- 
Mario Pressured to Jump to IPhone as Nintendo Wii, 3DS Slump

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 
2011-08-11T09:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/mario-pressured-to-jump-to-iphone-as-nintendo-wii-3ds-slump.html
In “Super Mario 3DLand,” Nintendo
Co. will make its iconic Italian plumber battle turtle-like
Koopa Troopas on its 3-D player. The company instead should
develop titles for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, investors say.  The rift highlights the dilemma President Satoru Iwata
faces as consumers shun Nintendo devices to play games on
iPhones, iPads and Facebook Inc.’s website. The flop of the 3DS
debut prompted the company to cut prices 40 percent in  Japan  and
32 percent in the U.S., the first time the games developer has
resorted to such a move within six months of a product’s debut.  Iwata, who’s said Nintendo will only make titles for its
own products as long as he’s in charge, should scrap that
strategy to avoid further alienating investors who’ve driven the
stock to six-year lows,  fund manager  Masamitsu Ohki said. One
option may be acquisitions as the past successes of the Wii and
DS helped Nintendo, the world’s largest video-game maker, build
a 1.05 trillion yen ($13.7 billion) war chest in cash,
equivalents and short-term investments.  “Smartphones are the new battlefield for the gaming
industry,” said Ohki, a fund manager at Tokyo-based Stats
Investment Management Co. “Nintendo should try to either buy
its way into this platform or develop something totally new.”  He declined to identify his holdings or to name any
companies that Kyoto, Japan-based Nintendo should consider as
acquisition targets. Yasuhiro Minagawa, a spokesman at Nintendo,
declined to comment beyond statements made previously by Iwata.  Pokemon Tease  Ohki isn’t alone in saying Iwata should reconsider his
strategy. On July 6, Nintendo shares jumped the most in almost
four months after Pokemon Co., a former unit, said it’s
developing a game for the iPhone and handsets running on
 Mountain View , California-based Google Inc.’s Android software.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  sent a note to clients saying the move
indicated Nintendo may begin making titles for products outside
its proprietary hardware.  Hours later, Nintendo denied any change in strategy, and
the shares surrendered gains.  “They just don’t get it,” MF Global FXA Securities Ltd.
said in a sales note that day, referring to Nintendo. “Sell the
stock, because a management once feted for creative out-of-box
thinking have just shown how behind the times they are.”  ‘Angry Birds’ Challenge  Lower-than-expected demand for the 3DS, which Iwata  blamed 
on the lack of hit titles, prompted Nintendo on July 28 to slash
its profit forecast 82 percent, driving down the shares by as
much as 21 percent the following day. They fell 0.2 percent to
11,430 yen, at the 3:10 p.m. close in Osaka trading, the lowest
level since August 2005.  By comparison, profits at Cupertino, California-based Apple
are climbing to records, helped by downloads of games such as
Rovio Mobile Oy’s “Angry Birds” on the more than 200 million
iPhones, iPads and iPods sold to date. Research firm Gartner
Inc. said in January it expects global sales of mobile
applications to almost triple to $15.1 billion this year.  Revenue at San Francisco-based Zynga Inc., the biggest
developer of Facebook games including “FarmVille” and
“CityVille,” surged fivefold to $597.5 million last year.  Some traditional games companies have taken notice.  Sony
Corp. (6758) , maker of the PlayStation video-game console, began
offering the PoxNora strategy game on Facebook last year, while
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  makes its Windows Phone software compatible with
the company’s  Xbox Live  gaming service.  Mario to the Rescue?  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the second-largest U.S. video-game
publisher, agreed last month to buy “Plants vs. Zombies”
developer PopCap Games for as much as $1.3 billion to extend a
drive into titles played on sites including Facebook. That’s
more than triple the $400 million Japan’s DeNA Co. agreed to pay
last year to buy iPhone-games developer Ngmoco Inc.  Nintendo’s last acquisition was in 2007, when it bought
developer  Monolith Software Inc. , which supplies titles
including the “Xenoblade” role playing game, for an
undisclosed sum, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
companies share a similar direction when developing software,
Iwata said at that time.  For now, Nintendo is betting on price cuts -- the 3DS sells
for 15,000 yen from 25,000 yen starting today -- and new games
to revive earnings. The company plans to introduce flagship
titles such as “Super Mario 3DLand” in November and “Mario
Kart” in December for the 3DS. In the U.S., the player will
cost $169.99, down from $249.99 from tomorrow.  ‘Little Expensive’  “I decided to buy because of the markdown,” said
Mitsuhiro Taguchi, a 48-year-old office worker who was among the
score of people lined up at Yodobashi Camera Co.’s outlet, the
biggest electronics retailer in  Tokyo ’s Akihabara district,
before the doors opened at 9:25 a.m. “I wanted it for a while,
but it was a little expensive.”  Yusuke Tsunoda, an analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co.,
said Nintendo needs to develop software that better utilizes the
3-D capability of the 3DS. For investors, the focus will center
on the efficacy of the price cuts, he said.  Cheaper prices may not be enough to lure some consumers.  “There are no games I want to play on the 3DS,” said
Chihaya Kaizaki, a 19-year-old college student who says he
prefers to play dating games on Sony’s PlayStation Portable.
“The selection of 3-D titles available is pretty poor.”  Sales of the portable  3DS  machine lagged behind company
expectations because of the lack of “hit software titles,”
Iwata told analysts and investors July 29.  More worrying to some investors are concerns that
Nintendo’s next-generation video-game console, the Wii U, will
fail to replicate the original Wii’s success, which helped drive
the stock to an all-time high in 2007.  $10 Billion in Cash  The new Wii, which goes on sale next fiscal year, will
feature a front-facing camera, a 6.2-inch touch screen, shoulder
firing pads, an expansion slot and game controls on a flat pad.  Following the Wii U’s unveiling, analysts at UBS AG and
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch wrote in notes to clients
that they weren’t impressed by the next-generation console.  Iwata said last month the 3DS price cut is driving down
price expectations for the Wii U, which may  affect  Nintendo’s
plan to release the console during the fiscal year that begins
in April. The company plans to announce the specific release
date and price of the product next year, he said.  Given the concerns over the outlook of Nintendo’s handheld
and home-console business, which account for most of the
company’s profit and sales, Nintendo should make better use of
its more than $10 billion cash pile, investor Tetsuro Ii said.  “Nintendo should aggressively make acquisitions or
increase returns to its shareholders,” said Ii, president of
Tokyo-based Commons Asset Management Inc., which held 2,200
Nintendo shares as of February, according to the company’s
website. “It’s management’s task to consider how to make use of
the cash.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  