-- 
Harrisburg Mayor Plans to Risk City Payroll to Pay Debt Service Next Month

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-08-10T22:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/harrisburg-mayor-plans-to-risk-city-payroll-to-pay-debt-service-next-month.html
Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson  told
the City Council that if they reject her fiscal rescue plan for
 Pennsylvania ’s capital, she’ll make a $3.3 million bond payment
next month and won’t have funds to cover municipal paychecks.  “I don’t plan on missing that payment,” Thompson said of
the debt obligation. Harrisburg has a $5.6 million deficit, she
said, adding that she won’t have enough money to cover the
payroll for the rest of the year after covering debt service.  Thompson responded to questions from council members on her
fiscal-recovery plan, which hews closely to a rejected proposal
from state consultants. Her blueprint calls for selling the
Harrisburg Authority’s incinerator and leasing the city’s
parking system. The city has a $5 million  budget deficit  and
entered the state’s Act 47 fiscal-rescue program in December.  More help should come from the state as well as Dauphin
County, which encompasses Harrisburg, and bond insurer Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp., said Susan Brown Wilson, one of the
four council members who voted down the consultants’ plan.  “They need to come to the table and offer more than what
they’re offering us,” Wilson said.  The city must pass a plan by Sept. 6 or risk losing state
aid, said C. Alan Walker, Pennsylvania’s economic development
secretary. Harrisburg, which has weighed bankruptcy, would also
lose funds if it seeks court protection before July 2012, under
a state law enacted in June.  Thompson told the council that she has no second option if
her plan is also rejected. Tax revenue is declining and about a
third of the city’s 49,500 residents live in poverty.  “To think of it, it would be disastrous,” she said. The
city employs about 480 workers and pays them about $1.24 million
in wages every two weeks, said Robert Philbin, a spokesman for
Thompson.  Harrisburg’s fiscal crisis began with borrowing to overhaul
and expand the incinerator, producing a debt burden five times
the city’s general-fund budget. Next month’s payment is for
general-obligation debt, which the city has never skipped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 