-- 
Asia Currencies Gain as Fed Pledge Shores Up Demand for Region’s Assets

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-10T08:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/asia-currencies-gain-as-fed-pledge-shores-up-demand-for-region-s-assets.html
Asian currencies rose, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit, as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep U.S.
interest rates at near-zero levels for two more years helped
shore up demand for equities and emerging-market assets.  South Korea’s won strengthened by the most in more than a
month and Malaysia’s ringgit rebounded from near its weakest
level since June as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares
advanced for the first time in seven days. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  said yesterday that it would keep benchmark
borrowing costs at a record low at least through mid-2013 and is
“prepared to employ” additional tools to spur the  U.S. economy .  “The market interpreted the Fed statement as a possible
sign of quantitative easing,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a
foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “More quantitative
easing would lead to investors diversifying into other
currencies and that would support Asian currencies.”  The ringgit climbed 0.7 percent to 3.0055 per dollar as of
4:34 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Indonesia’s rupiah jumped 0.6 percent to 8,538, the
won gained 0.7 percent to 1,080.20 and Thailand’s baht rose 0.1
percent to 29.88.  China ’s yuan advanced 0.19 percent to 6.4181,
the biggest rise since June 21.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed up 4.7 percent after
the Fed announcement yesterday, rebounding from the biggest drop
since 2008 on Aug. 8 after S&P cut the U.S. credit rating at the
end of last week. The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of debt in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing, boosting the supply
of dollars available to invest in other countries.  Korea Jobless Rate  Global funds bought $4.2 billion more Indian, Indonesian
and Philippine equities than they sold this year, according to
exchange data, lured by growth and  interest rates  considerably
higher than in developed countries. Developing economies in  Asia 
will expand 8.4 percent in 2011, outpacing growth of 2.5 percent
in the U.S. and 2 percent in countries using the euro, according
to  International Monetary Fund  estimates released in June.  The won rebounded from a more than two-month low as the
nation’s unemployment rate held at the lowest level since
November. The jobless rate was 3.3 percent in July, compared
with the median estimate of 3.4 percent by economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The government will take “all policy steps needed” to
help stabilize financial markets, Financial Services Commission
Vice Chairman Shin Je Yoon said. The commission imposed a three-
month ban on short selling stocks effective today.  Malaysia ’s Factory Output  “The news from the Fed and the recent steep falls will put
upward pressure on the won today,” said Byeon Ji Young, a
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Appreciation
will be limited as foreign investors may buy the dollar after
recently selling the nation’s stocks.”  The ringgit rose as a report today showed Malaysia’s
industrial output expanded 1 percent in June from a year earlier
after a revised 5.6 percent contraction in May. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a decline of 0.8 percent.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to
NT$29.01 against its U.S. counterpart, while India’s rupee added
0.1 percent to 45.17. The  Philippine peso  gained 0.1 percent to
42.495 and the  Singapore dollar  appreciated 0.2 percent to
S$1.2112.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  