-- 
Asian Nations to Overtake Russia as Largest Raw-Sugar Importers

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-10T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/asian-nations-to-overtake-russia-as-largest-raw-sugar-importers.html
China ,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  are
set to overtake  Russia  as the world’s largest raw-sugar
importers in 2011-12, C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd. said.  Russia was the biggest importer in the 2010-11 season, data
from the brokerage showed. Rising population, urbanization rates
and higher incomes in Asia will result in nations including
China, Indonesia and Malaysia importing more than Russia in the
coming season, it said in a report e-mailed today.  “Asia is at the center of demand in the sugar market and
likely to stay that way,” Czarnikow’s director Toby Cohen said
in a statement. “Increasing demand is being driven not only by
population growth, but also by urbanization and rising incomes,
which allow for increased consumption of processed foods and
soft drinks,” Czarnikow said.  Asia ’s sugar demand is rising at a faster pace than
regional production, resulting in a structural deficit there,
the London-based brokerage said.  China is expected to import more in the coming season than
the 2 million tons forecast in 2010-11, according to Czarnikow,
which didn’t provide a specific figure. The country imported
600,000 tons in 2007-2008. Czarnikow didn’t provide a figure for
Russian imports.  Sugar shipments to China in the third quarter are almost
double last year’s level, it said. Production in the world’s
most populous nation has been “held back as a result of land
shifting from cane to better economic uses,” it added.  Demand from Asia and the  Middle East  is likely to put
pressure on  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, at a time the
country’s crop is falling, the broker said.  Sugar cane output in Brazil’s Center South, the nation’s
main producing region, will fall for the first time in a decade
this year to 533.5 million tons, industry group Unica said.  Asia and the Middle East together have taken 60 percent of
Brazil’s exports so far this season, according to Czarnikow.
“Already over 1 million tons have been shipped to China from
Brazil this season,” it said. “We expect this demand to exert
additional pressure on Brazilian availability,” Cohen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 