-- 
Dow Drops 520 Amid New Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-10T20:55:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/asian-stocks-commodities-gain-on-fed-s-pledge-to-keep-interest-rates-low.html
Stocks slid, dragging the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to the lowest level since September 2010, and
Treasuries rose for a third day amid concern the European
sovereign debt crisis is worsening. The dollar climbed versus 13
of 16 major peers, with the euro losing 1.3 percent to $1.4190.
Gold futures surged to a record above $1,800 an ounce.  The Dow sank 519.83 points, or 4.6 percent, to 10,719.94 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
sank 4.4 percent to 1,120.76 following its biggest jump in more
than two years yesterday, when it rebounded from its worst loss
since 2008. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index plunged 3.8 percent as
Societe Generale SA sank 15 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields,
which touched an all-time low yesterday, fell 16 basis points to
2.09 percent after an auction drew a record-low yield. Costs to
protect French debt reached a record.  Central banks are fighting to prevent a recession as
equities echo the bear market in 2008-2009, with Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke vowing yesterday to keep borrowing
costs at an all-time low to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than expected. People familiar with the
transactions said the  European Central Bank  bought Italian and
Spanish bonds to help reduce borrowing costs. Switzerland’s
central bank said today it will “significantly” increase the
supply of liquidity to banks.  ‘Spiral Down’  “It’s a spiral down until it stops,” Peter Tuz, president
of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville,  Virginia , which
manages $1.2 billion, said in a telephone interview. “We’re
going through these constant day-to-day battles over Europe’s
debt crisis, a downgrade in the U.S. and a weakening economy.
There’s no positive sentiment regarding a light at the end of
the tunnel.”  Walt Disney Co. slid 9.1 percent, the most since Dec. 1,
2008, on concern that slowing  consumer spending  and rising costs
at the ESPN sports network may crimp profit growth. The stock
helped lead declines in all 30 companies in the Dow, which had
the ninth-worst point drop in its 115 year history. Financial
shares fell the most among 10 groups today, with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. dropping more than 10 percent. The
 S&P 500  Financials Index slumped 7.1 percent today and has
plunged 29 percent from its 2011 high in February.  Bank of America Corp. lost 11 percent even after Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the lender will meet
its capital targets, buoyed by conditions that are better than
they’ve been since the credit crisis.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
told CNBC that he’s very optimistic in the long run and the
fundamental strength of the economy is “still here.” His
bank’s shares fell 5.6 percent.  ‘Blow Your Socks Off’  “The strength of the system is going to blow your socks
off when it comes out of this malaise,” Dimon told the cable-
television network while touring his branch network in
 California . “This will pass too. I don’t know when, three
months, six months, nine months or a year, but it will pass.”  The S&P 500 wiped out most of a 4.7 percent gain from
yesterday, a rebound that followed a 6.7 percent slide on Aug. 8
when markets opened following the reduction in the U.S. credit
rating to AA+ from AAA at S&P. Yesterday’s rally was triggered
by the Fed’s announcement that it plans to keep its benchmark
rate at a record low through mid-2013 as it considers other
tools to bolster economic growth.  “The markets are going through massive volatility and it’s
not surprising because we are in uncharted water, for the
economy and for policies, and therefore for markets,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer and co-chief investment
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest manager of bond funds, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “So sentiment is a big issue and you get these
massive moves.”  $3 Trillion Rout  The S&P 500 has slumped 18 percent from a three-year high
at the end of April, threatening to join  Europe ’s benchmark
index with a bear market slide of more than 20 percent. The
losses followed weakening economic data and a political impasse
in  Washington  that brought the government to the brink of
default before the debt ceiling was raised on Aug. 2. About $3
trillion in U.S. market value, and $8 trillion globally, was
erased between July 22 and Aug. 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 is trading for about 12.3 times its companies’
earnings from the past year, a valuation not seen before this
week since the first month of the bull market in March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  David Kostin , New York-based equity strategist at Goldman
Sachs, said the multiple may remain depressed in the short-term
because of concern that the economy will relapse into a
recession.  ‘Elevated Uncertainty’  “We see S&P 500 valuation as attractive for long-term
investors given a large discount to fundamentals but do not
expect the discount to close in the near term due to rising
recession risk and elevated uncertainty in macroeconomic and
political conditions, earnings views, and the path for  interest
rates ,” Kostin wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index gained 0.7 percent today
as gold producers surged the most since February 2010 and energy
companies advanced amid a rebound in oil. Energy and raw-
materials companies make up 48 percent of Canadian stocks by
market value. The gap of 5.2 percentage points between the
performance of the S&P/TSX and S&P 500 today was the biggest
since the day known as Black Monday in October 1987 when the
U.S. index plunged 20 percent, not including days after one of
the markets was closed.  Record-Low Yields  Two-year Treasury yields slipped two basis points to 0.18
percent, compared with yesterday’s intraday record low of 0.16
percent. The yield difference between two- and 10-year
Treasuries was 192 basis points, the narrowest since April 2009,
underscoring concern about the pace of the economic recovery.
Treasuries extended gains today after $24 billion in 10-year
securities drew a record low yield of 2.14 percent in the first
offering of the maturity following S&P’s downgrade of U.S.
credit. The existing 10-year yield reached a record low of 2.03
yesterday.  The rally in bonds and slump in stocks has driven the 2.28
percent dividend yield of S&P 500 companies above the yield of
10-year Treasury bonds for the first time since May 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About eight stocks fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
600. Intesa Sanpaolo, the Italian lender, and French bank BNP
Paribas lost more than 9 percent. France’s  CAC-40 Index (CAC)  sank 5.5
percent, the most since December 2008, to the lowest level since
July 2009. The  FTSE-MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  in  Italy  plunged 6.7 percent for
its biggest drop since October 2008.  French Default Swaps  The cost to insure French government debt against default
rose to a record 175 basis points. France’s top credit grade was
affirmed by S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
amid concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is
intensifying.  The outlook on France is stable and its AAA ranking is
“warranted,”  Moritz Kraemer , S&P’s managing director of
European sovereign ratings, said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview. Francesco Meucci, a spokesman for Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a telephone interview the country’s Aaa grade
is “stable” and Fitch Ratings spokesman Brian Bertsch said
France is rated AAA with stable outlook as per its May 31
statement.  “If credit default swaps on France are under attack that’s
not a good sign,” said Yves Marcais, a sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “That means that France is under attack and
that’s worrisome. French banks hold a lot of French bonds.”  ‘Categorically Denies’  Societe Generale (GLE)  “categorically denies all market
rumors,”Emmanuelle Renaudat, a spokeswoman for the French bank
said after the company’s shares declined as much as 23 percent
today. The lender’s performance in July and early August shows
it will be able to post “solid” results in the future, the
bank said in a statement after the market closed today. The bank
asked France’s market watchdog to open a probe into the origin
of speculation that “gravely hurt the interests of
shareholders.”  France’s market regulator, the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, said it’s watching financial shares “in
particular” after bank stocks in the European Union dropped to
their lowest since March 2009.  The Spanish 10-year yield fell five basis points to 5.03
percent and Italian yields decreased eight points to 5.10
percent. Italy sold 6.5 billion euros ($9.4 billion) of 366-day
bills, with the average yield at 2.959 percent, compared with a
yield of 3.67 percent at the previous sale on July 12.  Swiss Central Bank Moves  The Swiss franc weakened more than 0.7 percent against the
yen and dollar, while strengthening against 11 of its 16 major
peers. The  Swiss National Bank  said  today  it boosted the supply
of liquidity to banks by expanding sight deposits to 120 billion
francs ($165 billion) from 80 billion francs. It will also
conduct foreign-exchange swap transactions, a tool last used in
2008. The central bank said it’s ready to take further measures
if needed.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities rose for the first
time this week, climbing 2.5 percent for its biggest gain in a
month. Oil rose 4.5 percent to $82.89 a barrel, rebounding from
a 10-month low with the biggest gain in three months, following
an unexpected decline in supplies.  Gold futures settled up 2.4 percent at $1,784.30 an ounce
after jumping as much as 3.3 percent to $1,801 an ounce.
Commodities may outperform equities the rest of the year because
of record demand and shortages, according to  Barclays Capital .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  