-- 
Asia Hedge Fund Startups Fall 38% as Big Funds Favored

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-08-25T03:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/asia-hedge-fund-startups-fall-38-as-investors-seek-pedigree-.html
The number Asian hedge fund startups
fell 45 percent in the first half of the year as investors
preferred larger funds amid volatile markets, according to
 Eurekahedge Pte .  There were 60 new Asian  hedge funds  set up in the first six
months of 2011, of which 14 were based in  Singapore  and 11 in
 Hong Kong , Eurekahedge said in an e-mailed reply to queries from
Bloomberg News. There were 109 Asian hedge funds which started
in the first half of last year and 169 in all of 2010, the
Singapore-based industry data provider said.  Hedge funds found it tough to raise capital as investors
shifted to experienced managers or established firms with steady
returns and staff dedicated to risk assessment after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 saw many funds
freeze assets. Firms managing more than $500 million received
almost 62 percent of the capital invested in Asia-focused hedge
funds in the second quarter, according to Chicago-based  Hedge
Fund Research Inc.   “In this volatile environment, some asset allocators
believe they will be safer in large funds with a high pedigree,
which makes it difficult for startups with more talented but
less known managers to raise capital,” said Frank Brochin,
managing director at New York-based StoneWater Capital LLC,
which invests in Asian hedge funds.  Sze, Fuchs  Azentus Capital Management Ltd., a Hong Kong-based hedge
fund set up by Morgan Sze, global head of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s principal strategies business, increased assets to more
than $1.9 billion, three people with knowledge of the matter
said in July. Benjamin Fuchs, who leads the Global Opportunities
Group proprietary trading desk at Nomura Holdings Inc., aims to
start his own Hong Kong-based hedge fund with at least $400
million, two people with knowledge of the plan said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2 percent in the first six
months, after a 14 percent rally last year, as investors became
concerned that an earthquake in  Japan  in March would stall the
nation’s emergence from deflation, U.S.’s sovereign-debt would
be downgraded and Chinese growth would slow as inflation
accelerated. Standard & Poor’s downgraded U.S.’s debt rating on
Aug. 5.  The formation of a strong management team is the “main
difficulty” of starting a hedge fund, said Roland Thng, a
managing partner of Singapore-based Dektos Investment Corp.,
which aims to start a macro hedge fund by the first quarter of
next year.  Business Sustainability  Thng, previously a currency trader at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp., teamed up with Mario Manca, a former private
banker at Barclays Wealth Management who has experience in risk
management and business development, to set up the fund. Thng
had attempted to start Dektos as a “one-man shop” a year and a
half ago, he said.  “I soon realized that this model doesn’t work,” Thng said.
“Having a strong management team will allow regulatory agencies
and investors to have strong confidence in the sustainability of
the business.”  Asian hedge funds may attract less money in coming weeks
from U.S. institutional investors as they wait for a clearer
reading of the global economic outlook, according to Pacific
Alternative Asset Management Co., which invests in hedge funds.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14.5 percent yesterday
from this year’s high on May 2 on concern  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA could worsen
an economic slowdown, the European sovereign debt crisis will
spread and  China ’s steps to stem inflation will slow growth.  Investors poured $600 million into Asian hedge funds in
June, even as managers lost about 1 percent that month,
according to Eurekahedge. The region’s strategies lost 0.3
percent in the first half, while U.S. funds gained 2.2 percent,
according to the data provider.  Asia-focused hedge funds managed $89.5 billion in the
second quarter, compared with a peak of $111.4 billion in 2007,
according to Hedge Fund Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  