-- 
Asia Stocks Climb on Fed Rate Pledge, Prospect of Other Support for Growth

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-10T08:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/asian-stocks-rise-as-u-s-federal-reserve-vows-record-low-rates-bhp-jumps.html
Asian stocks rebounded from a two-
week rout that wiped $7.8 trillion from global equity markets,
after the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low through mid-2013 and said it may
use other tools to bolster the world’s biggest economy.  The Fed comments came after global markets tumbled in the
wake of Standard & Poor’s unprecedented cut of the U.S.’s credit
rating.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., advanced 2.4 percent in  Hong Kong .  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  jumped 3.6 percent in Sydney as oil and metal
prices rebounded. Commonwealth Bank of  Australia  led lenders
higher after reporting second-half profit rose to a record.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 2 percent to 122.9 as of
5:22 p.m. in  Tokyo  today, on course for its biggest daily gain
in almost five months. About three times as many stocks rose as
fell. The index last week entered a so-called correction after
falling more than 10 percent from its May peak, and pared gains
today after reports of an artillery exchange between North and
South Korea.  “Markets are obviously responding positively to the Fed’s
statement,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $150 billion. “The decision to
hold rates steady until mid-2013 and open the door to more
quantitative easing clearly points to a very prolonged period of
sub-par economic growth that can’t be good for asset markets in
the longer run.”  Nikkei, Kospi  Yesterday’s Fed meeting came after a global stock rout
fueled by  Standard & Poor’s  decision to cut the U.S.
government’s credit-rating on Aug. 5 by one level to AA+. The
decision was partly because of the partisan political fight that
preceded a deal that President Barack Obama and lawmakers
reached to raise the federal $14.3 trillion debt limit, S&P
said.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent and the
broader Topix Index advanced 0.8 percent, having spent much of
yesterday below a bottom that was set in the aftermath of the
country’s March 11 earthquake. The Nikkei 225 pared a gain of as
much as 2.2 percent after the yen strengthened against the  U.S.
dollar , dimming the earnings outlook for the nation’s exporters.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  increased 2.3 percent, with the
benchmark recording its steepest daily advance since Nov. 1. The
Hang Seng entered a so-called bear market yesterday, tumbling
more than 20 percent from its November high after a report also
showed that  China ’s inflation accelerated and that industrial
output rose less than estimated last month.  Consumer Confidence  South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.3 percent today,
trimming an earlier advance of as much as 4.2 percent after the
reports of shelling. South Korea’s military said it fired
artillery rounds after hearing explosions coming from the North
near the disputed sea border that was the scene of a deadly
attack in November.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.6 percent for the
biggest advance in more than a year. Earlier in the week, it
slipped below the 4,000 level that marks a 20 percent retreat
from its April 2010 high. The gauge climbed today even after a
report showed Australian consumer confidence deteriorated for a
fourth straight month.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 1
percent today. In  New York  yesterday, the S&P 500 rallied 4.7
percent, the biggest advance since March 2009, after the Fed
pledged for the first time to keep its benchmark lending rate at
a record low at least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery it
described as “considerably slower” than anticipated.  The Federal Open Market Committee is “prepared to employ”
additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by weak hiring
and anemic household spending, it said in a statement. Three
members of the FOMC dissented, preferring to maintain the pledge
to keep rates low for an “extended period.”  ‘Balanced Approach’  “The Fed’s statement is supportive,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who manages about $350 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney. “But markets are realizing the path forward is less
about abnormal monetary policy support and more about underlying
corporate profits and a balanced approach to fiscal policy. In a
perverse way, markets are appreciating the fact that they now
have to think about stock and economic fundamentals rather than
trading on free kicks from the Fed.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index fell 15 percent in the
nine days ended Aug. 8 before rebounding through yesterday and
today as equity markets recovered more than $1 trillion in
values.  Li & Fung advanced 2.4 percent to HK$12 in Hong Kong.  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the largest seller of home siding in the
U.S., gained 3.1 percent to A$5.27 in Sydney.  Oil, Metals  Separately, crude oil for September delivery advanced as
much as 4 percent in trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
today, while copper futures climbed as much as 2.6 percent.  BHP Billiton, the world’s No. 1 mining company and
Australia’s biggest oil producer, advanced 3.6 percent to
A$38.40.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil producer by
market value, jumped 6 percent to HK$14.52 and Jiangxi Copper
Co., the nation’s No. 1 producer of the metal by market
capitalization, gained 0.7 percent to HK$22.95.  In Seoul, Hanjin Shipping Co. surged 6 percent to 16,800
won. It pared gains after  South Korea ’s military said it fired
two artillery rounds after hearing three explosions coming from
the North near the disputed sea border that was the scene of a
deadly shelling in November.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 13 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 6.8 percent by the S&P
500 and 16 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 12.1 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 11.8 times for the S&P 500 and 9.5 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Stocks have plunged as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of
slowing and a European debt crisis has spread from Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to Italy and Spain threatened to spill over
into the banking system.  Australian Banks  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  gained 2 percent to A$48.23
after reporting second-half profit rose 22 percent to a record
as the country’s biggest lender by market value increased
business and household lending. Rival  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  surged 6 percent to A$22.80.  Australian lenders also rose after money markets signaled
Australia’s central bank may lower the world’s highest benchmark
borrowing costs as global economic growth slows.  Also in Tokyo, Tokyo Electric Power Co. led utilities
higher, soaring 15 percent to 449 yen after its President Toshio
Nishizawa said government support will protect the power company
from insolvency.  Government back-up means “there will be no possibility of
liabilities exceeding assets,” Nishizawa said yesterday. Kansai
Electric Power Co., the country’s second-largest utility, surged
8.3 percent to 1,304 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 