-- 
Assad Says ‘Mistakes’ Were Made in Syria’s Clampdown as Criticism Grows

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-11T14:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/assad-admits-to-mistakes-in-clampdown.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
responded to growing criticism about his deadly five-month
crackdown on dissidents by admitting “some mistakes” were made
by his security forces in the “initial stages” of unrest.  Diplomats representing  Brazil ,  India  and  South Africa  -- a
bloc in the  United Nations Security Council  reluctant to punish
Assad -- said in an e-mailed statement that they met in Damascus
with the Syrian leader, who told them “efforts were under way
to prevent” the mistakes from recurring.  Their appeal to both sides for an end to the violence came
as European nations renewed a push for a UN resolution against
the bloodshed and the U.S. imposed new financial sanctions on
Syrian banks and telecommunications. Pushing back, Syria’s UN
ambassador, Bashar Ja’afari, drew parallels between Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s response to U.K. riots and Syria’s
approach to armed “gangs.”  Assad’s admission of errors at the onset of the protests in
March doesn’t address the escalation in violence over the past
week, said a western diplomat who isn’t authorized to speak
publicly. At least four people were killed today in the northern
province of Idlib, while one person died yesterday in the
Damascus suburb of Saqba and another in the town of Nawa in
Daraa province, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said by telephone from Damascus.  Deaths During Ramadan  At least 20 anti-government protesters were killed
yesterday in Deir al-Zour, Homs and Idlib provinces in the
second week of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, said Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in  Syria .
Protesters took to the streets late yesterday after breaking
their Ramadan fasts and completing evening prayers in Homs, Deir
al-Zour, Latakia, suburbs of Damascus and Daraa, Merhi said.  Merhi dismissed government assertions that the army had
withdrawn from Hama, which came under assault on July 31, the
eve of Ramadan, by tanks, heavy machine-gun fire and armored
vehicles. More than 300 people have been killed, mostly in Hama,
since security forces escalated the crackdown last week,
according to activists.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu , who visited Assad
two days ago, said today he hadn’t received evidence that tanks
re-entered Hama late yesterday. Turkey contacted the governor of
Hama late yesterday after seeing reports that the armed forces
had returned to the city, and was told by the official that
there were no tanks or heavy weapons there, Davutoglu said in
televised comments from Ankara.  Signs of Tanks  Turkish journalists crossed the border into Syria today to
report on conditions, as part of an agreement between Davutoglu
and Assad that included  Turkey ’s demand for the cessation of
violence. Their work was restricted and they were escorted by
Syrian officials on an indirect route to Hama, Turkey’s state-
run Anatolia news service said.  Tanks were seen today about 20 kilometers (12 miles)
outside Hama, Anatolia said. Buildings in the city were marked
by artillery fire and the streets had signs of tank treads, it
said.  Assad appointed General Fahad Jassem Fraij as the new army
chief of staff, replacing Dawoud Rajhah, who was made defense
minister Aug. 8,  Al Watan  reported today.  The situation in Syria is “depressing and chilling,”
Philip Parham, U.K. deputy ambassador to the UN, told reporters
after hearing UN Assistant Secretary-General Oscar Fernandez-
Taranco’s briefing to the Security Council.  Thousands Dead, Missing  At least 2,000 mostly unarmed protesters have been killed,
3,000 people have disappeared, 13,000 have been arrested and
tens of thousands have fled, Parham said. Human-rights activists
who have compiled names of the dead since the uprising began say
Syrian forces have killed more than 2,400 anti-government
demonstrators.  Momentum may be building for bolder steps to stop Assad
after  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain withdrew their
ambassadors from Damascus and Turkey said its neighbor is
entering a “critical” period.  The U.S. ambassador to the UN,  Susan Rice , said Syria would
be better off without Assad, repeating the Obama
administration’s stance that the leader has lost legitimacy. The
 New York Times  today cited a U.S. diplomatic official as saying
the Obama administration doesn’t expect Assad to remain in power
and won’t rule out a civil war once he falls. U.S. Ambassador to
Syria  Robert Ford  declined to comment on the report when reached
by phone today.  ‘It’s the System’  “To the U.S., getting Assad out now would maybe save lives
and avoid bigger regional pressures later,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis. “However, even if he
steps aside, that won’t take care of the problem because it’s
not just the person, it’s the system itself.”  While further action is needed, getting the  Security
Council  “on board” in light of Russia-led opposition may prove
difficult, said George A. Lopez, a professor of political
science at the University of  Notre Dame  who was on a UN panel of
experts monitoring compliance with sanctions. “Only massive and
tight arms embargo, oil sanctions and further financial freezes
can work now,” he said.  Russia  has indicated it isn’t convinced that a UN
resolution is needed to stop the repression of protesters.  “What we are telling them is that they need to have
serious reforms as soon as possible,” Russia’s UN ambassador,
Vitaly Churkin, told reporters yesterday. “We realize that it
takes time. Especially in a dramatic situation like this, you
cannot carry out reforms overnight. We see encouraging signs.”  U.S. Freeze  In  Washington , the Treasury Department said it will freeze
the assets of the Commercial Bank of Syria and a subsidiary, the
Syrian Lebanese Commercial Bank, as well as mobile-phone company
Syriatel.  “We are taking aim at the financial infrastructure that is
helping provide support” to Assad, said David S. Cohen, U.S.
undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence.  Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel has called for an
immediate cease-fire in Syria, warning that the situation is
“heading to the point of no return,” according to  Egypt ’s
state-run Middle East News Agency.  The shift in Arab and regional government positions to
condemnations coupled with the recalling of ambassadors by three
Gulf states shows “they’ve jumped on board the bandwagon and
they consider this type of army and police behavior by Syria as
unwarranted and unnecessary, especially in the holy month of
Ramadan,” Karasik said. Arab countries are “trying to put
pressure on Assad to either reform now or else understand that
the whole regime will end up collapsing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 