-- 
AT&T Takeover Bid for T-Mobile Faces Rhodes-Scholar Review in California

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/at-t-bid-for-t-mobile-faces-rhodes-scholar-review-in-california.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , looking to win approval
for its proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile, is facing
a challenge in California where regulators have raised questions
about the deal’s effect on consumers and corporate customers.  The state’s  Public Utilities Commission  has held seven
public discussions of the bid, under the oversight of
Commissioner  Catherine Sandoval . She’s delving into how a merger
would affect rural communities, corporations and the evolution
of wireless technologies. Through her scrutiny, the 50-year-old
antitrust law professor and Rhodes Scholar may help determine
whether AT&T’s bid succeeds or fails.  “This is pretty unheard of,”  Brian O’Hara , a legislative
director at the  National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners , said in an interview. “ California ’s seems to be
the most in-depth review. It’s amazing to me that the PUC is
doing so much.”  State regulators can be something of an afterthought in big
acquisitions. Federal authorities tend to be the primary focus,
and AT&T’s is working in  Washington  to win approval from the
Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission.  Still, some states, led by California, are scrutinizing
AT&T’s proposal, which would allow it to surpass  Verizon
Wireless  as the biggest U.S. wireless carrier. The commission’s
decision to start a formal  investigation  of the merger is an
unusual step in a deal with one wireless company buying another.
State officials historically paid closer attention to land-line
phone service and, for decades, regulated such rates.  Watchdog’s Letter  The public-interest group  Consumer Watchdog  has recommended
rejecting the deal, saying it will lead to higher prices.  “Once known for its low prices, T-Mobile has already begun
increasing its rates and decreasing options in anticipation of
the merger,” Consumer Watchdog said in a letter to regulators,
including Sandoval, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said the letter is “riddled
with distortions and factual inaccuracies.”  Sandoval’s review may come at a high cost for AT&T. If the
commission decides the deal would hurt consumers, California
could force AT&T to divest wireless assets in certain regions or
guarantee service coverage and cheaper service for the poor,
said Courtney Munroe, a group vice president at IDC.  High Threshold  With the pressure from California and other regulators,
AT&T may have to divest 30 percent to 40 percent of  T-Mobile
USA ’s spectrum and subscribers nationwide, Michael Nelson, an
analyst with Mizuho Securities USA, said in an interview.  “I expect the requirements to be extremely high,” he
said.  California could even seek to block the deal outright, a
step usually taken by the FCC or  Justice Department . If federal
regulators approve the deal and California objects, the
commission could go to the state’s attorney general to file a
lawsuit to stop it, said Naruc’s O’Hara.  “An attorney general lawsuit may be the only recourse,”
he said.  AT&T said that states, including California, don’t have the
legal standing to force wireless divestitures since such
licenses are issued by the federal government.  “Federal law makes clear the FCC, not state commissions,
has authority over spectrum licenses,” General Counsel Wayne Watts said in an e-mail.  AT&T Optimistic  The company, in any case, said it is confident California
will approve the deal.  “We are optimistic that the CPUC will find that the merger
is in the public interest and issue its recommendation with no
conditions,” said Lane Kasselman, an AT&T spokesman.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which has publicly opposed AT&T’s
deal, disputed that conclusion.  “We are confident that in California and at the FCC, after
thorough reviews, AT&T’s proposal will be rejected,” said  John Taylor , a spokesman for the  Overland Park , Kansas-based company.  The California commission is planning to deliver a proposed
decision in September, according to the  schedule on its website .
The five commissioners are scheduled to vote on the matter in
early October. Sandoval declined to comment for this story.  Sandoval graduated from  Yale University  and went to Oxford
University on a Rhodes scholarship, according to  her biography 
on the CPUC’s website. She earned her law degree from  Stanford
University .  FCC Experience  Though she joined the California commission in January, she
has years of experience in communications. She worked for former
FCC Chairman Reed Hundt as director of the  Office of
Communications Business Opportunities , advising the
commissioners on issues affecting small, women- and minority-
owned businesses. She held the post from 1994 to 1999.  She also worked as an antitrust law and communications law
professor at  Santa Clara University  before Gov.  Jerry Brown 
appointed her to the public utilities commission this year.
She’s now on sabbatical from the school.  “She is brilliant,” said Allen Hammond IV, who is
director of the Broadband Institute of California and also
teaches at  Santa Clara . “She works extremely hard at everything
she does.”  Though Sandoval hasn’t said how she will vote on AT&T’s
proposal and is just one of five commissioners, she’s taken the
lead in public hearings and has prodded deep into the details of
how a merger will affect different customers in the state. She’s
asked about rural customers, who tend to have fewer choices than
those in urban centers, and Fortune 500 companies, which often
buy only from wireless carriers with national coverage.  ‘What Are the Options?’  During one hearing last month, Sandoval questioned whether
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , U. S. Cellular Corp. and  Leap
Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , which offers service under the
Cricket brand, can be considered alternatives to T-Mobile if the
company disappears through an AT&T acquisition.  “My understanding is MetroPCS and Cricket, as well as U.S.
Cellular, do not have facilities in all of the California
markets, and in fact have really concentrated on  Los Angeles  and
the Bay Area,” she said. “So when you get outside of those
markets, what are the options for consumers?”  Sandoval has also picked apart the effect on wireless
roaming prices and on so-called backhaul, or the business of
connecting fiber lines to cellular towers in order to connect
wireless calls to other phone lines. Sprint has said AT&T and
Verizon may end up with such dominance of the backhaul market
that they could raise costs for wireless rivals.  Where’s the Data?  During one discussion last month, Parley Casto, an AT&T
representative at the hearing, said he didn’t have specific
figures to answer a backhaul question and gave his own estimate.  “I appreciate your perception,” Sandoval replied,
according to  the transcript . “We’ll be asking for data.”  State regulators do have the authority in merger reviews to
impose conditions within their own territory, as California has
shown in the past. In 2005, the state’s commission  required  SBC
Communications Inc. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , to win
approval to acquire AT&T and MCI respectively, to stop forcing
customers to maintain a traditional phone when they signed up
for Digital Subscriber Lines, or DSL,  Internet service .  California has extra clout in such reviews because it is
the most populous state in the country. Eleven state attorneys
general are already investigating the merger, while 11 others
have urged federal regulators to approve it. The merger also
faces opposition from a number of members of Congress, and is
being supported by other lawmakers.  As Sandoval opened one public hearing into AT&T’s proposed
acquisition, she waved her hands at her side like a Hula dancer.  “If you see me doing the Hawaiian dance, it means slow
down, ride the wave,” said Sandoval, explaining she wanted
court reporters to transcribe the discussion clearly so the
public could read every word.  Sandoval and her fellow commissioners may end up slowing
down AT&T too, said  Jonathan Kramer , a telecom attorney based in
Los Angeles.  “The commission is concerned about an anti-competitive
outcome, and what it can mean for California consumers,” said
Kramer. “The deal will be subject to stiff conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  