-- 
Latvia Austerity to Ease as Growth Accelerates, Dombrovskis Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-08-10T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/latvia-austerity-to-ease-as-growth-accelerates-dombrovskis-says.html
Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, facing elections next month, said the country may
be able to loosen austerity plans for next year as economic
growth accelerates beyond the government’s estimates.  Gross domestic product may grow about 4 percent this year,
rather than an earlier forecast of 3.3 percent, Dombrovskis, 40,
said in an interview in the capital, Riga, yesterday.  “It’s quite clear that we will be able to revise this
figure upwards,” Dombrovskis said in an interview in Riga, the
country’s capital. The premier expects “quite strong” economic
growth in the second half of the year.  Latvia ’s economy grew 5.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the fastest pace in 3 1/2 years, as
industrial production, exports and household demand advanced.
The country is rebounding from the worst recession in the
European Union, which erased almost a quarter of its output.  The economic decline was exacerbated by austerity measures
worth about 16 percent of economic output to meet the terms of a
7.5 billion-euro ($10.6 billion) bailout from the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .  Dombrovskis’s government earlier estimated that it would
need to save as much as 180 million lati ($359.6 million) next
year to narrow the deficit to its goal of 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product from 7.7 percent last year. With faster growth,
the final consolidation may be less than 100 million lati, the
premier said.  ‘Relatively Small’  “If economic growth remains good and if inflation remains
at reasonable levels, there is a chance that consolidation
measures will be relatively small,” said Martins Kazaks, chief
economist at Swedbank AB’s Latvian unit, by telephone.  Relaxing austerity plans carries the risk of Latvia missing
its plan of adopting the euro in 2014 in case of a deficit
overshoot, Kazaks said.  The yield on Latvia’s 2018 Eurobond fell about 2 basis
points yesterday to 4.93 percent. The yield rose to almost 12
percent in March 2009 after the government collapsed amid
demands from the nation’s lenders for more budget cuts. The
Nasdaq OMX Riga index rose 3 percent.  Standard & Poor’s , which raised neighboring  Estonia ’s
credit rating two notches yesterday to AA-, the fourth-highest
grade, rates Latvia BB+, one-level below investment grade.
Moody’s Investors’ Service has a Baa3, the lowest investment
grade, and  Fitch Ratings  has a BBB- rating, its lowest
investment grade, for Latvian debt.  Rating Outlook  With all three companies assigning a positive outlook to
the ratings, the country’s grade may rise as soon as this year,
Dombrovskis said. Latvia sold its first international bond in
three years in June, a $500 million issue with a 5.491 percent
yield.  The government plans to return to the markets next year,
with the bulk of bonds needed in 2014 and 2015 to finance
repaying its international loan, Dombrovskis said, adding that
Latvia may tap Asian demand.  “Our Ministry of Finance is also working quite seriously in
that direction and actually promoting Latvian debt to Asian
investors,” he said. “Is it in Yen, is it in something else?
That’s still open.”  Dombrovskis, who marshalled tax increases and spending cuts
since turning to the IMF and the EU in 2008, strengthened his
parliamentary mandate in elections October. Latvians will go to
the polls again on Sept. 17 after a July 23 referendum called by
former President Valdis Zatlers to dissolve parliament was
backed by 94 percent of voters.  Zalters’s Reform Party and Harmony Center, which represents
Russian speakers who make up almost a third of the population,
were each backed by 17.5 percent of those surveyed in a Latvijas
Fakti poll published July 22 by the  Baltic News Service .
Dombrovskis’s Unity party ranked third at 11.7 percent, down
from 14.7 percent in June.  “It’s our task now to work and to ensure that we get a
maximum number of seats,” Dombrovskis said. “We don’t exclude
cooperation with any of the parties that are represented in
parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  