-- 
Mauritius Rupee Heads for 2-Week Low on Better Euro Yields

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-08-10T07:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/mauritius-rupee-heads-for-2-week-low-on-better-euro-yields.html
Mauritius’s rupee is heading for its
lowest level in two weeks against the euro, with dealers
accumulating the European currency as it offers better yields
than the dollar.  The local currency declined as much as 1.5 percent and was
trading at 1.3 percent to 40.4329 per euro, at 11:10 a.m., in
Port Louis, the capital. A close at this level will be the
lowest since July 27, according to Bloomberg data. The rupee
weakened against the dollar by 0.5 percent and was little
changed at 28.04.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday that it will
maintain its record low  interest rates  through mid-2013,
prompting increased demand for haven currencies. The yield on 3-
year Treasury notes was at a record low 0.5 percent yesterday.
Spanish and Italian bonds advance for a third day as the
 European Central Bank  continued debt purchases.  “There is a shift from dollar to euro”, said Nitish
Benimadhu, a foreign-currency and fund manager at Anglo-
Mauritius Financial Services Ltd., in a phone interview from the
city today. “Investors and currency dealers prefer the euro as
it’s available at a discounted premium at the moment since the
ECB reassured investors of its willingness to continue its bond-
buying program.”  The euro is also seen as a less risky currency, “with the
yield high enough to compensate for the risk element,”
Benimadhu added.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its U.S. rating to AA+ after market
closure on Aug. 5.  “Risk element has increased on the dollar following the
downgrade, Benimadhu said. ‘‘However, interest rates did not
adjust to the change in fundamentals of the dollar in order to
compensate for risk hike.’’ The euro, he added, offers a better
real return than the dollar.  Europe  is the Indian Ocean island nation’s main trading
partner, with 41 percent of foreign currency earnings in euros,
according to Bank of Mauritius data.  France  is the country’s
largest source of visitors, with 32 percent of tourist arrivals
for the first-half of 2011, the Mauritius Tourism Promotion
Authority said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  via Johannesburg at 
1933 or  gbell16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  