-- 
Australian Consumer Confidence Slumps to Lowest Since 2009 on Market Slump

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-10T04:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/australia-consumer-confidence-deteriorates-as-banking-chief-sees-no-relief.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
deteriorated for a fourth straight month to the lowest level in
more than two years, and the head of the nation’s largest bank
said he doesn’t see a turnaround soon.  The sentiment index dropped 3.5 percent in August to 89.6
from a month earlier, the lowest since May 2009, according to a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200
consumers taken Aug. 1-6 and released today in Sydney. It’s the
longest sustained decline since early 2008.  About three-quarters of respondents answered before Aug. 5,
“when confidence would have been severely jolted by turmoil in
global financial markets,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “This financial
turmoil has added another dimension of risk to consumers over
and above those issues associated with interest rates;  house
prices ; carbon tax; and potentially, jobs.”  Evans last month was the first economist at one of
Australia’s four biggest banks to forecast a Reserve Bank rate
cut this year, saying unemployment may rise to 5.75 percent in
2012 from 4.9 percent in June.  In a statement today announcing record second-half profit,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  Chief Executive Officer Ralph Norris said it isn’t “clear what the catalyst will be for a
meaningful revival in consumer and corporate confidence which is
prerequisite to stronger demand for credit.”  Interbank cash-rate futures show investors are betting the
RBA’s key rate will fall to 3.70 percent by December from 4.75
percent.  Policy Response  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an interview today that
Australian policy makers have scope to respond if needed to
turmoil global financial markets.  “Australia is not immune from what happens in markets but
the economic fundamentals here are rock solid,” he told
Bloomberg Television from Canberra. While declining to speculate
on central bank interest-rate moves, he said the nation has “a
capacity for a great deal of policy flexibility should it be
required.”  Australia’s currency yesterday dropped below parity with
the  U.S. dollar  for the first time in five months as prices
tumbled for stocks and commodities amid concern fiscal crises in
the U.S. and  Europe  will slow global growth.  The local dollar reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
level since it was freely floated in 1983. It bought $1.0318 at
2:05 p.m. today in Sydney, and local stocks rallied.  RBA’s Tightening  The RBA boosted borrowing costs seven times from October
2009 to November 2010 to the highest level in the developed
world. In the process, RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  cooled
household appetite for debt, which more than doubled in the past
15 years to 155 percent of disposable income in the March
quarter, according to RBA figures. That’s higher than the 133
percent Americans accumulated at the height of the U.S. subprime
mortgage boom.  Credit to home buyers in June increased at the slowest
annual pace since 1977, when central bank data began, while  home
prices  slid in the second quarter by 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest drop in more than two years.  “The 2011 financial year has been characterized by subdued
system credit growth and intense competition,” Norris said.
“At this stage, there is nothing to suggest that the 2012
financial year will see any material improvement.”  Retailers’ Pain  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest
electronics retailer, today said sales at stores open at least
a year decreased 3.6 percent in the year to June 30, 
attributing challenges in electrical stores to the strength of 
the local currency. It said deflation will keep dampening 
revenue growth this year.  Today’s consumer sentiment report showed four of the five
index components fell this month. The sub-index tracking views
on the outlook for economic conditions over the next 12 months
declined by 13.5 percent, and a gauge of views on family
finances over the next year slid 5.1 percent.  U.S. stocks jumped the most in more than two years
yesterday, rebounding from the worst drop since 2008, and 10-
year Treasury yields touched a record low as the  Federal Reserve 
vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.  Swan called the Fed move “a welcome development for the
global economy.”  U.S. Growth  “Any measure that can be taken in the U.S. to restore
growth is very important,” he said. “They’ve still got a
painful process of adjustment ahead in terms of fiscal policy.
But everybody has got an interest in the  U.S. economy  growing.”  The RBA last week forecast growth in 2011 will average 2
percent, down from its May 6 estimate of 3.25 percent, while in
2012, gross domestic product will accelerate 4.5 percent,
stronger than the prior estimate for a 4.25 percent expansion.
It said the estimates assumed the cash rate to be unchanged over
the forecast period, compared with “the technical assumption in
May of a 50 basis points rise by mid-2013.”  Stevens will maintain borrowing costs at 4.75 percent until
the first quarter of next year, according to the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey this week.  Swan told Bloomberg Television that the turmoil in global
markets makes the government’s target of returning the budget to
surplus harder to achieve. Still, he reiterated that it intended
to meet the goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  