-- 
BAE May Make Purchases as U.S. Cuts Spur Defense Companies to Widen Reach

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-08-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bae-europe-defense-companies-plan-purchases-on-u-s-budget-cuts.html
U.S. budget cuts may spur a spending
spree at  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and other European companies reliant on
the world’s biggest defense market as they rush to expand in
military technologies best-placed to dodge the contraction.  BAE, Europe’s biggest weapons-maker,  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  and
 Ultra Electronics Holdings Plc (ULE)  say they’re seeking opportunities
in electronic warfare and intelligence gathering, while  Meggitt
Plc (MGGT) , a maker of wheels, brakes and controls for fighter jets, is
chasing energy-industry deals to offset the defense-side slump.  “That’s more the area we would look at until uncertainties
in the defense markets have resolved themselves,” Terry Twigger, chief executive officer of Christchurch, England-based
Meggitt, said in an interview. “We’re unclear quite what the
implications are of the recent discussions in  Washington .”  BAE, which exited airliner production in 2006 with the sale
of its Airbus SAS stake, derived $16 billion in sales from the
U.S. last year, twice the revenue from its home U.K. market and
almost 50 percent of the global total. Smaller European players
are even more exposed, with  Cobham Plc (COB)  deriving almost 61
percent of business from the world’s No. 1 economy and Meggitt
more than 54 percent, including civil work for  Boeing Co. (BA)   U.S. Targets  West European companies have made 360 aerospace and defense
purchases worth $52 billion over the past five years, according
to Bloomberg data, of which almost 40 percent by value have been
in the U.S. Just over half of the buyers have been British, with
20 percent French, 13 percent Italian and 11 percent German.  President  Barack Obama ’s Aug. 2 accord cutting U.S.
spending by $2.4 trillion over the next decade calls for a $325
billion reduction in the  defense budget . Another $500 billion in
military cuts could follow next decade if a special committee of
lawmakers can’t agree on $1.2 trillion in savings by November.  “Transactions in the broader defense industry may pause
until there is more clarity about the U.S. defense budget, but
niche sectors such as cyber-warfare will attract strong
interest,” said  Paul Edwards , managing director for aerospace
and defense investment banking at Jefferies International.  Europe  spending is also under pressure. Britain is slashing
military budgets 8 percent over four years, scrapping a contract
for BAE reconnaissance aircraft, cutting tank orders, delaying
submarine replacement and opting for fewer, cheaper planes for
two aircraft carriers, one of which may be sold. Italy passed an
austerity package featuring defense cuts last month,  Germany  is
moving from a conscript army to a smaller professional force and
 France  is shaving $1.8 billion from its military in three years.  Energy Push  Meggitt, which also makes engine-monitoring systems, would
consider spending as much as 400 million pounds over the next 12
months to expand an energy business that includes heat
exchangers and sensors, CEO Twigger said on Aug. 2.  BAE is targeting “modest” acquisitions, CEO Ian King said
when reporting half-year results on July 28. The London-based
company has expanded in the non-military sphere via the
purchases of Norkom Group Plc, an Irish provider of anti-money-
laundering technology, for $290 million this year and Detica
Group Plc, a U.K. maker of software to support counter-terrorism
and tax-fraud detection, for 531 million pounds in 2008.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., which already
gets two-thirds of sales from jetliner maker Airbus, has made
four services-related purchases this year including Vizada, a
provider of satellite communications for the media, ships and
the Pentagon, which it agreed to buy Aug. 1 for $960 million.  Fareham, England-based Chemring is looking at a single
purchase of about 200 million pounds, it said July 23, while
London-based Ultra is budgeting for more than 100 million pounds
of acquisitions this year in areas including nuclear and cyber
security, CEO Rakesh Sharma said Aug. 1 on a conference call.  Streamlined  European companies that streamlined early in anticipation
of U.S. and European cuts could become targets for bigger
players eager to diversify, Goldman Sachs Inc. said Aug. 8 in a
note to clients, among them Ultra and Cobham, a maker of aerial
refueling systems that has made purchases in  homeland security 
while closing one redundant site and integrating three others,  Goldman analyst  David Perry  upgraded both companies to
“buy” from “neutral,” saying they have diverse contracts,
strong balance sheets to fund bolt-on purchases in non-military
markets, and niche positions that would make them attractive
acquisitions for global contractors.  Still, U.S. defense cuts may not result in a merger surge
to match that which followed the end of the  Cold War , Edwards
said, given the degree of uncertainty over the scope of the
budget reductions that U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has
called a “doomsday mechanism” that could do permanent damage.  F-35 Doubts  Disposals and takeovers involving companies with
“significant exposure” to newly vulnerable major programs such
as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter could
become much tougher, Edwards said. The largest U.S. military
program at $382 billion, the F-35 is the subject of several
deficit-reduction studies, none with Defense Department backing.  Neither does the Pentagon favor consolidation among the top
five or six contractors -- which include BAE -- it said earlier
this year. BAE’s King said speculation about a possible bid from
that Boeing Co. is unfounded, as far as he is aware.  “Companies won’t make purchases if the seller is unable to
provide at least a three-year growth plan, and right now given
the defense budget uncertainty, that is difficult,” Edwards
said. “So it’s going to become more challenging to close
deals.”  That might stymie new  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  CEO Giuseppe Orsi’s
plans to exit unviable products, restructure an aeronautical
unit that’s a major partner in the Eurofighter warplane and
makes components for the F-35, and sell $600 million of assets
at U.S.-based defense-electronics unit DRS Technologies Inc.  Seeking Clarity  BAE in January abandoned a four-month push to sell its
Platform Solutions business after failing to find a buyer for
the maker of hybrid propulsion systems for trucks and buses and
flight controls for warplanes and jetliners. The unit, valued at
$2 billion, needed high levels of investment, it had said.  Cobham may also struggle to dispose of Analytic Solutions,
a Washington-based defense-intelligence specialist bought in
2008 for $407 million and offered for sale in May, and CEO Andy Stevens said the U.S. needs to refine its spending plans as soon
as possible to help contractors deal with the implications.  “The shape of the budget is starting to emerge and that
will eventually flow down to programs and platforms,” Stevens
said Aug. 3. “I think then the industry will be able to
understand it and respond. Our hope is that certainty and
clarity will return as we go through the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  