-- 
Banks’ Online-Payment Program Probed by EU Antitrust Regulators

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-10T15:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/banks-online-payment-program-probed-by-eu-antitrust-regulators.html
A bank group whose members include
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is being probed by the
European Union’s antitrust regulator after a German company said
it was shut out of talks to set up an online-payment standard.  The European Payments Council must submit details to EU
watchdogs “on the cooperation of banks and payment institutions
for designing rules and standards for e-payment services,” the
EPC, which encompasses lenders and money-transfer services such
as  Western Union Co. (WU) ,  said  on its website last month.  The  European Central Bank  and the European Commission have
called for banks to accelerate adoption of common standards to
ease payments made in euros. While regulators said this may
boost trade between the 17 euro area nations as growth stumbles,
antitrust officials have raised concerns over the fairness of
parts of the process, which is led by the Brussels-based EPC.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  has  said  banks’
collaboration on a euro payments system, known as SEPA, raises
“complex challenges” for antitrust authorities. The case adds
to EU investigations concerning banks’ possible collusion over
credit default swaps and the Libor lending rate.  The probe into standard-setting was triggered by a
complaint from Payment Network AG, a Gauting, Germany-based
online-payment provider, said the company’s lawyer Ivo du Mont
of Kapellmann und Partner. The company’s website lists customers
including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Dutch airline KLM.  The commission declined to comment on the investigation.  The EPC has been developing a standard to make different e-
payment systems work together.  Payment Network “couldn’t take part in that standard
because the proposed model requires you to have contracts with
all banks” du Mont said in an e-mail today. The company
operates independently of the banks, he said.  ‘No Foreclosure’  “There is no foreclosure” or attempt to shut out Payment
Network, Gerard Hartsink, the EPC’s chairman, said in a phone
interview.  The EPC decided late last year to invite comments from
other payment providers “and the door was open to anyone,”
including Payment Network, Hartsink said. He declined to give
details of the EPC’s discussions with the company.  Payment Network would suffer from being unable to display
a proposed SEPA logo used by rivals, du Mont said. That “would
be a very strong competitive disadvantage” for the company
“because consumers would be led to believe it’s not secure.”  Du Mont said the EPC didn’t initially respond to several
requests last year from Payment Network to become involved in
the creation of a draft standard and logo. The German company
eventually received a copy of the EPC’s proposal in May after EU
regulators quizzed the EPC about the lack of response, he said.  Hartsink said in last month’s statement that the group
faces “diverging messages” from regulators who are asking for
competition and for market integration and payment innovation.  The EPC is waiting for antitrust regulators to give their
view on the online-payment standard before it formally seeks
public comments on the plans, Hartsink said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 