-- 
Bank of Ireland’s First-Half Loss Narrows as Bad Loans Fall

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-10T07:50:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bank-of-ireland-s-loss-narrows-on-bad-loans.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s
biggest lender by assets, said its underlying pretax loss
narrowed to 723 million euros ($1 billion) in the first half as
a decline in bad loans offset rising funding costs.  The Dublin-based lender posted a 1.32 billion-euro loss for
the same period last year, it said in a  statement  today. Bank of
Ireland’s loan impairment charge declined to 842 million euros
from 1.08 billion euros, while its net interest margin, the
difference between its funding costs and average rate at which
it lends, narrowed to 1.33 percentage points from 1.41 points.  While the bank still sees that group loan impairments
peaked in 2009, Irish mortgage loan losses “will continue into
2012,” Richie Boucher, chief executive officer, told reporters.
“We always anticipated” losses on the home-loans book “would
be back-ended.”  Bank of Ireland is alone among the country’s six largest
lenders in escaping government control, after the state agreed
July 27 to sell a 34.9 percent stake to five investors,
including Toronto-based Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. and WL
Ross & Co., the New York-based investment firm. The bank was
ordered to raise 5.2 billion euros of capital following stress
tests in March.  Revenue Headwinds  “Bank of Ireland’s interim results reflected the
predicted, largely funding-related, revenue headwinds,” said
 Emer Lang , an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy in
a note to clients. Funding costs remain depressed by
“continuing competition for customer deposits and elevated
deposit pricing, higher costs of wholesale funding” and
government-guarantee fees, she said.  The lender swung into a net loss of 507 million euros for
the first half from a 143 million-euro profit for the year-
earlier period, which had partly benefited from gains from a
subordinated debt exchange.                         As part of a fundraising last month, the bank generated 1.9
billion euros from a rights offering, about 2 billion euros by
inflicting losses on subordinated bondholders, and 1 billion
euros selling contingent capital bonds to the government.  The bank has said it plans to raise a further 510 million
euros through unspecified “further capital-raising measures.”
The government intends to force losses on as much as 600 million
euros of subordinated bonds remaining in the bank, a Finance
Ministry spokesman said July 29.  Some 5.2 percent of the bank’s Irish mortgages were in
arrears for more than 90 days at the end of June, rising from
4.2 percent at end of December, it said. Deposits were unchanged
at 65 billion euros, while reliance on monetary authorities for
funding fell by 2 billion euros to 29 billion euros, it said.  There has been no “material” change in the lender’s
central bank funding since the end of June, Boucher said.  Bank of Ireland shares rose as much as 6.5 percent in
Dublin trading and traded up 4.4 percent at 9.7 euro cents at
8:33 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  