-- 
King Says BOE Can Expand Stimulus If Needed as Economic Weakness Persists

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-10T12:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bank-of-england-predicts-inflation-below-target-as-economic-growth-wanes.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said headwinds buffeting the U.K. economy are intensifying “by
the day” and officials can expand stimulus if the outlook for
growth deteriorates further.  While there’s “no reason” for the Monetary Policy
Committee to add stimulus for now, “in the committee’s view,
the weakness in underlying activity is likely to be somewhat
more persistent than previously expected,” King told reporters
in London today as the bank released its quarterly inflation
report.  King said inflation may undershoot the bank’s 2 percent
target and the U.K. has “flexibility” to adjust policies if
growth is weaker than expected. His assessment follows moves by
other central banks to bolster economies. The Federal Reserve
plans to keep its key rate at a record low at least through
mid-2013, the  European Central Bank  has resumed bond purchases
and the Swiss central bank wants to weaken the franc.  “There are a number of headwinds to world and domestic
growth over the forecast period, not least the private and
public debt overhang,” King said. “These headwinds are
becoming stronger by the day.”  The pound fell after the release of the report before
erasing those losses and trading at $1.6234 as of 1:03 p.m. in
London. The yield on the 10-year government bond fell to a
record low of 2.57 percent.  European Crisis  The U.K. central bank kept its key  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent last week, choosing to support the
economic recovery rather than curb inflation. The economy barely
grew in the second quarter and data yesterday showed
manufacturing output fell in June.  The central bank said today the greatest risk to the U.K.
stems from the euro-area debt crisis, citing trade, banks’
indirect exposure to sovereign debt and a potential impact on
confidence and wholesale funding markets.  King said Britain’s authorities have room to respond if
growth weakens. The government’s deficit plan has “a great deal
of flexibility built into it,” he said. If the bank wants “to
tighten or loosen monetary policy further, we have the tools
available to do it” and “if we need to, we can carry out more
asset purchases.”  Inflation Forecast  “With downside risks particularly elevated at the moment,
now is not the time for the bank to send a hawkish signal,”
said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International in
 London , who pushed back his rate-increase forecast to August
2012 from February 2012. “By accepting the additional monetary
stimulus provided by the paring back of rate expectations, it
can lean against these downside risks without explicitly
loosening policy, which would be difficult to reverse.”  The Bank of England said inflation may reach 5 percent this
year before easing through 2013. It sees inflation at about 1.8
percent in the second quarter of 2013, based on a chart of
quarterly average projections. Gross-domestic-product growth is
seen at about an annual 2.7 percent. The bank publishes its
predictions in the form of fan charts without specifying exact
numbers. It will release detailed data next week.  ‘Weaker Outlook’  “The central projection for inflation in the medium term
is a little below the 2 percent target, and a little lower than
in May, reflecting the somewhat weaker outlook for the level of
demand,” the bank said. “With the risks remaining to the
upside, the chances of inflation being above or below the target
are roughly equal.”  Risks to growth are “skewed slightly to the downside,
reflecting the possibility that the slowing in global growth
could prove more persistent, and the risks around the outlook
for consumption,” it said.  U.K. consumer-price inflation was 4.2 percent in June,
fueled by the pound’s decline of about 23 percent on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007, a surge in commodity
prices and a sales-tax increase. King has said the price surge
is temporary and today noted a recent easing in  oil prices .
Crude oil has dropped about 28 percent since reaching a 2011
high close to $115 a barrel in May.  Money markets have pushed out expectations for a rate
increase to beyond July next year, according to forward
contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average, compiled
by Tullett Prebon Plc. In May, they were betting on November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  