-- 
Bank Indonesia Will Use Dollars to Buy Government Bonds

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-08-10T11:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bank-indonesia-will-use-dollars-to-buy-government-bonds-1-.html
Bank Indonesia  will use dollars to
buy rupiah  government bonds  in order to manage cash reserves and
maintain the stability of the currency, it announced today.  The central bank will use this strategy if the rupiah or
the price of government bonds touch or approach a given level,
Deputy Governor Budi Mulya said in a mobile-phone text message
today. The central bank will buy the debt at special auctions,
said Hendar, Bank  Indonesia ’s director of monetary policy, who
goes by only one name.  “We’ll hold auctions if the rupiah depreciates because of
investors selling government bonds,” he said. “With this tool,
the central bank can manage the volatility of the currency, and
at the same time it will add to Bank Indonesia’s stock of
government bonds.”  Indonesia’s growth outlook and relatively high yields are
luring funds from developed nations with near-zero  interest
rates , creating volatility in the rupiah. Another round of so-
called quantitative easing, increasing the amount of U.S. funds
available to be invested abroad, looks more likely after the
 Federal Reserve  said yesterday it was prepared to employ
additional tools to spur the world’s largest economy.  The rupiah strengthened 0.6 percent to 8,533 per dollar as
of 4:43 p.m. in Jakarta and has advanced 5.2 percent this year.
Bank Indonesia left borrowing cost unchanged at 6.75 percent
yesterday. It last raised its benchmark rate by 25 basis points,
or 0.25 percentage point, in February. Consumer prices rose 4.61
percent in July from a year earlier, easing from a 5.54 percent
gain in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  