-- 
Bank of America Wins $5.2 Million Judgment Against Chicago Spire Builder

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T13:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bank-of-america-wins-5-2-million-judgment-against-chicago-spire-builder.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  won a
$5.2 million judgment against Irish developer Garrett Kelleher
and his Shelbourne Development Group Inc. for defaulting on a
loan for the planned 150-floor Chicago Spire condominium tower.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve in Chicago ruled in favor
of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender, awarding damages
plus daily interest of about $153 through Aug. 5, the date of
the judgment. St. Eve also awarded the bank about $117,343 in
credit-card payments and $26 a day in interest.  “There is no genuine dispute as to the material facts that
Shelbourne defaulted on its obligations under the loan agreement
and credit card agreement and that Kelleher personally
guaranteed payments of any and all debts,” St. Eve wrote.  Bank of America sued Shelbourne and Kelleher, in his role
as chairman, in 2009 claiming the builder failed to show that it
had obtained an irrevocable commitment for a construction loan
from a lender or lending syndicate, leading the bank to declare
a default.  Shelbourne officials didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the judgment.  The Spire, on the north side of the  Chicago  River near
where it meets Lake Michigan, was planned to be the tallest
building in  North America  and home to 1,194 residences. The
elongated spiral structure was designed by architect Santiago Calatrava. Shelbourne halted construction in 2008 after the
foundation was dug and reinforced.  The case is Bank of America NA v. Shelbourne Development
Group Inc. 09-cv-4963, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 