-- 
Being Like Soros in Buying Farmland Reaps Annual Gains of 16%

-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 
2011-08-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/being-like-soros-in-buying-farm-land-lets-investors-reap-16-annual-gains.html
Perry Vieth baled hay on a
neighbor’s farm in Wisconsin for two summers during high school
in 1972 and 1973. The grueling labor left him with no doubt
about getting a college degree so that he’d never have to work
as hard again for a paycheck. Thirty-eight years later, and
after a career as a securities lawyer and fixed-income trader,
Vieth is back on the farm.  Except, now, he owns it. As co-founder of  Ceres Partners
LLC , a Granger, Indiana-based investment firm, Vieth oversees 61
farms valued at $63.3 million in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and
Tennessee. He’s so enthusiastic about the investments that he
quit a job in 2008 overseeing $7 billion in fixed-income assets
at PanAgora Asset Management Inc., a Boston-based quantitative
money management firm, to focus full time on farming, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its September issue.  On a spring afternoon, Vieth, 54, barrels along backcountry
roads in a Jeep Cherokee in Indiana and Michigan to scout a
fruit orchard and corn and soybean farms to buy. Rural towns
with names such as  Three Rivers  pass by in a blur, separated by
a wide horizon of fields with young crops popping up.  “When I told people I was leaving to start an investment
fund in farmland, they said, ‘You’re doing what?’” says Vieth,
in a red polo golf shirt and khakis. “It will always be
difficult for Wall Street firms to understand. It’s not like
buying stocks on a computer.”  It’s much better: Returns from farmland have trounced those
of equities. Ceres Partners produced an average annual gain of
16.4 percent after fees from January 2008, just after the firm
started, through June of this year, Vieth says.  George Soros  The bulk of the returns are in rent payments from tenant
farmers who grow and sell the crops and from land appreciation.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight raw
materials gained 5.3 percent annually over the same period, and
the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  dropped almost 1 percent.  Investors are pouring into farmland in the U.S. and parts
of  Europe ,  Latin America  and Africa as global food prices soar.
A fund controlled by George Soros, the billionaire hedge-fund
manager, owns 23.4 percent of South American farmland venture
Adecoagro SA.  Hedge funds Ospraie Management LLC and Passport Capital LLC
as well as Harvard University’s endowment are also betting on
farming. TIAA-CREF, the $466 billion financial services giant,
has $2 billion invested in some 600,000 acres (240,000 hectares)
of farmland in Australia, Brazil and North America and wants to
double the size of its investment.  Jim Rogers  “I have frequently told people that one of the best
investments in the world will be farmland,” says Jim Rogers, 68,
chairman of Singapore-based Rogers Holdings, who predicted the
start of the global commodities rally in 1996. “You’ve got to
buy in a place where it rains, and you have to have a farmer who
knows what he’s doing. If you can do that, you will make a
double whammy because the crops are becoming more valuable.”  The growth in demand for food, spurred by the rising middle
classes in  China ,  India  and other emerging markets, shows no
signs of abating. Food prices in June, as measured by a United
Nations index of 55 food commodities, were just slightly below
their peak in February. The UN’s Food and Agriculture
Organization said in a June report that it expects food costs to
remain high through 2012.  So many investors have rushed to capitalize on food prices
in the past three years that they may be creating a farmland
bubble. The  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City , which covers
Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska and other agricultural states, said
in May that farmland prices had surged 20 percent in the first
quarter compared with a year earlier.  Safe Haven  “Yes, farmland will be a bubble again; all agricultural
products will be in a bubble again,” says Rogers, who is an
investor in  Agrifirma Brazil Ltd. , a South American farmland
owner.  Hedge-fund manager Stephen Diggle calls farming the
ultimate safe haven. Diggle began buying farms with his own
money in 2008 after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  filed for
bankruptcy in September of that year and the  S&P 500  plunged 43
percent in the next six months. He purchased 8,000 acres in
Uruguay, three smaller plots in southern Illinois and an 80-acre
New Zealand kiwi-and-avocado orchard.  “We really thought all the investment banks would go
under,” says Diggle, who as a hedge-fund manager uses options
and warrants to bet on price swings in the market. “Everyone
said, ‘Buy gold.’ But at the end of the day, you can’t eat it.
If everything else goes and I just have these farms, it makes me
moderately wealthy.”  ‘Prosperous China’  The hedge fund Diggle co-founded, Artradis Fund Management
Pte in  Singapore , suffered about $700 million in losses. He
closed it in March and opened another Singapore-based hedge
fund, Vulpes Investment Management Pte. Diggle plans to
incorporate his five farms into an investment management group
run by Vulpes.  From his vantage point in  Asia , where the British
expatriate has worked for the past two decades, Diggle says he’s
witnessed aspiring locals eating their way up the food chain.  “You can see what a more prosperous China will consume,”
Diggle, 47, says. “It means more dairy, more meat -- not just
pork and chicken.”  Investors find in farmland a respite from the cyclical
price swings of the commodities market. Since 1970, there have
been at least four price jumps of at least 100 percent that were
followed by steep declines in the S&P agriculture commodities
index. By contrast, the average value of an acre of farmland
tracked by the U.S. Department of Agriculture has been on a
mostly steady climb from $737 in 1980 to  $2,350 in 2011 .  Leaving BlackRock  “Farmland is the lowest-risk part of the value chain, but
it’s also a key part of production,” says Jose Minaya, TIAA-
CREF’s head of natural resources and infrastructure investments.  In the U.K., where farm prices are also rising, one money
manager traded his career at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  for one in farming.
Graham Birch, 51, left in 2009 as the London-based head of the
natural resources team at BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset
manager, to run his two dairy, wheat and barley farms in
southwest England full time.  Birch, who says farming has suffered from a lack of
investment and management talent, has spent $1 million on
improvements. He now captures all of the effluent from his 600-
cow herd, stores it in a 4 million-liter (1-million-gallon)
steel tank and uses it as fertilizer for his crops. “At heart, I
am basically a businessman, and I want to try to apply the
things I learned over the years to see what I could do,” Birch
says.  Wall Street Roots  Ceres Partners’ Wall Street roots are evident in the firm’s
makeshift office in an old clapboard farmhouse that sits in the
middle of cropland. Lucite tombstones resting on a shelf in a
small room mark deals done by Brandon Zick, a former vice
president of strategic acquisitions at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
investment management unit. Vieth hired Zick in January to help
analyze and manage farm purchases.  Vieth, a 1982 graduate of the University of Notre Dame Law
School, began his career as a securities and corporate lawyer
before moving to the pits of the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange,
where he traded S&P 500 options. After a series of stints
running an arbitrage team for Fuji Securities Inc. and other
firms, he was hired as chief investment officer of fixed income
at PanAgora, the quant firm, in 1999.  By about 2006, Vieth’s concerns about the economy were
mounting: Inflation was at a low, and the dollar had peaked as
U.S. debt and deficits soared. So he searched for an asset class
that would benefit from a currency decline and rising prices.
His research led him to farms, since a falling dollar boosts
U.S. crop exports.  Falling Dollar  Vieth then connected with Paul Blum, a fellow Notre Dame
alumnus who spent some of his youth on a farm in upstate  New
York  and today acts as Ceres’s point person with tenant farmers.  As the dollar fell 24 percent against the euro from January
2006 through May 2008, the pair started buying land as personal
investments until the business grew too big for Vieth to manage
during evenings and weekends. So, in late 2007, he founded
Ceres, just as tightening credit markets began to push the
global economy into a recession.  He named the firm Ceres for both the Roman goddess of
agriculture and a bar he frequented during his trading days in
Chicago. “I was more convinced hard assets were where you wanted
to be, and farmland was the best investment I could identify,”
Vieth says. By May 2011, he had collected 17,238 acres, mostly
in the Midwest.  Shade and Rocks  When Vieth wants land, he goes shopping, as he does with
Zick and Blum under a partly cloudy southern Michigan sky in
May. Armed with aerial and soil maps, they look for farms with
predictable rainfall, mineral-rich land and good drainage. They
avoid land that slopes too much, which could lead to soil
erosion.  The trio drive by a 337-acre farm for sale by a bank, and
Vieth frowns at the slant of the land and the trees that line
the perimeter. “Those trees will shade the corn and stunt
growth,” he says. Blum doesn’t like the many rocks scattered on
the unplanted dirt. Zick is skeptical that the bank will get its
asking price of $7,000 an acre in a foreclosure sale.  The investors next visit a farmer they hired,  Ed
Kerlikowske Jr. , who grows watermelon, peas and corn on their
782-acre spread near Berrien Springs, Michigan. For farmers such
as Kerlikowske, the entry of outside investors frees up money
for new equipment that they would otherwise have to spend on
land. “To really grow the business in today’s economy, you need
partners,” Kerlikowske says as he passes around slices of fresh
watermelon.  Possible Bubble  The farm-investing boom is making lots of people happy, but
could it all end in tears? The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
which regulates banks that lend to farmers, has examined whether
investors may be pumping up prices and creating the conditions
for a crash like the one that devastated the market in the
1980s, resulting in the failure of 300 farm banks.  In March, then-FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  devoted a
symposium to the topic in  Washington  with the participation of
economists, bankers and agricultural experts. “If there is a
bubble in farmland prices, I hope the bulk of any correction is
borne by investors such as hedge funds and not by the banking
industry,” William Isaac, chairman of the FDIC during the farm
banking bust and now senior managing director of  FTI Consulting
Inc. (FCN)  said during the event.  Overpaying  Charles McNairy, whose family has been involved in
agriculture since 1871, says neophyte investors who lack a deep
understanding of farming are making bad deals. In 2009, McNairy
started U.S. Farming Realty Trust LP, a fund based in Kinston,
North Carolina, that had raised $261 million as of late May to
buy farms, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing.  McNairy says funds such as Ceres have been overpaying for
land, based on the return from crops. “Ceres shouldn’t be buying
in the Midwest,” says McNairy, who declined to disclose the
states he invests in. “It’s crazy to be buying up there.”  Vieth disagrees, saying Ceres’s returns prove that his
strategy is working. “I certainly don’t want to start slinging
mud, but I don’t know what the heck he’s talking about.”  Greyson Colvin, who started farming fund  Colvin & Co. LLP 
in Anoka, Minnesota, in 2009, dismisses the idea of an
overheated market. “After the housing bubble, people are a
little too quick to assign the word bubble these days,” says
Colvin, whose two funds and separately managed accounts hold
2,300 acres of farmland in Iowa, Minnesota and South Dakota
valued at more than $10 million.  Head Winds  Colvin, a former analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , says U.S. farmers aren’t carrying as much debt as they did
during the 1980s crisis, which contributed to the downfall of
banks as agriculture loans defaulted. The  farm debt-to-asset
ratio , which peaked in 1985 at 23 percent, is expected to fall
to 10.7 percent in 2011, according to Agriculture Department
estimates.  Vieth’s farm funds are facing head winds in coming months
and years: A likely rise in  interest rates  will push up his
acquisition costs and the value of the dollar, which in turn
might hurt commodity exports. While the former trader keeps a
close eye on the dollar, he says farming will continue to
thrive.  Investors seem to agree. At a dining-room table in the
farmhouse in Granger, Vieth sits down at his computer one
evening and totals the day’s haul: another $900,000 from
investors looking for comfort -- and profits -- in one of the
oldest and most essential industries on the planet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in  Los Angeles  at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 