-- 
Berkshire’s Jain Tries On a Buffett Role With Transatlantic Takeover Offer

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-10T12:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/berkshire-s-jain-tries-on-a-buffett-role-with-transatlantic-takeover-offer.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Warren Buffett , who committed more than $35 billion to takeovers in the
last two years, stepped back in his latest attempt and gave
reinsurance chief Ajit Jain a role.  Buffett, who handled negotiations himself to acquire
Lubrizol Corp. and Burlington Northern  Santa Fe , tapped Jain to
approach  Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH)  with a $3.25 billion offer.
The bid may signal confidence in Jain, 59, as the 80-year-old
Buffett prepares Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire for his
eventual departure as chairman and chief executive officer.  “It’s a reinforcement that he has confidence in him as an
operator and a manager,”  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment
strategist at YCMNet Advisors, a Berkshire investor, said in a
telephone interview. Jain “is the front runner.”  Berkshire said in February that there are four potential
candidates to take over the firm, without naming them. The
successor will take responsibility for businesses including
insurance, energy, jewelry and freight and decide which
operations get the Berkshire stamp of approval for acquisitions.  Jain, who heads Berkshire’s National Indemnity Co., sent a
letter last week to Transatlantic CEO Robert Orlich, offering
$52 for each of Transatlantic’s 62.5 million shares. The bid is
the third in three months for New York-based Transatlantic,
which asked Berkshire to improve its terms.  Jain’s Role  Buffett picked Jain to run the company’s reinsurance
operations more than 20 years ago. Buffett, who said at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in April that he’ll consider the
“quality of the person” in evaluating CEO candidates, has
singled out Jain for leadership and character in annual reports
and public comments.  “Ajit has probably made a lot more money for Berkshire
Hathaway than I have,” Buffett said at a news conference in
Bangalore in March. “I really feel about him like I would a
brother or a son.”  Buffett made his $26.5 billion bid for Burlington Northern
personally in an October 2009 meeting with the railroad’s CEO,
 Matthew Rose . Lubrizol CEO  James Hambrick , who was initially
approached by former Berkshire manager  David Sokol  about
Berkshire’s interest, didn’t get an offer for his company until
he met with Buffett in February.  “Mr. Hambrick and Mr. Sokol did not discuss price for a
potential transaction because Mr. Sokol said that any price
discussion would occur with Mr. Warren E. Buffett,” Lubrizol,
the Wickliffe, Ohio-based maker of engine additives, said in a
May 5 filing. Berkshire announced the Lubrizol deal in March and
is scheduled to complete the purchase by the end of October.  CEO Candidate  Sokol, once considered as a candidate to succeed Buffett,
resigned from Berkshire in March after the firm said he violated
ethics rules by buying Lubrizol shares while the company was
trying to acquire it. Sokol didn’t break any rules, his lawyer
has said.  The offer for Transatlantic veers from Buffett’s strategy
of avoiding competitive bidding. Transatlantic agreed in June to
merge with Zug, Switzerland-based Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG and shunned an offer from  Validus Holdings Ltd. (VR) 
Berkshire’s bid is the company’s first publicly disclosed
unsolicited offer since Bloomberg began tracking takeover data
more than a decade ago.  Jain “is a very important employee at Berkshire,” Tom Lewandowski, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “In a company that has succession planning
issues, the ability to delegate some sort of responsibility, if
that’s actually what’s happening in this instance, that’s a vote
of confidence.”  ‘Not Perfect Circumstances’  Jain declined to comment. Buffett declined an interview
request regarding Transatlantic.  Orlich, the Transatlantic CEO, said that his company can
adjust to what he called “distracting” events, having
previously been a unit of American International Group Inc. New
York-based AIG sold its majority stake in Transatlantic in
public offerings as it worked to repay a U.S. bailout.  “These are not perfect circumstances in which we find
ourselves,” Orlich said in a letter to customers and brokers
that was included in a regulatory filing today. “We cannot tell
what the future will bring.”  Berkshire has said it will split Buffett’s job into three
roles by naming a CEO, chairman and head of investments after
his death or retirement. Last year, Buffett announced the hiring
of investment manager Todd Combs to help run the company’s
portfolio. Buffett has said his son,  Howard Buffett , a Berkshire
director, would be an effective non-executive chairman.  Buffett built Berkshire into a $180 billion company over
four decades. Berkshire said last week that second-quarter
profit rose 74 percent to $3.42 billion. The company had $47.9
billion in cash as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  