-- 
Berkshire, Procter & Gamble Lead Bond Sales as Rates Drop

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-10T18:40:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/berkshire-procter-gamble-lead-bond-sales-as-rates-decline.html
Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  sold $2 billion of debt, leading companies taking advantage
of plunging borrowing costs.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-products
company, Baker Hughes Inc., WellPoint Inc. and Enterprise
Products Partners LP are also among companies and government
entities planning at least $7 billion of bond sales today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of U.S. investment-grade bonds today may reach the
most since July 20 as the cost of borrowing falls to about
record lows after the  Federal Reserve  pledged yesterday to keep
 interest rates  near zero through mid-2013. Corporate treasurers
are returning to the U.S. bond market after volatility stalled
issuance for the past week, according to Timothy Cox, executive
director of debt capital markets at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
in  New York .  “Treasurers realize this is an opportunity to issue bonds
at some of the lowest rates we’ve ever seen,” Cox said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  The Fed decided to keep overnight rates at zero to 0.25
percent and said “exceptionally low levels” are likely until
at least mid-2013 because economic growth was “considerably
slower” than it had expected. The yield on benchmark 10-year
Treasuries fell as low as 2.09 percent today, after touching an
all-time low of 2.03 percent yesterday following the Fed’s
statement.  Berkshire Offering  Berkshire sold $750 million of three-year floating-rate
notes that pay 70 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, Bloomberg data show. A $750 million portion of 2.2
percent five-year bonds pay 130 basis points more than similar
maturity  U.S. Treasuries  and $500 million of 3.75 percent
securities due in 2021 pay a spread of 160 basis points.  Berkshire is raising cash as its reinsurance units recover
from losses on Japan’s biggest earthquake and it prepares to
complete the $9 billion takeover of Lubrizol Corp. Buffett, the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s chief executive officer, is
shrugging off the Aug. 8 decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to place
a negative outlook on the company’s credit rating.  “Buffett always takes advantage of extremes in the
markets, whether to buy or to sell,” said  Jeff Matthews , a
Berkshire shareholder and author of “Secrets in Plain Sight:
Business and Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.” “Rates are
low. They don’t get an awful lot lower than this.”  Mexico sold $1 billion of 100-year debt denominated in U.S.
dollars and the University of  Southern California  issued $300
million of notes due in a century, Bloomberg data show.  P&G’s bond sale is split between $1 billion of five-year
notes that may pay a 67 basis-point spread and $1 billion of
three-year notes that may pay a 52 basis-point spread, a person
familiar with that offering said, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 