-- 
Berlusconi Hosts Austerity Talks as Unions Eye General Strike

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-10T18:14:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/berlusconi-hosts-talks-on-austerity-plan-as-unions-threaten-general-strike.html
Italy  plans to crack down on  tax
evasion  and boost competitiveness as part of a plan to eliminate
the deficit in 2013 and secure continued support from the
 European Central Bank  in reducing the country’s borrowing costs.  “The adjustment must be rigorous and fair,” said  Emma Marcegaglia , head of the employers association, Confindustria,
after a meeting with union leaders, Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and his top ministers. The plan will also cut the
cost of Italy’s bloated political system and include asset
sales, she said.  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  told the meeting that the
Cabinet by Aug. 18 would approve the plan, which seeks to cut
the deficit to between 1.5 percent and 1.7 percent of gross
domestic product next year before eliminating the shortfall in
2013, according to union officials who attended the talks.  The meeting came on a day when the country’s benchmark
stock index plunged 6.7 percent, with UniCredit SpA and  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s biggest banks, falling 9.4 percent
and 13.7 percent respectively on concern that Italy may become
the next victim of the region’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi on Aug. 5 pledged to pass a balanced budget
amendment to the constitution and introduce measures to spur
economic growth in order to enlist ECB support in shoring up the
country’s slumping bonds. The ECB began buying Italian debt when
markets opened on Aug. 8, helping bring the yield on Italy’s 10-
year bond down 99 basis points in three days.  Debt Level  The new measures supplement a 48 billion-euro ($68 billion)
austerity package announced last month, when the government also
pledged to overhaul the tax system and raise the  retirement age .
The plan failed to convince investors that the government could
control a debt set to reach 120 percent of GDP this year, and
the yield on the country’s 10-year bond surged to 6.2 percent
last week, the highest in more than a decade.  Tremonti and other officials didn’t present details of the
new plan, said Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest
federation of unions, the CGIL said after the talks.  “If the measures that end up in the budget adjustment are
those that have been circulated in the newspapers and that the
government hasn’t denied, the only response will be a general
strike,” she said.  The government plans to further speed an increase in the
retirement age and may consider cuts to health-care spending,
Italian newspapers have reported.  The CGIL has called on the government to adopt a  wealth
tax , clamp down on tax evasion and increase capital-gains taxes,
to boost revenue rather than focusing on cutting spending and
benefits.  Raffaele Bonanni, head of the CISL union, the country’s
second-biggest labor group, said a general strike wouldn’t be
“useful.”  “What we need today is cohesion as the house is burning,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  London  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 