-- 
Bernanke Borrows From Carney’s Stimulus Playbook With Interest-Rate Pledge

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-10T16:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bernanke-borrows-from-carney-s-stimulus-playbook-with-interest-rate-pledge.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has taken a page from  Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney ’s stimulus playbook by choosing to specify a date for his
pledge to keep borrowing costs low.  The Fed yesterday said it would hold its benchmark interest
rate near zero for at least through mid 2013, replacing an
earlier promise to keep it there for “an extended period.” Two
years ago, Carney made a similar promise to keep rates low for
15 months, conditional on the inflation outlook.  Carney’s commitment was aimed at adding stimulus to the
economy at a time when short-term interest rates were already
close to zero, the Bank of Canada  said . The pledge influences
longer-term borrowing costs because investors know that policy
rates won’t rise during the time frame specified by the central
bank.  “When we look at past comments by Fed officials, and I
think Bernanke included, there has been specific reference and
genuine curiosity with what the Bank of Canada did, and the
success of that move,” said  Rudy Narvas , senior economist with
Societe Generale SA in  New York .  Bernanke cited the Canadian example in a speech last August,
when he listed policy options for the Fed. Fed staff members
have consulted colleagues at the Bank of Canada about their
experience with the conditional commitment, according to people
familiar with the matter who didn’t want to be identified
because the discussions were confidential.  Sheryl King, head of Canada economics at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, calls the strategy an “open-mouth” policy, in a
play on so-called open-market operations, or the sales and
purchases of securities used by central banks to influence
interest rates.  Additional Layer  It’s “enhanced communication with the markets,” King said.
“It’s one additional layer they are putting on top of
communications they have.”  In April 2009, Carney cut his policy  interest rate  to 0.25
percent and said it would stay there for 15 months as long as
the inflation outlook didn’t change.  “With monetary policy now operating at the effective lower
bound for the overnight policy rate, it is appropriate to
provide more explicit guidance than is usual regarding its
future path so as to influence rates at longer maturities,” the
 Bank of Canada said  at the time.  The bank also spelled out how it might conduct quantitative
and “credit easing” if those policies were needed, though it
never used them. So-called quantitative easing was a tactic
employed by the Fed, which bought a total $2.3 trillion in
securities in two rounds to lower long-term borrowing costs and
stimulate the economy.  Historical Relationship  A 2010 Bank of  Canada   discussion paper  said the bank’s
“conditional commitment likely has produced a persistent effect
in lowering Canadian interest rates relative to what their
historical relationship with inflation and unemployment rates
would imply.”  The difference in yields between Canadian and U.S. five-
year government bonds averaged 17 basis points between April 21,
2009, when the policy was first announced, and March 3, 2010,
when Carney first signaled he wouldn’t extend the pledge. The
spread has since averaged 62 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation, which was at an annual rate of 0.4 percent when
Carney made his commitment, accelerated to a 1.8 percent pace
one year later -- close to the central bank’s 2 percent goal.
Canada’s jobless rate was slower to recover, falling to 8.1
percent when the commitment ended from 8.2 percent in April 2009.  Dual Mandate  The Fed’s dual mandate -- to keep inflation low and stable
and aim for full employment -- may make using the commitment
more difficult in the U.S. than it was for the Bank of Canada,
which focuses only on inflation. Canada’s commitment was
“conditional” on the inflation outlook, and Carney lifted it
before the scheduled end amid signs growth and inflation were
faster than they had forecast.  “Although this approach seemed to work well in Canada,
committing to keep the policy rate fixed for a specific period
carries the risk that market participants may not fully
appreciate that any such commitment must ultimately be
conditional on how the economy evolves,” Bernanke said in his
Aug. 27, 2010  speech  in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  In that speech, Bernanke signaled that the Fed might embark
on a second round of large-scale asset purchases, which was
ultimately announced in November.  While Carney repeatedly stressed the conditional nature of
his commitment to low rates, the Fed was less explicit in
yesterday’s statement.  “The commitment by the Fed is weak and unclear,” said
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Normura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “The Bank of Canada’s commitment was
very explicit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ,
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  