-- 
Bernanke Indicates Fed Dissenters Won’t Impede Additional Asset Purchases

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-10T13:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bernanke-signals-fed-dissenters-won-t-impede-further-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he may expand record monetary stimulus over
the most opposition of his tenure to revive the faltering
recovery and reduce unemployment stuck around 9 percent.  The central bank said yesterday that officials “discussed
the range of policy tools” to strengthen growth and are
“prepared to employ these tools as appropriate” while pledging
to keep the benchmark interest rate near zero until at least
mid-2013. Three policy makers dissented from the decision for
the first time since Bernanke, 57, became chairman in 2006.  “Bernanke will push through QE3 if the economic conditions
warrant it,” said Steve Lear, who helps manage $150 billion at
J.P. Morgan Asset Management. The first two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing totaled $2.3 trillion yet have left the Fed
with a recovery that officials yesterday judged to be
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  Treasury yields plunged yesterday to record lows, stocks
soared and the dollar fell on the Fed’s first move to bolster
stimulus since November 2010, when officials agreed to the $600
billion second round of asset purchases.  U.S. stocks today gave up some of their gains, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 1.9 percent to 1,150.48 at
9:50 a.m. in  New York  trading. The two-year government-bond
yield dropped 0.02 percentage point to 0.172, while the 10-year
yield fell 0.08 percentage point to 2.172 percent.  ‘Elephant-thick’ Skin  “The chairman will do the right thing for the economy
regardless of what people might say,” said  Randall Kroszner , a
professor at the University of  Chicago ’s Booth School of
Business who served on the Fed board under Bernanke from March
2006 to January 2009. “Bernanke has shown his skin is elephant-
thick.”  Yesterday’s decision to add a specific date to its
commitment to low interest rates was a first for the Fed.
Previously, the central bank promised to keep rates low for an
“extended period,” which Bernanke defined as at least two or
three meetings. That phrase was first used in March 2009 and was
repeated at every meeting through June 2011. The Fed has eight
regularly scheduled meetings a year.  Bernanke gained unanimity or near-consensus for his
previous decisions since 2008’s financial panic. While one or
two dissents from a Federal Open Market Committee decision
aren’t unusual, a third would represent “open revolt” against
the chairman, former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer  said in his
2004 book, “A Term at the Fed.”  Eight Straight Times  Prior to yesterday’s meeting, there had been 23 dissents
during Bernanke’s tenure as Fed chairman. Nine of those came
from Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , who voted eight
straight times in 2010 against record stimulus, tying former Fed
Governor Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a
single year.  Yesterday, the FOMC “discussed the range of policy tools
available to promote a stronger economic recovery in a context
of  price stability ,” without identifying the tools. “It will
continue to assess the economic outlook in light of incoming
information and is prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate,” the Fed statement said.  Economists interpreted the language as a sign of
willingness to buy more bonds. The Fed purchased $1.7 trillion
of mortgage debt and Treasuries from December 2008 to March 2010
and $600 billion of Treasuries from November 2010 to June 2011.
Bernanke could give additional signals in his Aug. 26 speech at
the Kansas City Fed’s conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , the
venue he used last year to hint of the second round of
quantitative easing.  Open Door  Yesterday’s statement “clearly leaves the door open for
further asset purchases, or QE3,” Michael Gapen, a Barclays
Capital economist and former Fed researcher, said in a research
note. “We now look to the chairman’s comments” at Jackson Hole
for further guidance on the FOMC’s thinking, Gapen said.  Central bankers downgraded their assessment of the
economy’s progress. Growth this year has been “considerably
slower” than expected and that economic data show “a
deterioration in overall labor market conditions in recent
months.”  Since the FOMC’s June 21-22 meeting, the Commerce
Department said the economy grew 1.3 percent in the second
quarter of the year. The government lowered its calculation of
first-quarter growth to 0.4 percent from 1.9 percent. The
economy added an average of 72,000 jobs a month since May,
according to the Labor Department, compared with an average of
179,000 in the first four months of 2011.  Temporary Forces  In June the Fed attributed economic weakness in part to
temporary forces such as higher food and energy prices and
disruptions from the March earthquakes and tsunami in  Japan . In
yesterday’s statement the Fed said that these circumstances
explain “only some of the recent weakness in economic
activity.”  “Bernanke has an operational majority, and he’s not afraid
to ram things through over the objection of the minority,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , and a former Fed researcher.  Echoing phrasing that preceded or accompanied  interest-rate 
cuts in 2007 and 2008, the FOMC said that “downside risks to
the economic outlook have increased.”  “They just lowered the threshold quite a bit for QE3,”
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Holdings
Inc. in Chicago. “Short of a miraculous reacceleration in the
second half, we will see QE3.”  J.P. Morgan’s Lear likened Bernanke to a golfer who would
rather send the ball past the hole than strike it too softly.
“You’re not going to come up short on your putt,” said Lear,
deputy chief investment officer for global fixed income in New
York. “He is not going to leave the fight against deflation
short.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  