-- 
Best-Performing Bond Fund Prefers Risky Assets, Bucks Trend: Japan Credit

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i ,   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-11T03:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/best-performing-bond-fund-prefers-risky-assets-bucks-trend-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s top-performing bond fund
will invest in lower-rated corporate bonds that provide double
the yield of higher-rated notes, bucking the trend of investors
seeking safe havens after the U.S. debt rating downgrade.  “The latest rout isn’t enough to start selling corporate
bonds altogether at all,” said Nobumasa Mizutani, the manager
of Mizuho Trust Banking & Co.’s Credit Spread Strategy fund in
an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “If anything, it did highlight
the stability in Japan’s corporate bond market on a relative
basis, so we’re shifting gears to look at A and BBBs after we
profited from the beauty-queen companies with higher ratings.”  Mizutani is increasing the fund’s allocations to riskier
notes following  Standard & Poor’s  unprecedented downgrade of
U.S. credit coupled with the European sovereign debt crisis. The
extra yield investors demand to own Japan’s corporate bonds over
government debt rose 1 basis point to 66 yesterday since the
U.S. downgrade on Aug. 5, indicating little change.  Bond sales and refinancing among companies rated from A to
BBB are attractive investments, said Mizutani. The 32-year-old
manager runs the biggest corporate bond fund in Japan with about
167 billion yen ($2.2 billion) in assets, according to Mizutani
and data compiled by Bloomberg. It has returned 22.5 percent
over the last 10 years, making it the best performer in
corporate bond funds, based on data provided by Japan’s Rating &
Investment Information Inc.  Biggest Fund  The fund returned 46 basis points more than the Nomura Bond
Performance Index in the three months ended June 30, according
to Mizutani. Five-year bonds rated A yielded 1.513 percent
yesterday, 80.1 basis points more than notes rated AA, from a
15.4 basis-point spread a day before the March 11 earthquake,
Japan Securities Dealers Association prices show. U.S.
corporates rated A with maturity of between three and five years
yielded 2.587 percent yesterday, from 2.831 percent the day
before the quake, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index.  S&P’s downgrade of U.S. credit and  Europe ’s sovereign debt
troubles sparked a sell-off in stocks and corporate bonds this
month. Safer assets, including Treasuries, the Swiss franc and
gold, jumped.  Investors pulled an unprecedented $2.1 billion from high-
yield bond funds globally Aug. 9, said  Cameron Brandt , director
of research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.
Speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. lost 4.5 percent this month,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Flight to Safety  Treasuries surged for a third day yesterday, while gold
extended a rally to an all-time high today and the Swiss franc
gained to a record. The yen erased gains against the euro and
dollar after Japanese officials said currency movements have
continued to be one-sided even in the wake of government
intervention on Aug. 4. The Japanese currency recently traded at
76.63 per dollar.  The U.S. Federal Reserve earlier this week pledged for the
first time to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
at least through mid-2013 to revive the flagging U.S. recovery.  “The latest move by the Fed will be favorable for credit
markets,” Mizutani said. “As the spread tightens in the U.S.,
we may see similar moves in Japan as well.”  Mizuho Trust’s fund is the biggest among 396 yen-
denominated funds that invest in Japanese corporate bonds
managed by investors based in Japan, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The R&I data include so-called active funds, which
invest in domestic notes, with at least 1 billion yen in assets
and track Nomura’s BPI Overall index or the Corporates index.  Betting on Corporates  Nomura’s indexes are made up of bonds offered publicly with
credit ratings of A- or higher from at least one of the four
rating companies -- Moody’s Investors Service, S&P, R&I or Japan
Credit Rating Agency Ltd. Each constituent is required to have
more than 1 billion yen and a remaining life of a year or
longer.  Mizutani’s fund mainly invests in Japanese corporate bonds
with ratings above BBB-, while it also invests in sovereign
debt, municipal bonds as well as Samurai bonds, he said. The
fund is only sold to institutional investors and has about 200
Japanese pension funds as clients. Retirement funds are seeking
to diversify their investments by shifting from domestic stocks
to fixed-income securities, he said.  Mizutani said he profited from investments in higher-rated
companies such as Mitsui & Co., Japan’s second-largest trading
company rated AA- by R&I, and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the nation’s
biggest brokerage with R&I’s A+ rating, prior to the temblor.  Recognizing Opportunity  “We had been selling higher-rated companies because we
thought the tightening was too much given the fundamentals,” he
said. “Then the quake happened and everyone was panic-selling
so we added more positions as we thought this is a great
opportunity.”  Mizutani bought Mitsui’s 2.015 percent bonds due 2030 after
the quake. The extra yield investors demand to own the bonds
rather than government debt soared to 37 basis points on March
29 from 24 the day of the temblor. The premium fell to 27 basis
points yesterday, JSDA prices on Bloomberg show.  The spread on Nomura’s 1.91 percent bonds due 2017 jumped
to 57 basis points on April 12 from 45 in the same period, the
prices show. The spread was 51 basis points on Aug. 9.  Another contributor to the fund’s performance was its
investment in  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s exclusive carrier for
Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The fund began buying the bonds at about
200 basis points more than the yen swap rate in 2009, Mizutani
said. The yield on Softbank’s 4.36 percent bonds due June 2014
has fallen to 30 basis points more than the benchmark on Aug. 9
from 245 when the notes were issued in June 2007.  Investment in Softbank  In February, Japan Credit Rating Agency raised its rating
on Softbank debt to A-, four steps above speculative grade, from
BBB+. The rating company cited a reduction in net debt, an
increase in subscribers and the outlook for profit growth.
Moody’s Investors Service placed Softbank’s credit rating for
possible upgrade on July 1, while S&P raised the rating to
investment grade for the first time to BBB- on July 25.  Mizutani, who formerly worked at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
Co. as an analyst and dealer handling bonds and credit-default
swaps, maintains the liquidity of the fund by actively trading
the debt, he said. The fund has more than half of its
investments in corporate notes, according to Mizutani. That
compares with 9.1 percent in the benchmark Nomura index.  Corporate bond sales declined following Japan’s worst post-
World War II disaster caused by the March earthquake and
tsunami. Offerings of yen-denominated company bonds this year
total 4.863 trillion yen, the least since 4.240 trillion yen was
sold in the same period in 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  Japanese corporate bonds lost 1.3 percent this year through
yesterday, while dollar-denominated bonds sold by U.S. companies
have gained 7.1 percent since Dec. 31, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Corporate bonds in  China , both denominated
in dollar and yuan, handed investors a 0.07 percent return, a
BofA Merrill index shows.  “Spreads are very tight in the market now, so you won’t
lose big, but at the same time it’s difficult to outperform
rivals,” said Takayuki Atake, chief credit analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “The key will be to avoid bad
picks and find bonds that still have some spreads left.”  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 1
basis point to 1.025 percent as of noon today in Tokyo,
according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the largest inter-dealer
debt broker. Holders of JGBs, as the Japanese  government bonds 
are known, gained 1.2 percent on their investments in the 12
months through Aug. 9, as measured by BofA Merrill indexes.  “Spreads on Japan’s excellent companies offer low-hanging
fruit,” Mizutani said. “Japanese pensions are faced with
structural problems to boost returns and this is going to be a
good weapon for them to achieve steady returns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  