-- 
BG, Tullow Plunge May Attract Bids, Evolution Says

-- B y   B r a d   M e r c h a n t
-- 
2011-08-11T09:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bg-tullow-afren-stock-plunge-may-attract-bids-evolution-says.html
(Corrects story published yesterday to include Frontera’s
debt-for-equity swap in the final paragraph.)  U.K. oil and gas producers including
 BG Group Plc (BG/) , Tullow Oil Plc and  Afren Plc (AFR)  are beginning to
trade below core valuations, suggesting energy stocks may
attract takeover bids, broker Evolution Group Plc said.  U.K.-based oil explorer Afren, for example, is currently
trading below the value of its core assets at $70 a barrel oil,
Evolution said in a research note published today. Potential
acquirers prefer oil and gas producers with existing producing
assets as they rarely pay for upside potential of exploration,
the note said.  Companies “oversold but well-funded and with resources
bases sufficiently attractive to draw in a predator,” also
include  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , Evolution said.
The average decline since the end of July to shares of these
companies mentioned by London-based Evolution is 18 percent.  Since the recession, energy companies such as Afren have
strengthened their balance sheets to better manage any future
collapse in  oil prices , Evolution said. Afren’s net debt is $127
million, compared to $287 million at the end of 2008. The price
of Brent crude oil has dropped 10 percent in London this month
to about $106 a barrel. The oil and gas producer group in the
U.K. FTSE 350 index has dropped 14 percent in the same period,  Evolution said that the recent selloff to oil and gas
stocks poses a risk for exploration companies, particularly
those with more debt.  According to their most recent results filings, the small-
cap producers with the largest amount of net debt as a
percentage of enterprise value in the FTSE AIM Oil and Gas index
include Petrolatina Energy Plc, Roxi Petroleum Plc and Frontera
Resources Corp., according to Bloomberg data.  Frontera has since completed a debt-for-equity swap,
strengthening its balance sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Merchant in  London  at 
 bmerchant3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 