-- 
BHP-Nyrstar Talks on Joint Lundin Offer Said to Have Failed

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-08-11T00:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bhp-nyrstar-talks-on-joint-lundin-mining-bid-said-to-have-failed.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, and  Nyrstar (NYR)  NV failed to reach an
agreement in talks on a joint bid for  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , two
people familiar with the matter said.  The talks ended last week, the people said, declining to
say why they weren’t successful and asking not be identified
because the discussions weren’t public. While Nyrstar, the
world’s largest refined zinc producer, is still interested in
some of Lundin’s assets, it can’t afford to buy the Canadian
copper and zinc producer on its own, one of the people said.  Nyrstar, seeking to increase its self-sufficiency in raw
materials to at least 50 percent from 30 percent, in June agreed
to buy Breakwater Resources Ltd., gaining mines in Canada,
Honduras and Chile, for C$619 million ($626 million). Nyrstar is
seeking sites that are currently operating to help with the
integration, one of the people said.  Lundin rose 15 percent yesterday after the  Daily Telegraph 
reported that BHP and Nyrstar may make a joint bid. It fell 15
cents, or 3 percent, to C$4.90 at 4 p.m. in Toronto trading
today, giving the company a market value of C$2.85 billion,
reversing an earlier gain of as much as 5 percent.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, Kate
Dinon, a Zurich-based Nyrstar spokeswoman, and Lundin
spokeswoman Sophia Shane declined to comment.  Sweden , Ireland  Lundin owns zinc mines of Zinkgruvan in Sweden, which
targets production of 78,000 tons this year, and Galmoy in
Ireland with a 28,000 ton target, the company’s website shows.  Nyrstar mined 79,000 tons in the first half of 2011,
according to its earnings statement on July 27. Lundin also owns
copper mines in Portugal and  Spain  and about a quarter of the
Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt mine in the Democratic
Republic of Congo.  Nyrstar in January bought Farallon Mining Ltd., gaining
control of the G-9 zinc mine in  Mexico , and in July 2010
purchased two mines in Peru. Nyrstar raised 490.1 million euros
($695 million) from a share sale in March and 525 million euros
from a bond offering in May to fund its acquisitions.  Lundin tried to sell itself as a whole or in part in March
while fighting a hostile C$4.63 billion bid from  Australia ’s
Equinox Minerals Ltd. The Toronto-based company abandoned the
plan in May because offers were too low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  