-- 
Blackstone, Emdeon Sued by Investor Over $3 Billion Buyout

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-10T21:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/blackstone-group-unit-emdeon-are-sued-by-investor-over-3-billion-buyout.html
A unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
seeking to acquire  Emdeon Inc. (EM)  in a $3 billion buyout, was sued
by a shareholder of the software maker claiming the offer
undervalues the company.  John Kowalczyk, an Emdeon investor, sued the Nashville,
Tennessee-based company and Blackstone, arguing that the
proposed transaction shortchanges shareholders, in a lawsuit
filed today in  Delaware  Chancery Court. Kowalczyk seeks to
represent outside shareholders as a group.  “The timing of the proposed transaction has been
engineered to take advantage of a recent decline in the trading
price of Emdeon’s shares,” and will result in shareholders
being cashed out “below the company’s true value.”  Amanda Woodhead, a spokeswoman for Emdeon, and  Peter Rose ,
a Blackstone spokesman, didn’t immediately return phone calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  New York-based Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-
equity firm, announced it would take the provider of health-care
payment solutions private for about $3 billion, in an Aug. 4
statement. The company would pay Emdeon investors $19 a share, a
17 percent premium to the stock’s previous close of $16.25 on
Aug. 3.  Offer Price  “The offer price reflects an inadequate premium to the
trading price,” Kowalczyk contends in the lawsuit.  The software maker’s biggest shareholders, private-equity
firms Hellman & Friedman LLC and General Atlantic LLC, which own
about 70 percent combined, support the sale, court papers show.
Hellman & Friedman, based in  San Francisco , will maintain a
“significant minority equity interest” in the company,
according to the statement.  The shareholder claims that the sale is unfairly structured
to “deter alternative bids.” The deal contains a non-
solicitation clause that prevents board members from seeking
other offers and gives Blackstone the power “to learn of any
alternative bid and match it.”  The case is Kowalczyk v. Black, CA6773, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 