-- 
BM&FBovespa to Unite Clearing Operations as Profit Declines

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-08-10T17:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bm-fbovespa-to-unite-clearing-operations-as-profit-declines-1-.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
 Latin America ’s largest securities exchange, plans to integrate
its clearing operations by the end of next year as part of
efforts to lure investors and fend off potential competition
amid falling profits.  The plan will lower margin requirements by 25 percent to 40
percent, Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto told reporters in
Sao Paulo today. The plan to integrate clearing operations will
be a “great driver” for growth, he said.  The company reported yesterday a 3.8 percent annual decline
in second-quarter net income as  Brazil ’s market rout reduced
equity trading. Volumes are also being hurt by the government’s
“violent” measures to combat the appreciation of the currency,
which is driving investors from  Sao Paulo  to trading venues in
the U.S., Pinto said.  “We lament the government’s decision to seek measures to
contain to the excessive appreciation of the real,” Pinto said.  The government said on July 27 that it’s imposing a 1
percent tax on some currency derivatives trades as the real
reached a 12-year high against the dollar. In October, Brazil
tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreigners’ purchase of fixed-
income assets while holding at 2 percent the tax on their equity
purchases. Pinto said today he hopes the government removes the
tax, known as IOF.  Bear Market   BM&FBovespa rose 1.1 percent to 8.49 reais at 12:55 p.m.
New York time. The exchange operator has slumped 36 percent this
year through yesterday amid concerns over the impact of
increased  government regulation  on revenues. The stock slid
further as the Brazilian equity market entered a bear market
last month on quickening domestic inflation and slowing global
growth, Pinto said.  The exchange may revise its forecast for 55 billion reais
in share sales this year because of the worldwide market rout,
he said. These domestic and global concerns led BM&FBovespa to
push back its goal of attracting 5 million individual investors
to 2018 from a previous target of 2015, according to Pinto.  Net income dropped to 294.2 million reais ($185.1 million)
in the quarter from 305.6 million reais a year earlier, the Sao
Paulo-based company said yesterday in a regulatory filing. Net
operating revenue fell 1.7 percent to 467.64 million reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  