-- 
Bank of America’s Moynihan Said to Press Geithner on Foreclosure Agreement

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-08-12T16:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/bofa-chief-moynihan-says-fundamentals-are-better-than-during-credit-crisis.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  met Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to press for a settlement of probes tied to
the industry’s shoddy foreclosure practices, said two people
with direct knowledge of the event.  Moynihan, 51, also met Aug. 10 in Washington with Federal
Reserve governor  Daniel Tarullo , said the people, who declined
to be identified because the discussions were private. A
settlement among banks, state attorneys general and the
Department of Justice would enable lenders to resolve delinquent
loans and in turn allow the U.S. housing market to recover,
Moynihan told the officials.  “In the states where foreclosure can take place you’re
seeing the system unclog and move through,” Moynihan said
during in an Aug. 10 conference call hosted by mutual fund
manager  Bruce Berkowitz . “That’s different than states where
foreclosure is going through very slowly.”  The meetings occurred as Moynihan tried to shore up
confidence in the biggest U.S. lender after Bank of America’s
stock lost almost half its value this year. He’s recorded $30
billion in costs trying to put the “mortgage mess” behind the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company and could face more as
attorneys general from all 50 states probe whether banks and
loan servicers used faulty documents to justify foreclosures.  Stalled Talks  Negotiations with the five largest mortgage servicers are
stalled over how broad a release from liabilities would be
granted by the deal -- which could cost the industry more than
$20 billion -- and remedies such as forgiving some of the debt
for homeowners.  Moynihan also discussed the broader economy and consumer
spending indicators with Geithner and Tarullo, one person said.  Tarullo has been in regular contact with bank CEOs to get
input on market conditions, said a Federal Reserve spokesperson
who confirmed Wednesday’s meetings, which were reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal. A Treasury official called the
meetings routine and part of a continuing dialog on housing and
the economy.  Larry DiRita, a spokesman for Bank of America, said he
couldn’t comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  