-- 
Brando’s Biceps, Minchin Rocks Proms, Hip Twist: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-08-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/brando-eyes-marilyn-minchin-rocks-proms-fela-twists-hips-london-weekend.html
Marlon Brando’s upper arms bulge
effortlessly in a classic shot from 1950.  The photograph, taken on the set of “A Streetcar Named
Desire,” features in an exhibition of Hollywood images at the
 National Portrait Gallery . Pictured nearby are  Marilyn Monroe 
sitting on a curb, and Joan Collins in a fringed bikini.  The vintage prints were gathered by collector John Kobal in
the 1960s, when studios were shedding their stills libraries.
Kobal would either be invited in to choose his snaps, or get
tipped off on disposal day to fill up his car trunk.  “Glamour of the Gods: Hollywood Portraits” ends Oct. 23
at the National Portrait Gallery, St. Martin’s Place, WC2H 0HE.
Information:  http://www.npg.org.uk  or +44-20-7306-0055.  Les Deux Salons, across the street, is a French-style
brasserie where Michelin-starred chef Anthony Demetre serves
afternoon tea, as well as pre-and post-theater menus.  Information:  http://www.lesdeuxsalons.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7420-2050.  Saturday  The woodland in  Holland Park  is the temporary setting for
an outdoor musical production of “Fantastic Mr. Fox.”  The scenes are staged in different glades, so you’ll be
rushing from one to the next carrying your cushion, followed by
a small ensemble of musicians. It’s Opera Holland Park’s
interactive adaptation of the Roald Dahl novel.  Here’s hoping rain won’t spoil the fun.  Information:  http://www.operahollandpark.com  or
+44-300-999-1000.  Saturday Night  Tim Minchin  hosts the first-ever Comedy Prom at the Royal
Albert Hall. The Australian rocker, whose hits include “White
Wine in the Sun,” is joined by cabaret duo Kit and the Widow.  The evening will include snippets of favorite piano
concertos. Pianist Danny Driver, making his Proms debut, shares
the bill with  BBC  “Maestro” winner, the soprano Susan Bullock.  Royal Albert Hall, Kensington Gore, London, SW7 2AP.
Information: +44-207-589-8212,  http://www.royalalberthall.com/ 
or  http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms .  One of London’s finest brasseries is within walking
distance of the Royal Albert Hall. Racine is known for French
favorites such as filet au poivre, prepared by Chef-Patron Henry
Harris, who is usually in the kitchen. Information:
 http://www.racine-restaurant.com  or +44-20-7584-4477.  Sunday  Practice your pelvic swerve at the Sadler’s Wells Theatre.  The dance venue presents “Fela!” -- a musical tribute to
the late Nigerian singer-songwriter-activist Fela Kuti. The
multitasking lead, Saur Ngaujah, will have you stand up and mark
the hours of the clock with your hips.  Ngaujah is the show’s highlight, as are his fellow players,
who faithfully recreate Fela’s sound. Less convincing are the
spoken or sung narratives, such as the long lament by Fela’s
mother, thrown from a window by the Nigerian military in 1977.  “Fela!” is at Sadler’s Wells through Aug. 28, with a
matinee performance at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. Information:
 http://www.sadlerswells.com  or +44-844-412-4300.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts & leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 