-- 
Brazil Frost May Hurt Coffee Flowering for Next Crop, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-10T08:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/brazil-frost-may-hurt-coffee-flowering-for-next-crop-cepea-says.html
A frost that reached some coffee-
growing states in top producer Brazil last week may hurt
flowering before next year’s crop, according to Cepea, a
University of  Sao Paulo  research group.  Temperatures fell below 2 degrees Celsius (35.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) in some growing areas in southern  Minas Gerais 
state, Sao Paulo and northern Parana, with possible frost
formation, Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at Somar
Meteorologia, said by phone on Aug 5. Minas Gerais is Brazil’s
largest arabica coffee-producing state.  “Frosts and cold temperatures might affect the blossoming
of the next crop,” Cepea analyst Margarete Boteon said in a
report dated yesterday, with frost burning having some effect on
leaves. “Therefore, the plant will allocate its strength to
recover leaves, which might result in lower yield,” she said.  Frost in Brazilian growing regions can damage trees bearing
the following year’s crop. Arabica soared to a record $3.375 a
pound in 1977, data compiled by Bloomberg shows, after damage
from “black frost” in the country two years earlier.  The extent of the damage for the current season is still
unknown, Boteon said, adding that the possibility of harm was
hindering trading in  Brazil ’s domestic market. “Sellers expect
higher prices due to the possibility of losses caused by
frosts,” she said in the report.  Arabica for December delivery advanced 1.4 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $2.399 a pound by 9:05 a.m.  London  time on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York . Robusta beans for September delivery
rose $23, or 1.1 percent, to $2,121 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 