-- 
British Courts Might Struggle to Keep Pace With Efforts to Punish Rioters

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-11T11:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/british-courts-may-be-strained-by-cameron-s-fight-back-against-rioters.html
David Cameron ’s effort to “fight
back” against rioters, which includes keeping water cannons on
standby and having judges sit through the night, may strain the
U.K.’s cramped, un-renovated courts.  The confrontations in neighborhoods throughout the capital
have resulted in at least  922 arrests , with 401 people charged
and police continuing to investigate. At least three courts have
stayed open all night this week to handle the volume of charges
and prosecutors have volunteered to work extra hours, according
to the  Crown Prosecution Service .  “A lot of courts in  England  are relatively small buildings
in poor condition,” said  Robert Brown , a criminal lawyer who
defended the adopted son of Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour
over his actions during student protests last year. “If people
were working in a group and they’re tried together, it will be
physically difficult to handle.”  The British Prime Minister said the scenes of looting and
arson showed parts of society were “sick” and that if the
perpetrators were old enough to commit the crimes, they were old
enough to be punished.  London ’s Metropolitan Police have
reported some of those arrested were as young as seven. Though
police didn’t provide data on the ages of those charged, the
U.K.’s juvenile courts will bear most of the burden.  London, Manchester  The seven-year-olds won’t be charged, as the age of
criminal responsibility in the U.K. is 10-17, said Brown, a
partner at London law firm Corker Binning. Only the most serious
offenses by people in that age group will be prosecuted in adult
court, such as robbery, arson and violence, he said. A person is
considered an adult for legal purposes at age 18 in the U.K.  Both London’s Westminster Magistrates Court and Manchester
City Magistrates Court were open all night last night, CPS
spokesman Tim McAtackney said. Earlier in the week, another
court where suspects face their first appearance, Highbury
Corner Magistrates Court, stayed open all night. Prosecutors are
volunteering to work additional hours to help, he said.  The violence has led shops and offices to close early,
forced the cancellation of soccer matches and raised security
concerns a year before London is to host the 2012  Olympic Games ,
as the deepest budget cuts since World War II have reduced the
number of police across the country. Cameron has recalled
Parliament for an emergency session today.  Young Thugs  Cameron, who when in opposition said some young thugs
needed “more love,” told reporters yesterday he wanted
“stronger penalties” for wrongdoers, with people convicted of
violent disorder jailed. He said he won’t let “phony concerns
about human rights” stop the publication of suspects’ photos.  Yet the difficulties of dealing out the punishments don’t
stop with physical limits of the U.K.’s courts, some of which
are centuries old. The age of the offenders can also slow things
down, Brown said.  “The court needs to be sensitive to the way young people
are tried,” Brown said. “They have to make sure offenders
understand the nature of the proceedings. There have to be
frequent breaks.”  Police have said they are investigating the use of social-
networking services such as operated by Twitter Inc., Facebook
Inc. and  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry Messenger to
incite rioting. Three people were arrested by police in
Southampton, England, on suspicion of using Twitter and
Blackberry Messenger to encourage rioting. A member of
parliament had called for a suspension of BlackBerry Messenger
service to prevent rioters using it to organize themselves.  100 Warrants  “In the early hours of this morning we started knocking on
doors to arrest people,” Steve Kavanagh, deputy assistant
commissioner of London’s Metropolitan Police, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We have got more than 100 warrants
which we will be working our way through over the coming hours
and days.”  Kiron Reid , from the University of Liverpool’s School of
Law and Social Justice, said people who encouraged riots by
using social media are easier to prosecute after a 2007 change
in the law to provide for “encouraging crime.” Police action
“against those encouraging crime on Facebook and Twitter should
send a strong signal that people have to take responsibility for
their behavior,” she said in an e-mail.  British police are normally unarmed, and tactics for
dealing with angry crowds in recent years have focused on
containment, with regular use of the tactic of “kettling,”
where groups are surrounded for hours and then gradually
released. This technique was used last year in London against
students protesting rises in tuition fees.  As disturbances spread across the city on the nights of
Aug. 7 and 8, officers were unable to deploy kettling
effectively and looters fled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 