-- 
Brookfield Asset Management Says Earnings Increased Nine-Fold on Holdings

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-08-10T17:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/brookfield-asset-management-says-earnings-increased-nine-fold-on-holdings.html
Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) ,
the Toronto-based investment firm that manages about $150
billion, said second-quarter profit rose nine-fold as the value
of its holdings surged.  Net income attributable to shareholders rose to $838
million, or $1.26 a share, from $89 million, or 12 cents, a year
earlier.  Cash flow  from operations increased 29 percent to $829
million, Brookfield said today in a statement.  Brookfield, which focuses on property, renewable power and
infrastructure and prefers distressed acquisitions, is seeking
to buy assets from troubled European companies. The firm raised
$4.7 billion in the second quarter and will seek an additional
$4 billion for seven funds as it expands investments globally.  Brookfield is “spending an enormous amount of time talking
to many companies” in  Europe  and is “highly likely” to favor
distressed infrastructure and property acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer Bruce Flatt said today on a conference call.  “Our first choice is to assist European corporations to
restructure affairs, particularly if they have assets outside of
Europe,” Flatt said.  Europe is going through the same restructuring the U.S.
endured three years ago, and any deals need to price in risks,
including the possibility of currency change, Flatt said.  The company booked $1.09 billion in fair-value increases as
market values rose. The firm made acquisitions including
Australian office towers and a Brazilian hydroelectric facility.  ‘Dramatically Different’  Brookfield Asset Management fell 74 cents, or 2.6 percent,
to $28.24 at 1:18 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares lost 13 percent this year through yesterday.  Recent market volatility is “dramatically different” from
2008, because credit is available to healthy corporations and
many U.S. companies are stronger, Flatt said.  Brookfield holds majority stakes in listed units including
 Brookfield Infrastructure Partners LP (BIP) , owner of ports,
timberlands, and power transmitters, and Brookfield Office
Properties Inc., owner of Manhattan’s World Financial Center
among its city office towers in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  