-- 
Cameron’s High-Tech Vision Lacks Cheap London Space

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-08-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cameron-s-high-tech-vision-clouded-by-lack-of-cheap-london-space.html
Conversocial Ltd. , a startup that
advises companies on using social media, was forced out of
 London ’s Soho district two months ago to make way for
apartments. It’s still looking for a permanent base.  Sharing the building with other young technology companies
including  NeverBland , Brave New Talent and  Playfire , Conversocial
paid annual rent of about 30 pounds ($49) a square foot in an 
area where rates can be three times as high. “Most of us still 
haven’t found proper office space,” founder Joshua March said.  London’s biggest concentration of smaller technology and
media companies has emerged in the fashionable neighborhoods of
Shoreditch, Clerkenwell and Hoxton, close to the  City of London 
financial district. Rising home prices in those areas are
prompting developers to turn commercial space into residences,
reducing the amount of  office space  and pushing up rents.  The space shortage is an obstacle to Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s attempt to turn London into a technology center to
rival Silicon Valley and make the city less dependent on
financial services. Technology and media companies in central
London employ almost 400,000 people and accounted for 11 percent
of all commercial-leasing activity in the past five years,
according to Cushman & Wakefield LLP, a real-estate broker.  ‘Silicon Roundabout’  At the  Bezier  luxury development overlooking “Silicon
Roundabout,” the traffic circle at the center of the booming
technology scene, two-bedroom apartments are on sale for about
800,000 pounds. Average prices in the neighboring postcodes have
climbed as much as 48 percent since 2006,  Hometrack Data Systems 
Ltd.  data show.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , an online travel company, leased 
two floors of the Angel Building on the edge of Shoreditch last 
month for more than 40 pounds a square foot.  The lack of affordable space is a problem for companies
that rely on hip locations and relaxed, open-plan working
environments to woo programmers away from higher-paying
financial firms.  “All the attention being heaped on it isn’t necessarily
helpful,” Daniel Waterhouse, a partner at venture fund
 Wellington Partners  in London, said of Silicon Roundabout’s
increasing prominence as a technology hub.  Playfire, a website that helps game players track their
performance, this week moved into offices in Covent Garden, one
of London’s most popular shopping districts, after finding that
space in Shoreditch almost matched its price of about 34 pounds
a square foot for rent and services.  Widening Gap  “Good engineers who have six offers are going to want to
be somewhere nice,” founder Kieran O’Neill said. Moving into a
peripheral neighborhood like Hackney, in east London, wasn’t an
option, he said.  To make things worse, bigger, more established companies
are being forced to look for space outside their preferred areas
in central London, increasing competition for offices in other
parts of the city. The vacancy rate for Grade A space dropped to
3.4 percent in the second quarter from 3.6 percent three months
earlier, broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  estimates.  When it was looking for new premises last year, online
fashion retailer  Farfetch  wanted to keep its rent costs to about
22 pounds a square foot. That yielded mostly run-down, empty
spaces with few amenities, marketing director Paul Brine said,
with “nice” space closer to 28 pounds.  That’s well below prime rents in the City of London
financial district itself, which are about 55 pounds a square
foot. Offices in the best locations in the West End cost about
95 pounds,  Jones Lang  said.  Slow Connections  Lower-end space presents another challenge for startups:
poor Internet connections.  “Connectivity is a big problem,” Waterhouse said. While
many older buildings aren’t yet hooked up to high-speed fiber-
optic networks, setting up even conventional broadband
connections over copper phone lines can take months in buildings
that haven’t been well maintained or renovated, he said.  Landlords are more reluctant to rent space to startups
because they’re less likely to sign long-term leases than
financial companies or law firms, said David Jackson, a partner
at  Pilcher Hershman , a real-estate adviser that specializes in
advising media and technology companies.  “Some landlords are tied up with their banks and need to
show they’re getting good covenants into their buildings,” he
said.  ‘Lifestyle Choice’  Relatively few large landlords are building space designed
for temporary use, forcing companies to come up with
unconventional solutions.  TechHub , a flexible work-space on City
Road right at Silicon Roundabout, charges 275 pounds a month for
a single hot-desk rental, has 75 permanent residents and is
sponsored by companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Pearson Plc (PSON)  in
return for access to its community of developers.  “For recruiting, there’s a definite, large benefit to
being where all the other startups are, and in an area with bars
and cafes and a fun environment,” said Conversocial’s March,
who didn’t consider moving into properties such as TechHub
because they are more suitable for companies with fewer than 10
people. “Working for a startup is a lifestyle choice, since
they can’t always pay much.”  The government is encouraging new ventures to move to other
parts of “ Tech City ,” a four-mile-long zone stretching from
Shoreditch to Stratford, the neighborhood at the heart of the
2012  Olympic Games . The giant media center that was built for
the event may be turned into a home for startups afterwards.  Central Locations  So far, only the most central part of that vast swathe of
London, which includes some of the capital’s most economically
deprived areas, has proved attractive to startups.  “Small tech companies need extremely skilled and
specialized labor,” making central locations paramount, said
Paul Cheshire, a professor of spatial economics at the  London
School  of Economics. Tight planning rules, meanwhile, make the
cost of building office space only worth bearing when it can be
leased to high-paying tenants like banks, he said.  Ultimately, both startups and landlords may have to adopt
more flexible attitudes to get along in one of the world’s most
crowded and expensive cities.  “There are some landlords who have understood the need”
and others could open up more flexible leases in buildings for
which their plans are uncertain, Pilcher Hershman’s Jackson
said.  Startups “have to temper their view that they’re going to
be the next million-pound company,” he said. “They have to
realize that they aren’t the main event.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 