-- 
Police Leave Canceled as Cameron Vows to Halt English Rioters

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-10T16:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cameron-pledges-stand-against-u-k-rioters-as-water-cannons-are-prepared.html
Home Secretary Theresa May ordered
the cancelation of all police leave to counter the threat of
further rioting across England after Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his government had started a “fightback.”  May told police throughout the country to adopt tactics
used by London’s Metropolitan Police, who put 16,000 officers on
the streets last night and restored calm to the capital after
three nights of looting and arson in Britain’s worst rioting
since the 1980s. While London was quiet, violence escalated
elsewhere, particularly in Manchester, the largest city in the
north.  “We needed a fightback, and a fightback has begun,”
Cameron told reporters outside his Downing Street office this
morning. “We will do whatever is necessary to restore order on
our streets.”  Cameron said courts will sit through the night and water
cannons have been put on standby. Police in mainland Britain
have never used the vehicles for riot control. Officers were
already authorized to use rubber bullets to curb disorder.  More than 750 people have been arrested in  London  and at
least 500 others in provincial cities since Aug. 6, when the
unrest began in the north London suburb of Tottenham, after a
local man, Mark Duggan, was shot and killed by police who
stopped his car intending to make an arrest. Police have said
the violence since then is “copycat criminal activity.”  Olympics Concerns  The violence has led shops and offices to close early,
forced the cancellation of soccer games and raised security
concerns a year before London stages the 2012  Olympic Games , as
the deepest budget cuts since World War II cost more than 30,000
police jobs across the country. Cameron has recalled Parliament
for an emergency session tomorrow.  May held a conference call with police forces around
 England  and “ordered all special constables should be
mobilized, all police leave should be canceled, and the robust
tactics used on Tuesday by the Metropolitan Police adopted by
all forces dealing with public disorder,” according to a
statement released by the  Home Office .  The prime minister said the scenes of looting and arson
this week showed parts of society were “sick,” presenting
police and politicians with a new challenge. “It’s as much a
moral problem as a political one,” he said.  ‘Stronger Penalties’  Cameron, who when in opposition said some young thugs
needed “more love,” told reporters today he wanted “stronger
penalties” for wrongdoers, with people convicted of
violent disorder jailed. He said that he wouldn’t let “phony
concerns about human rights” stop the publication of pictures
of suspects.  “Sentences are already being passed, courts sat through
the night last night, and will do again tonight,” Cameron said.
“It is for the courts to sentence, but I would expect anyone
convicted of violent disorder to be sent to prison.”  Cameron shrugged off suggestions from London Mayor  Boris Johnson , a member of his  Conservative Party , that the violence
meant the government should review cuts to the police budget.  “We won’t do anything that will reduce the amount of
visible policing on our streets. We won’t do anything that will
put the public at risk,” Cameron said. “The last 24 hours has
demonstrated we can get a lot out of what we currently have.”  “It’s not necessarily about huge sums of money,” Johnson
later told Sky News television as he toured Enfield, one of the
north London suburbs hit by rioting. “All I want to make sure
is we keep the numbers up” of police on the streets.  Kettling  British police are normally unarmed, and tactics for
dealing with angry crowds in recent years have focused on
containment, with regular use of the tactic of “kettling,”
where groups are surrounded for hours and then gradually
released. This technique was used last year in London against
students protesting higher tuition fees.  This week, Londoners have accused the police of standing by
as rioters attacked property. As disturbances spread across the
city on the nights of Aug. 7 and 8, officers were unable to
deploy kettling effectively, and looters could flee. Yesterday,
the prime minister told commanders to use tougher tactics.  Johnson said that people could use “reasonable force” to
protect their property, though he added that “I don’t want to
see vigilantism.”  Greater Manchester Police said this afternoon that an 18-
year-old man was arrested on suspicion of arson after a branch
of Arcadia Plc’s  Miss Selfridge  fashion chain in the city center
was set alight last night. The force said earlier that it made
113 arrests overnight. Firefighters extinguished 155 fires and
about 100 homes or businesses were damaged.  Murder Probe  West Midlands Police, who cover the city of Birmingham,
said they’d made 163 arrests overnight and this morning and
opened a murder inquiry after three men were killed in a road
collision. Around 300 people have been arrested since the
disorder began.  In  Nottinghamshire , around 90 people were arrested
overnight, mostly for arson and criminal damage. Five police
stations were attacked with homemade firebombs. Merseyside
Police made 50 arrests overnight.  Though the student protests descended into unrest last
year, this week’s rioting has been the worst in London since at
least 1985, when violence broke out in Tottenham in the north of
the city and Brixton in the south -- both areas with large black
populations -- after the deaths of black women during police
searches.  Firearms  A YouGov Plc poll published today found 85 percent of
adults saying that most of those involved in the rioting would
go unpunished. Ninety percent backed the use of water cannons,
77 percent supported the use of the army and 33 percent said
they thought police should be able to use firearms against
rioters. YouGov questioned 2,534 adults on Aug. 8 and 9.  English soccer leagues said yesterday they’ll decide
tomorrow whether this weekend’s games, including the opening of
the Premier League season, will take place as scheduled. Bristol
Rovers said its home Carling Cup match against Watford tonight
was postponed at the request of police, becoming the fifth to be
called off since the disorder began. Tonight’s England-
Netherlands exhibition match at London’s Wembley Stadium was
canceled yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  