-- 
Canada’s Dollar Falls on Federal Reserve Outlook for Slower Growth in U.S.

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-08-10T21:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/canada-s-dollar-declines-on-fed-s-outlook-for-slower-growth-in-the-u-s-.html
The Canadian dollar fell a day after
the  Federal Reserve  said the recovery of  Canada ’s biggest trade
partner is “considerably slower” than anticipated.  Canada’s currency, also known as the loonie, erased
yesterday’s gain, which was the biggest in more than a year.
Stocks worldwide declined today on renewed concern  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse. A rally in Canadian
government 10-year bonds pushed the yield to 2.31 percent, the
lowest level since at least 1989.  “People are racing for the hills,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp. “People are obviously concerned about the growth
prospects for Canada’s largest trading partner, and that doesn’t
bode to well for the loonie.”  The Canadian currency depreciated 1.78 percent to 99.49
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.72 cents
yesterday, when it jumped 1.77 percent, the most since May 2010.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0051.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks in developed nations dropped
3 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 4.4 percent
on speculation the European debt crisis will spread to larger
economies as the cost of insuring French debt rose to a record.
The S&P/TSX Composite Index gained 0.7 percent. Futures on crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, increased 4.5 percent to $82.89 a
barrel in New York after touching $83.14 earlier today.  Rally in Bonds  Government 10-year note yields dropped 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 2.33 percent after touching the record
low. The price of the 3.25 percent security due in June 2021
increased C$1.11 to C$108.05.  Canada sold C$3 billion ($3 billion) of three-year debt,
drawing an average yield of 0.965 percent. The government
received bids of C$6.55 billion for the 2.25 percent securities
maturing in August 2014, according to a statement today on the
Bank of Canada’s website.  The Canadian currency is heading for its third straight
weekly loss after climbing on July 26 to 94.07 cents per  U.S.
dollar , the strongest level in more than three years, as the
outlook for the global economy saps demand for risk assets.  The Fed pledged yesterday for the first time to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least through mid-
2013 to revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated.  Fed’s Statement  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is “prepared to employ”
additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by weak hiring
and anemic household spending, it said in a statement.  The U.S. central bank “left the impression that the near-
term outlook for the U.S. economy has become exceptionally
choppy,” said  David Watt , senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , by phone from Toronto.
“They’re going to be on hold for the next two years. It’s not
exactly the greatest vote of confidence in the potential for the
 U.S. economy  to stage a sharp rebound.”  Watt said that unlike the last time the Fed stepped in to
buoy market sentiment last year, with the announcement of a
second round of debt purchases under quantitative easing, the
global economy is now weaker, meaning commodity prices may
remain lower for longer as demand wanes.  “This time, the global economy is in much dicier shape,”
Watt said. “It’s unclear that the Fed alone is going to be
enough to stage a risk-sentiment reversal like it was last year.
If we want to see risk rebound, we’re probably going to need
more sandbags, or more central banks indicating that they’re
prepared to take action.”  RBC predicted the loonie will appreciate to 95 cents per
U.S. dollar by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in  New York  at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  