-- 
Canada Takeover Reviews to Stay Political, Norton Rose Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-08-10T21:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/canada-politics-to-remain-in-foreign-takeover-reviews-norton-rose-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will keep using political considerations in reviewing
foreign takeovers, even after winning a majority government
earlier this year, according to a  report  by a former aide.  Harper’s decision last year to block the takeover of Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer
company, by Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  was largely driven
by his government’s “desire to remain in power,” Derek Burney
said in a report written for law firm Norton Rose OR LLP. Burney
headed Harper’s transition team when his Conservative Party came
to power in 2006, and was also a Canadian ambassador to the U.S.  “The lack of predictability does not serve the interests
of foreign investors or Canadian businesses,” according to the
report, which recommends high-profile transactions in  Canada  use
“a mix of legal, political and public relations strategy” to
win approval.  The BHP bid for Potash was opposed by Saskatchewan Premier
Brad Wall. The federal Conservatives hold 13 of the province’s
14 districts in the House of Commons.  Harper, who won his first parliamentary majority in May
elections, has rejected accusations the Potash decision was
politically motivated, saying in March the acquisition was
blocked because of “unique circumstances,” and not a
reflection of the country’s openness to foreign investment.  ‘Dynamics May Change’  “Now that Mr. Harper has a majority government, some of
the dynamics may change, but political interests will likely
remain a key driver in regard to foreign investment review
decisions,” according to the report, which was co-written with
 Norton Rose  lawyer Kevin Ackhurst.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis, who oversees foreign
takeover reviews, said in an e-mail the government welcomes
investment from abroad that benefits Canada.  “Foreign investment provides new opportunities for
Canadian firms to connect to the world,” Paradis said.  Claude Gravelle, a member of the main opposition  New
Democratic Party , said the Conservatives are reluctant to bring
more clarity to the country’s investment legislation because the
current system lets them politicize decisions. Gravelle
introduced legislation last year that would force the government
to consult the House of Commons Industry Committee about
reviews.  The Conservatives are “not really interested in making any
changes,” Gravelle said in a telephone interview, because they
use acquisitions as a “political football.”  Net Benefit  Canada currently reviews any foreign takeover worth about
C$312 million ($315 million) or more to determine whether it
provides a net benefit to the country in terms of employment,
investment, competition and other factors. After the Potash
decision, then-Industry Minister  Tony Clement  promised new
guidelines to provide foreign investors more clarity on how the
rules are applied.  The prospects for legislative change or policy guidance
“appears to be dimming,” the Norton Rose report said.  Asked on April 1 about whether the government plans to
release new guidelines, Harper said the existing net benefit
test “is actually detailed in some degree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  