-- 
HSBC to Reap $2.4 Billion Gain From Sale of U.S. Card Unit to Capital One

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-10T10:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/capital-one-to-buy-hsbc-card-unit-for-2-6-billion-premium-to-expand-loans.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, will reap a $2.4 billion after-tax gain from the sale of
its U.S. credit card division to  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  as
the lender focuses on growth in emerging markets.  Capital One will pay a $2.6 billion premium to the
division’s loans to customers, for a total price of about $32.7
billion, London-based HSBC said in a statement today. The
acquisition will add to Capital One’s earnings in 2013, the
McLean, Virginia-based bank said separately.  The purchase will allow Capital One, which acquired ING
Groep NV’s U.S. online bank in June, to expand even as slowing
U.S. growth caps loan demand. The deal partly unpicks HSBC’s
2003 purchase of U.S. subprime lender  Household International 
and takes HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  a step
closer to the goal he set out in May of targeting the lender’s
capital on faster-growing markets.  “This transaction shows that Gulliver is executing his
strategy, easing doubts in the market,”  Dominic Chan , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA who rates HSBC as a
“buy,” said by telephone. “HSBC can redeploy the freed up
capital to emerging markets and U.S. commercial banking.”  The U.K. lender has this year agreed to sell almost half
its U.S. outlets for about $1 billion, sold assets in  Russia  and
said it will shut branches in  Poland . The bank also plans to cut
30,000 jobs by the end of 2013 to pare costs.  Stocks Advance  HSBC was little changed at 545.1 pence as of 11 a.m. in
 London  trading, for a market value of about 97.7 billion pounds
($159 billion). The stock has tumbled 16 percent this year.
Capital One Financial advanced 7.2 percent to 27.97 euros in
Munich trading.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised HSBC on the sale, while Morgan
Stanley, Centerview Partners LLC, and the Kessler Group acted as
financial advisers to Capital One.  The sale would reduce HSBC’s risk-weighted assets by about
$40 billion under U.K. rules. Together with the $2.4 billion
gain, the sale will boost HSBC’s core Tier 1 capital, a measure
of financial strength to 11.4 percent from 10.8 percent. Capital
One said it’s paying an 8.75 percent premium on the receivables.  Capital One may raise about $1.25 billion in capital, and
will make a final decision on the amount and timing partly based
on when its pending acquisitions are completed, the  U.S. bank 
said. The lender also has the option to sell $750 million of
shares to HSBC at $39.23 apiece as part of that fund-raising
plan, it said. Capital One said it expects restructuring charges
of about $420 million.  The deal includes HSBC’s private label, or store-branded
cards, and excludes HSBC Bank USA’s $1.1 billion credit card
business, the British bank said. The gross assets of the
business were about $30.4 billion as of June 30, it said.  Subprime Lender  That private-label portfolio represents about 14 percent of
the market, making it third-largest in the U.S. behind  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and Citigroup Inc., said  David Robertson , publisher
of the Nilson Report, a payment-industry trade publication.  “Capital One’s specialty has always been trying to find
the profitable revolving-credit customer,” said Robertson.
“The private-label credit card portfolio will give them an
increased ability to do that.”  HSBC acquired the credit card unit as part of its $15.5
billion purchase of Household International, now known as HSBC
Finance. In 2009, HSBC halted consumer-finance lending at the
unit, which has contributed to more than $63 billion of
provisions in  North America , according to Bloomberg data.  The business, while being profitable, is “non-strategic”
and a sale will depend on whether the bank achieves a “sensible
price,” HSBC’s Gulliver, 52,  told investors  in May.  The U.K. lender agreed on July 31 to sell its upstate  New
York  branch network to First Niagara Financial Group Inc. for
about $1 billion. The price amounted to a 6.7 percent premium
for the $15 billion of deposits along with 195 branches in New
York and Connecticut that were sold, according to HSBC’s
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  