-- 
Cathay Pacific Reports Better-Than-Expected Profit on Fuel-Hedging Gains

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-10T10:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cathay-pacific-s-first-half-operating-profit-tumbles-44-on-jet-fuel-costs.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s
largest international carrier, posted better-than-expected
first-half earnings as hedging and surcharges eased higher fuel
costs.  Operating profit before non-recurring items fell 44 percent
to HK$2.8 billion ($359 million) from HK$5 billion a year
earlier, the Hong Kong-based carrier said in a statement today.
That surpassed the HK$1.9 billion median of five analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Net income dropped 59
percent to HK$2.8 billion after asset sales a year earlier.  The carrier booked HK$2.2 billion of fuel-hedging gains and
it imposed levies on cargo and passenger flights to help offset
a 39 percent jump in jet-kerosene prices. The airline also
announced an order for 12 long-haul Boeing Co. passenger planes
and freighters as Asia’s economic growth spurs demand.  “The company’s fuel-hedging gain was better-than-
expected,” said Andrew Orchard, an analyst with Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “It’s also surprising to see the cargo
business hold up pretty well.”  Cathay, the world’s largest international freight carrier,
boosted first-half sales 13 percent to HK$46.8 billion. Cargo
revenue rose 7.7 percent, even as volumes declined 4.4 percent.  Business-Class Cabins  Passenger yields rose 12 percent helped by fuel surcharges
and demand for premium-class seats. John Slosar, who took over
as chief executive officer in March, is overseeing the roll-out
of new business-class cabins to help the carrier compete with
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  for executive travelers.  Cathay and unit Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. carried a
total of 13.2 million passengers in the first half, 1.7 percent
more than a year earlier. The carrier also booked a larger
profit contribution from its stake in Air  China  Ltd., according
to the statement.  “Asia is doing well, China is continuing to doing well and
we benefit from that,” Chairman Christopher Pratt told
reporters in Hong Kong.  Passenger demand has so far withstood global economic
concerns, he said. Cargo is more vulnerable to a slowdown as it
is more reliant on U.S. and European demand, he said. Freight
demand was “appreciably weaker” in the second quarter than the
first, according to the statement.  The airline rose 0.4 percent to HK$16.34 in early afternoon
trading in  Hong Kong , reversing earlier losses. It was then
suspended along with other companies that made announcements
during the lunchtime trading break because of a fault with the
stock exchange’s website.  The company declared an interim dividend of 18 Hong Kong
cents per share, compared with 33 Hong Kong cents a year earlier.  Fuel-Hedging Gains  Cathay booked HK$962 million in realized fuel-hedging gains
and HK$1.2 billion in unrealized mark-to-market gains in the
first half. Realized gains refer to contracts that have already
been used to buy fuel. Unrealized ones are still outstanding and
their value will change in line with fluctuations in fuel prices.  The carrier has covered about 30 percent of fuel needs for
this year with hedging contracts and about 20 percent of 2012’s
requirements, Finance Director James Hughes-Hallett said at the
press briefing.  Excluding hedging, Cathay’s fuel costs rose 49.5 percent in
the first half because of higher prices and increased flights.  The carrier’s plane order comprised four Boeing 777-300ER
passenger planes and eight 777-200 freighters. The aircraft have
a combined list price of $3.3 billion. Carriers usually get
discounts for large orders. Singapore Airlines also today
announced an order for eight 777-300ERs.  Cathay operated 170 planes at the end of June, including at
a venture with DHL. It received six new aircraft in the first
half of 2011. It is due to get eight planes in the second half,
including five 747-8 freighters.  In total, the airline has 97 new aircraft on order,
comprising 79 widebody passenger planes and 18 freighters,
following today’s announcements. The order book stretches
through to 2019, according to a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  