-- 
Central Bankers Worldwide Race to Save Growth in 72 Hours of Policymaking

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-11T20:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/central-bankers-become-tower-of-strength-amid-debt-turmoil.html
Central bankers are racing to shield
their economies from fiscal tightening and lopsided currency
swings that threaten a new global recession.  In the 72 hours after a Group of Seven conference call on
Aug. 7, the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep interest rates near
zero through at least mid-2013, the  European Central Bank 
intervened in bond markets and the  Bank of England  indicated
it’s ready to add more stimulus if needed.  Japan  signaled
renewed concern about the yen and Switzerland yesterday stepped
up its fight to curb an “overvalued” franc.  “Central bankers have so far been the tower of strength,”
said Stefan Schneider, chief international economist at Deutsche
Bank AG in Frankfurt. “Lawmakers have done everything to
destroy belief in their ability to solve the problems they’re
facing.”  Today, the  Bank of Korea  kept interest rates unchanged for
a second month.  Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-7 nations,
which include the U.S., U.K. and  Germany , said in a statement
Aug. 7 that they will “take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth in a spirit of close cooperation
and confidence.”  The next day, the Frankfurt-based ECB, which last week
restarted its bond-purchase program after an 18-week hiatus,
extended its focus to include debt of Italy and  Spain , the
region’s third- and fourth-largest economies.  Key Interest Rate  The Fed’s decision Aug. 9 to hold its key interest rate at
a record low through mid-2013 and signal it’s ready to use
additional tools comes as U.S. politicians are tightening the
nation’s fiscal belt and the economic stimulus enacted by
President Barack Obama in 2009 comes to an end.  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King told reporters in
 London  yesterday that headwinds buffeting the nation’s economy
are intensifying “by the day” and officials can expand
stimulus if the outlook for growth deteriorates further.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said Aug. 9 that
volatile exchange rates could have a “negative impact” on the
economy, after the central bank last week added 10 trillion yen
($130 billion) of stimulus and the country unilaterally
intervened in the  currency market  to weaken the yen.  Switzerland ’s central bank said yesterday it will increase
the supply of francs to fight the currency’s “massive
overvaluation.”  Broad Push  While the actions aren’t as directly coordinated, the push
is one of the broadest since the Fed, ECB and four other central
banks cut interest rates together in October 2008 to limit
fallout from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse.  “Central banks are trying to get their act together,”
said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., the world’s largest manager of bond
funds.  “But we have to recognize that what they do is necessary
but not sufficient,” El-Erian said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “We need other
agencies, whether in the U.S. or in  Europe , to get their act
together.”  Stock markets have delivered a mixed verdict so far. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank today by 0.6 percent. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, which has fallen in 11 of the last 14 days,
rose 4.6 percent to 1,172.64 in  New York .  European stocks also gained, with the Stoxx Europe 600
Index surging the most since May 2010, as investors speculated
that recent losses have overestimated the slowdown in the pace
of economic growth. The Stoxx 600 jumped 3.2 percent to 230.57,
its biggest rally in 15 months. Even so, the gauge has fallen 21
percent since its highest level this year on Feb. 17.  Deficit Reduction  U.S. fiscal spending will decline by $42 billion in the
budget year starting Oct. 1, 2012, twice the amount during the
prior 12 months, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .
The deficit reduction package enacted on Aug. 2 calls for
slicing the deficit by at least $2.1 trillion over 10 years.  Randall Kroszner, a former Fed governor, said central banks
must consider the effects of fiscal tightening when making
decisions about how to aid their economies.  “It is wise to be doing this kind of risk management
because economic conditions have become more fragile,” he said.  With euro-region governments failing to act swiftly enough
to stop contagion from  Greece ’s fiscal meltdown, it has fallen
to ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet to battle a crisis that’s
now threatening the survival of the euro. The ECB has lifted its
benchmark  interest rate  twice this year, to 1.5 percent to fight
inflation.  Balance Sheet  Buying Italian and Spanish debt may require the ECB to
massively expand its balance sheet and open it to accusations of
bailing out profligate nations, breaching a key principle in the
euro’s founding treaty and undermining its credibility. Within
the ECB’s ranks, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann voted
against the resumption of the program; he was joined by  Juergen Stark , Germany’s representative on the ECB’s Executive Board and
representatives from the Netherlands and Luxembourg.  In the U.S., Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the
central bank may consider a third round of large-scale asset
purchases, even after the first two rounds totaling $2.3
trillion failed to secure sufficient job growth and sustain the
two-year-old recovery. This week’s decision to leave its
benchmark interest rate near zero through at least mid-2013
provoked three dissents from policy makers, the most opposition
since Bernanke took office in 2006.  Even as they take action, central bankers “don’t know the
panacea” and have disagreement within their ranks, Deutsche
Bank’s Schneider said. “It’s increasingly unclear who can stop
this spiral.”  Great Depression  A scholar of the Great Depression, Bernanke said last year
that among the lessons learned from the financial collapse of
the 1930s is that “policy makers must respond forcefully,
creatively and decisively” and that “crises that are
international in scope require an international response.”  “The wheels of fiscal change grind slowly, but central
bankers can act more quickly” to address economic obstacles,
said Alan Levenson, vice president and chief economist at T.
Rowe Price Associates Inc. in Baltimore, which manages $521
billion in assets. “Central bankers are more nimble in breaking
the negative feedback loop that’s developed between financial
markets and the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  