-- 
Lost, Found IPhone Prototype Leads to 2 Arrests, Gizmodo Employees Cleared

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-10T19:57:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/charges-filed-over-lost-iphone-prototype-county-prosecutor-says.html
Two California residents were
charged with criminal misdemeanors for recovering a lost  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone 4 prototype last year and selling it to a technology
blog, the San Mateo County District Attorney’s office said.  Brian Hogan , 22, of  Redwood City  and Sage Wallower, 28, of
Emeryville each face one count of misappropriation of lost
property. Wallower also was charged with possession of stolen
property, District Attorney Stephen M. Wagstaffe said today in a
statement.  Apple engineer  Gray Powell  had left the mobile phone
prototype in a Redwood City bar in March 2010. Technology
website Gizmodo.com later bought it for $5,000 and returned it
to Apple in response to a request by the Cupertino, California-
based company’s legal counsel.  Hogan and Wallower are scheduled to be arraigned Aug. 25,
Wagstaffe said. No charges have been filed against employees of
Gizmodo, a unit of Gawker Media, he said.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on the charges and deferred to the  district attorney ’s
statement.  Gizmodo wrote about the iPhone prototype after
disassembling it. The site said it wasn’t certain the phone was
legitimate until receiving the letter from Apple lawyer Bruce Sewell on April 19.  The letter requested the return of “a device that belongs
to Apple.” Gizmodo said it returned the prototype to the
company that same day.  Prototype Found  If convicted, Hogan and Wallower face as long as one year
in prison, San Mateo County Assistant District Attorney Morley
Pitt said today in a phone interview.  Hogan found the prototype and later collaborated with
Wallower on its sale to Gizmodo, the prosecutor said.  “If they recovered the phone and never did anything with
it, it wouldn’t have been a crime,” Pitt said, explaining that
the defendants had no legal obligation to return it to Apple.  Hogan has no prior criminal record, his lawyer, Jeff Bornstein, said today in an e-mailed statement responding to the
charges. Bornstein said his client is “extremely remorseful”
about not having returned the phone when he found it.  ‘Fully Accepts Responsibility’  “Although we do not believe that charges of any kind
should have been filed, Brian fully accepts responsibility for
his actions,” said Bornstein, a partner in the San Francisco
office of Pittsburgh-based K&L Gates LLP. “We are working
cooperatively with the district attorney to resolve this
misdemeanor charge promptly.”  Pitt said he didn’t have contact information for Wallower’s
attorney.  The district attorney’s office declined to file charges
against Gizmodo’s staff after attempting to determine where its
constitutional right to freedom of the press ends and criminal
law begins, an issue that Pitt said was “unresolved.”  “We concluded this was not the case to press that issue,”
said Pitt.  Gawker, on its Gizmodo website, posted a  statement  saying
it was pleased with Wagstaffe’s decision.  “While we have always believed that we were acting fully
within the law,” the company said, “it has inevitably been
stressful for the editor concerned,  Jason Chen , and we are glad
that we can finally put this matter behind us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  