-- 
Cheap Shale Gas Means Record U.S. Chemical Industry Growth

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-08-10T21:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cheap-shale-gas-means-record-u-s-chemical-industry-expansion.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  spent a decade
moving chemical production to the  Middle East  and Asia. Now it’s
leading the biggest expansion ever seen back home in the U.S. as
shale gas revives the industry’s economics.  Dow is among companies planning to build crackers,
industrial plants typically costing $1.5 billion apiece that
process hydrocarbons into ethylene and other synthetic
materials. The new crackers will be the first to be built in the
U.S. since 2001 and the largest wave of additional capacity,
 John Stekla , a director at Chemical Market Associates Inc., a
Houston-based consultant, said in an interview.  Driving this renaissance is the plunge in the price of
natural gas, used in crackers as a raw material, to a nine-year
low. New drilling methods are opening up vast shale formations
from  Texas  to West Virginia. U.S. chemical investments stemming
from shale gas may top $16 billion, creating 17,000 jobs
directly and another 400,000 indirectly, according to the
American Chemistry Council, a Washington-based industry group.  “The U.S. now has investment-grade economics, and because
of shale we are going to lock those economics in,” Dow Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said. “We can grow our
Americas base off our U.S. Gulf Coast assets. That is a big
change.”  Dow will spend about $4 billion to construct a cracker near
the Gulf Coast by 2017, reopen another in Louisiana, and build
two propylene plants, Liveris said in a July 8 telephone
interview from Dow’s Midland,  Michigan , headquarters. That
investment will supply ingredients for Dow plants making high-
margin products such as paint additives and automotive plastics.  Appalachian Plant  Occidental Chemical Co., Chevron Phillips Chemical Co. and
 Formosa Plastics Corp. (1301)  have said in the past nine months they
too may build crackers on the Gulf Coast, while  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB)  may invest in one.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said in
June it plans to build a cracker in Appalachia, the region’s
first in half a century.  Shuttered crackers also are being reopened by companies
such as  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN) , and others are being expanded.  The flurry of announcements contrasts with the woes
previously inflicted by volatile energy prices on the industry,
culminating in LyondellBasell’s January 2009 bankruptcy filing.
U.S. gas prices surged from about $2 per million British thermal
units at the start of the decade to more than $14 in 2005. Gas
for September delivery climbed 0.9 cent, or 0.2 percent, to
$4.003 per million British thermal units as of 5:15 p.m. on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Saudi Arabia   Liveris, who cut 10,000 jobs during the recession, shut
three ethylene plants in  Louisiana  as he hastened his plan to
move chemical operations to  Kuwait  and Saudi Arabia, where gas
prices were cheaper.  U.S. chemical-industry employment fell to 782,000 from a
peak of 1.1 million in 1981, Kevin Swift, chief economist for
the American Chemistry Council, said in an interview.  Dow, the world’s biggest maker of ethylene and
polyethylene, employs 25,000 people in the U.S. The company will
add 500 manufacturing and 2,500 construction jobs with its Gulf
Coast expansion, said Liveris, who President Barack Obama
appointed in June to co-chair the Advanced Manufacturing
Partnership, which is tasked with improving U.S. manufacturing
competitiveness.  Plentiful Gas  Increased U.S. gas production has helped create a cost
advantage over producers in Europe and  Asia , where
petrochemicals are made primarily from oil derivatives. Shale
gas may account for 47 percent of total U.S. gas production in
2035, up from 16 percent in 2009, according to the Energy
Information Administration.  “Everyone called the U.S. commodity chemical industry dead
a few years ago,”  Mark Demos , who helps manage $18 billion as a
 fund manager  at Fifth Third Asset Management in Minneapolis,
said in an interview. “All the sudden, with plentiful natural
gas, the margin story in commodity chemicals looks pretty
favorable.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization at Dow’s basic plastics business jumped 75 percent
to $2.91 billion in 2010. Dow is on track to top that figure
this year, earning $1.56 billion in the first half.
LyondellBasell’s operating income from plastics and related
materials surged 12-fold to $1.89 billion last year and was
$1.11 billion in the first six months of 2011.  Gas Advantage  The gas advantage could help Dow and LyondellBasell
earnings triple from their 2010 level,  Robert Koort , a Houston-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a report. All
12 analysts following LyondellBasell, which gets two-thirds of
its revenue from commodity chemicals, rate the shares “buy.”  Still, environmental concerns may lead the government to
restrict shale-gas drilling, which in turn could drive gas
prices higher. Restrictions on exploration in New York and parts
of  Pennsylvania  have increased chemical producers’ anxieties
about their new plants, Peter Oosterveer, president of energy
and chemicals at Fluor Corp., which builds crackers, said in an
interview.  Food & Water Watch and the Natural Resources Defense
Council are among environmental groups seeking full or partial
bans on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which releases gas
from shale-rock formations. The process, in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
free the gas, can contaminate drinking water, the groups say.
The American Chemistry Council, which is funded by chemical
producers, supports state-level  oversight  of fracking to address
the public’s concerns.  Port Expansion  Demand may not support all the crackers currently on the
drawing board, Oosterveer said. The price tag for each plant
typically doubles once infrastructure and downstream plants that
make polyethylene and polypropylene are included, he said.  Meanwhile, the shift in the industry is already being felt
at the Port of  New Orleans , which is expanding after chemical
exports jumped 34 percent last year, Chris Bonura, a port
spokesman, said in an interview.  U.S. exports of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC plastic, have
tripled since 2006, said Paul Carrico, CEO of  Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) 
More than 20 percent of plastics output was exported last year,
double the level recorded before the recession, Swift said. U.S.
chemical exports exceeded imports last year for the first time
in a decade, he said.  Shale gas has been a “game changer,” Swift said. “The
U.S. has emerged as a low-cost producer of many of these
products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  