-- 
Checkpoint Willing to Meet as Investor MMI Seeks Talks

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   K e v i n   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-10T22:37:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/checkpoint-willing-to-meet-as-investor-mmi-seeks-talks-1-.html
Checkpoint Systems Inc. (CKP)  said it’s
willing to meet with shareholder MMI Investments LP, which says
the maker of barcode labeling systems is undervalued and should
consider selling itself.  MMI sent a letter to Checkpoint’s board urging a review and
saying its attempts to meet had been spurned, the  investment
company  said in a statement earlier today. Philadelphia-based
Checkpoint responded that it has previously offered to meet with
MMI, subject to a confidentiality agreement.  “Checkpoint is significantly undervalued given its strong
products, technology, market positions, and customer
relationships,” New York-based MMI said in its statement.
“Correcting that undervaluation will take more than the status
quo.”  Checkpoint shares have declined 27 percent in the past year
and have underperformed the Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Index
and SmallCap Information Technology Index over the past five
years, according to Bloomberg data. Checkpoint declined 41
cents, or 2.9 percent, to $13.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  MMI’s letter to the Checkpoint board said the hedge fund
has held Checkpoint shares for about 10 years and plans to file
a  Schedule 13D  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
which is required when a person or group acquires more than 5
percent of a company’s voting shares.  Hire Banker  MMI said it has recommended that Checkpoint hire an
investment banker to “explore strategic alternatives” for the
company. Checkpoint shares could sell in the “low-to-mid $20s”
to a financial buyer, and “well above that” in a purchase by a
strategic acquirer, the letter said.  Checkpoint said in its statement that it’s willing to talk
about MMI’s ideas if the investor agrees to a confidentiality
agreement, or to discuss publicly available information if it
doesn’t sign one.  “We are committed to maintaining an open dialogue with all
shareholders and to resolving any misunderstanding with MMI,”
the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  