-- 
Chelsea May Offer Benayoun to Tottenham for Luka Modric: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-08-10T09:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/chelsea-may-offer-benayoun-to-spurs-for-modric-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
websites.  Benayoun Bait  Chelsea may offer midfielder  Yossi Benayoun  to Tottenham to
push through the signing of Luka Modric,  the Daily Mail said .  The 31-year-old Israeli moved to Chelsea last year, and
Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  has admired him for years, the
newspaper said. Tottenham has rejected two bids from Chelsea for
Modric and wants to keep the Croatian national team player for
at least one more season, the Mail said.  Nasri’s Price  Arsenal is willing to sell Samir Nasri to  Manchester City 
for 22 million pounds ($36 million),  the Mirror said.   Gunners’ coach Arsene Wenger realizes that Nasri won’t
extend his contract, which expires at the end of the season, and
opened talks with City, the newspaper said. City may pay 15
million pounds plus another 7 million pounds in performance-
based payments, the Mirror said.  Hulk’s Future  Tottenham may try to sign Porto striker Hulk for 35 million
pounds ($57 million),  the Mail said.   Spurs are willing to break their transfer record -- 17
million pounds paid for David Bentley -- to bring in the 25-
year-old Brazilian, the newspaper said. Porto may not want to
sell since another of its strikers, Radamel Falcao, is likely to
move to  Atletico Madrid , the Mail said.  Bamba for Blackburn  Blackburn may try to sign Leicester defender Sol Bamba for
3 million pounds,  the Sun said.   The 26-year-old Ivory Coast national team member is also
wanted by Valencia and Getafe, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 