-- 
Chile Traders See End of Tightening Cycle as Inflation Eases

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T14:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/chile-traders-see-end-of-tightening-cycle-as-inflation-eases-1-.html
Chile  may have reached the end of
its monetary policy tightening cycle as inflation expectations
decline and economic growth slows, according to a  bi-weekly
survey  of traders and investors released by the central bank.  The benchmark interest rate will remain at 5.25 percent in
two years, according to the median estimate of 60 respondents in
the survey posted on the bank’s website. In the previous survey,
traders and investors forecast rates to reach 5.5 percent in
three months and 5.75 percent in six months.  Inflation and growth in Chile are easing after policy
makers raised lending costs at 12 of their past 14 monthly
meetings and as the U.S. and European debt crises threaten to
restrain global demand. The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged
yesterday to keep rates near zero through mid-2013.  “The international scenario is the only thing that has
changed and that is causing the new expectations,” Matias  Madrid , an economist at Banco Penta said by phone from Santiago.  In a separate monthly survey released by the central bank
today, the median forecast of 65 economists was for gross
domestic product to increase by 5.3 percent in the third
quarter, down from 5.5 percent in the previous survey.
Economists in today’s survey forecast  interest rates  to reach
5.5 percent by December and 5.75 percent by January 2013.  Smallest Increase  Chile’s consumer prices climbed 0.1 percent in July from
June, the smallest increase this year, the National Statistics
Institute said in a report released Aug. 8.  Inflation will remain at 0.1 percent in August while annual
price rises will reach 3 percent in 12 months, according to
today’s survey of traders and investors. The median estimate for
annual price gains in the previous survey was 3.2 percent.  Policy makers, who kept rates unchanged in July after
raising them for five straight months, will consider the
deterioration in the global economic climate at their next
meeting on Aug. 18, bank President Jose De Gregorio said
yesterday in an interview with Radio Cooperativa.  Chile’s two-year breakeven inflation this week fell below
the 3 percent midpoint of the central bank’s inflation target
for the first time since Oct. 12, slumping to 2.73 percent at
10:00 a.m. New York time today from 3.05 percent on Aug. 5.  Chile’s one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of future rates, has slumped to 4.96 percent
today from 5.62 percent when policy markers last met on July 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  