-- 
China’s Trade Surplus Surges to Two-Year High as Exports Exceed Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-10T03:42:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/china-s-trade-surplus-surges-to-two-year-high-as-exports-exceed-estimates.html
China ’s trade surplus surged to
$31.5 billion in July, the highest level in more than two years,
as exports rose to a record.  Outbound shipments climbed 20.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with the 17 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 25 economists. Imports climbed 22.9 percent, the
customs bureau said on its website today. The surplus exceeded a
median forecast of $27.4 billion.  The world’s biggest exporting nation faces the threat of
weakening demand as developed nations from Europe to the U.S.
and  Japan  struggle to rein in their debt burdens. The U.S.
Federal Reserve countered a global rout in stocks by pledging
yesterday to keep  interest rates  at a record low through mid-
2013 and to use additional measures “as appropriate.”  “The turmoil in global financial markets hasn’t hit China’s
trade sector yet,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist
with Societe Generale SA. “The real challenge is ahead.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened 0.5
percent to 6.3684 per dollar in Hong Kong as of 11:38 a.m. local
time, set for the biggest gain since November on the trade
figures and the Fed’s statement. The yuan touched a 17-year high
of 6.4120 today.  Exports were $175.1 billion and imports were $143.6 billion.
Import growth compared with a median 22 percent estimate and a
19.3 percent increase the previous month. The export gain
compared with a 17.9 percent gain in June.  Export Markets  China’s trade surplus, a cause of friction with trading
partners including the U.S., was $22.3 billion in June and $28.7
billion in July 2010.  “Weaker growth in the U.S. and  Europe  means weaker growth
in exports in China,”  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist for
UBS AG said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.  Container-shipping rates have fallen on Asia-U.S. and Asia-
Europe routes as the global fleet expands and demand cools.
China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-
bulk ships, said yesterday that it probably made a loss in the
first half, partly because of rising fuel costs.  Singapore cut today its forecast for export growth this
year, saying that risks have increased amid “sluggish” growth
in developed economies.  Market sentiment remains fragile in the
European Union amid concern that a debt crisis will spread from
peripheral economies, the trade ministry said.  “Concerns of a double-dip recession in the U.S. have
emerged, as upcoming plans for fiscal consolidation and weak
labor and housing markets dampen consumer and business
sentiments,” it said.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Paul
Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  