-- 
China’s Trade Surplus Surges to $31.5 Billion as Exports Exceed Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-10T07:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/china-s-trade-surplus-surges-to-31-5-billion-as-exports-exceed-estimates.html
China’s  trade surplus  surged to
$31.5 billion, the highest level in more than two years, as 
exports rose to a record.  Outbound shipments climbed 20.4 percent from a year earlier
in July, compared with the 17 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists. Imports jumped 22.9
percent, the customs bureau said on its website today. The
surplus exceeded a median forecast of $27.4 billion.  The world’s biggest exporting nation faces the threat of
weakening demand as developed nations from  Europe  to the U.S.
and Japan struggle to rein in their debt burdens. The U.S.
Federal Reserve countered a global rout in stocks by pledging
yesterday to keep interest rates at a record low through mid-
2013 and to use additional measures “as appropriate.”  “The turmoil in global financial markets hasn’t hit
 China ’s trade sector yet,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist with  Societe Generale  SA, who had the second most-
accurate trade surplus forecast of 24 economists in the survey.
“The real challenge is ahead.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened 0.6
percent to 6.3650 per dollar in Hong Kong as of 2:39 p.m. local
time, set for the biggest gain since October on the trade
figures and the Fed’s statement. The yuan touched a 17-year high
of 6.4120 today.  Exports were $175.1 billion and imports were $143.6 billion
last month, the customs bureau said. The expansion in imports
compared with a median 22 percent estimate and a 19.3 percent
increase the previous month.  Commodity Prices  The value of inbound shipments was boosted by higher global
commodity prices. Imports of  iron ore  in the first seven months
rose 7.9 percent to 390 million tons while average import prices
jumped 39.1 percent to $162.8 per ton, the customs bureau said.  Soybean imports jumped 24 percent to the highest level this
year, customs data show, as demand from hog farmers climbed as
expanded their herds. A supply shortage boosted retail pork
prices 57 percent in June and July from a year earlier. Net
imports of crude oil fell to the lowest in nine months as
refinery maintenance reduced demand.  Export growth, which accelerated for the first time in four
months, compared with a 17.9 percent gain in June and a 38
percent increase in July last year.  Japan  Recovery  “The export sector is benefiting from a V-shape recovery
in Japan and strong growth in emerging  Asia ,” Societe
Generale’s Yao said. Shipments to Japan jumped 27.2 percent in
July from a year earlier while sales to the U.S. rose 9.5
percent and those to the European Union climbed 22.3 percent,
customs data show.  China’s trade surplus, a cause of friction with trading
partners including the U.S., was $22.3 billion in June and $28.7
billion in July 2010. The gap for the first seven months of the
year was $76.2 billion compared with $83.9 billion in the same
period last year.  The surplus is boosting China’s record $3.2 trillion
foreign-exchange reserves and pushing more cash into the
nation’s financial system, complicating the central bank’s
efforts to rein in lending to cool inflation. The reserve
requirement for the nation’s biggest lenders has already risen
450 basis points to a record 21.5 percent since November and
 interest rates  have increased five times since mid October.  “The government is facing the challenge of weighing the
risk of accumulating foreign-exchange reserves that have nothing
attractive to invest in and the downside risks to growth and
exports as external uncertainties rise,” said Chang Jian, a
Hong Kong-based economist with  Barclays Capital .  Yuan Appreciation  The government is “likely to allow continued yuan
appreciation,” she said, as the trade surplus rebounds in the
second half. Chang forecasts the yuan will gain 5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  over the coming year.  Exports from other Asian nations are also proving resilient
amid faltering growth in Europe and the U.S.  South Korea ’s outbound shipments grew 27.3 percent last
month, the government said Aug. 1, rebounding from a 20-month
low and beating forecasts for a 17.1 percent gain. Taiwan’s
overseas shipments rose 17.6 percent in July to a record value,
double the median estimate.  Still,  Singapore  today cut its forecast for export growth
this year, saying that risks have increased amid “sluggish”
growth in developed economies. Market sentiment remains fragile
in the European Union amid concern that a debt crisis will
spread from peripheral economies, the trade ministry said.  Recession Worries  “Concerns of a double-dip recession in the U.S. have
emerged, as upcoming plans for fiscal consolidation and weak
labor and housing markets dampen consumer and business
sentiments,” it said.  U.S. quarterly economic expansion tends to lead China’s
export growth by about two quarters, according to Lu Ting, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “So the pain of U.S. growth deceleration could be
gradually felt by China exporters in the rest of this year and
early 2012,” he said. Lu estimates China’s export growth will
ease to 16 percent in the second half from 24 percent in the
first half, while the pace of expansion in imports will slow to
23 percent from 27.6 percent as commodity prices decline and
domestic growth moderates.  Container-shipping rates have fallen on Asia-U.S. and Asia-
Europe routes as the global fleet expands and demand cools.
China Cosco Holdings Co., the world’s largest operator of dry-
bulk ships, said yesterday that it probably made a loss in the
first half, partly because of rising fuel costs.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Paul
Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  