-- 
Christina Aguilera Records Lullaby for YUM Brands Hunger Drive

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/christina-aguilera-records-lullaby-for-yum-brands-hunger-relief-campaign.html
As famine ravages  Africa , Grammy
Award-winning vocalist  Christina Aguilera  has a new video geared
to helping the fight against world hunger.  It will show her singing a lullaby to a group of children
with lyrics that stress the need to care about people who don’t
have enough to eat.  The video stems from Aguilera’s work as a global
spokeswoman for YUM! Brands Inc., which owns thousands of KFC,
Taco Bell and  Pizza Hut  restaurants worldwide. The company set
up the public-service video, scheduled to air on U.S. television
beginning in September, as part of its 4-year-old campaign
against world hunger.  “After I had my son, Max, I knew I wanted to get involved
in causes that help children,” said Aguilera by e-mail about
her 3-year-old son. “When I learned how millions of children go
to bed hungry, my only response was, ‘What can I do to help?’”  Aguilera, a spokeswoman for YUM Brands’ World Hunger Relief
program since 2009, said, “We tried to incorporate a classic
lullaby but give it a new twist.” The company declined to
provide a title or lyrics for the song.  Aguilera has sold about 50 million albums worldwide and has
served as a co-star and coach on NBC’s “ The Voice .” Since
joining Yum Brands’ efforts, the 30-year-old  Staten Island ,  New
York , native has helped the company raise about $50 million.
Proceeds go to the  United Nations World Food Programme .  She will also appear in KFC, Pizza Hut and  Taco Bell  ads
promoting the hunger-relief campaign.  “Christina is an incredible humanitarian,” Jonathan Blum,
a YUM Brands senior vice president in Louisville,  Kentucky , said
by phone. “She’s using her status to create awareness for
hunger relief.”  Fast-Food Empire  The company is one of the world’s largest restaurant
operators, with 38,000 outlets in 110 countries. Its Harvest
program has donated more than $500 million of food to the hungry
in the U.S.  Since launching its World Hunger Relief initiative in
2007, it has raised about $85 million for the  World Food
Programme  and other relief organizations, Blum said.  As part of her ambassadorial work, Aguilera traveled to
 Haiti  last year after the January earthquake to observe hunger-
relief efforts firsthand, Blum said.  “In order to effect great change, we need to look at how
we can help those in our own communities as well as globally,”
Aguilera said. “We take food for granted, but it isn’t a luxury
for many people.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 