-- 
Cisco’s Profit Beats Estimates as Chambers Reins in Costs

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-08-10T23:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cisco-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the company reined in expenses while
refocusing on its high-margin routers and switches.  Excluding some costs, profit was 40 cents a share in the
fiscal fourth quarter, Cisco said today in a statement. Analysts
had predicted 38 cents on average, according to Bloomberg data.
Sales rose 3.3 percent to $11.2 billion in the period, which
ended July 30, compared with an estimate of $11 billion. Shares
jumped in late trading.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  is slimming down the
company amid slowing customer spending and increased competition
from  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Cisco has
fired workers and closed its Flip video camera unit to
concentrate on its main networking products. The cost cutting is
beginning to pay off, even as sales grow relatively slowly, said
 Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners in New York.  “You’ve got good cost controls on the earnings,” he said.
“It’s a company that’s going to be driving earnings twice as
fast as revenue.”  Sales will grow 1 percent to 4 percent in the current
quarter, Chambers said on a conference call. That equates to as
much as $11.2 billion. Analysts had predicted $10.9 billion.  Shares Gain  Cisco rose as much as $1.76, or 13 percent, to $15.49 in
extended trading after the report. The shares, down 32 percent
this year, had closed at $13.73 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Net income fell to $1.23 billion, or 22 cents a share, from
$1.94 billion, or 33 cents, a year earlier, the  San Jose ,
California-based company said. Cisco’s previously announced
reorganization expenses weighed on profit in the period.  Gross margin, the percentage of profit left after
subtracting production costs, was 62.7 percent last quarter. The
company had forecast 62 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating to AA+
from AAA last week, roiling stock markets. That had raised
concerns that technology spending will suffer. Central banks are
trying to prevent a new recession, with Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  vowing yesterday to keep borrowing costs at an
all-time low to revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower”
than expected.  Job Cuts  As part of a plan to reduce costs by $1 billion next year,
Cisco said July 18 that it would eliminate 6,500 workers through
firings and an early retirement program. It also sold a factory
in  Mexico . Cisco recorded pretax restructuring costs and other
charges of $772 million last quarter.  “While I wish we had never had to go through this, it
clearly was time for a fundamental change at Cisco,” Chambers
said today on the call. “I feel very confident about Q1 in
terms of what we can control and influence and we have built
some conservatism into it.”  Cisco is making the cuts as rivals gain market share in
both routing and switching, which combined made up half of the
company’s revenue last year. Cisco’s share of worldwide
switching revenue dropped 5.8 percentage points to 68.5 percent,
and its share of router sales dropped 6.4 percentage points to
54.2 percent, according to a May report from Dell’Oro Group.
Hewlett-Packard gained switching share, while Juniper added
share in the router market.  Cisco’s results are seen as a bellwether for the technology
industry because its switches and routers dominate the market.
Organizations buy the switches to direct  Internet traffic  on
their networks, while phone and internet-service providers rely
on the company’s routers.  “Even in a weak economy, there’s strong demand for Cisco’s
products,” Gillis said. “They’re right smack in the middle of
the growth of the Internet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  