-- 
Clearwire Names Prusch to CEO as Stanton Becomes Chairman

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-10T21:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/clearwire-surges-after-naming-promoting-prusch-to-president-ceo.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  promoted Erik Prusch
to president and chief executive officer as the unprofitable
wireless provider aims to narrow losses and switch strategy by
adopting a competing high-speed technology.  Interim CEO John Stanton will become executive chairman,
Kirkland, Washington-based Clearwire said in a statement. The
changes follow the March departure of former CEO Bill Morrow and
other executives.  Prusch takes the top job as losses make it difficult for
the company to raise cash needed to build out its network.
Credit rating agency  Standard & Poor’s  recently said the company
will run out of cash next year. Clearwire has cut jobs and put
off projects amid a funding shortfall that may worsen if its
largest shareholder,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , stops reselling its
broadband service to use an alternate provider.  Clearwire’s shares rose 2 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $1.44
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock
had surged as much as 18 percent, the biggest gain since June
2009, before retreating amid a broader stock market swoon. The
stock has lost 72 percent this year.  Prusch joined Clearwire in 2009 as chief financial officer,
and has led efforts to raise more than $6 billion in equity and
debt. He was promoted to chief operating officer in March.
Before joining Clearwire, Prusch was president and CEO of
Borland Software, where he led the company’s restructuring and
its return to profitability.  Loss Expanded  Clearwire’s second-quarter net loss expanded to $168.7
million, or $1.01 per share, from $125.9 million, or 61 cents, a
year earlier, the company said in a statement last week. Revenue
more than doubled to $322.6 million, from $117 million.  The company, which currently provides high-speed wireless
service using a technology called WiMax, plans to spend about
$600 million to add so-called long-term evolution technology to
its network.  Sprint now buys wireless capacity from Clearwire and
resells it to customers under a wholesale agreement. Sprint
accounts for almost all of the current wholesale subscriber
base, Clearwire has said.  Sprint struck a 15-year deal with LightSquared Inc. to
share network expansion costs and equipment, which included
Sprint receiving credits valued at about $4.5 billion to acquire
capacity on the wireless network LightSquared is building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  