-- 
Commerzbank Profit Tumbles 93% to $34 Million on Writedown of Greek Debt

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-08-10T07:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/commerzbank-profit-drops-93-on-greek-debt.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-
largest lender, said quarterly profit slumped 93 percent after
writing down the value of Greek bond holdings.  Net income fell to 24 million euros ($34.4 million) in the
three months to June 30, from 352 million in the year-earlier
period, the Frankfurt-based bank said today in a statement. That
missed the 34.4 million-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares rose the most in three months
as operating profit at the “core bank” more than doubled.  Commerzbank booked 760 million euros of impairments on
Greek sovereign bonds as European banks write down their
holdings as part of a deal to help bail out the country. The
gain in operating profit countered yesterday’s announcement that
Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  plans to leave when his
contract expires in March.  “The earnings were very positive if you strip out the
Greek writedown,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets who recommends buying the shares.
“It’s never good to unexpectedly lose a CFO, but at least he is
staying until next year and it appears he wasn’t fired and is
leaving for personal reasons.”  Commerzbank rose as much as 9.7 percent and was up 5.8
percent to 2.26 euros as of 9:15 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The
stock is the worst performer on Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) 
this year, slumping 49 percent. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s
largest lender, fell 19 percent in the same period.  Earnings Targets  The bank said today that the debt crisis has hurt the
stability of markets, a precondition of reaching its full-year
earnings targets.  “The targets set in the year 2009 are still conditional
upon stable markets, which we are presently only seeing to a
restricted extent owing to the sovereign debt crisis,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said in the statement. “A
return to more stable markets is dependent on how the current
crisis develops.”  The bank follows BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank and other
European lenders in writing down holdings of Greek sovereign
debt after signing the  Institute of International Finance ’s
rescue proposal last month. The plan requires investors to take
an average 21 percent loss on holdings that mature by 2020.  “We also carried on reducing our holding of securities
from the peripheral countries of the  euro zone  and we intend to
continue to pursue this reduction strategy,” Blessing said.  Sovereign Risk  Commerzbank cut its sovereign risks related to  Greece  to
2.2 billion euros as of June 30, from 3 billion euros six months
earlier, the bank said. Italian risk was cut 10 percent to 8.7
billion euros in the period while exposure to  Spain  declined 6.5
percent to 2.9 billion euros and  Portugal  remained unchanged at
about 900 million euros.  The figures for June 30 don’t include risks from asset-
based finance shipping, the bank said.  Europe ’s biggest banks stand to lose 20.6 billion euros on
their Greek  government bonds  after lenders in the region pledged
to contribute to the new rescue package for Greece announced on
July 21.  Strutz, 46, who joined the bank in 2001 and became finance
chief in 2003, told the supervisory board he doesn’t wish to
extend his mandate, the bank said. As a management board member
since 2004, he helped lead the bank during the purchase of
unprofitable rival  Dresdner Bank  before the 2008 collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.  No Conflict  Strutz, who plans to spend more time with his family, is
“convinced” the bank’s strategy is correct and doesn’t have a
conflict with Blessing, according to an interview with a
Commerzbank employee magazine.  Operating profit at the so-called core bank, which excludes
asset-based finance where the Greek writedown was booked as well
as the portfolio restructuring division, rose to 913 million
euros in the quarter from 397 million euros. Earnings at all
four divisions of the core bank rose. Commerzbank cited lower
costs at its private customers unit and said a “stable” German
economy benefitted business with mid-sized companies.  Commerzbank said it will probably have to put aside less
money for risky loans this year. Loan-loss provisions are likely
to be less than 1.8 billion euros in 2011 compared with the
previous estimate of 2.3 billion euros, the lender said.  Commerzbank said June 7 that it completed a 5.3 billion-
euro share sale in addition to raising 5.7 billion euros from
selling conditional mandatory exchangeable notes to repay
 government aid .  Repaying Aid  Blessing said in April that the bank planned to repay about
14.3 billion euros in so-called silent participations to
 Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund by June through the sale of
new shares and use of excess reserves. The lender received more
than 18 billion euros from the state after agreeing to buy
Dresdner two weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers.  Soffin maintained its stake of 25 percent plus one share in
the lender. Commerzbank said in May that it had already repaid
4.3 billion euros of silent participations, a form of non-voting
capital used in Germany, after completing the first step of the
capital increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  