-- 
Commonwealth Bank Second-Half Profit Rises 22% to Record on Home Lending

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-10T07:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/commonwealth-bank-second-half-profit-rises-22-on-home-business-lending.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ’s
second-half profit rose 22 percent to a record as the country’s
biggest lender increased business and household lending.  Net income in the six months ended June 30 climbed to
A$3.34 billion ($3.5 billion) from A$2.75 billion a year earlier,
the Sydney-based bank said in an e-mailed statement today. The
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for profit of A$3.42 billion.  “It’s a flawless result,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps
manage the equivalent of $1.7 billion at Sydney-based Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. “The premium that Commonwealth Bank
enjoys in its ratings has once again been justified.”  Chief Executive Ralph Norris expanded mortgage lending
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., driving the
surge to record profits as  Australia ’s economy avoided recession
due to a commodity-investment boom. Ian Narev -- due to succeed
Norris on Dec. 1 -- faces increased competition as demand for
mortgages slumps to the weakest level in more than three decades
and amid renewed turmoil on financial markets.  Commonwealth Bank shares gained 2 percent to A$48.23 in
Sydney as the nation’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.6
percent. The gains pared the bank’s decline this year to 5
percent.  Subdued Outlook  “The 2011 financial year has been characterized by subdued
system credit growth and intense competition,” Norris said in
today’s statement. “At this stage, there is nothing to suggest
that the 2012 financial year will see any material
improvement.”  While they weathered the turmoil that followed the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers  without U.S.-style government bailouts,
Australian banks face tumbling demand for home loans after the
central bank boosted borrowing costs seven times between October
2009 and November 2010 to 4.75 percent, the most in the
developed world.  In the process,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has cooled household appetite for debt, which more than
doubled in the past 15 years as a proportion of disposable
income to 155 percent in the March quarter, according to RBA
figures. That’s higher than the 133 percent ratio Americans
accumulated at the height of the U.S. subprime mortgage boom.  Waning Credit  Credit to home buyers in June increased at the slowest
annual pace since 1977, when central bank data began, while  home
prices  slid in the second quarter by 1.9 percent from a year
earlier, the biggest drop in more than two years.  It isn’t “clear what the catalyst will be for a meaningful
revival in consumer and corporate confidence which is
prerequisite to stronger demand for credit,” Norris said.  Australian banks are also struggling to deliver business
credit growth, according to Brett Le Mesurier, an analyst at BBY
Ltd. in Sydney.  “That’s one of the big issues confronting banks,” he said
yesterday. “One is loan growth and one is funding costs.
They’re still waiting for loan growth.”  To spur lending, the big four banks have moved to lower
some  mortgage rates . Commonwealth Bank yesterday cut its fixed-
rate home loans by as much as 60 basis points.  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  reduced the rate on its three-year fixed-rate home loan 20
basis points to 6.79 percent.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s third-quarter profit rose 27
percent as it extended its share of the mortgage market.
Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended June 30 were
about A$1.4 billion, the Melbourne-based bank said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Overseas Funding  Commonwealth Bank proposed a final dividend of A$1.88 a
share, taking its full-year payout to A$3.20 a share.  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of loans, widened to 2.25 percentage points from
2.12 in the previous six months, the lender said.  Norris is among Australian bank CEOs who raise funds on
global debt markets, an issue cited by Moody’s Investors Service
in May when it cut the ratings on the so-called four pillar
banks one level to Aa2.  “We do have to go to the market from time to time because
we have obviously a book of older funds that is going to come up
to maturity” that need refinancing, Norris said in an interview.
“What we’ve been endeavoring to do is hold significantly higher
levels of liquidity so we can repay that as it falls due without
going back to markets and borrow in times of stress.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  