-- 
Compania Internacional Financiera Denies Claims in SEC Lawsuit Over Arch

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-10T23:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/compania-internacional-financiera-denies-claims-in-sec-lawsuit-over-arch.html
Compania Internacional Financiera SA
denied claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that the firm profited from  insider trading  in Arch Chemicals
Inc. shares.  The SEC, in a lawsuit filed July 15 in  Manhattan  federal
court, said Compania Internacional Financiera and two other
firms -- Coudree Capital Gestion SA and Chartwell Asset
Management Services -- made millions of dollars by buying Arch
Chemical shares in the days before a July 11 announcement that
Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza Group Ltd. planned to buy the
specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.  Compania Internacional Financiera and Coudree Capital
Gestion, in a response filed today, admitted they bought shares
of Arch Chemical in the days leading up to the announcement, and
began selling the shares on or about that day, making about
$7.3 million in trading profits.  The companies “deny that their purchases of the securities
of  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  were ‘suspicious,’” their lawyers said
in the filing.  Chartwell, a Geneva-based  investment adviser , also denied
violating the law in a court filing yesterday.  The SEC said in the complaint that Compania Internacional
and Coudree are controlled by Yomi Rodrig, a Turkish trader
living in Geneva.  The firms said in their response that Compania
Internacional is controlled and owned by Rodrig, while denying
that Coudree is.  Arch rose 21 percent in the week before Lonza said it would
buy all of the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company’s outstanding
shares for $47.20 each. Arch jumped an additional 12 percent the
day of the announcement, closing at $47.37.  The SEC won a temporary asset freeze in the case on the
same day it filed the suit.  The case is U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission vs.
Compania Internacional Financiera SA, 11-cv-04904, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 