-- 
CWA Union, Verizon Appeal to Congress Amid 4th Day of Strike

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-08-10T20:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cwa-union-verizon-appeal-to-congress-for-support-amid-four-day-old-strike.html
The  Communications Workers of
America , which represents 35,000 workers at  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  out on strike, appealed to Congress for
support in the four-day-old labor dispute.  “We ask you to write Verizon President Lowell McAdam and
urge him to respect collective bargaining rights and not to
destroy middle-class jobs,” the union said in a letter sent
yesterday to congressional offices in the northeast and mid-
Atlantic regions, where about 45,000 workers began striking Aug.
7. The  International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
represents about 12,500 additional Verizon who have walked out.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, yesterday
also sent a letter to congressional offices in affected
districts as well as leaders in both houses of Congress.  “The world is changing,” the New York-based company said.
“Verizon and its union-represented employees need to work
together to adjust rules and policies that threaten to limit the
company’s ability to compete in the broadband marketplace.”  Verizon’s conflict with the two unions escalated yesterday
with workers staging protests and the company saying it will
offer $50,000 rewards to stop vandalism.  Workers picketed Verizon locations throughout its region,
with more than 200 gathering in front of the company’s New York
headquarters. The workers in  Manhattan  booed as people walked in
and out of the office and chanted, “When they say, ‘give back,’
we say ‘fight back.’”  Reward Ads  Verizon said it will begin advertising the rewards for
information about vandalism to its network and equipment after
at least a dozen acts of sabotage. The advertisements will begin
in local markets today, said  Peter Thonis , a company spokesman.  In Delaware, Verizon yesterday filed a lawsuit against
local unions that asks a state judge to issue injunctions to
stop demonstrators from blocking entrances in Newark and Dover,
Delaware, shutting off power, and using “crazy glue” to jam
fence mechanisms and service-truck locks.  Verizon “has suffered serious disruption and curtailment
of its business” from the strikers’ acts, according to its
complaint filed in  Delaware  Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The CWA said in a statement Aug. 8 that it “does not
condone illegal action of any kind, and instructs its members to
conduct all strike activities in accordance with labor law.”  Expired Agreement  Verizon and the unions are at odds over a new contract to
replace one that expired at midnight on Aug. 6. The company,
facing a decline in its traditional landline phone business, is
seeking work-rule changes and monthly health-care payments.
Workers contend they shouldn’t have to make substantial
concessions as profits rise and executive pay remains healthy.  Verizon is having “high-level” negotiations with the
unions, Thonis said in an interview. The striking employees
represent about a quarter of Verizon’s staff.  Verizon’s stock may drop during the strike, though it may
recover once the action is over and therefore not be harmed in
the long term, based on its pattern during a labor dispute in
2000, said Jonathan Atkin, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 San Francisco . He rates Verizon shares “outperform.”  The company’s larger and more profitable wireless unit is
unaffected by the strike.  Verizon fell 63 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $33.66 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 5.9 percent this year.  The company has trained more than 40,000 managers and
contractors to step into the roles of union workers and minimize
any delays or disruptions in service calls and installations.  ‘Contract Constraints’  In an Aug. 7 statement, McAdam, Verizon’s president and
chief executive officer, said the company needs concessions from
unions because of the division’s customer losses and eroding
profitability. He also cited competition from cable-TV providers
that don’t have similar “contract constraints, enabling them to
be more nimble and flexible meeting customer needs.”  Verizon’s competitors also include  AT&T Inc. (T) , the biggest
U.S. phone carrier and second-largest wireless operator. AT&T
has proposed acquiring Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA,
allowing it to surpass  Verizon Wireless  as the No. 1 U.S. mobile
carrier.  In an interview last month, McAdam, 57, said changing the
union contract would benefit workers because lower costs would
help the business compete.  “If we do that, I think the union will have a much
stronger future because the company will be stronger,” he said.  Verizon’s revenue and profit fell last year as declines in
the landline business offset growth in wireless. The number of
fixed lines, including residential and business customers, slid
8.2 percent to 26 million at the end of last year, extending
declines since 2003. During the same period, wireless
subscribers more than doubled to 94.1 million.  First Since 2000  The strike is the first at Verizon in 11 years. Although
Verizon’s unions authorized walkouts in 2008 and 2003, they
haven’t gone out on strike since 2000. That 18-day standoff
affected 28 million customers and cost Verizon $40 million
in revenue. The company settled the dispute by agreeing to a
12 percent wage increase over three years.  At the New York protest yesterday, Dennis Swarbrick, a 54-
year-old technician who said he has worked at Verizon for 20
years, said he is concerned about the company’s demands because
his son is going to college in a few weeks and he has other
financial obligations.  “I have a mortgage,” he said. “I have car insurance. I
work week to week. What am I going to do next week when the
bills come?”  Laura Randall, a technician who said she has worked at
Verizon for 11 years, said forgoing pay in order to strike “is
going to hurt,” though she plans to picket Verizon locations
“as long as it takes to get a fair deal.”  The lawsuit is Verizon of Delaware Inc. v.  Communications
Workers of America , CA6766, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  