-- 
Cyprus Cut Two Levels by Fitch on Deficit, Financing Needs

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 
2011-08-10T19:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/cyprus-cut-two-levels-by-fitch-on-deficit-financing-needs-2-.html
Cyprus had its  credit rating  cut two
levels to BBB by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the widening budget
deficit and concerns that the country may not be able to fund
its debt without outside assistance.  The cut from A- “reflects the actual and anticipated
fiscal slippage, compounded by Fitch’s expectation that the
sovereign will be unable to access the international debt
markets in order to refinance an increasing debt maturity
profile,” Chris Pryce, a director in Fitch’s Sovereign Group,
said in a statement. Cyprus will enter the new year “with
minimal cash balances” and may be unable to meet its financing
targets “without recourse to external official assistance.”  “I am sad to see their judgment that we are heading to the
rescue mechanism,” Finance Minister Kikis Kazamias said at a
press conference today in Nicosia. “I believe their statement
is excessive.”  The government predicts that it has 1.1 billion euros of
financing needs this year, of which 650 million euros comes from
maturing debt, Fitch said. Cyprus has about 570 million euros of
cash balances, Fitch said.  Fitch said the country’s deficit this year will be close to
7 percent of gross domestic product, up from a forecast of 4
percent in June, and not all of the increase can be attributed
to an explosion last month at a munitions depot that crippled
the country’s biggest power station. The rating cut also
reflected Fitch’s concerns about the exposure of Cypriot banks
to  Greece , which unleashed the region’s debt crisis and is
poised to receive a second European Union-led rescue package.  Three Levels  Fitch left its outlook on the rating negative. In May,
Fitch cut Cyprus by three levels.  Cyprus’s President Demetris Christofias, seeking to restore
investor confidence, reshuffled his Cabinet last week after the
July 11 explosion knocked out more than half the island’s
electricity production. Kazamias said he is preparing to raise
taxes.  Kazamias said earlier today that the blast last month may
mean the country’s fiscal deficit in 2011 may reach 6.5 percent
of gross domestic product compared with a previous estimate of
4.5 percent.  -- Editors:  Andrew Davis , Louis Meixler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen@bloomberg.net  