-- 
Danske CEO Says Rebound Remote as Profits Face Pressure

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-08-10T07:37:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/danske-ceo-says-rebound-remote-as-profits-face-pressure-1-.html
Danske Bank A/S Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Straarup  said  Denmark ’s biggest lender faces an
inhospitable earnings climate for years to come as Europe’s
toughest resolution laws and a lack of demand hurt its markets.  “Our earnings generation ability will be under pressure in
the coming years, but that’s also why we’ve increased our
rates,” Straarup said in an interview in Copenhagen yesterday.  Danske yesterday posted a 27 percent surge in net income
for the second quarter to 1.19 billion kroner ($227 million)
after loan losses declined and income grew. Still, the bank is
suffering the fallout of two regional lender insolvencies since
February, triggering the European Union’s first senior creditor
losses within a resolution framework and forcing up funding
costs for the whole industry.  Denmark’s resolution laws “affect Denmark in general and
therefore also Danske Bank,” Straarup said. “Danske has been
hurt by the failures” of Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors
A/S. “It has become more expensive to borrow money abroad and
markets are negative towards Denmark.”  Credit-default swaps on Danske Bank’s senior debt touched a
2 1/2-year high last week of 205 basis points and trade about 65
percent above similar contracts on  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Sweden ’s
biggest lender. Shares of Danske have lost 35 percent this year,
compared with Nordea’s 23 percent decline and a 25 percent drop
in the 46-member Bloomberg Financials Index.  Fragile  Any recovery in Danske Bank’s European markets will be
“slow and fragile,” the lender’s Chief Financial Officer
Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said at a press conference yesterday.
Denmark’s economy has been in a technical recession since the
fourth quarter as a weak housing market stalls a recovery.  Danske is trying to offset the harsh earnings environment
by raising fees at its mortgage business and lifting borrowing
costs at its banking unit.  “We haven’t given a specific number for what that will
mean for net profits but we expect the steps we’ve taken along
with the rate hikes central banks have provided will increase
our result by about 2.5 billion kroner on an annual basis,”
Straarup said.  Danske rose as much as 7.1 percent in Copenhagen trading.
The shares advanced 4.55 kroner, or 5.4 percent, to 88.95 kroner
at 9:31 a.m. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
Index gained 1.9 percent.  Danske’s markets unit won’t profit as much from volatility
in global markets as it did in 2009 because the bank’s business
is more geared toward debt markets than stocks, Straarup said.  Current Volatility  “One should not expect the bank to produce the same result
from volatile markets as last time,” he said. “Back then it
wasn’t equities being volatile but debt markets, which made for
good profit opportunities. We don’t own a lot of shares so we
won’t suffer major losses on our stock portfolio from the
current volatility.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
reflects the market’s estimate of future volatility, soared Aug.
8 to the highest since March 2009, jumping 50 percent to reach
48.  In the first quarter of 2009, when the volatility index
averaged 45, Danske Bank posted a record-high 7.49 billion-krone
trading income.  In the second quarter of this year, Danske Markets derived
7 percent of its income from equities, 21 percent from foreign
currency and money markets, 55 percent from repos and
derivatives and 18 percent from bonds.  The global stock-market slump that started last month and
spilled into August after the U.S. was downgraded by  Standard &
Poor’s  will end up hurting the bank industry as recovery
prospects fade and demand dwindles, Straarup said.  “There’s no doubt that if the economic activity is
affected, it will eventually travel into the banks’
performance,” he said. “Back in 2008, the financial crisis
started out on the stock market and then travelled into the real
economy, which became very costly to the entire banking
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 