-- 
Designer Immune Cells Made From Patients’ Own Blood Spurs Cancer Remission

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-10T18:17:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/designer-immune-cells-made-from-patients-own-blood-spurs-cancer-remission.html
Two leukemia patients were cancer-
free in three weeks after being treated with genetically
engineered versions of their own immune cells, an early finding
that could lead to a new approach for treating the blood cancer.  The trial of three patients showed that researchers could
reprogram enough infection-fighting T-cells to wipe out
malignant cells. The procedure also stimulated cells that defend
against the cancer’s return, according to papers published today
in  Science Translational Medicine  and the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  The results may point researchers to a new way to cure
 chronic lymphocytic leukemia , researchers said. The only method
for achieving remission is a bone marrow transplant, which
carries a 20 percent death risk and offers a cure half the time,
said  Carl June , a professor of pathology and laboratory medicine
at the Abramson Cancer Center at the  University of Pennsylvania 
in Philadelphia and a study author.  “In a way, this is like a bone marrow transplant where the
patient is the donor,” June said in a telephone interview.
“This might make treatment more widely available with less
long-term toxicity.”  The third patient was in partial remission and has remained
there for seven months, the study showed. All of the patients
had previously been treated with cancer drugs such as Biogen
Idec Inc.’s and Roche Holding AG’s Rituxan, and Sanofi’s Campath.  About 14,990 new cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia were
diagnosed in 2010, and about 4,390 people died from the blood
cancer, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Reprogrammed T-Cells  From the blood of the three patients, scientists extracted
T-cells, white blood cells that attack and destroy infectious
invaders. Using a genetic-engineering technique, the researchers
reprogrammed the T-cells to specifically target the leukemia
cells. The T-cells were also instructed to divide in the
presence of the cancer, a feat that previously had been
difficult to achieve in other attempts to modify T-cells, the
study said. That allowed the modified T cells to build an army
to destroy the cancer.  “This is pretty cool,” said David Steensma, an associate
professor of medicine at  Harvard Medical School  and an
oncologist at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. He wasn’t involved
in the study. The army of T-cells “not only has attacked and
cleared the field but it’s also set up a patrol to make sure the
enemy doesn’t come back.”  Still in Remission  When the white blood cells were returned to the patients,
they experienced “the worst flu of their lives,” said June.
The patients experienced fevers, chills, nausea and diarrhea --
signs that the new T-cells were working. One patient developed a
disorder that makes it difficult for the immune system to make
antibodies.  At 28 days after the first infusion, the cancer was
undetectable. The patients have remained in remission so far.  “You have to be careful using the word ‘cure’ because
we’re looking at a few patients,” said Richard Winnecker, the
vice president of research for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.
He wasn’t involved in the study. “We need to be careful until
there’s more data, but this looks really encouraging.”  The results suggest a similar technique could be used in
other cancers, such as lung and ovarian cancer, myeloma and
melanoma, according to the papers.  The method also stimulates so-called  memory T-cells , which
may help protect patients against the cancer’s return, the
studies said.  Other Cancers  June is testing the same technique in other cancers,
targeting proteins in pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and
mesothelioma, he said. Other groups are testing in prostate
cancer and  brain cancer .  The technique isn’t yet commercial, June said. He owns
patents on the method.  “I want to make sure it gets FDA-approved, so there has to
be a company involved,” June said. “It’s at an early stage so
we’ll see what the industry does, whether we’ll work with an
existing company or a new start-up, I don’t know yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 