-- 
Dimon Says ‘Hogwash’ to Whitney’s Description of Lenders as ‘Zombie Banks’

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-08-10T18:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/dimon-says-hogwash-to-whitney-s-description-of-lenders-as-zombie-banks-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , disputing  Meredith Whitney ’s description of
U.S. lenders as “zombie banks,” said the firms can navigate
low  interest rates  and other revenue pressures.  “I love Meredith and all that, but honestly most of that
stuff is hogwash,” Dimon told CNBC when asked about the
analyst’s comments to the broadcaster earlier today. “All
businesses have things that change all the time -- interest
rates, commodities prices, cost of wages, demand, supply -- and
you have to manage around that.”  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank, was the most
profitable among the nation’s largest lenders in 2010 with a
record $17.4 billion in earnings. The firm reported its highest
half-year profit ever at almost $11 billion as of June 30, even
as it labored under bad mortgages and rising litigation costs.  “The large banks which dominate most of the lending in the
 United States  are effectively zombie banks,” Whitney had told
CNBC, according to its  website . “You’ve got an expense
structure that just doesn’t match the revenue structure.”  The KBW Bank Index of 24 companies fell 14 percent this
month through yesterday amid concern that the  U.S. economy  is
weakening and that firms may face losses linked to the European
sovereign-debt crisis. The index fell 4.4 percent to 37.83 at
2:06 p.m. in New York, outpacing a 2 percent decline in the
broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Shot in the Foot  Dimon, touring his California branch network in a bus, said
the recent volatility hasn’t shaken his optimism about the U.S.
economy, which was unnecessarily set back by a prolonged
political debate over raising the government’s debt ceiling.
S&P’s subsequent downgrade of the nation’s credit rating wasn’t
“that material a thing,” and most executives don’t rely on
those grades to make decisions, he said.  Still, “we shot ourselves in the foot,” he said. “The
debt ceiling thing kind of demoralized the American public.”  The underlying economy and financial system remain strong,
with mortgage, credit and other markets open and healthy, Dimon
said. JPMorgan’s stock price, which extended this year’s 16
percent slide to $35.61 today from about $40 a share when he
became CEO at the start of 2006, will be higher in five years,
he predicted.  “The strength of the system is going to blow your socks
off when it comes out of this malaise,” he said. “The
fundamental strength of the nation is still there. We’re just
stuck.”  Dimon also dismissed speculation that he’s a candidate for
U.S. Treasury secretary if and when Timothy F. Geithner steps
down, saying he would never be interested in that job.  “If you know me at all, and you all do a little bit, I’m
not suited to politics,” Dimon said. “So you guys should stop
asking that question. I know it, and you know it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  