-- 
Disney Falls Most Since 2008 on Consumer Spending Concerns

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-10T20:45:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/disney-stock-falls-most-since-2001-on-consumer-spending-concerns.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest
theme-park company, fell the most since 2008 on concern that
slowing  consumer spending  and rising costs at the ESPN sports
network may crimp profit growth.  Among the largest media companies, including  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) , News Corp. and Viacom Inc., Disney is the most exposed to
consumer spending through its theme parks, as well as broadcast
and cable-TV units, said Paul Sweeney, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries. Increasing costs to broadcast sports on ESPN and a
declining DVD market may also hurt earnings, according to
 Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities.  “Certainly there are cost pressures at ESPN and at the
parks, but they were a little worse than I would have thought,”
said Harrigan, who cut his rating on the shares to “hold” from
“buy” after the company reported quarterly earnings.  The stock dropped 9.1 percent to $31.54 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the most since Dec. 1,
2008. With today’s decline, the shares have fallen 16 percent
this year.  Net income rose 11 percent to $1.48 billion in the fiscal
third quarter ended July 2, the Burbank, California-based
company said in a statement yesterday after the markets closed.  ESPN Affiliate Fee  While earnings of 78 cents beat the 73-cent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, they included 6 cents
in deferred ESPN affiliate revenue that analysts expected in the
fourth quarter. Without that fee, earnings would have fallen
short, Harrigan said.  U.S. personal spending fell 0.2 percent in June, the fourth
consecutive monthly decline. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  vowed yesterday to keep borrowing costs at an all-time
low to revive an economic recovery that’s “considerably
slower” than expected.  Higher costs at ESPN and lower syndication sales at the ABC
broadcasting network will lower this quarter’s earnings by 7
cents a share, Chief Financial Officer James Rasulo said
yesterday on the conference call. The ESPN expenses are
associated with new contracts to broadcast college sports,  Major
League Baseball , and the  National Football League , he said.  “Earnings upside was less than met the eye,”  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in New York, said
in a note to investors. The fiscal fourth-quarter oulook is
“muddied,” said the analyst, who rates the stock “neutral.”  Studio Costs  Studio entertainment operating income fell 60 percent to
$49 million in the quarter. While “Pirates of the Caribbean: On
Stranger Tides” earned more than $1 billion at the box office
worldwide, “increased revenue was largely offset by higher
marketing and distribution costs,” said Rasulo, the financial
chief.  “The costs just need to be trimmed,” said Harrigan, the
Wunderlich analyst.  Time Warner last week reported a 14 percent increase in
second-quarter net income as revenue from its cable-TV, movie
and magazine businesses rose.  News Corp. (NWSA)  reported fourth-quarter earnings per share of 35
cents, excluding some items, beating the average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg by five cents. The shares rose
2.1 percent in after-hours trading at 4:22 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  