-- 
Downgrade Doesn’t Matter as Bond Investors Show Faith in Fed After S&P Cut

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-08-10T17:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/downgrade-doesn-t-matter-as-bond-investors-show-faith-in-fed-after-s-p-cut.html
The $9.4 trillion U.S. government
bond market is proving Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
matters more than  Standard & Poor’s .  Even though the U.S. is poised to run a budget deficit of
$1.6 trillion and S&P removed the nation’s AAA rating, investors
are lending the government money at record low rates. Five days
after the first downgrade to AA+, the Treasury sold $24 billion
of 10-year notes to yield 2.14 percent. When the U.S. was
running budget surpluses from 1998 through 2001, Treasuries of
similar maturity yielded an average of 5.48 percent.  For all the conflict between Congress and President Barack Obama’s administration over the debt ceiling and deficits, bond
investors say they are more influenced by interest rates, the
economy and inflation. Because of the dollar’s preeminent place
as the world’s reserve currency, the U.S. enjoys a “funding
advantage,” S&P said in its Aug. 5 report.  “As long as I’ve been watching the market there’s been
very little correlation between fiscal activity and  interest
rates ,” said  Jay Mueller , a senior  money manager  who invests
about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in
Milwaukee and who started his career in the 1980s. “There’s a
long, long period of time where a nation’s fiscal condition can
deteriorate where there isn’t much of an impact on interest
rates.”  Fed’s Pledge  Bernanke boosted debt markets yesterday when the Fed
pledged to keep its target rate for overnight loans between
banks at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent at least through
mid-2013 to revive growth that it described as “considerably
slower” than anticipated. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.3
percent annual rate in the second quarter, after expanding 0.4
percent pace in the prior three-month period, which was the
weakest since the recovery began in June 2009.  Fed policy makers have scope to leave rates unchanged even
with gold trading at an all-time high and food costs near
records because an  unemployment rate  above 9 percent is keeping
inflation in check.  The latest data show the personal consumption expenditure
index excluding food and energy, which the central banks uses to
project inflation, rose 1.3 percent in June from a year earlier,
below the average of 1.9 percent the past decade.  Falling Yields  Yields on 10-year Treasuries, a benchmark for everything
from mortgages to corporate bonds, fell to a record low 2.0346
percent yesterday, a week after the U.S. came within days of
running out of money because Congress couldn’t agree on how to
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The yield was
3.22 percent at the start of July.  U.S. bonds are still in demand at a time when  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis threatens to spread to Italy and Spain
from Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and the global economy is
slowing, damping the appeal of stocks. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
equities has tumbled 13 percent since July 22.  “The flight-to-quality asset in the world is still
Treasuries,” Rick Rieder, the chief investment officer at New
York-based BlackRock Inc., which manages $612.5 billion in
fundamental fixed-income assets, said in an interview. “Whether
rated AA+ or not, the world still thinks it’s AAA. It is the
safest asset and it’s certainly the most liquid and
transactable.”  Bond Auctions  Demand for Treasuries is running at a pace matching the
record set last year when the government sold $2.249 trillion of
notes and bonds, the most ever. Investors have submitted $2.99
in bids for every dollar of the $1.264 trillion sold this year,
matching last year’s demand and compared with $2.56 in bids for
$581 billion of notes and bonds in 2007.  The Treasury’s auction yesterday of $32 billion in three-
year notes attracted $3.29 in bids for each dollar of debt sold.
Indirect bidders, the class that includes foreign central banks,
bought 47.9 percent of the issue, the most since May 2010. The
government is selling $24 billion of 10-year notes today and $16
billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  When the U.S. ran budget surpluses between 1998 and 2001
investors bid $2.26 per dollar of debt sold and the 10-year
yield averaged 5.48 percent. Treasuries of that maturity have
paid an average of 5.14 percent since August 1991.  The yield on Treasury 10-year notes exceeded Japanese
government bonds of similar maturity by 1.2 percentage point
yesterday, the smallest difference since January 2009. Japanese
10-year note yields have averaged about 1.4 percent in the past
10 years as the nation’s debt rose to 883 trillion yen ($11.44
trillion), or twice the size of its economy.  Prolonged Discussions  Even as the market showed little immediate doubt about the
ability or willingness of the U.S. to pay its obligations, S&P
said the prolonged discussions about raising the debt ceiling
and a resolution that was below the rating company’s target of
$4 trillion in cuts merited the downgrade.  “The primary focus remained on the current level of debt,
the trajectory of debt as a share of the economy, and the lack
of apparent willingness of elected officials as a group to deal
with the U.S. medium term fiscal outlook,” the firm said.  S&P’s decision was criticized by Obama and investors
including  Warren Buffett , who said the U.S. should be rated
“quadruple-A.” It was seized on by Republicans including
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who said the downgrade
showed lack of confidence in the president. Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA ratings on the U.S.  Currency Reserves  The market’s embracing of Treasuries after the downgrade
reflected confidence that the debt agreement prevented a
default, and the U.S. is still rated above such nations as China
and  Japan . And unlike the 17 countries sharing the euro, the
U.S. government controls the dollar, which represents 60.7
percent of the world’s currency reserves, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in  Washington . That compares with
the 26.6 percent for the euro, which has the next biggest
portion.  “The U.S. has a printing press,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive and co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co. which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in
an Aug. 8 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu. “It has many ways to avoid default. The best
way is through growth and fiscal soundness.”  The last time rising inflation in the U.S. led the  bond
market  to show diminished faith in the government was in 1980
during Jimmy Carter’s presidency when consumer prices rose by
11.3 percent in 1979 and 13.5 percent in 1980, leading to a
increase in the 10-year note yield to 13.65 percent in February
1980 from 9.25 percent in September 1979. In August 1979,  Paul Volcker , Carter’s choice as Fed Chairman, took control of the
central bank, lifting the Fed funds rate to 20 percent in March
1980 from 10.625 percent in July 1979, in order to whip
inflation.  ‘Common Sense’  Congress and Obama have agreed to $2.4 trillion of budget
cuts during the next 10 years, threatening to restrain growth,
with the majority of the cutbacks to be decided through
bipartisan negotiations beginning later this year. Obama and
House Republican leaders haven’t come closer to compromising on
how to cut the federal deficit.  Obama said on Aug. 8 that “common sense and compromise”
should lead to a deficit-reduction plan that includes spending
cuts and more tax revenue. Republican U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  issued statements saying
both sides should be able to find cuts in mandatory spending,
such as Social Security and Medicare, to make progress on the
long-term shortfall.  “We need a better approach that puts at the very center
growth promotion and employment and financial soundness,”
Pimco’s El-Erian said. “We are at stall speed.”  Bank Purchases  The Fed has pumped $2 trillion into the financial system
and bought $2.6 trillion of government and mortgage debt,
including reinvested assets, since credit markets began to seize
up in late 2007.  Much of that money was used to purchase debt issued or
supported by the Treasury. Fed data show commercial bank
holdings of debt issued by the government or related agencies
such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  has risen to $1.66 trillion
from $1.26 trillion in November 2008, when the central bank
began buying mortgage bonds to bolster the housing market.  Outstanding public Treasury debt has more than doubled to
$9.4 trillion from the start of the financial crisis in August
2007. Obama’s 2012 budget submitted on Feb. 14 projected the
government would run a cumulative deficit of $8.85 trillion
through 2021.  A significant rise in economic growth and job creation is
the only realistic outcome that would “trigger a relevant and
large sell-off” in U.S. bonds, said  Ian Lyngen , a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  “The irony of the situation facing U.S. investors is the
major risk to lower bond prices is an improvement in the
economic outlook,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  