-- 
Dubai Obtains Bank Financing as Economy Defies Global Turmoil: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-08-11T12:06:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/dubai-getting-bank-financing-as-economy-defies-worldwide-rout-arab-credit.html
Dubai state companies are securing
bank financing as the latest tumult in global markets fails to
derail the emirate’s recovery from the 2009 debt crisis.  Dubai Holding LLC, one of the three main state-owned
holding companies, reached an accord with lenders to extend a
$1.16 billion loan to December 2016, according to a company
official. Port & Free Zone World FZE, an intermediate holding
company for port operator  DP World Ltd. (DPW) , is raising $850 million
to refinance debt, three bankers familiar with the plan said.
Investment Corporation of Dubai said on Aug. 8 it will repay $4
billion of loans when they mature on Aug. 21.  “Banks are continuing to extend financing to Dubai Inc.
because of its improving economy and debt profile,” Gus Chehayeb, a Dubai-based associate director at investment bank
Exotix Ltd. said by e-mail yesterday. There is “encouraging
evidence with regards to its willingness to repay debt, sell
assets, and stay current on its interest payments,” he said.  While about $8 trillion in value was erased from global
stock markets between July 22 and Aug. 8 amid concern growth in
 Europe  and the U.S. is slowing, Dubai’s share index is little
changed and benchmark bonds have climbed. Gross domestic product
in the emirate, which received a $20 billion bailout in 2009
from its central bank and neighboring Abu Dhabi, may grow about
2.8 percent this year, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . The government estimates the economy grew 2.4 percent in
2010 after contracting in 2009.  Declining Yields  The yield on Dubai’s 7.75 percent dollar-denominated bond
due in 2020 rose 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to
6.73 percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was at 6.85 at the end of June. After hitting a one month-high
on Aug. 9, the yield on Dubai’s Islamic bonds due in 2014
declined 25 basis points yesterday to 4.62 percent, the biggest
one-day decline since December. It gained 10 basis points today.  Investment Corp. of Dubai said on Aug. 8 it will repay $4
billion of loans when they mature on Aug. 21, rather than pursue
refinancing it began in May. The obligation will be repaid from
internally generated cash, mainly dividends received from the
company known as ICD’s operating subsidiaries, according to a
statement yesterday.  “ICD paying back $4 billion of maturing debt is a very
strong message that Dubai’s debt story is on an increasingly
better footing,” said Rawad Hakme, the Dubai-based co-manager
of fixed income at the United Arab Emirates unit of EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE, the biggest publicly traded Arab investment bank.
“Credit investors are all the more comfortable when a borrower
pays off its dues especially in times of global duress. Dubai’s
perceived creditworthiness is on the rise.”  ‘Very Positive’  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default dropped
yesterday six basis points to 364 basis points, after hitting
370 on Aug. 9, the highest level in more than three months,
according to five-year credit default swaps from data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The swaps, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements, are
down about 44 percent from the 655 basis points reached in
November 2009 after state-owned Dubai World announced plans to
restructure about $25 billion of debt.  “If this is true de-leveraging, that is no other parts of
ICD have raised money to pay this, it is very positive,” said
Abdul Kadir Hussain, who helps oversee $2 billion in fixed-
income assets as chief executive officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC
Ltd. in Dubai. Even if the subsidiaries have borrowed, “the
debt is essentially closer to the operating companies, which for
debt holders is a better place to be,” he said by phone.  Economic Rebound  Port & Free Zone’s five-year loan has conventional and
Islamic portions and pays a margin of 350 basis points over
benchmark rates, said one of the bankers, who declined to be
identified because the deal is yet to be made public. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and
Citigroup Inc. are managing the conventional loan, two of the
three bankers spoken to said.  Dubai’s credit risk has dropped over the past two years as
debt restructuring deals, bond repayments and profitability at
companies boost confidence in the emirate’s economic rebound.
The second-biggest of seven sheikhdoms that make up the U.A.E.,
Dubai is also benefiting from stable government as political
upheaval sweeps other parts of the Middle East.  DP World, Emirates  Dubai Holding  Commercial Operations Group LLC, a unit of
Dubai Holding said July 14 the company had repaid a 250-million
Swiss franc ($324 million) bond and is committed to meeting
future obligations. Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned
by the emirate’s ruler, is in talks with banks to alter the
terms on $10 billion of liabilities, while state-owned Dubai
World forged an accord with creditors at its restructuring in
March.  DP World, the world’s fourth-biggest port operator, posted
an 11 percent rise in container volumes in the first half and
said it expects to have the best results in the industry.
Dubai’s  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by assets,
reported an 87 percent surge in second-quarter profit to 744.5
million dirhams ($203 million).  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , the mortgage
company rescued by Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC in September,
reported a five-fold jump in second-quarter profit on July 19 as
bad-loan provisions dropped.  The emirate has $31.2 billion of debt coming due this year
and in 2012, according to an IMF report published on June 16.  Debt Profile  “Although Dubai Inc. still has a challenging debt burden,
its debt profile has improved in that a meaningful portion of
its bank debt has been extended,” Chehayeb at Exotix said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s 7.75
percent dollar bond due October 2020 over Abu Dhabi’s 6.75
percent debt maturing April 2019 dropped to a record-low 268
basis points on Aug. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The gap has since widened 52 basis points, the data show.  The Dubai government raised $500 million from the sale of
10-year bonds with a five-year  put option  in June at a yield of
3.75 percent over the five-year mid-swap rate, or 5.59 percent.
The sale received more than $1.8 billion in bids. ICD-owned
Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
passengers, raised $1 billion in June from the sale of five-year
bonds.  ‘Ahead of the Curve’  The average yield on debt in the six Gulf Cooperation
Council nations dropped 11 basis points to 4.682 percent
yesterday, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional
U.S. Dollar Bond Index. Default swaps for  Abu Dhabi  declined two
basis points yesterday to 99. Contracts for  Greece , which is
getting a bailout from the European Union to avoid defaulting on
its debt, jumped 57 basis points to 1,733.  Spain ’s gained 42
basis points to 390.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said on Aug. 9 that
policy makers will keep the U.S. key benchmark rate at a record-
low of zero to 0.25 percent at least through mid-2013 to bolster
the economy. The dollar advanced against nine of the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg yesterday.  “Dubai has been fortunate to be ahead of the curve in debt
restructuring and de-leveraging, making it credit-worthy once
more,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based  Middle East  and North
Africa strategist at Religare Capital Markets Plc said by e-
mail. “With a dollar peg and U.S. interest rates lower for
longer, the U.A.E. in general should attract more interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  