-- 
EADS Asks Airlines to Pay Euros as Dollar Hedge

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-08-10T15:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/eads-asking-airlines-to-pay-euros-as-u-s-dollar-hedge-1-.html
European Aeronautic Defence & Space
Co., maker of Airbus airplanes, is in talks with airline
customers to get paid in euros as a hedge against currency
exchange losses from the  U.S. dollar , the company’s chief
financial officer said.  “The challenge is to identify airlines in  Europe  and
 Middle East  who have a mirroring exposure to what we have,”
Hans Peter Ring, EADS’s top financial officer, said in a meeting
with reporters in New York. “We’re long on the dollar and
they’re short on the dollar probably and this would be a win-win
if we can identify that” and get them to pay in euros.  With the euro climbing 5.9 percent this year to reach $1.42
against the U.S. currency, EADS is seeking to minimize exchange-
related losses and is urging its suppliers to move more of their
production to dollar zones.  The company, based in Paris and Munich, will need a
substantial hedge for it to be useful, Ring said.  “If it’s $1 billion or $2 billion it’s good, but it
doesn’t change the world.” EADS has more than $20 billion of
exposure to the U.S. dollar, he said.  Tanker Loss  The company had planned to set up a U.S. assembly line if
it won a $35 billion order for U.S. Air Force refueling tankers,
Ring said. Those plans fell through after EADS lost the bid to
rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  this year.  While EADS has no plans to set up a manufacturing line for
A320 airplanes in the U.S., it is now urging its suppliers in
 Spain ,  Germany  and  France  to shift to U.S. currency zones like
 Mexico  or low-cost production centers, Ring said.  The component makers “have the same pressure we are facing
but the real challenge is some of those suppliers don’t have the
same balance sheet as we do,” he said. “The only way to escape
for them is to move into dollar countries or into low-cost
production areas.”  To set up new production facilities suppliers will need
upfront capital investments, he said.  EADS has not abandoned its goal of getting $10 billion of
sales from its  North America  operations by 2020, Ring said. The
unit generated $4.7 billion in revenue last year, or 7.7 percent
of the company’s $60.7 billion in total sales.  Organic Growth, Acquisitions  “We try to grow organically as much as we can through our
existing platforms” that include helicopters, small transport
planes and radar equipment, Ring said. Still, “we won’t make
that target probably so we will need to grow through
acquisitions,” he said.  EADS, which has made four acquisitions including two in
North America so far this year, may step up the size of its
acquisitions, he said. “We still have the capacity with $11
billion of net cash to do that and we have the flexibility we
need.”  The company slipped 48 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 20.02
euros at 11:27 a.m.  New York  time in Paris trading. The shares
were up 18 percent before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  t 