-- 
Medvedev, Yanukovych to Discuss Customs Union, Energy Tomorrow

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-08-10T12:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/medvedev-yanukovych-to-discuss-customs-union-energy-tomorrow.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and his Ukrainian counterpart  Viktor Yanukovych  will discuss
integration among former Soviet states at a meeting tomorrow as
Ukraine seeks to cut prices on natural-gas imports.  The customs union of Russia, Belarus and  Kazakhstan  is
among topics to be discussed at the meeting in Russia’s Black
Sea resort of Sochi, the Kremlin said in an e-mailed statement
today. The leaders will also discuss energy cooperation,
including atomic power, according to the statement.  Talks in June between the Ukrainian and Russian premiers
ended without an agreement to reduce prices for gas shipments.
Ukraine, the largest consumer of Russian gas, may save $6.5
billion to $9 billion annually on imports by joining the customs
group, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in April.  Ukraine depends on  Russia  for more than 50 percent of its
gas while providing the main transit route for the fuel from
Russia to European Union consumers. Russian gas shipments to
 Europe  were halted for two weeks in 2009 because of a price
dispute between the two nations.  Russia is trying to use fuel prices to lure Ukraine into
the customs union even as the former Soviet republic looks to
deepen economic and political ties with the EU. Yanukovych said
in April Ukraine won’t join the union and will use the “three-
plus-one” format in cooperation with it.  Russia agreed in April 2010 to reduce the price it charges
Ukraine in exchange for extending the lease on a Black Sea naval
base. Ukraine now pays $355 per 1,000 cubic meters of fuel under
the discount.  Yanukovych said May 24 he wants to cut the price for gas to
$240 per 1,000 cubic meters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ; 