-- 
Egis Expects Sales Growth to Moderate Next Year, CFO Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-10T10:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/egis-expects-sales-growth-to-moderate-next-year-cfo-says-1-.html
Egis Nyrt., the Hungarian drugmaker
owned by Laboratoires Servier, expects revenue growth to
moderate next year as domestic regulations will hurt Hungarian
sales.  Total revenue probably will increase between 2 percent and
4 percent next year after a projected sales growth of between 7
percent to 9 percent this year, Chief Financial Officer Csaba Poroszlai said at a press conference in Budapest today.  Egis,  Hungary ’s second-largest drug company, saw its
profitability decline from payments to the Hungarian state
budget. Fiscal third-quarter net income plunged 45 percent from
a year earlier on financial losses and an increase in budget
payments, the company said yesterday.  “The expected strong performance of exports will outweigh
the drop in domestic sales, which is in itself difficult to
forecast due to the hurried nature of passing legislation,”
Poroszlai said.  Hungarian regulatory changes will result in domestic sales
dropping as much as 8 percent in 2012 after an expected 5
percent increase this year, the executive said. The increase of
a special tax on drugmakers to 20 percent from 12 percent and
the doubling of fees to be paid for its medical representatives
will boost Egis’s expenditures by an annual 5 billion forint
($26 million), Poroszlai said.  The executive expects exports to the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  to grow between 10 percent and 12 percent in
2012, and eastern Europe sales to rise between 3 percent and 5
percent. He also sees the export of active ingredients declining
by as much as 5 percent.  The Budapest-based company will scale back its domestic
sales network and will focus on other markets than Hungary
“where growth is achievable,” Poroszlai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  