-- 
Batista’s MMX Posts Quarterly Profit as Ore Output Rises

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-08-10T20:26:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/eike-batista-s-mmx-posts-second-quarter-profit-of-57-million-in-brazil.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
mining company controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
posted a second-quarter profit as iron-ore production increased
and prices for the steelmaking ingredient rose.  Net income was 90.9 million reais ($57 million), compared
with a loss of 38.5 million reais in a year earlier, the company
said in a  statement  on its website. MMX was expected to post a
profit of 104.9 million reais on an adjusted basis, according to
the average of four analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Iron-ore producers are benefiting from higher consumption
in  China , the biggest user of the raw material, as the Asian
nation invests in projects such as low-income housing. Chinese
demand combined with start-up production difficulties at iron-
ore projects will cause a market imbalance for as long as seven
years, Guilherme Cavalcanti, chief financial officer of Vale SA,
the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, said July 5.  “Shipments were the main positive highlight,” Leonardo Correa, an analyst at Barclay’s Plc in  Sao Paulo , said today in
a note to investors. “Higher costs partly offset stronger
volumes.”  Output Gains  Iron-ore output gained 17 percent to 2.16 million metric
tons, from 1.84 million tons in the prior year, Rio de Janeiro-
based MMX said. Total gross sales were 312.9 million reais, it
said, compared with 204.9 million reais. Costs of goods sold
rose 70 percent from a year earlier.  The cost increase was a result of operational delays and
production losses suffered in the first part of the year, Chief
Executive Officer Roger Downey said on a conference call with
analysts today. MMX expects to get the environmental license for
its 4 billion-real Serra Azul project before the end of the
year, he said.  “The second quarter was marked by record net sales and
production,” MMX said in yesterday’s statement. “Despite an
increase in production costs and the inclusion of expenses
related to the Sudeste Super Port, the company continues to
generate consistent results. Our priority is now the development
of our projects.”  MMX fell 3 centavos, or 0.5 percent, to close at 6.41 reais
in Sao Paulo trading, bringing the drop since the start of the
year to 43 percent, more than the 26 percent fall in the
Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  