-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance Most in Four Weeks on Fed Pledge, Oil Price

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-08-10T22:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/emerging-market-stocks-advance-most-since-april-bonds-surge-on-fed-s-plan.html
Emerging markets stocks rose for the
first day in seven after the U.S.  Federal Reserve  pledged to
keep  interest rates  at a record low for at least two more years.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1.3 percent to 980.74
at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the biggest gain in four weeks, after
earlier rising as much as 2.8 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index
gained for a second day as  oil companies  followed crude higher.
Chile’s Ipsa gauge climbed 2.5 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 0.9 percent while  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index
jumped 3.3 percent and  Indonesia ’s Jakarta Composite Index
advanced 3.4 percent.  The Federal Reserve pledged in a statement yesterday to
keep interest rates at a record low at least through mid-2013 to
revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated, adding that policy makers are prepared to use
additional tools “as appropriate.”  “The market is going to focus on the fact that rates are
going to stay low,”  Erwin Sanft , head of China and  Hong Kong 
research at BNP Paribas SA in Hong Kong, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today. “That’s positive for performance.”  Eastern European shares fell, paring gains on the benchmark
MSCI index, as bank stocks in the European Union tumbled on
concern the European debt crisis is deepening.  France ’s market
regulator, the Autorite des Marches Financiers, said it’s
watching financial shares “in particular” after bank stocks in
the European Union dropped to their lowest since March 2009.  Itau, BicBanco  “The market was convinced that the Fed policymakers will
do something if they need to,” said Greg Lesko, who helps
oversee $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York. At
the same time, “people are nervous about the drop in European
banks stocks. In the short term, anything can happen.”  Hungary’s BUX Index and Poland’s WIG20 both fell for the
eighth day.  Turkey ’s benchmark sank 5 percent while  Mexico ’s
stock gauge slid 0.6 percent. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 4.4
percent to the lowest level since September 2010.  Europe ’s 49-company Stoxx 600 Banks Index lost 6.7 percent,
led by Societe Generale SA, France’s second-largest bank. The
lender issued a denial of “all market rumors” after
speculation that France’s creditworthiness was in doubt sent the
shares down 15 percent, the most in more than 2 1/2 years.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, slid 3.3 percent. Banco Industrial & Comercial SA,
the lender known as BicBanco, plunged to its lowest since June
2009 after posting second-quarter earnings that Bradesco
Corretora said were “disappointing.”  It may take some time for people to “get comfortable,”
said Deltec’s Lesko. “We are getting close to a point where
emerging markets should do quite well. Valuations would support
higher prices,” he said.  OGX, Petrobras  Brazilian airline Tam SA gained for a second day after it
said greater-than-expected demand for  air travel  boosted second-
quarter earnings. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA climbed as oil rebounded from a 10-month
low.  The real fell 2.2 percent against the dollar, the worst
performer among Latin currencies after the  Mexican peso , which
fell 4.1 percent. The polish zloty weakened 4.8 percent, the
biggest decliner among emerging-market currencies. Hungary’s
forint sank 2.9 percent.  The extra yield on developing-nation debt over U.S.
Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
3.77 percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index
showed.  Policy makers around the world are trying to shore up
investor confidence after a rout in global equities this month
wiped out more than $7 trillion of market value.  Yuan Gains  The People’s Bank of  China  will leave borrowing costs
unchanged for the rest of this year, according to eight of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News yesterday. The yuan rose to
a 17-year high against the dollar. The nation’s cabinet said
“relevant nations” should adopt responsible fiscal and
monetary policies to maintain confidence, in a statement
yesterday after a meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  