-- 
England Takes Control of 3rd Cricket Test Seeking Win to Take Top Ranking

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-08-10T17:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/england-takes-4-wickets-in-first-session-to-pressure-india-in-third-test.html
Captain  Andrew Strauss ’s 52 runs
helped England reach 84-0 to trim India’s lead to 140 runs at
the end of the first day of their third cricket Test.  Alastair Cook added 27 as the pair survived the last
session of the day.  Tim Bresnan  and  Stuart Broad  combined to
take eight wickets as India was all out for 224 runs.  “It was an excellent day for us. Being none down at the
end is good too,” Bresnan said in an interview with  Sky Sports .
“The pitch is playing alright, so hopefully we can get a lead.
It’s a bit slower than I thought it would be.”  England, which took the first two Tests in the four-match
series, won the toss this morning and put the visitors in to bat
at Edgbaston in Birmingham. It can replace India as No. 1 in the
International Cricket Council rankings with another victory or
by drawing the final two matches.  India lost four wickets in each of today’s first two
sessions, with six batsmen failing to reach five runs. Bresnan
took the wickets of Rahul Dravid,  Gautam Gambhir , VVS Laxman and
Praveen Kumar, while Broad’s bowling led to Mahendra Dhoni,
 Virender Sehwag , Sachin Tendulkar and Amit Mishra being caught.  Dhoni was out for 77 to lead India, while Gambhir was on 38
when he was bowled. Sehwag was caught by Matt Prior off of Broad
without scoring, and Tendulkar was caught on one by James Anderson, who took the wickets of Suresh Raina and Ishant
Sharma.  Dhoni and Kumar combined for 84 runs to push India to 195-8
after the team had slumped to 111-7.  The teams will also play one Twenty20 match and five one-
day international games following the Test series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  