-- 
EON Cuts 10% of Workforce, Reduces Dividend After Profit Drops

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-10T16:22:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/eon-plans-to-eliminate-up-to-11-000-jobs-to-lower-costs-reduces-dividend.html
EON AG,  Germany ’s largest utility,
will eliminate more than 10 percent of its workforce and reduce
dividends after first-half profit plunged because of the cost of
shutting nuclear reactors. The shares fell by a record.  Adjusted net income, the gauge EON uses to calculate its
dividend, fell to 933 million euros ($1.29 billion) from 3.26
billion euros a year earlier, the Dusseldorf-based company said.
The utility, which may cut as many as 11,000 jobs, reported its
first quarterly loss in 10 years of 382 million euros.  A public backlash following the disaster at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant drove Germany to announce plans to
close all its reactors. Even before the costs of shutting
plants, EON and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s two largest atomic power
operators, were facing a nuclear tax intended to net the
government about 2.3 billion euros to trim the  budget deficit .  “The short-term outlook is distinctively unimpressive, but
the medium-term looks okay,” Lueder Schumacher, an analyst at
UniCredit SpA, said in a note to investors today. “EON went
all-out on nuclear provisions. In this environment this is still
not going to be received well.”  EON dropped 1.705 euros, or 11 percent, to 13.82 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the biggest one-day decline since the shares
started trading in August 1992.  Dividend Revision  The utility plans to cut 9,000 to 11,000 jobs to counter
falling earnings and reduce spending by 1.5 billion euros a year
by 2015. EON slashed its full-year dividend target to 1 euro
from a promised payout of at least 1.30 euros for 2011 and 2012.
Full-year adjusted net income in 2011 will be 2.1 billion euros
to 2.6 billion euros, it said.  “We will be very cautious and not rush ahead,” Chief
Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen said on a conference call
today. Job cuts will be “essentially administration, but there
are also operative segments concerned.”  About 4,500 employees are linked to EON’s nuclear power-
plant business, company spokesman Carsten Thomsen-Bendixen said
by phone yesterday.  “My objective is to create a new EON which is quicker and
leaner, and which successfully operates globally with
considerably lower costs,” Teyssen said in a statement. “We
cannot afford -- not only, but particularly in Germany -- any
unnecessary management levels, processes and duplication of
work.”  Hard on Employees  European companies including Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Barclays Plc have announced job cuts this month after
rising costs eroded earnings.  “This is hard for the people affected but necessary to
improve EON’s capability to drive the company forward in the
next years,” Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst with Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg AG, said by phone. He recommends investors buy EON
stock.  The planned permanent closure of nuclear facilities and a
recently imposed nuclear-fuel tax cut first-half earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization by about 1.9
billion euros, the company said. EON is also struggling to stem
losses from long-term gas procurement contracts and boost profit
at its power-trading business.  The company’s energy-commodities trading unit reported an
operating loss of 151 million euros in the first half as it paid
more for non-fossil-fuel power. The loss occurred because of
higher prices paid to its generation arm for non-fossil power
and lower achieved prices.  RWE Costs  RWE, scheduled to shut the first of five reactors in 2016,
said yesterday that costs of earlier-than-expected closures, as
well as the expense of the nuclear-fuel tax, reduced profit by
about 900 million euros in the first half. Recurrent net income
fell by 39 percent to 1.67 billion euros.  Teyssen, who took over as EON’s CEO in May 2010, is trying
to cut borrowings by selling assets. Net debt amounted to about
33.6 billion euros as of June 30, compared with 37.7 billion
euros in 2010, and financial liabilities were almost half what
they were a year earlier at about 16 billion euros, EON said.  EON increased debt after buying  power plants  from  Spain  to
Siberia as national energy markets began to open. EON completed
purchases of 11.5 billion euros from  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and  Acciona SA (ANA)  in
2008 and 4.1 billion euros in  Russia  in 2007.  “We’re on schedule in identifying new growth regions in
other parts of the world,” Teyssen said, “but the energy
future has to be financed. So we need to be even more selective
in our investments and even more aggressive in our efforts to
cut costs.”  Capital Investment  The company spent 2.5 billion euros on power plants and
other energy assets in the first half, a drop of 1.2 billion
euros from  capital expenditures  a year earlier.  Profit at EON’s gas division slumped because of lower sales
in the wholesale business. The utility has said oil-linked
procurement contracts are putting pressure on margins because
wholesale gas prices are so low. Weather also trimmed sales, the
company said.  “Negotiations with producers to adjust procurement prices
have been successful, but do not yet encompass the entire
portfolio and in 2011 only partly offset negative margins,” EON
said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 