-- 
Merck Must Defend Securities-Fraud Claims Over Vioxx

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-10T19:54:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/merck-must-defend-securities-fraud-claims-over-vioxx-judge-says.html
Merck & Co. must defend a lawsuit
claiming it violated securities laws by downplaying the
cardiovascular risks of its Vioxx painkiller before the company
pulled the drug from the market in 2004, a judge ruled.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, withdrew Vioxx
after a study showed it doubled the risk of heart attacks and
strokes. Investors adequately stated a case that Merck
misrepresented the drug’s safety profile, said U.S. District
Judge Stanley Chesler in  Newark , New Jersey.  Investors also can pursue claims that Merck misled them
about a 2000 study, known as Vigor, which reported that the
medicine caused five times more heart attacks than another
painkiller, naproxen, Chesler ruled. Merck said one explanation
was that naproxen protected the heart.  The judge ruled that investors “plausibly suggest that
Merck had no reasonable basis for its public characterization of
the Vigor results as ‘likely’ due to naproxen’s cardioprotective
quality,” according to Chesler’s Aug. 8 decision.  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey, faces
potential legal costs of at least $7.7 billion related to Vioxx,
including $4.85 billion to settle thousands of lawsuits claiming
injuries. It also set aside $1.9 billion for legal costs. Last
October, Merck said it set aside $950 million to resolve a
criminal probe.  “Merck continues to believe that this lawsuit is without
merit, and will continue to defend itself vigorously against
these claims,” Ronald Rogers, a spokesman for the company, said
today in a phone interview.  The case is Merck & Co., Inc., Securities, Derivative &
‘ERISA’ Litigation, MDL-1658, U.S. District Court, District of
 New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  