-- 
Merck Vioxx Lawyers Get More Fees After Filing Objections

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T18:27:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/merck-vioxx-lawyers-awarded-more-fees-by-judge-after-objecting.html
Some plaintiff lawyers involved in
Merck & Co.’s $4.85 billion Vioxx settlement were given more in
fees by a judge after they objected to their original awards,
court papers show.  U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  in  New Orleans , who is
overseeing the remaining litigation over Merck’s withdrawn
painkiller, yesterday awarded at least $3 million to attorneys
who had complained that colleagues were hogging the lion’s share
of more than $315 million in fees spawned by the accord.  “Although this allocation process seems tedious and time-
consuming, the court finds the process was necessary to achieve
a reasoned and appropriate result,” Fallon said in his 132-page
ruling.  Merck won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits that went to trial in
both state and federal courts before agreeing in November 2007
to settle almost 50,000 claims of users who blamed the drug for
heart attacks and strokes. Lawyers who worked on a consolidation
of Vioxx cases were entitled to split $315.3 million in fees for
their work on those suits.  Vioxx suits filed in federal courts across the U.S. were
consolidated before Fallon for pre-trial evidence gathering and
so-called “bellwether trials,” which were designed to help
resolve issues in the cases.  Four Objectors Left  A court-appointed committee of Vioxx lawyers made fee
recommendations and that generated objections from 18 law firms,
Fallon said. All but four of the objecting firms later agreed to
a special master’s recommendation on how the fees should be
split, the judge noted in his decision.  Objectors, such as New Mexico-based lawyer  Turner Branch, 
argued in court papers that the committee’s fee allocation
lacked “any rational basis.” The committee had recommended he
receive $190,000 for his work on the consolidated Vioxx cases.  Given that Branch’s work on Vioxx cases in  New Jersey  had
“a salutatory effect on the ultimate resolution of the Vioxx
litigation,” Fallon decided to increase the lawyer’s fee to
$500,000, according to court filings. Branch didn’t immediately
return a call for comment on the fee award today.  Jose Escobedo , Texas lawyer who won a $32 million verdict
against Merck over Vioxx in 2006, also objected to the
committee’s recommendation that his  law firm  receive no award
for its contribution to the litigation.  ‘Rippling Effect’  Escobedo argued that his firm’s work on behalf of the
family of Leonel Garza, who suffered a 2001 heart attack after
taking Vioxx, deserved compensation. Jurors in state court in
 Texas  awarded Garza’s family $32 million after finding the
company didn’t properly warn patients about the drug’s risks. A
judge later reduced the award to $8.73 million.  The fee committee recommended no award because Escobedo
decided to opt out of the Vioxx settlement and didn’t share his
work on Garza’s case with other lawyers, according to court
filings.  Escobedo countered in his own filings that the verdict was
among only five won by plaintiffs at trial and it helped keep
the pressure on Merck to settle.  “A strong argument can be made that a rigorous
presentation in any trial in any court attacking Merck’s actions
or inactions regarding Vioxx will have some salutary rippling
effect on all other cases,” Fallon said. He awarded Escobedo’s
firm, Escobedo, Tippit & Cardenas, $1.6 million in fees.
Escobedo didn’t return a call for comment today on the fee.  Higher Fee  Kathryn Snapka , another South Texas-based lawyer who was
Escobedo’s co-counsel on the Garza case, also objected to the
$75,000 fee the committee awarded her. She argued she played a
larger role than Escobedo in the consolidated cases and deserved
a higher fee. The judge agreed, awarding her $1.1 million.
Snapka, based in  Corpus Christi , Texas, didn’t return calls for
comment today.  The awards were a fraction of what the two lawyers
originally sought in fees over the consolidated Vioxx cases,
Fallon said in the ruling.  “Collectively, Snapka and Escobedo Tippit requested 10
percent of the entire common-benefit fund or $31.5 million
between them,” the judge noted.  Fallon was able to provide more money for objectors by
reducing awards to some law firms that received the largest fee
awards for the consolidated cases, according to court filings.  For example, the judge shaved about $200,000 from the $36.8
million in fees awarded to the Montgomery, Alabama-based law
firm of Beasley, Allen, Methvin, Portis & Miles.  Andy Birchfield, one of the firm’s partners, served as one
of the lead counsel for the consolidated cases. Birchfield
didn’t return a call for comment today on the judge’s Vioxx fee
award.  The case is Vioxx Products Liability Litigation, MDL-1657,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  