-- 
Heroic Clowns Face Love, Apocalypse in Gritty ‘Traces’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-08-10T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/heroic-clowns-face-love-apocalypse-in-gritty-traces-review.html
“Traces” is circus arts on a
heroic scale.  It’s terrific: Ninety minutes of high-impact flying through
the air, often in what seemed like slo-mo. Add to that, feats of
strength notable for the grace and beauty of their execution and
a memorably intimate yet innuendo-free duet.  I am constitutionally immune to circuses masquerading as
art. The provenance of “Traces,” which is running at  New
York ’s Union Square Theatre, only increased my skepticism. It’s
the work of Les 7 Doigts de la Main/7 Fingers, a Montreal-based
troupe.  Isn’t that where Cirque du Soleil comes from?  “Traces” is the anti-Cirque -- small, intimate and
without the horrible ear-splitting music. The stage and part of
the orchestra are draped in khaki material, lit by traffic
lights and street lamps to suggest a midnight impromptu on a
shadowy corner in Hell’s Kitchen before the place got
gentrified.  After a tumbling introduction featuring all seven members,
Mason Ames, the biggest man in the company, and Valerie Benoit-
Charbonneau, the only woman, perform an extended pas de deux.
It’s as much a dance as it is a series of flights and flips of
breathtaking athleticism.  It’s also a testament to the fathomless trust required of
partners who put their lives in each other’s hands with every
astonishing move as they toss each other around, she landing
inevitably on his shoulders or his head -- and not always right-
side up.  Like Cats  The others are similarly expert. One minute they’re
climbing a pair of poles like cats. Then they’re the Harlem
Globetrotters passing a basketball with speed, humor and music.  Moreover, they are telling a compelling story, as the title
suggests, of needing to leave their mark on a dehumanizing
world.  Through Oct. 9 at 100 E. 17th St. Information: +1-800-982-
2787;  http://www.ticketmaster.com . Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 