-- 
Tesco, Sainsbury Fined in Dairy-Price Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-10T07:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/tesco-sainsbury-fined-in-dairy-price-probe.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ,  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda chain were among U.K. retailers and
dairy producers fined by the U.K.’s  Office of Fair Trading  for
coordinating cheese or milk prices.  The supermarkets indirectly exchanged retail price plans
through the dairy processors’ information exchanges in 2002 and
2003, according to a statement e-mailed by the OFT. Tesco issued
a statement in which it denied colluding with other retailers
and described the ruling as “without substance.”  OFT Chief Executive Officer  John Fingleton  said the fines,
totalling 49.5 million pounds ($81 million) send “a strong
signal” that the regulator will impose significant penalties
“when it uncovers anti-competitive behavior aimed at increasing
the prices paid by consumers.”  Tesco said the episodes followed lobbying by British dairy
farmers for higher milk prices. Sainsbury, Asda and processors
including  Dairy Crest Group Plc (DCG)  and  Robert Wiseman Dairies Plc (RWD) 
obtained reductions in fines after admitting liability and
agreeing to early resolution, according to the OFT.  “We did not collude on prices on cheese and we stand firm
in our rebuttal of these ongoing allegations,” Lucy Neville-
Rolfe, Tesco’s director of corporate and legal affairs, said in
the company’s statement. “We will continue to defend our
position vigorously, through the courts if necessary.”  Also named by the OFT were Arla Foods; Lactalis McLelland,
since acquired by Groupe Lactalis; The Cheese Company; and
Safeway, the supermarket chain acquired by William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc in 2004.  Tesco was fined 10.4 million pounds, Sainsbury 11 million
pounds and Asda 9.4 million pounds. Arla wasn’t fined, because
it was granted immunity for alerting the OFT to possible
infringements, the agency said. Dairy Crest was ordered to pay
7.1 million pounds and Wiseman 3.2 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  