-- 
Lesson of Afghanistan Crash Is Not to Rush for Exit: Mark Moyar

-- B y   M a r k   M o y a r
-- 
2011-08-10T00:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/lesson-of-afghanistan-crash-is-not-to-rush-for-exit-mark-moyar.html
The death of 30 Americans and eight
Afghans in a helicopter crash on Aug. 6 was a sobering reminder
of the dangers our troops face in  Afghanistan .  Unfortunately, it also led some reporters, talking heads
and politicians to jump to unwarranted conclusions: that special
operations raids are alienating the Afghan population, that this
tragedy was evidence that the U.S. troop withdrawal needs to be
further hurried, and that the Taliban are on their way to
victory. Such misguided claims are damaging the already fragile
support for the war in the U.S.  Let’s start with the claim that residents of the Tangi
Valley, where the helicopter crashed, had converted to the
Taliban because of outrage over nighttime raids by U.S. special
operations forces. Actually, the population of the Tangi Valley
supported the Taliban long before the night raids started, as I
learned during a visit to the district in early 2010.  For years, U.S. forces seldom ventured near the valley, and
when they did, they were likely to sustain casualties from
Taliban homemade bombs or snipers. It seems likely that those
valley residents who criticized the night raids to reporters in
recent days did so under pressure by the Taliban, who routinely
compel citizens to make bogus accusations about U.S. and Afghan
forces.  A Single Helicopter  The destruction of a single helicopter tells us nothing
about who is winning the war. The larger history of the Tangi
Valley, on the other hand, provides valuable insights into the
challenges we now face in Afghanistan. Far from demonstrating
the advisability of rapid retrenchment, it shows that
withdrawing troops from counterinsurgency missions means
forfeiting earlier gains, which creates additional risks for
remaining U.S. and allied forces and provides the enemy new
bases from which to push forward.  U.S. Army soldiers established a permanent base in the
Tangi Valley in 2009, using it to launch counterinsurgency
operations across the area. The very first patrol came under
fire from rifles and rocket-propelled grenades, as did nearly
ever patrol thereafter. Two boys who spoke with the Americans
during that first patrol were soon after dragged from their
homes and  murdered  by the Taliban. When U.S. forces attempted to
bring Afghan government officials and Tangi Valley farmers
together for meetings on governance and development, neither
group showed up for fear of their lives. U.S. patrols weakened
the Taliban’s grip on the population, but did not break it,
because the Americans and their Afghan partners were too few in
number to cover the valley in strength.  Earlier this year, U.S. forces turned the Tangi Valley base
over to Afghan forces. The U.S. had done the same in other tough
valleys such as the Pech and Korengal, both in eastern
Afghanistan, in the belief that the thinly stretched and
numerically declining U.S. forces should be consolidated in
populous areas near the ring road, Afghanistan’s central
highway. Advocates of consolidation argued that the people in
these valleys were merely xenophobic, and would be as hostile to
foreign jihadists as to Americans. The U.S. high command did,
however, plan to continue special operations raids into the
valleys to disrupt enemy operations and eliminate enemy leaders.  In the Tangi Valley, as in the others, Afghan security
forces patrolled much less frequently after the Americans
departed. The population refused to cooperate with them and
instead cooperated with the insurgents, even though many came
from  Pakistan  or other foreign countries. With the enemy in firm
control of the valley, U.S. special operations forces have had
to fight their way in and fight their way out. Insurgent
fighters, informants and improvised bombs were dispersed in
locations unknown to the Americans, advantages that may have
helped the Taliban shoot down the helicopter last weekend.  Raids Are Insufficient  Although special operations raids have given the insurgents
some black eyes in the Tangi and other valleys abandoned by U.S.
forces, they have not disrupted enemy operations to the degree
that had been hoped. Shortly before the crash in the Tangi
Valley, recognition of the dangers posed by insurgent safe
havens led to a momentous, if largely unnoticed, decision to
reinsert a permanent U.S. troop presence into the Pech Valley.  I interviewed members of the 3rd Battalion, 5th Marine
Regiment earlier this year as part of a study of the Sangin
Valley in southern Afghanistan, which had been a formidable
Taliban stronghold until this battalion subdued it at a cost of
200 Marine casualties. When asked what they did after their
comrades were maimed or killed, the officers recounted that they
honored the fallen and used their memory to inspire the living,
but gave their Marines no time off before taking them back on
patrol. They said this resilience enabled the battalion to
maintain high morale and minimized psychological casualties.  In response to the appalling loss of life last weekend, we
could have our forces hunker down on bases. We could accelerate
the transition from a counterinsurgency mission to
counterterrorism, with the understanding that scaling back in
this way would make it harder for us to gather intelligence and
increase the danger to our special operations forces.  Or we could honor the sacrifices of the Americans killed in
the Tangi Valley by strengthening our resolve and hunting the
enemy wherever he feels he is safe. I strongly suspect that the
troops in that ill-fated helicopter would have wanted their
deaths to provide inspiration, not demoralization.  (Mark Moyar, a former professor at the Marine Corps
University and research director at Orbis Operations, a
stability operations consultancy, is author of “A Question of
Command: Counterinsurgency from the Civil War to  Iraq .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Moyar in McLean, Va., at  m.moyar@orbisops.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 