-- 
EU Meat Prices to Rise Further on Increased Demand, Lower Supply

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-10T11:37:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/eu-meat-prices-to-rise-further-on-increased-demand-lower-supply.html
European Union meat prices will
extend gains after pork rose to the highest since 2008 and beef
jumped 15 percent in the past year on increased demand from
 China  and as herds shrink due to high feed prices, according to
Rabobank International.  Pork prices in the EU rose 10 percent to 1.56 euros ($2.24)
a kilogram (2.2 pounds) in the year through June to the most in
almost three years, and beef gained to 3.44 euros a kilogram,
European Commission data show. Corn, used as  animal feed , in
 Chicago  has gained 71 percent in the past year and feed wheat in
London jumped to a record on April 20.  Rising meat prices in the EU are part of a bigger trend of
increased food costs. The  United Nations ’ meat price index has
gained 18 percent in the past year, the  Food and Agriculture
Organization  said in a July report. The food-price index surged
39 percent, UN data show. EU food prices are up 26 percent in
the past decade and 4 percent in the past year, Eurostat data
show.  “There’s growing demand for beef and for pork and the
effect on the EU is that less beef is coming to the EU market
and more is going to other markets, including China,” Albert
Vernooij, a Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst at Rabobank
International, said by phone.  Beef production in the EU is expected to remain low in the
third quarter, according to a July Rabobank report. “Beef
prices should increase a little bit more and pork prices will
rise,” Vernooij said speaking about this year.  Chinese Demand  Increased demand for meat in China will lead to more
exports of pig meat from the EU, said Vernooij, who has worked
as a livestock analyst for 11 years. Smaller corn and wheat
stockpiles have pushed up feed costs amid rising demand from
emerging markets.  “Due to the high feed costs, European pig farmers have
negative margins pressuring the supply of piglets down,”
Vernooij said. “Due to the long time before higher prices are
forwarded in the supply chain the effect on consumer prices is
still limited but that will slowly start to change in the coming
months.”  Rising demand from China, where per-capita pork consumption
has jumped 23 percent in the past decade, means more meat will
be exported from the EU and less will be available from other
producing countries, Vernooij said.  In the U.K., where the  sow herd  has fallen 27 percent in
the past 10 years, consumers are buying more low-end cuts of
meat such as mince, or hamburger, instead of sirloins and
filets, said Kim Marie Haywood, executive director of the
 National Beef Association .  Rising Prices  Filets of beef in  London  jumped 18 percent from a year
earlier to an average 32.48 pounds ($52.91) a kilogram on June
11, according to  meat-prices.co.uk , the Meat Trades Journal
website. The same cut of pork rose to 8.31 pounds on July 9, the
highest since October 2009, the website said. U.K. meat gained
7.2 percent in June from a year earlier, National Statistics
data show.  Rising feed costs are also causing meat prices to rise as
feeders must spend more on corn, wheat, soymeal and other grains
used to fatten hogs and cattle. Two years ago feed wheat was
about 90 pounds a ton, said Martin Barker, managing director for
Berton-on-Trent, England-based Midland Pig Producers Ltd. which
has 4,000 sows on eight farms in the country. The cost more than
doubled this year to 220 pounds a ton, he said.  “In terms of profitability we went from a reasonable year
making a profit through April because we bought food that was
relatively cheap, but this year is the opposite,” Barker said.
“Pig production is all about the feed cost.”  Producers Losing Money  Cattle producers in the U.K. are also facing higher input
costs, said the Beef Association’s Haywood. Along with feed,
fuel and bovine medicine costs have risen, she said. Even with
beef prices at a record high in the U.K., producers are still
losing money, Haywood said.  “It’s a bizarre situation where we have very high input
costs and the price being paid, even at a record, isn’t
enough,” she said. “We have a shrinking cattle herd and huge
competition for supply so that’s forced the price for farmers in
the right direction, but on the other side you have retailers
trying to keep the price where consumers can afford it.’  Rising beef and pork costs are also causing restaurant
owners to raise prices, said Richard Bradford, who owns two
restaurants in central London’s Covent Garden area.  Inflation   ‘‘At the moment there’s enormous pressure on restaurant
owners,” said Bradford, owner of Porters English Restaurant and
Covent Garden Grill. “It’s not just meat prices. It’s
everything -- butter, eggs, you name it. The rate of price
inflation is extremely high.”  Instead of paying more to produce animals, some farmers are
leaving the industry, Barker said. In  Europe  the number of
swine being produced is expected to fall 2.7 percent to 146.3
million this year and cattle is seen declining 0.7 percent to
86.6 million, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Next year the EU will ban the use of “sow stalls,” or
crates where pregnant animals are kept during gestation, Barker
said, adding it will further reduce production and cause prices
to rise. A similar ban introduced to the U.K. in 1999
contributed to a decline in herd size in the country, Zoe
Davies, a manager at the National Pig Association, said in an e-
mail.  “If you’re a 65-year-old farmer in  France  or  Germany 
you’re unlikely to invest hundreds of thousands of pounds” in
new equipment, Barker said. “There’s going to be a lot of
demand over the next four or five years. The consumer won’t like
it because food is going to cost a lot more money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  