-- 
Europe Phone-Company Yields May Beat Ireland, Portugal Bonds

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-08-10T13:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/european-phone-company-dividend-yields-may-beat-ireland-portugal-bonds.html
Dividend yields for European
telephone companies may give investors a higher payout than
benchmark bonds from Ireland and Portugal after a week-long
decline in telecommunications shares.  Dividend yields based on projected payouts at current
market prices rose to a record at  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) , according to data collected by
Bloomberg. Investors in former phone monopolies in Austria and
France would see yields of more than 10 percent. That compares
with 10-year Irish and Portuguese bonds yielding 9.1 percent and
9.9 percent respectively.  AT&T Inc. (T)  in the U.S. yields 6
percent.  The world’s biggest market drop since 2008 may have opened
up buying opportunities for investors seeking high dividends.
Phone companies were once known as widow-and-orphan stocks
because they offered safe payouts bolstered by high cash flows.  “In very uncertain times like the current ones the telecom
industry is kind of a haven for investors,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage 57 billion Swiss francs ($79 billion)
at Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management. “These days
everybody looks closely at telecoms because they have recurrent
earnings and it’s a defensive investment.”  European telecom services companies are yielding 6.7
percent based on projected dividend payouts, according to
Bloomberg data. In the U.S., where the  S&P 500  this week fell
the most since December 2008, the dividend yields of
telecommunications companies are 3 percent.  Cash Flow  “The worst is probably priced in for European telecoms,”
 Robin Bienenstock , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd., said yesterday. “I’d be surprised if dividend
yields further increase. Dividends for most European telecoms
are very well covered with cash flows.”  Shares of Telefonica,  Europe ’s second-largest phone
company, have lost 10 percent since July 27, while France
Telecom, France’s largest phone company, lost 9 percent.  European companies may face more difficulty in meeting
dividend goals because of more intense competition and stricter
regulation, said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research
at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London .  “The headwinds that European telecoms are facing are as a
whole much tougher” than those faced by U.S. operators,
Appleyard said. “Equity investors have serious doubts and a lot
of skepticism about the ability of European telecoms to generate
strong cash flows, whereas there’s less skepticism about the
American telecom model.”  Increasing Dividends  Telecom Italia, with a 6.9 percent dividend yield, has
forecast 15 percent annual payout increases through 2013.
Telefonica, which lifted its dividend 14 percent this year to
1.60 euros a share, has forecast a 1.75 euro payout in 2012.  Deutsche Telekom rose  2.3 percent to 9.64 euros at 2:51
p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  France Telecom  climbed 0.2 percent to
12.93 euros in Paris, while  Telekom Austria  gained 0.5 percent
to 7.38 euros in Vienna. Telefonica fell 0.7 percent to 14.05
euros in Madrid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  