-- 
European Economic Confidence Fell in Third Quarter, Ifo Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-10T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/european-economic-confidence-fell-in-third-quarter-ifo-says.html
Economic confidence in the euro area
fell for the first time in 2 1/2 years in the third quarter,
with expectations for the next six months “weakening notably,”
the  Ifo research institute  said, citing its World Economic
Survey.  An index measuring the economic climate in the 17-nation
euro region dropped to 110.6 from 118.9 in the second quarter,
the Munich-based institute said in an e-mailed statement today.
A gauge of current conditions eased to 156.6 from 159.4, while
an indicator measuring expectations fell to 83.6 from 95.1.  Stock markets plunged worldwide after  Europe ’s debt crisis
spread to Italy and Spain and the U.S. saw its credit rating cut
for the first time in response to a debt-ceiling impasse that
pushed the world’s largest economy to the brink of default.
There are also signs that growth in  Germany  is slowing as its
export-driven economy feels the effects of a dimming global
outlook.  “In many countries a worsening of the economic situation
is expected,” Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn said in the
statement. “Current economic conditions were considered
excellent in Germany and good in Austria, Finland and Estonia,”
while the situation in Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece
remains “very weak,” he said.  The economic situation worsened most in Cyprus.  Ifo surveyed 274 “economic experts.” The number of
participants expecting the  European Central Bank  to raise
 interest rates  further in the next six months fell slightly from
the previous survey, the report said, without giving details.  Ifo will publish a full set of results on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  