-- 
Teva Analysts Stick to ‘Buy’ as Stock Repays Love With 41% Drop

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/teva-analysts-stick-to-buy-as-stock-repays-love-with-41-drop.html
As  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) ’s shares peaked last year, Ken Cacciatore was telling
clients to buy. Seventeen months and a 41 percent stock drop
later, he has yet to deviate from that call.  The Cowen & Co. analyst has plenty of company. Teva at its
peak was the highest-rated stock among the world’s 20 biggest
drugmakers, and still is today, according to Bloomberg data. Not
one of the 32 analysts recommended selling at the March 2010
peak, and none does today either. They missed the plunge in part
because they fell in love with the stock’s past gains, said  Erik Gordon  of the  University of Michigan  business school.  “It’s hard for them to switch right away from ‘buy’ to
‘hold,’ and as you know, ‘hold’ is the same as ‘sell it,’”
Gordon, who studies the  drug industry , said in a telephone
interview from  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . “It’s easier to say, ‘The
market has overreacted. I’m not wrong.’”  Now, the stock is so cheap that predictions of a rally may
finally be right, said Ronny Gal, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst who was one of the two analysts to cut his rating on
Teva last year. Cacciatore acknowledged in a report to clients
last week that his “outperform” rating had been wrong, and
said he was sticking to his view.  The slide began in March 2010, after Petach Tikva, Israel-
based Teva announced the 3.63 billion-euro purchase of German
generic-drug maker Ratiopharm GmbH. Just as Teva was investing
in Europe, governments there announced drug price cuts. Then the
company’s biggest-selling medicine, the branded multiple-
sclerosis injection Copaxone, gained a new competitor with the
September approval of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, the first MS pill.  U.S. Sales Drop  This year, the company’s U.S. generic-drug sales tumbled
because of manufacturing problems and the lack of new products,
and laquinimod, the MS pill being tested as heir to Copaxone,
showed disappointing results in two patient trials. Investors
questioned where Teva would find the fourth-quarter revenue to
meet this year’s profit target.  “This has become a ‘show-me’ stock -- show me you can hit
your targets,” Cacciatore, who’s based in  New York , said in a
telephone interview.  Twenty-five analysts rate Teva “buy,” and seven analysts
have a “hold” rating, according to Bloomberg data.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell $1.51, or 3.8
percent, to close at $38.25 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday. One ADR represents one ordinary share. The ADRs
closed at a record $64.54 on March 23, 2010. The 41 percent drop
since then, which includes reinvested dividends, compares with a
10 percent return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.
In the five years through the peak, Teva returned an average of
18 percent a year, compared with 4 percent for the index.  Management’s Credibility  The disappointments hurt Teva management’s credibility, Gal
said on a conference call with his clients last week. It’s “now
the lowest I’ve seen from the company,” he said.  Yossi Koren, a spokesman for Teva, declined to comment on
Gal’s view, or on analysts’ coverage of the company.  The shares may rise into the low-to-mid $50s in the next 12
months as earnings grow and as Teva convinces investors of the
durability of its MS franchise, Cacciatore said. Teva sells for
7.8 times estimated profit compared with an average of 10.8 for
the 20 largest drugmakers. That discount isn’t justified, given
the likely prospects for the company’s revenue growth, he said.  In the Aug. 1 report, he wrote, “Our ‘outperform’ rating
has simply been wrong, and we acknowledge it. But under the
current valuation scenario, it is nearly impossible for us not
to defend and recommend that investors either begin to initiate
positions or add at these levels.”  Burned Before  Still, analysts have been burned before when they tried to
call a bottom in Teva’s stock. Bernstein’s Gal cut his
recommendation to “market perform” from “outperform” in July
2010 on concerns over a potential generic challenger to
Copaxone. In May, he raised his rating to “outperform,” saying
the shares were cheap at $47.08. They have since fallen about 19
percent. Catalysts including a victory in a patent case over
Copaxone may build confidence and spark a share price rally in
the second half, he said last week.  Others aren’t so sure. Christopher Holterhoff of
Oppenheimer & Co. cut his rating on the stock to “market
perform” from “outperform” on Aug. 2, after laquinimod failed
a clinical trial. A patient trial comparing Copaxone with
another potential MS competitor,  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s BG-12, may
further depress investor expectations when results are reported
before the end of the year, he wrote in a report.  Optimists are running into skepticism from their clients.
Gal held the conference call for clients last week, complete
with slide presentation, to review the argument for Teva.  “My investment case has evolved into ‘hope and pray,’”
one institutional investor wrote in an e-mailed response to
Gal’s invitation to the call.  “Is there a slide on that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  