-- 
Mexico Sells $1 Billion of 100-Year Bonds to Tap Into Drop in U.S. Yields

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T19:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/mexico-to-sell-100-year-dollar-bonds-as-benchmark-treasury-yields-tumble.html
Mexico  sold $1 billion worth of 100-
year bonds overseas, taking advantage of a plunge in benchmark
U.S. borrowing costs to bring back a record-long maturity it
unveiled a year ago.  The government sold the bonds due 2110 to yield 5.96
percent, or 242 basis points above 30-year U.S. Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexico first sold the
securities in October, issuing $1 billion at a yield of 6.1
percent to become the only Latin American country with dollar
bonds of that maturity.  Yields on the Mexican bonds have declined 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, in the past month to 5.95 percent in
the secondary market, tracking a tumble in U.S. Treasury yields
that was sparked by concern the global economic expansion is
faltering. Thirty-year Treasury yields have dropped 67 basis
points during the past month to 3.54 percent, the lowest in
almost a year.  “It’s a pretty aggressive move on their part to be selling
100-year bonds, which tend to be less liquid,” said David Bessey, who helps manage $14 billion of emerging-market debt at
Prudential Financial in  Newark ,  New Jersey . “There’s general
demand for high-quality, investment-grade long-dated assets.”  Mexico’s foreign debt is rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings, the second-lowest investment-grade ranking.  The sale is Mexico’s third this year in international
markets. The country has raised $2 billion of debt overseas this
year, compared with $4.1 billion in the year-earlier period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  