-- 
Falling Bank Stocks Offer a Too-Big-to-Fail Wakeup Call: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-10T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/falling-bank-stocks-offer-a-too-big-to-fail-wakeup-call-view.html
Bank of America and Citigroup stood
out for all the wrong reasons in Monday’s market meltdown.
Shares of the two banks led the decline amid new doubts about
the quality of the assets buried on their balance sheets.  Investors now believe that Bank of America’s net worth is
only about a third of what the bank claims; for Citigroup the
figure is less than half.  Any time shares of a financial company such as Bank of
America or Citigroup plunge it’s particularly worrying. Both are
among the roughly 40 U.S. institutions considered too big to
fail. The  Dodd-Frank Act , adopted in response to the financial
convulsions of 2008, was supposed to ensure that taxpayers never
have to rescue one of these banks again.  It would be wonderful if Dodd-Frank’s architecture, not
even fully in place, was never tested. And maybe it never will
be. The U.S. banking industry is in better shape today than
three years ago: Banks hold more capital, have more assets that
can be quickly converted into cash and are less dependent on the
skittish money markets for short-term funding.  Citigroup and Bank of America shares recovered somewhat on
Tuesday, but their plummeting prices the day before should still
serve as a wakeup call. Because of  Europe ’s unremitting debt
problems and signs that the U.S. is slipping into a new
recession, regulators need to more quickly put in place all the
tools Dodd-Frank mandated for coping with the next big banking
failure.  Living Wills  Dodd-Frank required banks to draw up so-called living wills
-- which describe how a failing bank could wind down its
business and avoid dragging down other companies. In theory,
this should mean a bank would sell pieces of its business,
place others into bankruptcy and close remaining operations.
But regulators have put a deadline for writing living-will
guidelines on hold while they coordinate with overseas
regulators. Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair  wanted the rules for drafting living wills in place
by the end of August. That seems appropriate.  Dodd-Frank also required that regulators set up an orderly
resolution authority. This authority, established this month, in
combination with living wills, would provide a controlled
setting for disassembling a large bank. The authority, among
other things, lets the FDIC use its money to pay creditors or
counterparties of a failing bank so that they, too, don’t
collapse in a chain reaction.  Overconcentration  In reality, no one knows how any of this would work with
companies as vast as Bank of America and Citigroup. Even when
markets are stable, the list of potential buyers for Bank of
America’s $2 trillion in assets -- or any other major bank’s --
is short. The list would be shorter still in times of crisis,
when  bank failures  tend to occur. Plus, a sale of part of a
company like Bank of America to another big bank would do more
to concentrate financial assets. The U.S.’s 10 biggest banks
already hold roughly three-fourths of the nation’s banking
assets, up from about half in 2002.  All the more reason regulators also need to push back
against the banking industry’s entreaties to not increase
 capital requirements  too much. Big banks may eventually be
required to hold capital equal to as much as 10 percent of
assets. When it comes to bank capital, more is almost always
better; the level now under discussion at the  Federal Reserve 
probably isn’t high enough.  Absorb Losses  In an ideal world, Bank of America would go to the stock
markets to raise more capital. Capital gives a bank the ability
to absorb losses, and Bank of America has had its share. The
bank reported an $8.8 billion loss in the second quarter, mostly
related to its 2008 acquisition of subprime lender Countrywide
Financial. Investors believe more losses are inevitable from
those dubious mortgages.  Speculation that Bank of America will raise capital is
certainly among the reasons the shares have plunged. Investors
are worried that new stock will be sold, diluting their existing
holdings. They may have to take their lumps, but if fresh
capital is needed there may be no alternative.  One more thing federal regulators should do: Maintain a
hard stand against any increases in dividends by weak banks for
the foreseeable future. Dividends drain money that can be used
to shore up capital and make a bank sounder. At a time when some
pundits are declaring the too-big-to-fail problem unresolved, it
behooves regulators to do what they can to prove them wrong.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 