-- 
Fed Faces Hard Discussion in Run-Up to Jackson Hole, Pimco’s El-Erian Says

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-08-10T15:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/fed-faces-hard-discussion-in-run-up-to-jackson-hole-pimco-s-el-erian-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  faces a “hard
discussion” in response to a slowing U.S. economy before the
Kansas City Fed’s conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, according
to Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co.  “People have gone from asking is the Fed going to do
something to will the Fed be effective in doing something,” El-
Erian said in a Bloomberg Television interview today on “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu.  The dissent of three policy makers at yesterday’s policy
meeting is “meaningful,” said El-Erian, co-chief investment
officer in  Newport Beach ,  California , at Pimco, which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund. The last time three Federal Open
Market Committee voters dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under
Bernanke’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  Bernanke may give additional signals in his Aug. 26 speech
at the Jackson Hole conference, the venue he used last year to
hint at the second round of quantitative easing in which the Fed
purchased $600 billion of Treasuries.  “It knows there’s a risk of a recession,” said El-Erian,
referring to the Fed. “It knows that risk is going up. I’m not
sure the Fed can act quicker. The Fed is a bridge for very-slow-
moving entities in  Washington , D.C., that should step up to the
plate and deal with the structural impediments to growth.”  Fed Rate Pledge  The Fed pledged yesterday for the first time to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low zero to 0.25 percent at
least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  U.S. stocks and Treasuries rallied following the Fed’s
announcement, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up 4.7
percent. Immediately after the Fed’s statement, yields on two-
and 10-year Treasury notes tumbled to record lows.  Equities fell today, erasing most of yesterday’s rally, and
Treasuries rose for a third day on concern the European
sovereign-debt crisis is getting worse and the U.S. economic
recovery is slowing.  “It reflects the economic situation,” El-Erian said.
“People are worried about the return of their capital and
therefore we’re seeing a flight to quality.”  The  European Central Bank  bought Spanish and Italian bonds,
according to four people with knowledge of the transactions,
pushing yields on the nations’ 10-year securities down in line
with the rate on German bunds.  ECB Debt Buying  The amount of securities acquired by the central bank was
smaller than in the past two days, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the trades are confidential.  “The central banks are trying to get their act together,”
he said. “What they do is necessary but not sufficient. It’s
about all economic agencies coordinating within countries and
across the major regions.”  El-Erian advised stock investors to stay on the sidelines
and look for opportunities in companies with strong balance
sheets and dividends.  Pimco boosted holdings of Treasuries in July during the
biggest monthly rally in the securities since August 2010.  The company increased the $245 billion Total Return Fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 10 percent of assets
last month from 8 percent in June, according to Pimco’s  website .
It cut cash equivalents and money-market securities to 15
percent from 29 percent for the lowest level in the fund’s cash
holdings since January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  