-- 
Fed Misdiagnoses Economy, Prescribes a Placebo: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-08-10T14:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/fed-misdiagnoses-economy-prescribes-a-placebo-caroline-baum.html
When a patient walks into a doctor’s
office complaining of a chronic condition, the first thing the
physician does is take a medical history.  When did the symptoms start? Describe them. Have they
gotten better or worse? Have you consulted a doctor previously,
and if so, what did he prescribe? What was the response?  When the economy is sick, a correct diagnosis is equally
important in determining the course of treatment.  On the fiscal-policy side, the Obama administration and
members of Congress can’t agree on whether the U.S. economy’s
problem is too much debt or too much unemployment. At least they
agree on the “too much” part.  Central bankers at the  Federal Reserve  examined the patient
and came to a different conclusion about the economy’s malaise.
At yesterday’s policy meeting, Fed officials determined that the
problem is the rate structure: Specifically, long-term interest
rates are too high. In order to bring them down, some verbal
tinkering was in order.  The Fed said economic conditions “are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through mid-2013.” This is the first time since the introduction
of the “extended period” language in March 2009 that the Fed has
assigned a specific time frame to it.  The truth is, the Fed doesn’t know how long it will need to
keep the funds rate at its current setting of zero to 0.25
percent. In early 2010, the central bank was readying an exit
strategy from a period of monetary accommodation. With each
piece of old news, its growth forecasts have been revised down,
and its unemployment forecasts up. This is why I call them
“hindcasts.”  Actions Have Consequences  That’s not to say the Fed’s projections are worse than
those of your average Wall Street economist or average Joe. It’s
just that the central bank controls the monetary levers. Unlike
the rest of us, it has the tools to convert its forecasts into
reality.  At the same time, actions predicated on forecast mistakes
have consequences. The Fed was still worried about deflation as
late as 2003, leaving the funds rate at 1 percent for too long
and inflating the housing bubble.  From the three options that Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
outlined previously should the economy need an additional
transfusion -- additional long-term securities purchases, a
reduction in the  interest rate  paid on excess reserves, and
verbal gymnastics -- the Fed picked the third, which is also the
silliest. And it’s right off the shelves of academia, where
rational-expectations theory is an obsession.  Promises to Keep  Bernanke explained the goal of such a strategy in a  speech 
at the Kansas City Fed’s annual Jackson Hole conference last
year. Modifying the language in the statement “to communicate to
investors that it anticipates keeping the target for the federal
funds rate low for a longer period than is currently priced in
markets” would “presumably lower longer-term rates,” he said.  When was the last time you heard a friend complain that
high  mortgage rates  were standing in the way of a home purchase?
Last week, the rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages was 4.4
percent. With Treasury yields diving after the Fed’s statement,
that rate could approach 4 percent, where it was in November.
The housing market was lifeless then, and there’s no reason to
expect lower mortgage rates to ignite the residential real-
estate market when an overhang of debt is the problem.  The Fed’s two-year promise of zero interest rates isn’t
without consequences. What happens during the next inflation
scare? If there is one thing the Fed fears more than actual
inflation, it’s inflation expectations that break loose from
their moorings.  Nor was access to, or the price of, credit an issue for
small business. Ninety-two percent of the respondents in the
 National Federation of Independent Business ’s July  survey  said
their credit needs were being met or they weren’t interested in
borrowing.  Idee Fixe  This is another fixation based on the flawed assumption
that the cost of the information the public needs to make an
informed decision about future inflation is nil.  Yes, people behave rationally (well, not always). But in
many cases they lack the information that would lead to rational
behavior. And there’s a cost of acquiring it. My completely
unscientific street survey on inflation several years ago
convinced me that Fed officials need to leave the ivory tower
every so often to test the theories they use in their
econometric models. (Those would be the models that have been
predicting solid growth and falling unemployment. Oh, never
mind.)  Different Disease  Some economists suspect that yesterday’s verbal gymnastics
are a prelude to some form of renewed action on the part of the
Fed. (See options one and two above.) Three members of the
policy-making committee, all presidents of Federal Reserve
banks, dissented from the Fed’s action, or wordplay as the case
may be. They preferred to retain the extended-period-without-a-
date language.  The last time there were three dissents was on Nov. 17,
1992, according to  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at
Jefferies & Co. That was during another period of low official
interest rates (at the time, 3 percent was considered low), sub-
par economic growth (at least before data revisions), modest yet
accelerating  job creation  and record budget deficits ($290
billion in fiscal 1992).  Compared with the current metrics, the 1990s probably look
like nirvana to the Fed. Back then, the drug of easy money was
enough to restore the economy to health.  Today’s economy would appear to be drug-resistant. More
likely, it’s suffering from a different and more lethal disease.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  