-- 
Fired Black Maid Gets Revenge by Serving Surprise Pie: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-10T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/fired-black-maid-gets-revenge-by-serving-surprise-pie-movies.html
In “ The Help ,” set in segregated
 Mississippi  in 1963, a prim young social-climber named Hilly
tells her bridge-club members that all homes should have
separate bathrooms for black maids.  The proposal is greeted with casual acceptance, as if
someone had just suggested they refill a pitcher of iced tea.  That ingrained racism is the backdrop for the movie based
on Kathryn Stockett’s best-seller about an aspiring writer who
interviews black maids about their demeaning experiences working
for white families.  Though the central character is a young white woman --
rising star  Emma Stone  delivers a spunky performance as Skeeter,
the rebellious Ole Miss graduate who would rather write than
attend bridge-club meetings -- the heart of the film comes from
two courageous maids wonderfully portrayed by Viola Davis and
Octavia Spencer.  The story might strike some as a watered-down version of
Deep South bigotry in the early 1960s. And Skeeter does seem a
little too good to be true.  “The Help” doesn’t aspire to be a comprehensive history
of racial discrimination, though. It’s more like “Driving  Miss
Daisy ,” a movie that reflects the times through personal
stories and relationships.  It helps that writer/director Tate Taylor and Stockett are
childhood friends who grew up in Jackson, Mississippi, in the
1970s. While race relations in the state had undergone dramatic
changes by then, Taylor clearly has a deep understanding of the
time and attitudes portrayed in Stockett’s book.  Cleaning Column  In the film, Skeeter returns home after graduating from
college and gets a job writing a cleaning-tips column for the
local newspaper. What she really wants to do is write a book for
a hotshot New York editor (Mary Steenburgen) about what it’s
like to be a black maid in Jackson.  Skeeter starts by interviewing Aibileen (Davis), a maid who
has helped raise 17 children for various white families while
mourning the loss of her only son in a freak accident. She also
talks to Hilly’s housekeeper Minny (Spencer), a fabulous cook
who gets fired for using the family bathroom in the house where
she works.  After Minny gets revenge by serving her a surprise-
ingredient pie, Hilly tries to blackball her from getting
another job. But Minny ends up working for an eccentric blonde
(Jessica Chastain, with just the right mix of zaniness and
sadness) who’s also a social outcast.  Janney, Spacek  Allison Janney is terrific as Skeeter’s mom, who wants her
daughter to marry a proper Southern gentleman. Also excelling in
small roles are Sissy Spacek as Hilly’s outspoken mother and
Cicely Tyson as Skeeter’s elderly family maid, whose sudden
departure makes the young woman suspicious.  The film includes references to real 1963 events such as
the murder of civil-rights leader Medgar Evers in Jackson and
the Washington rally at which  Martin Luther King Jr . delivered
his “I Have a Dream” speech.  But it’s the fictional characters created by Stockett and
vividly brought to the screen that make “The Help” so moving.  “The Help,” from  Walt Disney Pictures , opens today across
the U.S. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 