-- 
Ford Says It’s Feeling ‘Pricing Pressure’ as China Market Slows

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-08-10T20:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/ford-says-it-s-feeling-pricing-pressure-as-china-market-slows.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , seeking to
accelerate its growth in  China , said it’s encountering pricing
pressure as that auto market slows.  “In the last three or four months, the  auto industry 
clearly is not growing at the rate it was last year or even in
the first quarter,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s group vice president
and Asia chief, said today at the JP Morgan auto conference in
 Detroit . “We have seen some pricing pressure.”  Ford is spending $1.6 billion to build four factories in
China, where it plans to triple its lineup by offering 15 models
by mid-decade, Hinrichs said. Ford, still dependent on the U.S.
and  Europe  for most sales and profits, has 2.7 percent of the
passenger-vehicle market in China through June, trailing  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s 10 percent, according to J.D. Power & Associates.  Ford expects the Chinese government to eventually take
measures to stimulate auto sales, Hinrichs said. Ford’s sales
are up 13 percent to 14 percent so far this year, outpacing the
market’s 5 percent growth rate, Hinrichs said.  “The growth rate is not nearly as aggressive” in China as
it has been, Hinrichs said.  Ford expects Chinese industrywide sales to increase by 5
percent to 10 percent annually over the next five years,
Hinrichs said. Ford’s costs in China are equal to competitors’,
he said.  “We’re not seeing an inability to compete in China,”
Hinrichs said.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said in June that
growth in  Asia  will help boost annual global sales by 50 percent
to 8 million vehicles by 2015. The second-largest U.S. automaker
earned $4.95 billion in the first half of the year, as fuel-
efficient models like the Fiesta subcompact attracted buyers in
a slowing U.S. auto market.  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two years after $30.1
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006,
putting up all major assets including its blue oval logo as
collateral. That helped Ford avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts
that befell the predecessors of GM and Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford slid 50 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $10.41 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 38 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  