-- 
Former Point Blank Solutions Chief Brooks Pleads Guilty to Tax Charges

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-08-10T19:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/former-point-blank-solutions-chief-brooks-pleads-guilty-to-tax-charges.html
David Brooks , the  Point Blank
Solutions Inc. (PBSOQ)  founder convicted by a jury last year of
committing a $185 million fraud and looting the military
contractor, pleaded guilty to tax charges.  Brooks entered the plea today in federal court in Central
Islip, New York, according to  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn.  Brooks, 56, a former chief executive officer, and former
Chief Operating Officer  Sandra Hatfield  were convicted last
September in Central Islip on charges of insider trading, fraud
and obstruction of justice. Point Blank, which makes body armor
for the military and police, filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
April 2010. The company was formerly called DHB Industries Inc.  “We’re going to now turn our attention to the remaining
issues of the case -- forfeiture, restitution and our motion for
a new trial based on our contention that he was incompetent
during a significant portion of the trial, partly because he was
on medication,” Brooks’s lawyer Gerald L. Shargel said today in
a phone interview.  Brooks today pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
defraud the U.S. and two counts of filing a false  tax return . He
failed to report $189,400 in dividend and interest payments in
2003 and $762,500 in compensation in 2004, the government said.  In 2009, U.S. District Judge Joanna Seybert separated the
counts from the others Brooks was tried on because they weren’t
sufficiently related, she said.  Jury Trial  At last year’s trial, prosecutors said Brooks and Hatfield
lied about the inventory of “Interceptor” combat vests shipped
to the U.S. armed forces and falsely inflated the company’s
value and their own stock.  Brooks earned $185 million in the scheme while Hatfield
earned $5 million, according to prosecutors.  Brooks spent company funds “lavishly” on himself and his
family, including purchases of a Bentley and a Ferrari and
grooming of 100 purebred trotting horses, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Richard Lunger told jurors in his opening statement at
the trial in January 2010.  The scheme took place from July 2000 to July 2006,
according to the government. In July 2006, DHB moved its
headquarters from Westbury,  New York , to  Pompano Beach , Florida.  Brooks has been in custody since January 2010.  The case is U.S. v. Brooks, 2:06-cr-00550, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 