-- 
Former Marvell Technology Employee Ng Charged in Nationwide Insider Probe

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/former-marvell-technology-employee-ng-charged-in-nationwide-insider-probe.html
U.S. prosecutors charged former
 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  accountant Stanley Ng with
conspiracy as part of a nationwide probe of insider trading
involving so-called expert networking firms.  Ng, 42, provided material non-public information to
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC, according to a criminal complaint
filed Aug. 5 and made public yesterday in federal court in New
York.  Ng was arrested at his home and appeared yesterday before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Bernard Zimmerman in  San Jose ,  California ,
according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New
York. Ng was released on a $50,000 bond secured by his home in
Cupertino, California, and is scheduled to appear Aug. 26 in
court in  Manhattan . He faces as long as five years in prison if
convicted.  Jiau, 43, was convicted in June of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud for passing earnings and other
information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and Marvell to hedge fund
managers Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager, and Samir Barai, founder of New York-based
Barai Capital Management LP.  Barai and Freedman have pleaded guilty and are cooperating
with prosecutors.  Investment Club  Prosecutors claimed that Ng and Sonny Nguyen, 39, then an
employee in Nvidia Corp.’s finance department, were recruited
into an “investment club” with Jiau, where they agreed to give
her inside information about their companies. Nguyen has pleaded
guilty.  Jiau gave the two men gifts and bought them meals at the
Cheesecake Factory and other restaurants, according to the
complaint. In May 2008, Barai sent Jiau an e-mail asking for the
“M cookbook recipe,” referring to Marvell’s non-public
earnings information, according to the government. Based on
information from Ng, Jiau told Barai that the company’s earnings
per share exceeded analyst expectations by as much as six cents,
according to the complaint.  Three months later, Barai asked Jiau again for the “M
recipe,” or information on Marvell’s new quarterly earnings,
according to the complaint. Marvell, based in  Santa Clara ,
California, makes chips for personal computers and mobile
phones.  ‘My Cook’  Jiau explained to Barai her reluctance to call Ng too
often.  “Sorry. My cook feels like he is watched,” she told Barai
in an instant message, the government said.  Expert networking firms such as Primary Global, based in
 Mountain View , California, link investors with industry experts
at public companies.  Jiau was the first of the so-called expert networkers to go
to trial. The U.S. has charged at least 15 people, including
consultants and fund managers, with insider trading in the
investigation of expert networking firms. At least 12 people
have pleaded guilty in the investigation. James Fleishman, a
former Primary Global sales manager, is scheduled to be tried
later this month.  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted
May 11 of directing the largest hedge fund  insider-trading  ring.
Prosecutors are seeking a prison sentence of as long as 24 years
and five months for Rajaratnam. Ex-Galleon trader Zvi Goffer was
convicted with two others June 13 on related charges and faces
as long as 20 years on the most serious counts.  Jiau’s Trial  Jurors at Jiau’s trial saw evidence of Barai’s fund buying
hundreds of thousands of shares of Marvell stock in May 2008
after obtaining information Jiau allegedly got Ng, who worked as
an accountant for Marvell and allegedly tipped her about the
company’s earnings in May 2008.  Prosecutors showed the jury evidence that Jiau had also
worked at Nvidia briefly in 2007. She befriended both Nguyen and
Ng to get her the information she then sold to Barai and
Freeman.  Ng was hired by Marvell in 2002 to be the company’s SEC
reporting manager, according to the complaint. He had access to
the company’s financial records and regulatory filings before
they became public, according to the government.  Ng was placed on administrative leave by Marvell in January
after he refused to cooperate with an internal investigation,
according to court records.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  