-- 
Franklin’s Hasenstab Sees Buying Opportunities Amid Volatility

-- B y   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-10T03:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/franklin-s-hasenstab-sees-buying-opportunities-amid-volatility.html
Michael Hasenstab , co-director of
international fixed income and a portfolio manager at Franklin
Templeton Investments in  San Mateo , California, comments on the
volatility in global financial markets.  “Such periods of volatility can take time to pass but we
expect to be positioned to benefit when the market focus returns
to fundamentals. We continue to maintain our long-term focus and
are using this period of volatility to add to positions with
strong fundamentals.  “We do not anticipate a double-dip recession in the U.S.
The subpar growth we do expect should be sufficient to continue
to support activity in Asia and other emerging markets. We
expect some moderation in the growth trajectory of these
economies but view this as a welcome development since it would
allow growth to be sustained over a longer period, reducing the
potential for overheating.  “We continue to believe the recovery remains on track in
most economies and that emerging markets will continue to lead
an uneven global recovery.  “While in the current environment there has been a selloff
in Asian currencies, we would expect the ongoing debasement of
G-3 currencies to reverse this.”  On  Europe :  “In the absence of a credible long-term solution to the
sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone, additional periods of
financial distress and headline risk remain likely.  “Still, given the extraordinary support being provided by
the  European Central Bank , European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  and the liquidity facilities already in place, we
think it is unlikely that the problems of highly indebted euro-
zone economies would cause a systemic crisis within Europe.  “Furthermore, given the backdrop of relatively strong
growth in other parts of the world, even under stressed
scenarios within Europe, we believe long-term contagion from the
euro zone should not disrupt the global recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  