-- 
French AAA Rating Affirmed by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Amid Market Rout

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-10T16:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/french-aaa-credit-affirmed-by-standard-poor-s-moody-s-amid-market-rout.html
France’s top credit grade was
affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings as relative yields on the nation’s debt climb on
concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is intensifying.  The outlook on France is stable and its AAA ranking is
“warranted,”  Moritz Kraemer , S&P’s managing director of
European sovereign ratings, said today in a Bloomberg television
interview. Francesco Meucci, a spokesman for Moody’s, said in a
telephone interview the country’s Aaa grade is “stable.” Fitch
spokesman Brian Bertsch said France is rated AAA with a stable
outlook as per its May 31 statement.  The extra yield investors demand to buy 10-year French debt
rather than German bunds, has jumped to 87 basis points, even
though both carry AAA grades from the major rating companies.
That spread is almost triple the 2010 average of 33, and
compares with 17 in the second half of the previous decade. The
cost of insuring French debt rose to a record today.  French bonds are the most costly AAA government securities
to insure as investors raise bets that top-rated euro-region
nations may be next in the firing line after the U.S. was
downgraded by one notch to AA+ by S&P on Aug. 5. Credit-default
swaps on  France  trade at 175 basis points, more than double the
rate to protect German securities at 86 basis points, CMA data
show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  