-- 
GDF Suez Plans $3.3 Billion Chinese Investment Deal to Expand in Asia

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-10T11:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/gdf-to-sell-stake-in-exploration-unit-to-cic-net-income-drops.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA will sell a 30 percent
stake in its exploration and production unit to  China  Investment
Corp. for 2.3 billion euros ($3.3 billion) to cut debt and
capitalize on higher demand for energy in  Asia .  Europe ’s largest natural-gas network operator said the sale
of the minority stake to China’s sovereign fund, also known as
CIC, is part of a broader agreement to gain joint investment
opportunities in the Asia-Pacific market in particular.  GDF Suez is seeking to accelerate expansion into “high-
growth” markets including Asia, where energy use is expected to
rise 2.4 percent a year through 2035, said Chief Executive
Officer Gerard Mestrallet. The sale takes the utility more than
halfway through a plan to sell 10 billion euros of assets.  “It’s clear that the emerging countries in general have
the highest growth in the world in terms of energy demand,”
Mestrallet told a press conference today in Paris. “CIC is
bringing fresh money.”  The French utility will also sell a 10 percent stake in the
Atlantic liquefied natural gas plant in  Trinidad and Tobago  to
CIC for 600 million euros.  GDF Suez rose as much as 4.8 percent in Paris and traded at
20.57 euros as of 12:55 p.m. local time.  France ’s benchmark
index was up 0.5 percent.  Today’s gain pared the Paris-based utility’s drop for the
year so far to 23 percent. The E&P unit generated 2.2 billion
euros of revenue and 1.4 billion euros of earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization last year, GDF Suez
said.  ‘Explode Higher’  “If CIC close their eyes for maybe one or two years, when
global growth resumes and when the European sovereign debt
crisis is solved, then I think their investment into GDF will
explode higher,” said  Gordon Kwan , Hong Kong-based head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “CIC is
willing to be very long term.”  Separately, GDF Suez said first-half net income fell to 2.7
billion euros from 3.6 billion euros a year earlier. That was in
line with the 2.67 billion-euro average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue was 45.7 billion euros.  Ebitda rose 8.2 percent to 8.9 billion euros. Unfavorable
weather conditions in France cut 465 million euros from the
results, the company said.  GDF Suez kept a target to raise full-year Ebitda to as much
as 17 billion euros before the impact of the French weather and
the risk of a continued freeze in natural-gas tariffs. Debt
stood at 40.7 billion euros on June 30.  Price Freeze  The government in April froze household gas prices for a
year, a move the country’s energy regulator has ruled should be
reversed from Oct. 1 to allow GDF Suez to cover supply costs.  “We don’t at all want there to be a freeze,” said
Mestrallet. Such a scenario in the fourth quarter would wipe
around 340 million euros from earnings, he said.  The company agreed in June to sell its gas distribution
network in  Italy  for 772 million euros and also sold a stake in
French distribution network GRTgaz for 1.1 billion euros. Last
year, it acquired a 70 percent stake in London-based
International Power Plc.  GDF Suez, which was created by the 2008 merger of Gaz de
France SA and Suez SA, has said it would like to develop a
1,000-megawatt reactor in the  Rhone Valley  that would serve as a
showcase for exports. It also plans to bid with Areva SA and
Vinci SA for as much as 1,750 megawatts of offshore wind power
capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net 
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  