-- 
Gentiva at Risk of Covenant Breach Amid Medicare Cuts: Corporate Finance

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-08-10T16:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/gentiva-at-risk-of-covenant-breach-amid-medicare-cuts-corporate-finance.html
Cuts in Medicare payments may force
 Gentiva Health Services Inc. (GTIV)  to breach a loan covenant this
year, Credit Suisse AG said, as trading prices drop for debt of
the largest U.S. home-health and hospice company by sales.  The federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services last
month proposed a 3.4 percent reduction to home health payments
for 2012 to promote greater payment accuracy. New Medicare cuts
issued in November forced the company to trim its projected 2011
sales by as much as $150 million to a range of $1.8 billion to
$1.85 billion, Atlanta-based Gentiva said in its second-quarter
earnings announcement on Aug. 4.  Medicare may be subject to further cuts if Congress fails
to agree on alternative measures to remain in compliance with
the debt-ceiling agreement struck this month. Gentiva receives
85.3 percent of its revenue from the program, and a further
reduction in the company’s sales could cause it to fall out of
compliance with its debt-to-earnings loan covenant. Its loans
have fallen 3.5 percent since July 27.  “The health-care sector overall is under pressure from
reimbursement rate cuts from Medicare,” Christina Padgett, a
New York-based analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in a
telephone interview. “Gentiva had a number of things happen to
them in a short period of time and this was the first quarter
where you saw the net impact. And they have this amorphous
overhang of likely additional pressure.”  ‘Negative Factors’  Moody’s put the company’s Ba3 corporate family rating on
review for a possible downgrade, citing “a confluence of
negative factors affecting the home health sector,” according
to an Aug. 4 statement. The current rating is three steps below
investment grade.  “We’ll continue to monitor the situation and potential
rule changes, and once that rule is finalized, we’ll look at our
business model and how we operate going forward, and act
accordingly,” Tony Herrling, a spokesman for the company, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “We have a lot of levers that we can
pull regarding costs.”  Gentiva had $1 billion of outstanding long-term debt as of
June 30, according to an Aug. 8 regulatory filing, including two
term loans and $325 million of 11.5 percent senior notes
maturing in September 2018.  The company reported second-quarter adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $52.8
million, according to the Aug. 4 statement. This number isn’t
comparable to past figures as it includes the results of Odyssey
HealthCare Inc., acquired in August 2010.  Leverage Covenant  “As our results indicate, this has been a challenging
quarter for Gentiva and our industry as a whole,” said Tony Strange, chief executive officer, in an conference call Aug. 4,
following the release of the company’s earnings. “The
complexity of the new regulatory requirements, along with the
overall softness in healthcare services volumes, has impacted
our ability to meet our growth expectations.”  If Gentiva’s earnings continue to deteriorate it could
trigger the maximum consolidated leverage ratio covenant in its
credit agreement, which measures the ratio of the company’s debt
to Ebitda, according to Moody’s Padgett.  As of June 30, Gentiva’s leverage ratio was 3.93 times and
the financial maintenance covenant requires the company to have
a ratio equal to, or less than, 4.5 times on Oct. 1, the company
said in the  Aug. 8 filing.  In an Aug. 4 Credit Suisse research note, analysts led by
Ralph Giacobbe in  New York  projected Gentiva will have a
consolidated leverage ratio of 4.54 times in the fourth quarter,
putting the company out of compliance with its covenant, which
would force the company to seek a waiver from lenders.  ‘Constant Communications’  “We are in constant communications with our banks,” said
Herrling. “While neither we nor the banks would take any action
on something that is merely a proposal, once we know what the
final regulatory structure is going to be, we will look at this
all again, and if there is a need to secure any waiver of
covenants, we’ll address that with our banks, at the appropriate
time.”  Gentiva has fallen $11.57 this month, or 64 percent, to
$6.42 at 11:47 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq trading to its
lowest level since January 2002. The company’s term loan B that
expires August 2016 recently traded at 95.5 cents on the dollar,
according to information provider Markit Group Ltd., down from
98.9 cents on July 27. A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank
lenders such as collateralized loan obligations, bank loan
mutual funds and  hedge funds .  Medicare Cuts  Its bonds plunged 9 cents on the dollar yesterday, to 90.25
cents, for a yield of 13.7 percent, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The debt traded at 104.5 cents on July 25.  Medicare has proposed a 3.4 percent cut to home health
payments for 2012, or about $640 million, according to a July 5
 press release  from the agency. That follows a 4.9 percent cut
for this year that reduced payments by $960 million.  “There’s a sense with all the  deficit-reduction  issues
that have been spawned by the debt-ceiling drama that if there
are areas that are going to get cut that are really easy targets
then home nursing is one of them,” said Arthur Henderson, a
Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Jefferies & Co.  Cuts to the industry’s Medicare rates were on the table in
debt talks led by Vice President  Joe Biden , according to a slide
presentation prepared by House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s
office. In the slides, the Virginia Republican cited home health
and nursing homes as the target of a possible $50 billion cut
over a decade. Industry lobbyists organized homecare nurses to
come to  Washington  and lobby lawmakers against more cuts.  Further Reductions  “We’re still dealing with the same sort of issues,” said
Val Halamandaris, president of the National Association for
Homecare and Hospice. The Washington-based lobby group
represents home care companies and not-for-profits, including
Gentiva Health Services Inc. and Amedysis Inc.  Halamandaris predicts that lawmakers won’t be able to reach
a deal on deficit reduction and that there will be a further 2
percent cut to his industry and others paid by Medicare. “It’s
not good for anybody,” he said in a telephone interview.  The additional reductions come after the 2010 health law
set up $39.7 billion cuts over 10 years to home health payments,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office . “That was worth
doing,” Halamandaris said, because it was meant to provide
stability for the industry in return for sacrifice. The new
reductions mean “there wasn’t a honeymoon period,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 