-- 
German Inflation Accelerated on Energy Costs

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-08-10T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/german-inflation-accelerated-on-energy-costs.html
Inflation in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, quickened in July after energy costs increased.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, rose to 2.6 percent from 2.4 percent in June, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today, confirming an
initial estimate published on July 27. From the previous month,
prices climbed 0.5 percent.  Crude prices rose in July before plunging at the end of the
month as concern about the health of the  U.S. economy , the
world’s biggest oil user, grew.  European Central Bank  President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week that euro-region inflation is
“likely to stay clearly above 2 percent over the coming
months,” even as the region’s sovereign debt crisis threatens
to exacerbate an economic slowdown.  “So far energy prices have mainly driven inflation but we
possibly have seen the peak in  oil prices ,” said Arnd Schaefer,
an economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “While
inflation may trend lower, it is likely to stay above the ECB’s
comfort zone for the remainder of the year.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank, which aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, has raised borrowing costs twice
this year, taking its benchmark rate to 1.5 percent.  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation accelerated to
2.4 percent from 2.3 percent and consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in the month, the statistics office said.  A more pronounced global slowdown than currently expected
may ease price pressures. In June, the ECB forecast euro-area
growth of 1.9 percent this year and said it expected inflation
to average about 2.6 percent.  “Fears are increasing that there could be a global
downturn again,” ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
told Austrian state radio ORF yesterday. “For  Europe , that’s
not what the forecasts show, but of course Europe” would be
“drawn into this,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  