-- 
German Notes Jump on Lower Rate Bets; Italian Notes Drop Amid ECB Purchase

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-08-10T16:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/german-bunds-rise-after-fed-pledges-to-hold-benchmark-rates-through-2013.html
German bonds rose, pushing the two-
year note yield to the lowest since June last year, on bets that
slowing global growth will compel the  European Central Bank  to
put off interest-rate increases and as stocks slid.  The notes advanced for the 10th time in 11 days after the
 Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark rate at a record
low for at least two years. French industrial production dropped
more than economists predicted in June and the Ifo research
institute’s index of euro-area economic confidence slid for the
first time in 2 1/2 years. Italian notes fell as the nation sold
6.5 billion euros ($9.2 billion) of bills, its first auction
since the ECB started buying its bonds. Bank stocks declined.  “The pressure on the ECB to take a pause is clearly
growing,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The short-term market
has already rallied, and the market is not pricing in a rate
hike in the next year.”  Two-year note yields fell 21 basis points to 0.56 percent
at 4:33 p.m. in London, after reaching 0.54 percent, the least
since June 30, 2010. The 1.75 percent securities maturing in
June 2013 rose 0.385, or 3.85 euros per 1,000-euro face amount,
to 102.155. The 10-year yield dropped 18 basis points to 2.19
percent, the lowest since September.  Investors are cutting bets that the ECB will continue to
raise  interest rates  after two increases of 0.25 percent so far
this year lifted the main refinancing rate to 1.5 percent.
Euribor futures rose today, sending the implied yield on the
June 2013 contract down 24 basis points to 1.37 percent, a sign
traders were adding to bets for lower borrowing costs. Barclays
Plc strategists said yesterday money markets imply the ECB may
cut rates next year.  Emergency Cash  The ECB said today it will lend euro-area banks 49.8
billion euros in emergency six-month cash to ease tensions on
financial markets caused by the worsening debt crisis.  Fed officials “discussed the range of policy tools” to
strengthen growth and are “prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate” while pledging to keep the key rate near zero
until at least the middle of 2013, the U.S. central bank said
yesterday.  Societe Generale SA posted a record decline and led a drop
in French banking shares as the cost of insuring the country’s
 government bonds  increased. UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
paced a retreat in the nation’s banks.  The yield on 10-year French bonds fell 14 basis points to
3.08 percent, widening the yield spread to German bunds by two
basis points to 88 basis points.  Lower Yield  The yield on the two-year Italian note advanced three basis
points to 3.51 percent. The nation sold one-year bills today to
yield 2.959 percent, down from 3.67 percent at the last auction
on July 12. Demand was 1.94 times the amount on offer, compared
with 1.55 times last month.  The 10-year yield fell eight basis points to 5.10 percent,
leaving the difference in yield, or spread, with benchmark
German bunds 10 basis points wider at 291 basis points. While
the ECB bought Italian securities for a third day and also
purchased Spanish debt, according to four people with knowledge
of the transactions, one of the people said the amount acquired
by the ECB was smaller than in the past two days. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment on whether the central bank bought
the debt.  The Spanish-German 10-year yield spread widened 12 basis
points to 284 basis points.  Ifo Index  The ECB may be wary of pushing Spanish and Italian yields
too low, according to Laurent Fransolet, head of European fixed-
income strategy research at Barclays in  London .  “If yields or spreads become too tight or low, it could
generate new selling by investors or limit demand when supply
comes back to the market in September,” he wrote in an investor
note today.  The Ifo index measuring the economic climate in the 17-
nation euro region dropped to 110.6 in the third quarter from
118.9 in the second, the Munich-based institute said today.
Industrial output in  France , the euro region’s second-biggest
economy, fell 1.6 percent from May, when it rose a revised 1.9
percent, a separate report showed today. Economists had forecast
a 0.7 percent drop.  “My personal fear is that we’re entering a zero-bound
interest rate environment,” where rates stay near the lowest
possible, said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. Yields “should
be a reflection of growth expectations, but also a reflection of
 risk aversion .”  Greek Exchange  Ten-year Greek bonds were little changed, with the yield at
15.15 percent.  Greece  may need to include more bonds in a
voluntary exchange for longer-dated securities because it may
get a participation rate less than the 90 percent originally
targeted, Kathimerini reported.  Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-largest lender, said
quarterly profit slumped 93 percent after it wrote down the
value of Greek bond holdings.  German government bonds handed investors 4.3 percent this
year, compared with 6.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have returned 5.3
percent, while Italian debt lost less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  