-- 
Ghana Inflation Slows to 19-Year Low in July on Cedi, Energy

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 
2011-08-10T13:48:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/ghana-inflation-slows-to-19-year-low-in-july-on-cedi-energy-1-.html
Ghanaian  inflation slowed to the
lowest in more than 19 years in July, as the effect of an
increase in gasoline prices eased and stability in the local
currency helped curb price pressures in West Africa’s second-
biggest economy.  The inflation rate fell for the fifth consecutive month to
8.4 percent from 8.6 percent in June,  Grace Bediako , head of the
Ghana Statistical Service, told reporters in the capital, Accra,
today. The rate was last this low in June 1992 at 8.37 percent,
according to data from the service. Prices rose 0.63 percent in
the month, Bediako said.  “Non-food inflation slowed to 11.8 percent year-on-year,
from 12.4 percent, which likely reflects a stable cedi and
relatively lower energy prices,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-
based sub-Saharan Africa economist, said in an e-mailed comment
today. Food inflation was 3.25 percent in July, up from 2.8
percent a month earlier, according to Bediako.  Ghanaian inflation surged to a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June 2009 as the cedi weakened at least 17 percent.
Inflation eased over the next 18 months, reaching 8.6 percent in
December, before a 30 percent increase in petroleum prices
pushed the rate to 9.2 percent in February.  Prices Stabilize  “International oil prices have moderated since they peaked
in April,” helping to stabilize Ghanaian costs, Mhango said.
 Ghana  has not adjusted prices since the January increase.  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  twice this
year to 12.5 percent as inflation slowed. The cedi weakened just
0.3 percent in the four months through July 31, lowering import
costs.  “We continue to see room for the  Bank of Ghana  to lower
their  reference rate  at least another 50 basis points later this
year,” Stephen Bailey-Smith, a London-based sub-Saharan Africa
strategist at  Standard Bank  Plc, said in an e-mailed note today.  Standard Bank expects the headline inflation to range
between 8 percent and 10 percent for the rest of the year,
Bailey-Smith said. “This assumes the Bank of Ghana will
continue to hold the cedi-dollar  exchange rate  steady and the
government continues to absorb some of the fuel price pressures
via fiscal spending.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 