-- 
GM Says Mideast 2011 Sales to Grow 22%

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-08-10T06:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/gm-says-mideast-2011-sales-to-grow-22-on-demand-from-iraq-gulf.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, expects company sales in the  Middle East  to
grow 22 percent this year on stronger demand from Gulf nations
and Iraq.  “Iraq has had a very strong performance so far this year,
and it could be as large as Saudi Arabia,” John Stadwick,
managing director of GM Middle East, said in an interview in
Dubai yesterday. “The Middle East is a very compelling
opportunity for us.”  GM sales in the Middle East, the company’s seventh largest
market globally, rose 6 percent in 2010 from a year earlier to
123,258 vehicles, Stadwick said. Outside  Brazil , Russia,  India 
and  China , also known as the BRIC countries, the Mideast has the
largest growth potential over the next 10 years, he added.
Overall auto sales in the region may rise 55 percent by 2020, he
said.  Demand in the Middle East is rising as  Iraq  stabilizes and
government handouts in Gulf nations encourage  consumer spending .
GM sold 80,487 vehicles in the region from January to July, with
about half in Saudi Arabia, followed by Iraq and the United Arab
Emirates. Iraq sales jumped 130 percent in the first six months.  Saudi Arabia and Kuwait announced domestic spending
increases this year to counter political liberalization
movements that toppled regimes in Egypt and Tunisia and are
causing violent crackdowns in Libya and Syria. Kuwaiti citizens
will get 1,000 dinars ($3,664) and free food for 13 months,
state news agency KUNA said Jan. 18. Saudi Arabia’s King
Abdullah offered 500 billion riyals ($130 billion) in February
and March for housing, religious groups and the military as well
as salary increases.  “As soon as the government announced handouts, people went
out and bought cars,” said Stadwick. “We’ve seen a trickle-
down effect.”  New Models  The carmaker plans to introduce four new models in the
region in the next six months, including one in the truck
segment, Stadwick said. It will also present a world premier in
Dubai in November at the emirate’s Motor Show to enter a new
market segment, he said, declining to provide details of the new
vehicle.  The company’s dealers in the Middle East plan to spend $200
million on 12 new facilities, showroom renovations, and staff
training from November to December, Stadwick added.  GM outsold  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  globally in the first six
months to become the world’s largest carmaker after the
earthquake in March disrupted production in  Japan . GM sales rose
8.9 percent to 4.536 million units in the half-year ended June
30, the Detroit-based company said Aug. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  