-- 
Goldman Sachs, Point Blank, H&R Block, Citigroup, Munis, FSA: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-10T11:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/goldman-sachs-point-blank-h-r-block-citigroup-munis-fsa-compliance.html
The National Credit Union
Administration has sued  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , accusing the
Wall Street firm of violating federal and state laws in the sale
of securities to now-failed corporate credit unions.  NCUA is seeking damages in excess of $491 million from
Goldman Sachs in the lawsuit filed yesterday in  California . The
suit is the fourth in a series aimed at recovering almost $2
billion from “sellers and underwriters of questionable
securities,” NCUA said in a statement yesterday announcing the
suit.  Stephen Cohen, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the NCUA lawsuit.  NCUA claims that Goldman Sachs misrepresented securities in
offering documents, causing the credit unions to believe the
risk of loss was minimal when in fact it was substantial,
according to its statement. The regulator previously filed a
complaint against JPMorgan Chase & Co. and two against Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The complaint against Goldman Sachs relates to the
collapses of the U.S. Central and Western Corporate federal
credit unions, two of the five liquidated under NCUA
conservatorship, the regulator said in the statement.  Compliance Action  Ex-Point Blank Chief to Plead to Tax Charges, Lawyer Says  David Brooks, a founder and former chief executive officer
of military contractor  Point Blank Solutions Inc. (PBSOQ) , will plead
guilty to tax charges today, his lawyer said.  A federal jury found Brooks guilty last year of committing
a $185 million fraud and looting the company, formerly called
DHB Industries Inc., to pay for personal expenses. Three tax
counts were separated from the other charges he was convicted
of, including insider-trading, fraud and obstruction of justice.
He has asked for a new trial on those charges.  “We are channeling our efforts into the other counts,”
Brooks’s lawyer Gerald L. Shargel said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Brooks, 56, and former Chief Operating Officer Sandra
Hatfield were convicted last September in Central Islip,  New
York . Point Blank, which makes body armor for the military and
police, filed for bankruptcy protection in April 2010. Brooks
and Hatfield lied about the inventory of “Interceptor” combat
vests that were shipped to the U.S. armed forces and falsely
inflated the company’s value and their own stock, the government
said.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, New York, declined to comment on the plea hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Brooks, 06-CR-550, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  H&R Block Unit Settles Mortgage Lawsuit with Massachusetts  The  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  mortgage lender formerly known as Option
One Mortgage and Massachusetts reached a $125 million settlement
of a state lawsuit over allegedly risky and discriminatory
lending, the state said.  The unit, Sand Canyon Corp., agreed to pay $9.8 million to
Massachusetts and will direct American Home Mortgage Servicing
Inc., which services Option One loans in the state, to establish
a loan-modification program for struggling borrowers, state
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said in a statement.  Option One was sued by Massachusetts in 2008 and accused of
making risky loans that were doomed to fail and discriminating
against black and Latino borrowers by charging more for their
loans, Coakley said. The company’s practices were deceptive and
illegal, she said at a press conference yesterday.  The settlement will provide an estimated $115 million in
loan modifications to homeowners, Coakley’s spokeswoman Melissa
Karpinsky said. The modifications will give Massachusetts
homeowners writedowns of principal balances and interest rate
reductions depending on features of their loans, according to
Coakley’s office.  “We are pleased with the final outcome and believe this is
good for all parties involved,” Dale Sugimoto, president of
Sand Canyon, said in a statement.  The settlement comes as state attorneys general and federal
officials are negotiating a settlement with the five largest
mortgage servicers in the U.S., including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., over their foreclosure and mortgage-
servicing practices.  Some attorney generals, including Coakley, have raised
concerns about liability releases in any agreement that would
protect the banks from state and federal claims. Coakley has
said that any agreement shouldn’t provide banks with releases
tied to the packaging of mortgages into securities and conduct
related to a mortgage database known as MERS.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Resolves Claims That Assistant Defrauded Clients  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will pay $500,000 to resolve Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority claims that it failed to stop
fraud by an employee who abused accounts belonging to elderly
and ill clients as well as her own father.  Tamara Moon misappropriated almost $750,000 from 22
customers over eight years while working as a sales assistant at
a branch office in  Palo Alto , California, Finra said yesterday
in a  statement . Moon, who was barred from the securities
industry for the misconduct in 2009, was indicted by a federal
grand jury on related criminal charges in June.  Citigroup failed to investigate red flags including
suspicious trades as Moon targeted customers she believed would
be unable to monitor their accounts, Finra said. The Palo Alto
branch didn’t have adequate systems to prevent Moon from
falsifying records, the Washington-based regulator said.  In one instance, Moon created an account in the name of a
dead customer even after Citigroup had been notified that the
person had died, Finra said. She then created a fraudulent
account in the name of the customer’s widow, using it to funnel
$7,500 to her own personal account, according to the statement.  When Citigroup discovered Moon’s suspicious activity in
2008, the firm “immediately notified the authorities,
terminated her employment and reimbursed impacted clients,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement. “We will provide any
assistance necessary to ensure that the former employee is
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”  A phone call to Geoffrey Hansen, a federal public defender
representing Moon in the criminal matter, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Moon was employed by Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit,
Elizabeth Fogarty, a bank spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Goldman Sachs Says EU Accuses Firm in Cable Price-Fixing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the European Commission told
the firm it may have to pay fines in a case relating to price
fixing by power-cable companies.  The European Commission issued a “statement of
objections” that proposed making the firm liable for some or
all of any fine levied against an Italian cable company in which
Goldman Sachs funds held stakes, the New York-based bank said in
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
yesterday.  Goldman Sachs’s private-equity funds bought the power-cable
unit and a telecommunications cable business from Milan-based
Pirelli & C. SpA in 2005 and renamed the business Prysmian
Cables & Systems, which became  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  in an initial public
offering in 2007.  Prysmian stock dropped in February 2009 after the company
disclosed that it was cooperating with antitrust regulators’
investigation of the cable market. Goldman Sachs funds sold
shares in Prysmian later that year.  Last month the European Commission sent complaints to 12
companies “that may have colluded to allocate markets and
customers for underground and submarine power cable projects and
fix prices,” the Commission said in a statement on July 6.
Prysmian said on July 5 that it had received an antitrust
complaint and that it would defend itself.  The Commission has proposed holding Goldman Sachs liable
“under the concept of parental liability under EU competition
law,” Goldman Sachs said in yesterday’s filing, referring to
the European Union.  Compliance Policy  Muni Issuers Should Face Disclosure Penalties, MSRB Says  U.S. states and cities should face sanctions for failing to
provide updated financial information after they sell bonds, the
municipal market’s regulator said, challenging the lax
disclosure that has unnerved investors.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for the tax-exempt debt industry, made the comments
in a letter to Securities and Exchange Commissioner Elisse
Walter, who is leading an agency review into how to improve the
municipal bond market.  Public borrowers aren’t penalized if they don’t provide
annual financial reports and other disclosures on time after
issuing debt. The failure by some borrowers to make timely
disclosures has long rankled municipal-bond investors.  “There seem to be no significant regulatory repercussions
for non-compliance,” the board wrote in the Aug. 8  letter ,
which was released yesterday. The board said the SEC should take
steps “necessary to impose consequences for non-compliance with
continuing disclosure undertakings.”  The SEC doesn’t directly regulate disclosures made by
municipalities after bonds are sold, as it does with
corporations that sell securities to the public. Instead, the
agency requires underwriters that sell the securities to be
assured by the municipalities that they will provide to
investors annual financial statements and other information that
could affect the value of the bonds.  The SEC has stepped up its enforcement of standards for
municipal securities by establishing a unit to police fraud and
last year settled a case against  New Jersey  for masking the
state of its pension plans as it raised money from investors.  Walter has been holding hearings on the $2.9 trillion
municipal bond market with the intention of recommending
improvements. The SEC also is updating its 1994 guidance
covering the disclosure obligations for the municipal industry,
a review the MSRB was seeking to influence with its
recommendations.  Banks Should Make Living Wills to Plan for Failure, FSA Says  Banks should prepare so-called living wills setting out how
they may be broken up with the least possible disruption to the
economy if they collapse, the U.K. Financial Services Authority
said yesterday.  Lenders should be able to be shut down without roiling
markets or requiring public support, according to the FSA.
Failed lenders’ bondholders should also bear part of the costs
of closure, the regulator said, as part of plans to shield
taxpayers published on its  website .  Banks are warning that rules considered by global
regulators to limit the need for bailouts may harm the economic
recovery. Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial
services chief, published draft proposals in January to impose
losses on failing lenders’ bondholders -- a step that firms
including  Citigroup Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have said
may make it more expensive for banks to raise funds.  Living wills “are largely untested,” because the U.K.
hasn’t had a major bank collapse since they have come under
consideration by regulators, Darren Fox, a financial services
lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP, said in a telephone interview.
“They require quite a bit of work and possibly restructuring to
design and implement and consequently can be intensive in terms
of the level of financial and human resources that they
absorb.”  For more, click here.  NYSE to Raise Hurdle for Reverse Merger Listings Amid Scrutiny  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the U.S.’s biggest operator of exchanges,
said it will tighten the listing requirements for reverse merger
companies following allegations of accounting fraud, according
to a regulatory  filing .  The operator of NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange
will implement a “seasoning” period for companies that seek
listing after completing a reverse merger, according to the
proposal, which is subject to approval by the Securities and
Exchange Commission. In a reverse-merger process, a closely held
firm buys a publicly traded shell company, gaining a stock
listing without the scrutiny of an initial public offering.  “Significant regulatory concerns, including accounting
fraud allegations, have arisen with respect to a number of
reverse merger companies in recent times,” said the filing
dated July 22. Because of these concerns, “the exchange
believes it is appropriate to codify in its rules specific
requirements with respect to the initial listing qualification
of reverse merger companies.”  Chinese companies trading in the U.S. through reverse
mergers such as  China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. (CCME)  have faced
investor scrutiny this year after disclosing financial
irregularities or auditor resignations, raising concern there
may be widespread fraud. Carson Block, a short seller at Muddy
Waters LLC, helped fuel that speculation with bearish reports on
corporations including  Rino International Corp. (RINO)  and  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE) , which trades in Canada.  NYSE is proposing a waiting period of at least one year of
trading on the U.S. over-the-counter market or other national
market, or a foreign exchange, before companies can list on the
bourse.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-biggest operator of U.S.
stock exchanges, has also proposed to evaluate reverse-merger
companies more closely, according to filings to the SEC from
 April  and  May .  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Primary Global Manager Loses Bid to Throw Out Wiretaps  A former sales manager at expert networking firm  Primary
Global Research LLC  lost his bid to bar government wiretaps at
his insider trading trial later this month.  James Fleishman had argued that the wiretaps of more than
100 callers to two Primary Global conference lines were illegal.
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected Fleishman’s request in a
two-page order made public in Manhattan federal court yesterday
and also declined to hold an evidentiary hearing on the matter.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at hedge
funds, technology companies, banks and consulting firms.
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was convicted
of securities fraud and conspiracy on June 20 after a trial
before Rakoff.  Of the 14 people charged in the investigation by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, 12 have pleaded guilty and
one, Jiau, was convicted at trial. Fleishman has pleaded not
guilty and is scheduled to go on trial before Rakoff on two
counts of conspiracy Aug. 29.  Ethan Balogh, a lawyer for Fleishman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Rajaratnam Sentence of More Than 24 Years Sought by U.S.  Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , labeled by
prosecutors as the “face of illegal insider trading,” should
spend as long as 24 years and five months in prison, the U.S.
told the judge who will sentence him.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam, in a separate court filing
yesterday, asked U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan for a prison term “substantially below” what federal
guidelines recommend. Rajaratnam’s attorneys, citing their
client’s poor health, urged Holwell not to force him to die in
prison.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of all 14 criminal
counts of conspiracy and securities fraud he was charged with.
He’s scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27. Prosecutors said he
should serve at least 19 years, seven months in prison.  “Rajaratnam repeatedly leveraged the power of money and
his position as the head of a $7 billion hedge fund to induce
friends, employees and associates to participate in his criminal
activities,” Justice Department lawyers said in their
sentencing memorandum yesterday. “He is the modern face of
illegal insider trading.”  Prosecutors called Rajaratnam the most “egregious
violator” of insider-trading laws ever to be caught. He engaged
in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside information from
corporate executives, bankers, consultants, traders and
directors of public companies including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., they said. He gained $63.8 million as a result of the
scheme, according to the government.  Prosecutors and defense lawyers are awaiting a pre-
sentencing report from the federal probation office to help
determine a range under U.S. sentencing guidelines, according to
yesterday’s filing by John Dowd, the lead lawyer for Rajaratnam.
Holwell is free to disregard the guidelines, which are advisory.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is not a healthy man,” his lawyers wrote,
citing “significant and challenging medical issues” that are
known to the court’s probation department. “His death will be
hastened by a term of imprisonment,” they said.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers submitted letters on his behalf from
his family members, former business associates, ex-employees and
even his apartment doorman. Some of the letters detail what the
defense said is more than $45 million in charitable donations by
Rajaratnam in the U.S. and abroad, including millions of dollars
to help victims of a tsunami that devastated his native Sri
Lanka.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 