-- 
Google Lost Share in U.S. Searches in July as Yahoo Gained

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-10T21:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/google-loses-share-in-u-s-searches-in-july-yahoo-gains.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Internet-
search provider, lost share among U.S. online searches in July
while Yahoo! Inc. gained, researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  said.  Google’s share of the U.S. Web-search market declined to
65.1 percent last month from 65.5 percent in June, while Yahoo’s
rose to 16.1 percent from 15.9 percent, according to Reston,
Virginia-based ComScore.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  was unchanged at
14.4 percent.  “Google typically displays more summer seasonality than
other  search engines  given its high usage among students in the
academic world,” Douglas Anmuth, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in New York, wrote in a research note yesterday.  The company, which gets most of its revenue from search-
based advertising, is enhancing Internet offerings amid
heightened competition from Yahoo and Microsoft, which joined
forces in a multiyear search agreement last year. In June,
 Mountain View , California-based Google unveiled a feature called
Instant Pages that gives users of its Chrome browser quicker
connections from links on query results, aiming to cut 2 to 5
seconds from the search process.  Google also introduced tools that let users search for
online information on a desktop or laptop computer using voice
commands, a feature previously available on mobile devices. With
the enhancement, a microphone icon appears on the search box,
letting users speak simple queries or even get translations.  Google+, the company’s new social-networking service,
reached 29 million visitors globally in July after being
unveiled in late June, ComScore said separately. Google+ had
reached about 25 million a week prior to the end of the month,
according to ComScore.  Shares of Google fell $24.40, or 4.3 percent, to $549.01 at
4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
lost 7.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  