-- 
Gulf Gasoline Strengthens Most in Two Weeks on Refinery Shuts

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-10T19:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/gulf-gasoline-strengthens-most-in-two-weeks-on-refinery-shuts.html
Gasoline in the Gulf Coast
strengthened to its highest level versus futures in two weeks on
refinery outages and an Energy Department report showing
supplies fell in the region.  The discount for regular, 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf
Coast narrowed 2.8 cents to 7.7 cents a gallon versus futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:02 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
narrowest discount for the fuel since July 27.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is working on repairs at its Memphis
refinery after a fire forced all production units shut Aug. 5,
Bill Day, a spokesman for the San Antonio-based company, said in
an e-mail today. “There is no estimate at this time as to when
production will resume,” Day said. “We are taking measures to
minimize any impact to our customers.”  Gasoline inventories in the Gulf Coast region dropped 0.9
percent in the week ended Aug. 5, according to an Energy
Department report. Stocks fell 639,000 barrels from a week
earlier to 72.4 million, the report showed.  “It’s a combination,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “Inventories are declining. It
looks like Valero Memphis is going to be down for longer than
people expected last week. And Conoco and Holly shutting down
made gasoline that much tighter.”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and HollyFrontier Corp. said their
refineries in  Oklahoma  were shut after power failures Aug. 8.
HollyFrontier said units at its Tulsa refinery are back online,
and ConocoPhillips said it’s starting up the Ponca City,
Oklahoma, plant.  Regular, 87-octane gasoline in  Chicago  strengthened 5 cents
to a 3-cent premium, the first since July 5.  Gasoline inventories fell more in the Midwest last week
than any other region, dropping 2.7 percent from a week earlier.
ConocoPhillips reported a power dip at its Wood River refinery
in Illinois over the weekend.  Regular gasoline in the Midwest, or Group 3, strengthened
0.75 cent to a discount of 1.25 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  