-- 
Wal-Mart Supplier Li & Fung May Need More Acquisitions to Meet Its Targets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-11T08:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/li-fung-may-need-more-acquisitions-to-meet-earnings-targets.html
Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  supplier that doubled its workforce after at least 11
acquisitions in the past year, may need to make still more
deals to meet its earnings targets.  The world’s biggest supplier of toys and clothes to
retailers may report first-half profit fell 25 percent to
HK$1.6 billion ($205 million) when it announces earnings today,
according to the median estimate of seven analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The outsourcer has dropped 47 percent this year, wiping
out about $11 billion of market value amid the faltering U.S.
economy and rising costs. After pledging to focus on “organic
growth” in the next three years, Li & Fung may instead need to
make more purchases to meet its goal of more than doubling
operating profit at its main business to $1.5 billion by 2013,
according to Credit Suisse Group’s Gabriel Chan.  “They need to drive growth further by having more
acquisitions,” said Chan, who has an “outperform” rating on
Li & Fung. “If we assume no further acquisitions, then I think
it will be very tough to meet its three-year target.”  Li & Fung fell 16 percent in July and has the second-
biggest loss on  Hong Kong ’s benchmark Hang Seng Index this year.
The stock closed unchanged at HK$12 in Hong Kong trading today
after earlier gaining as much as 1.7 percent.  Consumer Sentiment  The Hong Kong-based company, which traces its beginnings
to 1906, when parent Li & Fung Group was founded, made 65
percent of last year’s HK$124 billion revenue in the U.S.,
where  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest level in two years
in July, a survey from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
showed.  Flagging consumer sentiment in the U.S. “makes life hard
for all businesses” relying on that market, said  Matthew Marsden , an analyst with Samsung Securities Co. in Hong Kong.  Last year’s purchase of Integrated Distribution Services
Group Ltd, the company’s biggest in at least the past decade,
may help Li & Fung make more sales outside the U.S. IDS
distributes goods in Asian nations, including China.  “Our ambition is to both source globally and sell
globally,” Deputy Chairman  William Fung  said in a June
interview. “You can’t sell globally unless you are selling to
China.”  Li & Fung, whose annual sales grew in all but one of the
last 19 years, reported core operating profit, which excludes
items such as interest income, taxes and acquisition-related
costs, gained 42 percent to HK$5.7 billion in 2010.  Silk and Fireworks  The company started out selling porcelain, silk, jade and
fireworks, and now says it supplies companies from Target Corp.
and Marks & Spencer Group Plc to Esprit Holdings Ltd. and Paul
Smith Ltd. to Avon Products Inc. and Nivea maker Beiersdorf AG.  Rather than tracking down materials or making products
themselves, companies such as  Liz Claiborne Inc. (LIZ) ,  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s
Zara and Toys “R” Us Inc. rely on Li & Fung to do that.  Concerns about faltering global economic growth may prompt
more companies to “stop purchasing for themselves and turn to
companies like Li & Fung, because of its economies of scale,”
said Kenny Tang, Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD
Financial Planning Ltd.  First-half profit may be affected by the costs of building
the division to supply Wal-Mart. The division, called the DSG
Group, may contribute $2 billion in revenue this year and its
chief, Dow Famulak, said in June it has “addressable
business” of as much as $100 billion.  Doubling Profit  Li & Fung has used acquisitions to boost growth, spending
at least $3 billion on deals from 2006 to 2010, doubling both
sales and profit in the five-year period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company tends to retain the management of businesses
it acquires, helping maintain an “entrepreneurial spirit”
among its executives, said Marsden, who recommends buying the
stock.  “Their strategy is to acquire good people,” said Marsden,
adding that Li & Fung needs to continue making purchases.  With some acquisitions, Li & Fung links the price to the
performance of the unit after it joins the company. For
instance, it agreed to pay as much as 173 million pounds ($281
million) for clothes maker Visage Group Ltd. last year. Of that
amount, more than 115 million pounds would be paid over three
years if the unit met annual profits-before-tax targets.  Profit Margin  Turmoil in the global markets may help Li & Fung “because
acquisition prices may go down,” Tang said. During the
financial meltdown of 2008, “its market share actually
expanded because smaller rivals were forced to shut down,” he
said.  The company receives orders from clients, which are filled
through a network of more than 12,000 factories around the
world. About half of the products are made in  China .  The doubling of its workforce to more than 26,000 people
will raise costs and may narrow margins, Tang and Chan said.  Li & Fung had a profit margin of 2.91 percent in the
second half of 2010, compared with 3.39 percent in the previous
year. Profit margin for the first half of this year may be 2.76
percent, according to the median of five analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  First-half profit may account for 30 percent of this
year’s total, lower than the historical average of 40 percent,
because of higher costs, Fung said in June.  Acquisition Fund  Relying on organic growth “clearly” won’t be enough if
the company is to meet its earnings target, Tang said. Li &
Fung had about $1 billion in its acquisition fund, Chief
Executive Officer  Bruce Rockowitz  said in March.  While Rockowitz has said the U.S. will remain Li & Fung’s
biggest market “in my lifetime,” the company aims to make
more sales in  Asia . The LF Asia division aims to have more than
$1 billion sales by 2013, Jason Rabin, the unit president, said
in June.  More than half of that will come from China, said William
Fung, who takes over as chairman from older brother  Victor Fung 
next year. The brothers  rank  No. 5 on Forbes’ Hong Kong rich
list with an estimated combined wealth of $8.6 billion.  The company will also look to Asia, including Japan and
China, for more acquisitions, Rockowitz said in May. The goal
is to be “selling to China out of Asia,” he said.  The company may use LF Asia to deliver western brands into
Asia, Marsden said.  “Li & Fung has been gearing up for the next stage of
growth,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in Hong Kong at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  