-- 
Liberal Democrat Deputy Leader Sues News Corp. Over Hacking

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-10T17:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/liberal-democrat-deputy-leader-sues-news-corp-over-hacking.html
The deputy leader of the Liberal
Democrats, the junior partners in Britain’s coalition
government, sued  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit over phone hacking at
the now defunct News of the World newspaper.  Simon Hughes, the member of Parliament for Bermondsey and
Old Southwark, filed a lawsuit yesterday in  London  against News
International and  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator
jailed in 2007 for illegally intercepting phone messages.  Hughes, 60, is at least the eighth British politician,
including former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, to sue
News Corp. over phone hacking. Hughes was named as a target of
phone hacking in the 2007 criminal trial of Mulcaire, said  Mark
Lewis , who represents about 70 possible victims.  “He is probably the first politician from the coalition
government to take action about matters that occurred under the
editorship of  Andy Coulson ,” Lewis, who doesn’t represent
Hughes, said in an e-mail.  Coulson, who was Prime Minister David Cameron’s director of
communications until he resigned in January over the hacking
scandal, was editor of the News of the World from 2003 to 2007.
Coulson was arrested last month by police investigating phone
hacking.  Hughes was also the subject of stories in 2006 in News
Corp.’s Sun newspaper about his personal life and sexuality.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Hughes’s office at
Parliament didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  A test case involving five celebrities, politicians and
athletes will be held next year in London, when a judge will
rule on the appropriate level of damages New Corp. should pay
where this is clear evidence of  phone hacking.  News Corp. was forced to close down the News of the World
in July following revelations the 168-year-old tabloid had
intercepted the phone messages of a murdered schoolgirl.  The case is:  Simon Hughes  MP v. News Group Newspapers Ltd &
anr, HC11C02792, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  