-- 
Libya’s Qaddafi Faces Fourth Month Without Any Gasoline Shipments by Sea

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-08-10T11:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/libya-s-qaddafi-faces-fourth-month-without-any-gasoline-shipments-by-sea.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  faces
a fourth month without receiving gasoline cargoes by sea as
motorists wait in line at filling stations in the capital.  Rebels opposing Qaddafi received three to four cargoes of
gasoline a month in June and July while the leader got none,
according to two traders, one shipowner, one analyst and one
shipbroker surveyed by Bloomberg. The rebels received about four
cargoes in May and Qaddafi got none. That compares with eight
cargoes in a normal month before an uprising erupted in
February, they said.  “International sanctions and the tight monitoring of
 Libya ’s waters by the NATO-led alliance have so far been very
successful in denying the regime access to imported fuel
cargoes, a situation which will not change over the coming
month,” said Samuel Ciszuk, senior  Middle East  and North Africa
energy analyst at researcher IHS Energy Group U.K. Ltd.  Libya’s refineries produced 5.2 million metric tons of
diesel and gasoline in 2008, according to the  International
Energy Agency , a Paris-based adviser to industrialized nations.
The plants will probably process no more than 90,000 barrels of
oil a day this summer, compared with the usual 370,000 barrels,
the IEA said in a report in May.  “The economic pressure on Qaddafi is tremendous,” Ciszuk
said. “Qaddafi has to prioritize fuel for his military forces
to survive.”  650,000 Cars  One gasoline shipment comprises about 34 million liters (9
million gallons) of the car fuel, enough to fill about 650,000
vehicles.  The fuel’s scarcity may be causing longer waiting times for
motorists in Tripoli, said Alan Fraser, a security analyst at
AKE Group Ltd. in  London , citing contacts in the Libyan city.
The capital is held by Qaddafi’s regime, while the rebels
control the eastern port city of Benghazi.  “Queues are reportedly getting worse in Tripoli,” Fraser
said. “I’ve heard reports of up to five days. In Benghazi, I’ve
never heard of fuel shortages being a major issue.”  Libyan crude production fell to 100,000 barrels a day last
month, compared with an average of 1.55 million in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  