-- 
India to Seek Bids in Second Solar Auction Within a Week

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T15:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/india-to-seek-bids-in-second-solar-auction-within-a-week.html
India  will call for bids within a
week for its second national auction of permits for solar
plants, while warning the first group of winners that there will
be no leniency for delayed projects.  The country may issue licenses in the next auction for as
much as 350 megawatts of photovoltaic capacity, said  Deepak
Gupta , secretary of the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy .  India plans to build 20,000 megawatts of solar plants by
2022, making it one of  Asia ’s top three producers along with
China and  Japan . At the first auction in December, it awarded
permits to build 37 projects with total capacity of 620
megawatts.  Two of those were disqualified this week. Gupta said one
company had misrepresented its net worth in documents submitted
to the government, and the other hadn’t followed guidelines for
obtaining land. The remaining projects may face fines if they
are not completed on time.  “The clock is ticking,” he said today in an interview.
“Even a one-day delay is likely to attract penalties.”  According to the timetable established in the December
auction, 140 megawatts of photovoltaic projects must be
completed by January. Another 470 megawatts of solar-thermal
projects have until 2013. Solar-thermal plants use sunlight to
heat liquids that produce steam for generators; photovoltaic
plants use panels to turn sunlight directly into power.  Developers will have seven months to arrange financing,
Gupta said. Participants in the first auction had six months.
Companies will also be permitted to request permits for projects
larger than the 5-megawatt cap imposed for photovoltaic plants
in the December auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  