-- 
Inter Milan Head Paolillo Says Eto’o Will Leave, Sneijder Not to Be Sold

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-08-10T16:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/inter-milan-head-paolillo-says-eto-o-will-leave-sneijder-not-to-be-sold.html
Cameroon striker Samuel Eto’o is to
leave Italian soccer club  Inter Milan  to move to Russian club
Anzhi Makhachkala, according to the Italian team’s chief
executive officer.  Eto’o, 30, joined Inter from  Barcelona  in 2009 and won the
 Champions League , Serie A and the Italian cup in his first
season. Inter has been trying to sell players in a bid to cut
its deficit.  “Eto’o is leaving,” Ernesto Paolillo said in a text
message today. “He is going to the Russian club.”  The Italian team’s president Massimo Moratti later told the
Inter website the club was still deciding whether to accept
the Russian team’s proposal.  The 18-time Italian champion has expressed interest in
Argentina striker  Carlos Tevez , who’s publicly stated his desire
to leave  Manchester City . Midfielder Wesley Sneijder is
reportedly a target for  Manchester United .  Paolillo said there was “no chance for Tevez” and
Sneijder would be staying.  Still, the Netherlands national team player yesterday said
he wasn’t sure what would happen before the close of the
European transfer window on Aug. 31.  “For the first time, they have said publicly that they
need money,” he was quoted as saying by Algemeen Dagblat, a
Dutch daily newspaper. “In our squad, me and Eto’o represent
the biggest transfer value, so it is only logical everybody is
watching us. It is not my wish to leave. Manchester United or
Manchester City, or any other club, I don’t have an opinion
about it as long as there is nothing concrete. I am an Inter
player and that’s how I am working towards a new season.”  Inter had 69 million-euro ($98 million) loss in 2010.  Paolillo didn’t say how much Inter would receive for Eto’o.
Anzhi would pay 30 million euros,  Eurosport said . The Russian
club, based in the Republic of Dagestan, has been recruiting
heavily since it was bought by billionaire Suleyman Kerimov in
January. The African striker would join former  Brazil ’s World
Cup winning defender Roberto Carlos and ex-Chelsea player Yuri Zhirkov. The roster also includes players from Georgia, Morocco,
Latvia and  Hungary .  The team is sponsored by Nafta Moskva, Kerimov’s principal
investment vehicle. He has interests in chemicals, real estate
and finance. Last year Finans magazine ranked Kerimov Russia’s
seventh-richest man with a fortune of 515.1 billion rubles
($17.5 billion).  Anzhi is 5th after 19 games of  the Russian league . It
trails leader CSKA Moscow by eight points.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net  