-- 
Intelligent Transportation Employment to Expand in U.S., Group Says

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-08-10T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/intelligent-transportation-employment-to-expand-group-says.html
The intelligent transportation
system industry, the information and communication technologies
that reduce traffic congestion and improve safety, may expand
U.S. employment by as many as 6,400 jobs annually through 2015,
an industry group said.  The Intelligent Transportation Society of America, a
Washington D.C.-based advocacy group for technologies in ground
transport, said the industry generated $48 billion in revenue in
2009 in the U.S. and should increase $2.7 billion to $4.2
billion annually through 2015, the organization said.  “This is really one of the largest industries that nobody
has ever heard of,” Scott Belcher, president and chief
executive officer of ITS America, said in a telephone interview.
“Technology is really transforming vehicles.”  The report comes as automakers and suppliers develop
technologies in cars and trucks that involve the global-
positioning system, the Internet and other connected features.
The findings are part of a report commissioned by the U.S.
Transportation Department and developed by ITS America and
researcher IHS  Global Insight .  The group estimates the industry in 2009 had 180,000 end-
use private sector jobs in the U.S. and that the employment will
rise to more than 205,000 through 2015.  Inrix Inc., a Kirkland, Washington-based company, was
founded in 2005 and developed a business that provides real-time
traffic information and connected driving services. Customers
include  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the company’s website said.  The industry provides “a lot of new opportunities for
businesses,” Bill Schwebel, Inrix senior vice president of
marketing, said in a telephone interview. “And there’s a big
need” to optimize traffic flow, he said.  Strained government budgets mean many states and local
agencies are looking for new ways to alleviate traffic
congestion and turning to new technologies to do it, Belcher
said.  -- Editors: Bill Koenig, Jamie Butters  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  