-- 
Turkey Yields Head for Biggest Drop in 4 Months After Fed Pledge

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-08-10T13:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/lira-climbs-second-day-yields-fall-to-lowest-in-three-months.html
Yields on Turkish bonds headed for
the biggest drop in nearly four months after the  Federal Reserve 
said it would keep  interest rates  at a record low for two years,
boosting demand for higher-yielding emerging market assets.  Benchmark two-year bond yields declined 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 8.14 percent at 4:48 p.m. in Istanbul,
a RBS local bond index showed. This will be the biggest drop
since April 21.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  vowed yesterday to keep
borrowing costs at an all-time low to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than expected. The MSCI emerging market
index rallied 1.6 percent today, the biggest rise since July 13.  “Bond yields in many countries have fallen today. The main
reason is the signal from the Fed yesterday that it might
provide further liquidity support if conditions warranted,”
James Lord, an emerging-markets strategist at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in e-mailed comments.  Yields on the two-year debt have fallen 51 basis points
since the Turkish central bank cut benchmark interest rates by
half a percentage point to a record low of 5.75 percent, in an
emergency meeting on Aug. 4, citing the risk of recession.  The larger spread between the borrowing costs and the bond
yields are luring investors into bonds, Selim Gulkan, a fixed-
income trader at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said by
telephone.  “ Turkey  is a very stable and sound country and a good
place to keep money because the debt level is low, currency is
extremely cheap,” Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage 12 billion
euros ($17 billion) in fixed-income assets at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  The return gained from collecting interest on the Turkish
lira over the quarter to date was the fourth highest among 45
countries tracked by Bloomberg, after the Argentine peso, the
Egyptian pound and the Indian rupee.  The government’s priority will be measures to reduce the
country’s record current-account gap, according to a statement
issued late yesterday after Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
discussed economic developments with ministers in Ankara.  Oil
prices  are down about 15 percent this year, easing concern over
the balance of payments in Turkey.  “Falling oil prices will improve the current account in
the following months substantially,” Barinov said. “It should
provide support to the currency.”  The lira weakened 0.4 percent to 1.7633 per dollar,
bringing losses to about 8 percent in the quarter to date. That
makes the lira the worst-performer among 178 global currencies.  The benchmark ISE National 100 dropped 3.6 percent, to
51,046.71, heading for its lowest close since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  