-- 
Jaczko Votes for NRC Fukushima Report, Spurns Calls to Delay

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-10T20:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/jaczko-votes-for-nrc-fukushima-report-spurns-calls-to-delay-1-.html
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  urged his colleagues to consider a task
force’s proposals on U.S. reactor safety within three months,
spurning their proposals to take more time for the review.  “The commission should vote within 90 days on each
recommendation,” Jaczko said in a statement, obtained today,
accompanying his vote yesterday to approve the agency  report .  A majority of the five-member commission has balked at
Jaczko’s push for a decision in three months. Commissioner
William Ostendorff said on July 28 that he had “significant
reservations” about quick action, echoing the positions of
Commissioners William Magwood and Kristine Svinicki.  The task force set up after the disaster at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant recommended July 12 that
the NRC adopt a new framework to replace its “patchwork” of
rules, and to take steps to protect U.S. reactors from floods
and earthquakes, which doomed the Japan plant. Such actions
include ensuring that plants can handle prolonged on-site
blackouts and that older reactors have sturdier venting systems.  Jaczko said he is troubled byMagwood’s suggestion to have
NRC staff closely examine each action suggested by the  task
force . “This is a level of micro-management that the commission
should not engage in and it could take years to complete,”
Jaczko said in comments with his vote.  The chairman said he opposes Svinicki’s proposal that staff
prepare and provide guidelines for a longer-term review. “This
document is a tool for managing staff work and is not a policy
issue for the commission’s consideration,” he wrote.  ‘Completely Reconsider’  A recommendation by Ostendorff that the staff prepare
documents based on the assumption that the current regulatory
approach works “would seem to direct the staff to completely
reconsider all the recommendations” in the report, Jaczko said.
“Moreover, it is unclear what this requirement actually
means,” he said.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat and
member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, faulted the
commissioners for urging more studies.  “This is not the time for the endless delay and studies of
studies called for” by Magwood, Ostendorff and Svinicki, Markey
said in a statement. “It is urgent that the NRC address
vulnerabilities to America’s nuclear fleet that were starkly
revealed by the Fukushima disaster.”  Jaczko said the agency should consider “in the long term”
requiring utilities to move waste from cooling pools to dry
storage after a certain amount of time.  Such a step “may provide a safer and more secure
disposition for spent fuel,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  