-- 
Japan’s Clean Energy Bill May Falter on Lawmaker’s Ties to Utilities

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-08-10T05:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/japan-clean-energy-bill-may-falter-on-lawmaker-ties-to-utilities.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s plan to
shift Japan toward renewable energy following the Fukushima
nuclear accident faces resistance from politicians compromised
by close ties to  utility companies , an opposition lawmaker said.  Kan has pledged to reduce reliance on nuclear power after
an earthquake and tsunami in March wrecked  Tokyo  Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, causing radiation
leaks into the air, sea and soil.  The push on renewable energy -- including a bill in
parliament to subsidize electricity from wind, solar and
geothermal sources -- will meet resistance because politicians
don’t want to anger utilities, Taro Kono, a lawmaker for the
opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  who supports phasing out
nuclear power, told reporters yesterday.  “We know the LDP has received a huge amount of money from
the power companies, and the  Democratic Party of Japan  gets
support from the power company labor unions,” said Kono, who
plans to run for his party’s presidency next year. “How we
break that vicious circle is a test we have to pass.”  Kan used a ceremony to mark 66 years since the U.S. atomic
bombing of Hiroshima on Aug. 6 to outline his plan to cut usage
of nuclear power, which provided about 30 percent of the
country’s electricity before the crisis.  His effort to win backing for renewable energy has been
hampered by calls for him to step down over the handling of the
response to the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, which left more
than 20,000 people dead or missing and destroyed more than
100,000 buildings.  Public vs. Politicians  Kan has indicated we will step down, though with
conditions. One of them is passing a bill to provide feed-in
tariffs, or subsidies, for renewable energy producers.  While Kan’s popularity has waned, public support for
abandoning nuclear power is growing. A total of 68 percent of
respondents to an Asahi newspaper poll published Aug. 8 said
they want Kan’s successor to continue his policy of phasing out
atomic energy.  Still, public opinion may not be enough to sway
politicians, said Kono, one of the few anti-nuclear politicians
in a party that created the country’s atomic industry during
almost an uninterrupted half-century of rule to 2009.  “Some LDP members probably think that people will forget
in five years, and we’ll be able to build a nuclear power plant
again,” he said. “I don’t think that’s going to happen.”  The parliament vote on feed-in tariffs, expected by Aug.
26, will provide the first indication of  Japan ’s post-Fukushima
energy policy.  Follow Germany  While the legislation contains no indication of the price
for electricity from renewable sources, the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry has indicated a target of up to 20 yen (26
U.S. cents) per kilowatt hour for as long as 20 years, according
to a report last month by  Bloomberg New Energy Finance . That
compares with the grid electricity price of 13.77 yen per
kilowatt hour for commercial users, according to data from
Japan’s Agency for Natural Resources and Energy.  A feed-in tariff proposed in 2000 was blocked by the LDP,
Tokyo Electric Power Co. and METI, the ministry in charge of
promoting nuclear power, Kono said yesterday. A similar policy
covering home installations of solar panels was introduced by
the current government in 2009.  “We should have done it in 2000 just like  Germany , where
it changed their renewable  energy industry  so much,” Kono said.
“Our renewable energy has been completely flat at 1 percent of
total supply.”  Industry Divided  Critics of the renewable energy drive include Keidanren,
Japan’s largest business lobby that includes power utilities.
Hiroshi Mikitani, president of Japan’s biggest online retailer
 Rakuten Inc. (4755) , quit the group in June in protest over its support
for the energy status quo.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Chief Executive Officer Masayoshi Son plans
to invest about 80 billion yen ($1 billion) to build 10 solar
farms if he gets access to transmission networks and agreement
from the 10 regional utilities to buy his electricity, a move
that would end the companies’ monopoly over power distribution.  “I’m not optimistic, but it’s time for the LDP to leave
the power companies and join the public in promoting an
alternative to the current  energy policy ,” Kono said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net . 