-- 
Japan’s Finance Chief Signals Concern About a Yen Near Intervention Level

-- B y   L i l y   N o n o m i y a
-- 
2011-08-10T07:59:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/japan-s-noda-signals-concern-as-yen-strengthens-to-near-intervention-level.html
Japan ’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said that one-sided moves in the yen can hurt growth as the
currency strengthened against the dollar to close to the level
where authorities intervened last week.  “Recent one-sided movements in the currency market risk
hurting the economy’s recovery from the earthquake,” Noda said
in parliament in  Tokyo  today, reiterating remarks made on Aug. 4
when authorities sold the yen. The government may include
measures to help companies combat the strong yen in its next
reconstruction package, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said.  A global stock rout that has erased more than $6 trillion
off equities in the past two weeks has bolstered the yen’s
appeal as a safe haven, undoing intervention that helped the
currency weaken past 80 last week. Policy makers may struggle to
reverse the trend with more unilateral yen sales after last
week’s action prompted criticism from the  European Central Bank ,
according to economist Naoki Iizuka.  “Last week’s intervention was effective to some extent,
but it’ll be difficult to take further steps unless there is
support from the G-7,” said Iizuka, a senior economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “We can’t rule out more
aggressive easing from the U.S. and that’ll lead to a stronger
yen.”  The yen traded at 76.69 per dollar as of 4:55 p.m. in Tokyo.
The currency strengthened to 76.97 on the day authorities
stepped in for the first time since March, after earlier that
week trading as high as 76.30. A postwar record of 76.25 was set
in March.  Reconstruction Package  Speaking at a press conference in Tokyo, Edano said the
yen’s strength has been driven by global rather than domestic
factors. The government is in the process of planning its third
package for rebuilding after the March earthquake and tsunami.  An October 2010 stimulus plan included payroll subsidies
for companies struggling to cope with the yen’s advance.  The government raised its assessment of the economy today,
citing improvements in exports and production, while adding that
the yen’s rise poses a risk to growth. It said that “volatile
fluctuations” in currency and stock markets are threats for the
recovery.  The currency has appreciated against the dollar today after
the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark rate at a
record low at least through mid-2013 to revive the economy.  Trichet’s Comments  Analysts estimate Japanese authorities spent a record 4.5
trillion yen ($59 billion) to weaken the currency last week. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said intervention must be made on
a multilateral consensus, a sign he disapproved of Japan’s
action.  Japan’s currency has appreciated 4.6 percent in the past
month, making it the best performer after the Swiss franc among
10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Manufacturers from Fuji
Heavy Industries Ltd., the maker of Subaru cars, to Elpida
Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest maker of computer-memory
chips, have voiced concern about the risk the yen poses to their
businesses.  “Japan’s recovery is likely to continue after the economy
had such a big plunge in the wake of earthquake,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo. “Still,
we are certainly seeing mounting risks including a strong yen
and a slowdown in the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lily Nonomiya in Tokyo at 
 lnonomiya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  