-- 
Japan Raises Economic Assessment While Noting Strong Yen Risk

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-08-10T07:53:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/japan-raises-economic-assessment-while-noting-strong-yen-risk.html
Japan ’s government raised its
assessment of the economy, saying that production and exports
are increasing, while adding that a strengthening yen poses
risks for the recovery.  “The Japanese economy is picking up while difficulties
continue to prevail” because of the fallout from a record
earthquake and tsunami in March, the Cabinet Office said in a
monthly report released in  Tokyo  today. It left the evaluation
unchanged last month after raising it in June.  The government’s increased optimism about the economy is
tempered by a rising yen that could weigh on exports, a key
driver of the recovery. The currency’s advance to levels close
to post-World War II highs prompted Japan to sell yen on Aug. 4
in the first market intervention since March.  “Japan’s recovery is likely to continue after the economy
had such a big plunge in the wake of earthquake,” said
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.
“Still, we are certainly seeing mounting risks including a
strong yen and a slowdown in the global economy.”  Improvements in production and exports were a key factor
for the upgrade this month, the Cabinet Office said. Factory
output increased 3.9 percent in June from May, when it rose 6.2
percent, the biggest gain since 1953, according to a government
report released last month.  Toyota Motor Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda  said
in late June that the carmaker’s recovery from the temblor in
northeaster Japan has “far exceeded expectations,” with
production in Japan to return to normal after July and North
American output rebounding by September.  Still, “volatile fluctuations” in currency and stock
markets are threats for the recovery, the Cabinet Office said.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average touched the lowest level in five
months yesterday.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  ordered yen-selling on Aug.
4 as the currency approached its post-war high of 76.25 yen per
dollar. The yen traded as high as 76.83 at 12:57 p.m. today in
Tokyo. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 255 stock index touched 8656.79
yesterday, the lowest since March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 Tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  