-- 
Topix Rebounds From Rout After Fed Pledges Low Rates Until 2013

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-08-10T07:52:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/japanese-stocks-rise-first-time-in-seven-days-on-fed-interest-rate-pledge.html
Japan ’s Topix index snapped a six-
day losing streak after the U.S. Federal Reserve boosted
investor confidence with a pledge to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low at least through mid-2013.  Inpex Corp. (1605) , the nation’s No. 1 oil explorer, climbed 2.8
percent after crude prices rebounded. Tokyo Electric Power Co.
surged, leading utilities higher after President Toshio
Nishizawa said government support will protect the power company
from insolvency. Exporters including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  fell as
the dollar weakened against the yen, cutting the outlook for
overseas earnings.  “Some calm has been restored, but given the declines of
the past few days the rebound seems a little weak,” said Tamiji Shinada, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The Fed
statement halted the global sell-off. But, rationally speaking,
it’s probably not going to change sentiment or the fundamentals
enough to spark a big rally.”  The Topix gained 0.8 percent to 776.73 at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo, paring gains of as much as 1.9 percent after the yen’s
appreciation took a toll on exporters’ shares. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average rose 1.1 percent to 9,038.74.  Global equity markets lost more than $7 trillion in a two-
week selloff through yesterday as the  U.S. economy  showed signs
of slowing and the European debt crisis threatened to spill over
into the banking system. The rout deepened after Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Service on cut the U.S.’s credit rating on Aug. 5.  Price-To-Book  An 8.8 percent drop in the Topix since Aug. 1 has reduced
the price of companies on the index to 0.91 times estimated book
value, the lowest level since March 2009. The number compares
with 1.85 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.27 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index. A value below one means that investors
can buy companies for less than the value of their assets.  Futures on the S&P Index slipped 0.6 percent today. The
index rallied 4.7 percent yesterday in  New York , the biggest
advance since March 2009 after the Fed pledged for the first
time to keep its benchmark lending rate at a record low at least
through mid-2013 to revive a recovery it described as
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is “prepared to employ”
additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by weak hiring
and anemic household spending, it said in a statement. The Fed
said it now expects “a somewhat slower pace of growth in
coming quarters.”  QE3  The statement signals the Fed has become more willing to
buy more bonds to prop up the economy, according to Kenji Sekiguchi, general manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., which oversees the equivalent of $75 billion. A second
round of asset purchases by the Fed last year, a program known
as quantitative easing or QE2, helped fuel a rally of as much as
28 percent in the  S&P 500  after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
foreshadowed the plan on Aug. 27.  “The statement suggests that the Fed is moving toward
QE3,” said Sekiguchi. “Investors feel more confident now that,
unless the U.S. recovery is speedier than people expect, the Fed
will take additional action. That’s a psychological support for
the market.”  Oil companies  advanced after crude prices rebounded today
from a 10-month low, gaining as much as 4 percent today in
electronic trading in New York. Inpex rose 2.8 percent to
511,000 yen as investors bet fuel demand will increase amid
shrinking stockpiles. AOC Holdings Inc., an oil explorer and
refiner, climbed 2.4 percent to 469 yen.  Government Backing  Tokyo Electric led utilities higher, rising 15 percent to
449 yen, after President Nishizawa said the company at the
center of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years isn’t at risk
of insolvency. The government last week said it will set up a 2
trillion yen state-backed fund to help compensate people
affected by the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “After we start receiving funds from the government-
backed entity, there will be no possibility of liabilities
exceeding assets,” Nishizawa said.  Kansai Electric Power Co., the country’s second-largest
utility, jumped 8.3 percent to 1,304 yen. Chubu Electric Power
Co., the third largest, climbed 7.8 percent to 1,356 yen.  Still, gains in Japanese stocks were limited as the dollar
fell against the yen, driving down exporters’ shares. Toyota,
the world’s biggest carmaker by market value, slid 0.9 percent.
Sony Corp. sank 2.2 percent to 1,701 yen. Shares of the
electronics maker also fell after it said one of its warehouses
was damaged in a fire during riots in  London .  The U.S. currency depreciated to as low as 76.71 yen today
in  Tokyo , compared with 77.37 at the close of  stock trading 
yesterday, as the Fed’s more pessimistic view of the economy
sapped demand for the greenback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 