-- 
Rice Is Next Japanese Food-Radiation Risk From Fukushima Nuclear Fallout

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-08-11T06:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/japan-s-rice-crop-tested-for-contamination-from-fukushima-plant.html
Japan ’s rice harvest is a time of
festivities celebrated even by the emperor as farmers reap the
rewards of four months of labor in a 2,000-year-old tradition.
Not this year, with radiation seeping into the soil.  Farmers growing half of Japan’s rice crop are awaiting the
results of tests to see if their produce has been contaminated
by radiation from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s wrecked Fukushima
atomic plant. Rice, used in almost all Japanese meals and the
key ingredient in sake, is being tested before the harvest
starts this month. Radiation exceeding safety levels was found
in produce including spinach, tea and beef.  Shigehide Ohki, a 61-year-old farmer near  Tokyo , this week
passed the first hurdle after a preliminary round of tests
showed no trace elements of radioactive cesium, the main source
of concern. Losing his crop of about 80 tons of rice would
“destroy” him, he said.  “I’m very relieved and I’m telling customers that I can be
90 percent certain my rice is safe,” said Ohki, who’s been
farming rice for 40 years in Katori about 190 kilometers (118
miles) south of the nuclear station. “But I’m also saying it’s
not the end yet because we still have to pass the main part of
the survey after the harvest.”  The government is asking 17 prefectures in eastern Japan to
test farmland for radiation, an area accounting for 54 percent
of domestic rice production. If initial surveys show a certain
level of radiation, wider tests will be carried out, the
government said.  Rice Threat  Authorities will ban shipments from areas where they find
rice containing cesium exceeding 500 becquerels a kilogram, the
government’s legal limit for grains. Any contaminated produce
will be destroyed.  “Rice may be the next product where contamination will be
discovered as it’s being grown in tainted soil and water,” Yoko
Tomiyama, chairwoman of the  Consumers Union  of Japan, said in an
interview. “Higher radiation levels have been detected in
prefectures beyond Fukushima.”  Authorities in Chiba on Aug. 9 said that the first five of
49 preliminary tests, including Okki’s farm, didn’t detect
radiation in rice, according to the prefecture’s  website . Rice
from 277 areas in the prefecture will be tested after harvest,
the website said.  Japan will produce 7.7 million tons of rice in the
2010-2011 marketing year, becoming the world’s 10th-biggest
grower, according to  U.S. Department of Agriculture ’s forecasts.
The nation is also the 10th-largest consumer, according to the
USDA’s website.  Aeon Co., Japan’s biggest supermarket chain, will start
testing rice sold under its Topvalu brand for radiation,
according to the Asahi newspaper today, citing an unidentified
person at the company. A detailed plan hasn’t been decided yet,
said Masaru Tanabe, a spokesman at the retailer.  Spewing Radiation  Food containing radioactive cesium or iodine that exceeded
the official standards has been found as far as 360 kilometers
from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, which began spewing
radiation after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. About
160,000 residents near the plant have been evacuated.  Consumer concerns over  food safety  deepened after the
government, which repeatedly made assurances products on the
market are safe, confirmed last month that beef tainted by
cesium was sold in stores.  Five months after the nuclear disaster, Japan is still
struggling to build a centralized system to check for radiation
contamination of food, leaving local authorities and farmers
conducting voluntary tests.  ‘Only Been Reacting’  “The government didn’t have guidelines to prepare for
possible problems and has only been reacting to developments, so
the farmers were getting worried,” Masaki Takagi, the head of
the farmer’s cooperative in Takomachi in Katori district. “It
should’ve confirmed the safety of the soil before we started
planting. We had to do the testing ourselves.”  The government advised local authorities in April to carry
out soil tests to determine areas safe for planting, said Osamu
Yoshioka, an official who advises on testing farm produce at the
Ministry of Agriculture.  “As far as rice is concerned, we asked for testing in two
stages because it’s the nation’s staple,” Yoshioka said. “It’s
a random survey because we can’t check everything. I don’t think
we’ll see much tainted rice in harvest.”  Farmers in Fukushima were allowed to plant rice on 67,720
hectares of paddies outside the evacuation zones around the
Fukushima plant, accounting for production of 363,680 metric
tons this year.  “Planting was done in April and May, after the level of
radiation in the air had fallen,” said Shigeo Uchida, an
agronomist and senior scientist at National Institute of
Radiological Sciences in Chiba. “Generally, cesium doesn’t
spread much from soil to grains.”  Trading Suspended  Trading in rice futures on the Tokyo Grain Exchange was
suspended this week after prices surged by the daily limit, when
the bourse relisted the grain for the first time since 1939.
Rice rose by its maximum limit the next day on concern radiation
will spread to crops and curb supply.  Japan is self-sufficient in rice production and the
government protects domestic growers from foreign competition
with a tariff of 341 yen ($4.35) a kilogram on imports. The
tarriff is eight times the latest international  price  for rice
quoted by the  International Monetary Fund .  Rice Storage  The government plans to store 880,000 tons of domestic
food-rice in its reserve at the end of June next year, unchanged
from a year earlier.  The importance of rice goes beyond its status as a food
staple. Cultivating the crop is so labor-intensive that families
often pooled together to grow and harvest each other’s crops and
combined their irrigation systems. It was this shared experience
that may have fostered the notion of “wa,” or harmony, that
remains a key element of Japanese culture today, academics say.  Japan’s first emperor is also said to have been a farmer
and could communicate with gods to secure a good harvest,
according to Emiko Ohnuki-Tierney, a professor of anthropology
at the  University of Wisconsin  and author of “Rice as Self.”  Every November, the emperor has a meal of newly harvested
rice in one of the most important festivities in the royal
calendar, according to the Imperial Household Agency.  This year, farmers like Ohki will lead prayers for a safe
harvest.  “I was stunned when spinach grown in my area was found to
be tainted,” Ohki said last week, while watching testers hack
off rice stalks on his farm to carry out checks. “I had
finished planting by then and the future suddenly looked very
bleak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  