-- 
Jude Law Loves Reformed Prostitute, Swaggers Shirtless: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/jude-law-loves-reformed-prostitute-swaggers-shirtless-u-k-stage-review.html
Jude Law has gotten an Irish accent,
grown a beard, and gone to the gym. When he flops semi-naked out
of a stormy sea in “Anna Christie,” the barometer sizzles.  His arrival injects some much-needed oomph into the creaky
1921 play by Eugene O’Neill, currently running at the Donmar
Warehouse in  London . Law plays Mat Burke, a tough Irish stoker
rescued from drowning by the skipper of a coal barge.  Mat swaggers around the deck, boasting in a thick brogue of
his invincibility, and wins the heart of the skipper’s young
daughter Anna.  When he finds out Anna used to be a prostitute, he gets
into a terrible blather, and his neck veins bulge out
beautifully. His brogue goes into overdrive. After much cursing
and weeping, he forgives her and they kiss.  He’s wonderfully watchable. Ten times more so than the
piece itself, which reworks the theme of the repentant whore
with join-the-dots dullness and some crass sea symbolism.  Anna’s father tells her that beefcake Mat isn’t good enough
for her.  “No, it’s me ain’t good enough for him,” replies the
downcast trollop.  She’s talking about Jude Law with his shirt off, for
heaven’s sake. She’s really going to refuse him?  Such implausible self-sacrifice may be bearable in operas
like “La Traviata” or “Madam Butterfly,” which have lovely
tunes to ease the way. Here, there are no tunes and mere
mouthpieces instead of characters. At 2 hours 45 minutes, that’s
a heck of a lot of mouthpiecing to put up with.  Blank Prose  Ruth Wilson (Anna) delivers her lines in a sing-songy way
with a peculiar rising and falling intonation. Maybe she thinks
the lines are blank verse, rather than even blanker prose.  David Hayman does a much better job as her father Chris.
His Swedish-American accent sounds attractively salty, and his
old sea-dog manner is vividly done.  Rob Ashford’s straightforward production conjures up the
atmosphere of a 1920s sea-going barge, with dry ice for fog and
overhead sprinklers for rain.  There are sounds of bells, foghorns and creaking timbers.
They don’t disguise the louder creaking of the plotting.  Rating: **.  ‘Crazy for You’  There’s more fun to be had at Regent’s Park Open Air
Theatre. Its triumphant run of musicals, including “Hello
Dolly” and “Into the Woods,” continues with a fresh and zingy
“Crazy for You.” Music and lyrics are by George and Ira Gershwin.  Ken Ludwig’s clever 1992 book reworks an earlier Gershwin
show called “Girl Crazy,” and tells the story of a hemmed-in
New York banker who wants to hoof on Broadway. In a classic case
of fish out of water, he gets sent to  Nevada  on business.  He meets tough-talking postmistress Polly, helps her to
save her business by putting on a revue -- a cue for lots of
squeaky showgirls to appear -- and all ends well.  The delightful nonsense is directed with panache by Timothy
Sheader. In his trademark fashion, he seamlessly integrates
Stephen Mear’s choreography into every element of the show.  On opening night, the heavens opened early in Act 1 and
swept the froth away for a while. The show was stopped while the
stage was mopped up.  It gave a whole new meaning to the phrase “tap dancing.”  That the show eventually recovered is a testament to
charismatic Sean Palmer (Bobby), spunky Clare Foster (Polly) and
an indomitable all-singing all-dancing cast.  Rating: ***.  “Anna Christie” is at the Donmar Warehouse, of which
 Barclays Capital  is the principal sponsor. Information:
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7624.  “Crazy for You” is at Regent’s Park Open Air Theatre.
Information:  http://www.openairtheatre.org  or +44-844-826-4242  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 