-- 
Kent Displays Pushes ’E-Writers’ as Paper Replacement in Schools

-- B y   K e n   S t i e r
-- 
2011-08-17T17:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/kent-displays-pushes-e-writers-as-paper-replacement-in-schools.html
(Corrects description of E Ink technology in the eighth
paragraph, date of Obama speech in fifth paragraph, and spelling
of FLEPia tablet in sixth paragraph. Story originally appeared
Aug. 10)  Last December, John Hartzog, a test-
center administrator at Florida Gateway College in Lake City,
Fla., replaced the paper and pencils at 38 test stations with
notebook-size plastic devices called Boogie Boards. His
experiment: try to cut costs with the new technology.  Boogie Boards can’t receive or transmit data; they simply serve
as virtual scrap paper. Users write on them with a plastic
stylus and their scribblings remain on the 5-inch-by-7-inch
liquid crystal display screen until the user presses the refresh
button.  Hartzog says he has been so “pleasantly surprised” by test-
takers’ reactions that he’s planning to eventually provide the
devices to all the individuals who take the some 8,000 tests the
center administers annually. He’s also been making laudatory
presentations about them to the Florida Association of College
Test Administrators and the Association of Florida Colleges.  Besides test-taking centers, the $42 Boogie Boards are proving
popular at about 50 schools in 20 states that use them to reduce
paper use, according to Albert M. Green, chief executive officer
of  Kent Displays , which produces the technology at its
manufacturing facility in Kent,  Ohio . He says the 110-employee
company underestimated the so-called e-writer market when it
started selling them last year. “We originally thought this was
maybe a $50 [million], $60 million [annual] business, [but] I
think that we actually may be on the low side.” He expects to
sell at least 500,000 units this year, or about $15 million
worth, pushing Kent’s total revenue to $21 million, up from $9
million in 2010.  Boogie Boards are available directly from Kent as well as
retailers like  Amazon (AMZN)  and Brookstone, and Green says the
company exports about 40 percent of its production, mostly to
 Japan . One of the few U.S. companies to still make liquid
crystal displays, Kent, spun out from the Liquid Crystal
Institute at Kent State University, has benefited from close
ties there, as well as from about $30 million in state and
federal grants since the company launched in 1994. During a
speech in  Cleveland  in February, President Obama praised Kent as
an example of how an academic-industry partnership drives
technology and economic development. William Manning, a
Rochester, N.Y., asset manager, has been Kent’s principal
investor, pouring close to $50 million into the company.  Other Markets  Kent’s challenge now is to find other profitable niches for its
technology. The unexpected success of the Boogie Board device is
unlikely to do much to close the gap with Kent’s closest rival,
 E Ink , which dominates the e-reader display market, supplying
Amazon’s Kindle and Barnes & Noble’s Nook. E Ink expects to sell
about 30 million displays this year -- earning well in excess of
$1 billion, according to Sriram K. Peruvemba, its chief
marketing officer. Kent’s only toehold in e-readers is through a
licensing agreement with  Fujitsu (FJTSY)  to supply color
displays in its FLEPia tablet, which is being marketed to
Japanese executives willing to shell out roughly $1,000.  Despite the rivalry, Peruvemba is an enthusiastic supporter of
Kent’s Boogie Boards. “I think [Kent] hit a home run,” he says.
“It’s always a question of matching the technology with an
application where there is a natural pull for it.” The Boogie
Board uses virtually no power -- other than one AAAA battery
that can power 50,000 refreshes -- making it attractive for off-
grid schools in  developing countries  or outside signage.  The capability to retain an image without power derives from
technology Kent has specialized in, known as cholesteric liquid
crystal displays. Like the e-reader screens powered by E Ink,
Kent’s screens only draw power when changing the image. That’s
in contrast to most conventional LCD screens, which require a
constant backlight that drains the batteries much more rapidly,
according to Kenneth I. Werner, a principal at display industry
consultancy Nutmeg Consultants in Norwalk, Conn.  ’E-Skin’ Cases  In June, as part of its push to diversify, Kent started selling
plastic coverings for iPods that can change colors when users
brush a finger over their surface. Green says these coverings,
marketed as “e-skin” cases, will eventually be available to
customize just about any mobile device. It is also technically
possible to program skins to change colors depending on, for
example, the caller to a mobile phone, he says. Green says Kent
is also working on applications for “e-cards” to embed more
images or information, such as one-time passwords or promotional
data, that could stand up to lamination and the rigor of years
of consumer use. He adds that a new version of the Boogie Board
-- which he expects out before year-end -- will have a save
function, which should widen its appeal.  Green says Kent’s small size -- which some analysts attribute to
a bruising legal battle over intellectual property in its early
years -- can also be advantageous in the rapidly evolving $100
billion display industry. “We can fly under the radar ... [and]
go after applications, like electronic skins, quietly, kind of
in a stealth mode.” Kent’s manufacturing line, set up in 2008,
also helps the company stay nimble. “I am still very excited
about this technology. I think it has a long ways to go -- we
have just scratched the surface,” says J. William Doane, the
founder of Kent Displays and former Liquid Crystal Institute
director, who serves as an adviser. “The key to carrying it
further is more manufacturing.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ken Stier at
 kenstier@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  