-- 
King Says ECB Has Gone to ‘Outer Limit’ of What It Can Do

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-10T12:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/king-says-ecb-has-gone-to-outer-limit-of-what-it-can-do-1-.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the  European Central Bank  has reached the limits of its
powers in responding to the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The ECB bought Spanish and Italian bond markets for a third
day today to stem a rise in borrowing costs as the region’s
heads of state disagree over how to contain the turmoil. The
move has exposed the central bank to hundreds of billions of
euros of liabilities and criticism that it’s bailing out
profligate nations.  “The ECB has gone to the outer limit of what a central
bank can do,” King said at a press conference in London today.
“Any further action has to be carried out by governments
themselves.”  While euro-region leaders agreed on July 21 to empower the
European Financial Stability Facility to bail out nations by
buying bonds in secondary markets, national parliaments still
have to ratify that decision. In the meantime, the ECB has
become a sovereign bond buyer of last resort, something not
envisaged in its original mandate to assure  price stability .  Some officials have balked at the arrangement.  German government adviser Christoph Schmid said yesterday
that it wouldn’t be “acceptable” for Italy or Spain to get
support from the EFSF because they can help themselves by
changing policies. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and ECB
Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  opposed the Italian and
Spanish bond purchases, Handelsblatt newspaper reported, while
the ECB’s decision to restart buying of Irish and Portuguese
debt wasn’t unanimous.  King said today that the ECB has been burdened with too
many tasks that should be the responsibility of governments.  “You cannot expect a central bank to engage in credit
allocation decisions and to be a substitute for the inability to
deal with the fiscal problems facing the euro area,” King said.
“That is a problem for central governments and not for banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  