-- 
Kirkland & Ellis Targets Asia Deals With Skadden, Latham Hong Kong Hires

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-08-10T01:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/kirkland-ellis-targets-asia-deals-with-skadden-latham-hong-kong-hires.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, the  law firm 
with the fifth-highest profit-per-partner, said it hired eight
new partners from U.S. and U.K. rivals in  Hong Kong  as part of a
plan to more than double its lawyers in Asia to 50.  Nick Norris, Dominic Tsun and Li-Chien Wong will join from
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP; David Zhang, Benjamin
Su and John Otoshi from Latham & Watkins LLP and  Ashley Young 
and Douglas Murning from Allen & Overy LLP.  Kirkland, whose clients include private equity firms Bain
Capital LLC and  Silver Lake Partners , joins Wall Street firms
including Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP
in expanding in the Chinese city in the last two years. The
expansion represents a long-term investment in  Asia , according
to Jeffrey Hammes, the Chicago-based chairman of Kirkland’s
global management executive committee.  “The cost of not being there in the future far exceeds any
cost of being there right now,” Hammes said in an interview
from  Chicago .  Companies raised $50 billion through initial shares sales
in Hong Kong over the past twelve months. Tsun, who with Wong
has advised on more than 30 IPOs in the past five years, said
funds need to know if exits through IPOs from their investments
are viable as deals become more complex.  Norris, a member of the Hong Kong Panel on Takeovers and
Mergers, said the work doesn’t stop at the IPO.  200 Companies  “There are more than 200 newly listed companies in Hong
Kong over the past five years that will be looking to make
strategic acquisitions or will be the subject of take-private or
PIPE transactions,” he said, referring to private investment in
public companies in the form of share or bond issuances.  While U.S. firms have had Hong Kong offices since 1972,
most New York firms focused on offering advice on U.S. law until
2005, when Skadden hired Norris and Tsun from  London  firms to
offer Hong Kong law advice. Kirkland opened its first Asian
office in Hong Kong in 2006 and now has 18 lawyers in the city
and  Shanghai .  David Patrick Eich, who opened the Hong Kong office, said
in a statement that Kirkland intends to be the leading adviser
to sponsors of complex deals in Asia.  Zhang, formerly vice chair of Latham’s Greater  China 
practice, has advised Chinese companies on capital-raising in
the U.S. and merger activities. Young led Allen & Overy’s
leveraged acquisition finance practice in Asia.  China Fire  Kirkland represented Bain Capital LLC in its pending take-
private of China Fire & Security Group and Silver Lake Partners’
acquisition of Allyes Online Media Holdings last year.  Private equity investment in China totaled $11.3 billion so
far this year, compared with $22.3 billion in the whole of 2010,
according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Profit per equity partner at Kirkland rose 28 percent to
$3.1 million in 2011, according to  Legal Business , a trade
magazine. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP, Quinn Emmanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, Sullivan and Cromwell and Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP, were more profitable.  Skadden’s profit per partner was $2.2 million, Latham’s
$2 million and Allen & Overy’s $1.7 million, according to the
ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  