-- 
China Will Maintain Economic Growth of 7-9%, BHP’s Nasser Says

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-10T06:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/nasser-says-australia-not-suffering-chronic-economic-challenges.html
China , the world’s fastest-growing
major economy, will maintain growth of 7 percent to 9 percent,
underpinning demand for the commodities produced by  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , Chairman Jac Nasser said today.  “We may not see 10 or 11 or 12 percent growth but we will
see 7, 8, 9 percent growth,” Nasser said at a lunch in Sydney.
“The texture of growth may change, in other words, we’ll see
more domestic spending and less export and capital spending, but
the growth is there and I think they’ve managed this situation
extremely well. I’m less confident with the rest of the world.”  Continued growth in China, which reported the highest
monthly  trade surplus  in more than two years today as exports
reached a record, will help Melbourne-based BHP, which relies on
the nation for 25 percent of its sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices of commodities such as  iron ore , copper and coal
have climbed on demand from China, boosting profits at mining
companies including BHP. The world’s largest mining company is
estimated to report a record $22.5 billion in net income for the
year ended June 30, 2011, according to the average of 17 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  BHP rose 3.6 percent to A$38.40 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
trade in Sydney on the Australian stock exchange, extending
yesterday’s 1.2 percent gain. Its shares have dropped 15 percent
this year.  China had exports of $175.1 billion in July and imports of
$143.6 billion.  Rating Cut  Nasser made the comment after  Standard & Poor’s  last week
cut U.S. debt rating for the first time, leading to a rout in
global equities that wiped $7.8 trillion of market values in the
nine days ended Aug. 8.  Europe  and  North America  are BHP’s third
and fourth biggest markets.  Nasser also said that  Australia  isn’t suffering from the
chronic economic challenges of Europe and the U.S. and should
feel confident.  “I know there is real fear in Australia that we should get
engulfed in all this turmoil,” Nasser said. “Australians
should feel quietly confident about our ability to manage
through what is playing out in the northern hemisphere.”  Nasser also said he agreed with the direction of
Australia’s carbon policy although implementing the tax in the
short term may create risks for the country’s economy.  Australia will start charging companies an initial A$23 a
metric ton of carbon dioxide from July next year before moving
to an emissions-trading system by 2015. The new policy may
reduce the value of the coal industry by about A$8 billion,
research group Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said in a report on July 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Smith  at   tsmith58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  