-- 
Nestle Forecasts Full-Year Sales Growth at High End of Anticipated Range

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-08-10T09:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/nestle-forecasts-full-year-sales-growth-at-high-end-of-anticipated-range.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, said revenue growth is likely to be at the top end of
its forecast range this year after reporting the biggest sales
increase since the first half of 2008.  Sales excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts
rose 7.5 percent in the six months ended June 30, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company said today. Nestle, which targets a 5
percent to 6 percent annual gain, also predicted higher margins.  The growth in so-called organic sales beat the 6.5 percent
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, led by a 12
percent gain in Asia. Nestle is pushing products for lower-
income consumers into more rural regions of  Asia  as it aims to
sell the items in a million stores by next year. The guidance on
annual sales is “cautious,” Chief Financial Officer Jim Singh
said on a conference call with analysts.  “Another vintage performance,” said Simon Marshall- Lockyer, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London 
with a “buy” recommendation on the shares. Sales growth in
 Europe  and the Americas was stronger than expected, he said.  Nestle climbed as much as 1.15 Swiss francs, or 2.5
percent, to 47.85 francs in Zurich trading. The shares traded up
1.7 percent at 47.50 francs at 11:36 a.m.  Buyback Halted  Nestle also said today it decided against buying back more
shares after repurchasing 35 billion francs ($48.4 billion)
worth since 2007. The decision may disappoint some investors and
lead to increased speculation that the company may seek to
acquire Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition business, according to
Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Nestle is likely to bid for the Pfizer unit, which the U.S.
drugmaker said July 7 it may sell or spin off, according to
people with knowledge of the process. Danone and Abbott
Laboratories probably will also bid for the business, which may
fetch as much as $10.5 billion, the people said.  Nestle is looking for acquisition opportunities “all over
the world,” Singh said, adding that the company is focused on
“bolt-on” deals in categories of strategic importance.  “Our clear priority is to invest in our business, either
internally or externally,” Singh said. Nestle’s “next priority
is to return cash to shareholders,” he said, adding that the
company aims to increase its dividend next year.  Price Increases  Nestle agreed last month to buy a stake in snack and candy
maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. to expand in  China , where
the company’s infant nutrition business has seen its market
share dwindle since 2005, when it withdrew two varieties of milk
powder after authorities found they contained too much iodine.  Sales were helped by pricing increases of 3.8 percent in
the second quarter, more than the first quarter’s 1.5 percent.  Nestle said it expects higher prices to have “a fuller
impact” in the second half of the year. The company expects
continuing “challenging conditions” including political and
economic instability and volatile raw-material prices.  “Nestle, Danone and Unilever are all reporting volume
growth,” said Chris Wickham, an analyst at Matrix Corporate
Capital in London. “The message on European food manufacturers
is they’ve got a very good strategic bias towards healthy food
and emerging markets, which the American companies haven’t.”  Unilever, the maker of Dove soap and Magnum ice cream, last
week reported the highest quarterly price growth since 2009
after introducing products including Knorr jelly bouillon in new
markets and passing on costs. Danone posted first-half sales
growth of 8.7 percent in July.  Lower Profit  Net income at Nestle fell to 4.7 billion francs in the
first half, after the company sold its stake in Alcon last year
and earnings were eroded by the strength of the Swiss franc and
higher raw-material costs. That was higher than the 4.61 billion
francs anticipated by analysts.  Nestle said June 8 that raw-material inflation this year
would probably be near the high end of the company’s forecast
range of 2.5 billion francs to 3 billion francs. Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Bulcke  has said inflation will probably accelerate,
especially in emerging markets, though global growth should
continue. Higher input costs hurt profitability at the company’s
water business as expenses for plastic and transport rose.  Nestle last year sold a majority stake in Alcon, a maker of
contact-lens solutions, to Novartis AG for $28.3 billion.  The competitive environment in North America is “tough,”
according to the bottler of Poland Spring waters.  Americas, Europe  Organic revenue from Nestle’s Americas unit increased 5.6
percent, fuelled by growth in its pizza business and sales of
Nescafe soluble coffee. Revenue from the Europe unit increased
4.1 percent, helped by sales of its Maggi Juicy Roasting and
Nescafe Dolce Gusto products. Nestle had “strong performances”
in countries including France, Italy and  Switzerland .  Organic sales at Nestle’s nutrition unit grew 8.8 percent
during the first half, though profitability weakened. The
company’s Jenny Craig weight-loss business had a “tough” first
half in  North America  because of the weak economy and a “high
level” of pressure from competitors, Nestle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 