-- 
Nestle Pakistan to Fend Off Engro by Doubling Dairy Output

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-08-11T06:50:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/nestle-pakistan-aims-to-fend-off-engro-by-doubling-dairy-output.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, plans to double dairy output in Pakistan by spending
300 million Swiss francs ($413 million) over the next three to
four years as it looks to fend off local rival Engro Foods Ltd.  The investment will be used to build new milk factories,
Ian Donald, managing director at  Nestle Pakistan Ltd. (NESTLE) , said in
an interview in Lahore. The money will also help boost the
juice, yogurt and noodle businesses of Nestle Pakistan, whose
market value doubled in the past year.  The spending is part of Nestle’s push to expand its
packaged-milk business in Pakistan as the Swiss company’s sales
in Asia outpaced overall revenue growth last quarter. Consumer
food companies are benefiting as marketing campaigns and rising
incomes spur demand for packaged food in the South Asian nation.  “A lot of companies are coming up to tap  Pakistan ’s” food
market where 95 percent of the products are sold unpackaged,
said Misbah Iqbal, an analyst at AKD Securities Ltd. in Karachi.
“That is certainly creating some challenges for established
names. But I don’t see a big threat for Nestle in the next two
years as the size of the cake is still big enough.”  Nestle’s sales in the South Asian country grew 25 percent
in 2010 to 51.5 billion rupees ($597 million). Nestle Pakistan
is the best performer on the Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index
this year. The stock fell 3 percent to 3,862.05 rupees as of
11:07 a.m. in Karachi, while the benchmark slid 1.2 percent.  Coca-Cola, Pepsi  The maker of Kit Kat chocolate and Nido powdered milk is
facing growing competition from Karachi-based Engro Foods in the
dairy segment and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and PepsiCo Inc. in the bottled
water and fruit juices businesses, according to data provided by
London-based Euromonitor International. Engro Foods, established
in 2005, was the second-largest seller of drinking-milk products
in Pakistan in 2010, according to Euromonitor.  Nestle is pushing products for lower-income consumers into
more rural regions of Asia as it aims to sell the items in a
million stores by next year. Nestle’s planned investment in
Pakistan will prepare the company to meet growing demand at its
juice, yogurt and noodles businesses, which are likely to double
in size in the next five to six years, Donald said.  ‘Still Enormous’  “The opportunity to grow in Pakistan is still enormous,”
Donald said. “We’ve a very bullish view on Pakistan, and will
invest quite aggressively in production capabilities in the next
three to four years.”  Nestle yesterday said revenue growth is likely to be at the
top end of its forecast range this year after reporting the
biggest sales increase since the first half of 2008. Sales
excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts rose 7.5
percent in the six months ended June 30, the Vevey, Switzerland-
based company said. Nestle, which targets a 5 percent to 6
percent annual gain, also predicted higher margins.  The growth in so-called organic sales beat the 6.5 percent
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, led by a 12
percent gain in  Asia .  “The market is relatively underdeveloped,” Donald said.
“So the fact that Engro and other names are entering the market
is actually a very good thing. The fact is that they all
together are stimulating growth in the packaged food segment.”  Engro Foods  last week reported net income of 99 million
rupees in the three months ended June 30, compared with a loss
of 165 million rupees a year earlier. Sales climbed 46 percent
to 7 billion rupees in the quarter. Nestle Pakistan on Aug. 3
reported net income rose to 1 billion rupees in the three months
ended June 30, from 978 million rupees a year earlier.  “It’s a common perception that  China  and  India  are much
bigger in terms of growth than Pakistan,” Donald said. “But
for Nestle, the per capita consumption of our products in
Pakistan is twice as much as we have in China and India.”  ‘Dairy Farms’  The company expects future growth will come from milk,
baby-food, water and noodles. It is also expanding into new
categories including spices and coffee, Donald said.  “We see more and more dairy farms of bigger scale coming
up and farmers are getting better knowledge,” he said. “This
is slowly beginning to close that gap on demand.”  Nestle Pakistan , established in 1988, has five factories
spread across the country, according to the company’s website,
and employs more than 2,700 workers.  Nestle’s growth in Pakistan has been slowed by poor
security in the country’s biggest cities and power blackouts of
up to 12 hours each day. The company lost nine days of business
in Karachi last month when retail trade remained virtually
closed in the country’s commercial hub because of ethnic and
sectarian violence, Donald said.  “What we are getting is a strong double-digit growth,” he
said. “Imagine what it could have been if we didn’t have huge
unrest in Karachi, security issues in Quetta and  Peshawar .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  