-- 
New York Law School Sued by Students Over Claims About Graduates’ Success

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T15:24:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/new-york-law-school-sued-by-students-over-claims-about-graduates-success.html
New York Law School  was sued by
former students who accused the school of inflating statistics
on graduates’ jobs and pay.  The lawsuit, filed today in  New York , and a second suit
filed in Michigan against  Thomas M. Cooley Law School , claim the
schools knowingly inflated employment and salary statistics to
recruit and retain students. The complaints were filed by three
New York law graduates and four Cooley graduates seeking to
represent all current and former students at both schools.  “We believe the practice of inflating employment
statistics and salary information is endemic among law
schools,” David Anziska, an attorney for the students with New
York-based Kurzon Strauss LLP, said today in a statement. “We
hope these suits bring systematic change in the way legal
education is marketed by making transparency and accuracy the
rule, not the exception.”  Cooley sued Kurzon Strauss and four anonymous bloggers in
separate complaints last month claiming they defamed the school
through Web postings. Cooley, based in Lansing,  Michigan ,
accused the law firm of false statements on websites to
“incite” the readers and to “troll” for plaintiffs for a
purported class-action lawsuit.  Misclassifying Graduates  Cooley said in a July 14 statement that its job placement
rates are reported annually to the  American Bar Association  and
the National Association for Law Placement nine months after
graduations based on the results of surveys and are consistent
with all 201 ABA accredited law schools.  Today’s complaints, which seek unspecified damages, claim
that law schools, including New York Law and Cooley,
misrepresent their graduates’ employment prospects by
misclassifying graduates who have only secured part-time or
temporary jobs as “fully” employed, according to Kurzon’s
statement.  “It is time for the legal academy to own up to this
problem,” Jesse Strauss, an attorney for the students, said in
a statement.  James Thelen, Cooley’s associate dean for legal affairs and
general counsel, wasn’t immediately available for comment on
the complaint. A spokesperson at New York Law School wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Founded in 1972, Cooley has four campuses in Michigan,
according to its website. New York Law School, founded in 1891,
is one of the oldest independent law schools in the U.S. with
roughly 1,500 students, according to its website.  The cases are Gomez-Jimenez v. New York Law School,  Supreme
Court  of the State of New York County of New York; MacDonald Jr.
v. Thomas M. Cooley Law School, 11-00831, U.S. District Court
Western District of Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 