-- 
News Corp. Beats Estimates, Boosts Dividend After Stock Drop

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T20:42:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/news-corp-boosts-profit-raises-dividend.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , owner of Fox TV and the
Wall Street Journal, posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and raised its dividend 27 percent, cushioning investor losses
after a phone-hacking scandal hurt the stock.  Operating income rose 8.9 percent to $982 million, or 35
cents a share, in the fourth quarter ended June 30, News Corp.
said today in an e-mailed statement. Net income fell 22 percent
to $683 million, or 26 cents a share, reflecting a loss on the
sale of the Myspace website. Excluding items, analysts were
predicting profit of 30 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose to $8.96 billion.  News Corp. raised the quarterly dividend to 9.5 cents a
share from 7.5 cents previously, the first increase in two
years. The company, controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , 80, is seeking to convince investors
that allegations of phone hacking at its now-defunct U.K. News
of the World tabloid won’t affect the rest of the company.  “The focus will be on guidance,” said  David Bank , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York who recommends the
stock. “It will be interesting to know how much clarity they
can provide.”  The company also said it will begin stock repurchases under
a new $5 billion authorization after Aug. 15. Sales exceeded the
average analyst estimate of $8.48 billion.  News Corp., also the owner of  Fox News  and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, rose 29 cents to $14 in extended
trading. The Class A stock declined 84 cents to $13.71 at 4 p.m.
 New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and has lost 24
percent since July 4, when the  Guardian newspaper  reported that
the News of the World tabloid had accessed the voice mail of a
murdered teenager.  Myspace Exit  The quarter marked the last for News Corp.’s ownership of
the Myspace social-networking company. On June 29, News Corp.
agreed to sell the unit for $35 million and an equity stake in
the buyer, Specific Media. That’s a fraction of the $580 million
News Corp. paid in 2005 and rids the company of a website that
lost its lead to Facebook Inc.  The hacking scandal has led to the arrests of at least 12
people, the resignations of two News Corp. executives, the
shutdown of the 168-year-old tabloid and the termination of News
Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid to buy the 61
percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  that it doesn’t
already own.  News Corp. paid a $63 million breakup fee to BSkyB, the
company said today.  Cable Profit Rises  The cable networks, the biggest contributor to profit,
increased revenue 15 percent to $2.15 billion, while operating
income expanded 12 percent to $631 million, the company said.
Advertising at the U.S. networks grew 23 percent while affiliate
fees were up 7 percent.  The company’s broadcast unit, including the Fox network and
local stations, doubled profit to $233 million as revenue
expanded 7 percent to $1.12 billion. News Corp. credited a
stronger national ad market and retransmission fees.  News Corp.’s publishing division, which includes newspapers
and books, posted a 38 percent jump in profit to $270 million on
11 percent higher sales.  Profit from filmed entertainment gained 53 percent to $210
million as revenue increased 14 percent. News Corp.’s profit
from satellite TV rose to $145 million from $97 million.  James Murdoch , the 38-year-old son of Rupert Murdoch and
News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, has until tomorrow
to submit written replies to Parliament in  London  to defend
testimony he gave last month to British lawmakers regarding the
hacking allegations. Former executives of News of the World have
said some of his statements were “mistaken.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones division in providing financial
news and data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  