-- 
Northeast U.S. to Heat Up, Hurricane May Form Off East Coast, Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-10T14:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/northeast-u-s-to-heat-up-hurricane-may-form-off-east-coast-rogers-says.html
The U.S. Northeast will probably
heat up at the end of next week while a tropical system may
develop off the East Coast, according to  Matt Rogers , president
of  Commodity Weather Group LLC.   Rogers said computer forecast models show greater agreement
than they did yesterday that heat would spread from the center
of the country, where it has baked the Plains for weeks, to both
the East and West coasts in the Aug. 20 to Aug. 24 time frame.  European computer models also show a hurricane may form off
the East Coast next week, Rogers said.  “It is possible that we will plow through at least three
named systems by Aug. 25,” Alex Sosnowski, a meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , wrote on the
company’s website. “The intensity of these systems is difficult
to determine. They simply haven’t formed yet.”  The  National Weather Service  said today there are two areas
of disturbed weather in the eastern Atlantic, one of which has
favorable conditions for growth. That system, just south of the
Cape Verde Islands, is given a 20 percent chance of becoming a
tropical depression or storm in the next two days.  Forecasts Watched  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
if temperatures may boost heating or cooling needs. Futures rose
from the lowest price in almost five months yesterday as
forecasts showed the weather will be hotter than normal in the
U.S. East and Midwest later this month.  In addition, storms are watched closely because they are a
threat to oil and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31
percent of U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas
production. Coastal refineries account for 7.61 million barrels
a day, or 42 percent of U.S. capacity.  The southern central U.S. will continue to bake in record-
breaking heat. Yesterday’s high of 98 in  Fort Smith ,  Arkansas ,
marked the first time since July 4 that the temperature there
didn’t reach 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), according to
the  National Weather Service .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  