-- 
Norway Central Bank Unexpectedly Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 2.25%

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-10T13:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/norway-leaves-key-interest-rate-unchanged-at-2-25-amid-turmoil-in-markets.html
Norway’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged after global market turmoil
forced policy makers to abandon a planned increase.  The overnight deposit rate was kept at 2.25 percent for a
second consecutive meeting, after a May increase, the Oslo-based
bank said today. Three economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected
the decision, while 11 forecast a rise to 2.5 percent.  “The decision must especially be seen against the
background of the recent flare-up in financial market turbulence
and clear signs of weaker growth internationally,” Governor
Oeystein Olsen said in the statement. “The Norwegian economy is
still growing at a robust pace and domestic developments have
been broadly in line with that projected. This suggests that the
key policy rate should be raised further.”  Policy makers are responding to a global equity rout that
saw European stocks plunge more than 20 percent from a February
peak on concern the region will fail to contain its debt crisis.
At the same time, the bank needs to steer rising consumer demand
and credit growth spurred by  Europe ’s lowest jobless rate even
as recoveries in the U.S. and the euro area falter. The bank has
signaled it doesn’t want rates in Norway to stray too far from
borrowing costs in the rest of Europe.  Considering Raising  The bank considered raising rates today, Olsen said at a
press conference. In June, the bank gave estimates for rates
taking into account weaker growth abroad, which signaled just
one quarter point increase this year and a key rate of about 3.5
percent by the end of next year. Before today, its main scenario
suggested two increases this year and a rate of about 4 percent
by the end of 2012.  The krone gained 0.4 percent to trade at 7.8018 against the
euro at 3:19 p.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, the krone
weakened 0.6 percent versus the dollar at 5.4817.  Norway ’s two-
year yield fell 10 basis points to 1.91 percent.  “The picture of the international economy has changed
radically during the summer,” Erik Bruce, an economist at
Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said by phone. “There are clear signs
of the Norwegian economy, or at least Norwegian financial
markets, being affected by what’s happening now. As things look
now, they will keep rates on hold” for the foreseeable future.  The  European Central Bank  last week kept its rate unchanged
and resumed bond purchases after Italian and Spanish yields
soared on speculation the third- and fourth-biggest euro-area
economies may need bailouts.  ‘Prolonged’ Nervousness  The U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate near zero until at least the middle of
2013, fueling speculation Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may consider
embarking on a third round of quantitative easing. The
announcement sent stocks higher and Treasury yields lower.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said this week Norway
should be prepared for “prolonged” nervousness in the markets.  So far the Norwegian economy has been shielded from
Europe’s debt crisis. The  unemployment rate  was 2.8 percent in
July, matching  Switzerland  for the lowest rate in Europe.  House
prices  will rise 8 percent this year, after gaining 8.3 percent
in 2010, the Norwegian Real Estate Brokers Association said in
January.  Household credit growth accelerated an annual 7.1 percent
in June, while underlying inflation, which excludes energy costs
and taxes, picked up to 1.2 percent July from 0.7 percent in
June. The central bank targets price growth of 2.5 percent.  The mainland economy, which excludes oil and shipping
output, is expected to expand 3 percent this year and 3.75
percent next year, the central bank forecast in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  