-- 
Obama Pivots to Job Creation With Few Tools to Spur Growth

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-10T16:18:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/obama-pivots-to-job-creation-with-few-tools-left-in-kit-to-spur-growth.html
President  Barack Obama ’s latest
campaign for a jobs agenda faces Republican opposition in
Congress and may offer limited potential for short-term
employment growth even where partisan agreement is within reach.  In an Aug. 8 White House address on the  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, Obama highlighted his
renewed focus on employment, calling jobs and the economy “the
most immediate concern of most Americans” and investors.  That concern was underlined yesterday when the  Federal
Reserve  pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low at least through mid-2013 in a bid to revive the recovery,
citing in part a “deterioration in overall labor market
conditions” in recent months. That means Obama will be seeking
re-election at a time of projected sluggish growth.  To spur hiring, the White House is considering new
proposals such as incentives for companies to take on workers,
including a cut in the  payroll tax  for employers, said a person
familiar with the discussions. An idea being examined to bolster
the housing market would be to rent rather than sell foreclosed
properties held by government-sponsored mortgage companies
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The Federal Housing Finance Agency,
the regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, today began
soliciting ideas from investors on how such a conversion of
thousands of foreclosed properties into rental homes would work.  Extending Jobless Aid  The administration is also looking at a familiar set of
plans: renewal of a two-percentage-point cut in the employee-
paid portion of the payroll tax and extended unemployment
benefits, which are both scheduled to expire on Dec. 31;
establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public works
spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and overhauling
 patent law .  Obama plans to kick off the jobs discussion during a three-
day bus tour through the Midwestern states of Minnesota, Iowa
and Illinois, beginning on Aug. 15. He will hear from “rural
leaders from across the nation to discuss the importance of
growing small businesses,” according to a White House
description of a scheduled stop in  Peosta , Iowa.  Peosta is in Iowa’s First Congressional District, which has
three major employers and an  unemployment rate  of 6 percent,
according to Bloomberg Government. Nationally, the unemployment
rate in July was 9.1 percent and is forecast to be 8 percent in
the final quarter of 2012 when Obama faces re-election,
according to a Bloomberg survey last month of economists.  Productivity Drops  Whether that rate can be driven down further and faster
with the remedies recommended by the White House, remains a
point of debate. The Labor Department said yesterday the
productivity of U.S. workers dropped from April through June for
the second consecutive quarter, leading to an increase in labor
costs that may discourage companies from hiring.  A new patent law is “realistic” because differences
within Congress holding up the legislation can be resolved, said
 Clint Stretch , managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte Tax
LLP in Washington. The administration’s bid to pass trade
accords with  South Korea ,  Colombia  and Panama also may succeed
if the White House and congressional Republicans can end a
standoff over providing aid for workers who lose their jobs.  Yet a new infrastructure program and renewal of the
extended  unemployment benefits  and the payroll tax cut for
workers will be greeted with Republican opposition, he said.  ‘Get the Memo?’  “You almost have to ask: Didn’t the president get the
memo?” Stretch said. “They fundamentally disagree about the
role of government. The Republicans believe the best way to
create jobs is to get the government out of the way.”  The two top U.S. House Republicans underscored that point
in responding to Obama’s White House remarks, saying  government
spending  and regulations are the main barriers to  job creation .  House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio said in an Aug. 8
statement that the answer is to provide “economic certainty and
creating an environment in which businesses can invest and jobs
can flourish.”  Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said House
Republican leaders are preparing a package of legislation to be
voted on this fall that would “reduce or eliminate regulatory
barriers to job creation.”  Americans “want to see less government -- not more
taxes,” Cantor said.  Infrastructure Spending  Gus Faucher, director of macroeconomics at Moody’s
Analytics, said that, while the politics aren’t on the side of
infrastructure spending, it may be the most effective program
for creating jobs.  “It makes sense to invest in infrastructure for three
reasons,” Faucher said. It would employ people who would then
“go out and spend. It’s cheap; interest rates are incredibly
low; and it improves productivity and growth in the long run.”  Extending the payroll tax cut could be difficult for the
White House. Congressional Republicans only went along with the
employee payroll tax cut and the renewal of extended
unemployment benefits this year in return for Obama’s agreement
to a two-year extension of the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy,
Stretch said.  In his Aug. 8 remarks, Obama said, if lawmakers failed to
extend both the tax cut and unemployment benefits, “it could
mean 1 million fewer jobs and half a percent less growth.”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , estimated in a note to clients that, along with the windup
of Obama’s economic-stimulus program, the expiration of the
payroll tax cut and extended jobless benefits will reduce next
year’s U.S. economic growth by 1.5 percentage points.  ‘Best Signal’  Gene Sperling, director of Obama’s National Economic
Council, told Bloomberg Television yesterday the payroll tax-cut
holiday should be extended through 2012 “at a minimum.”  “The best signal we can have to the people, to markets, is
that we are willing to take aggressive bipartisan action on job
growth and spurring our economy in the short term, but in the
same context in which we are also signaling that we are going to
get control of our long-term fiscal situation,” Sperling said.  Representative Rob Andrews, a New Jersey Democrat, said
Obama has a chance to build enough public support for his jobs
plan to alter the political atmosphere and win passage. The
policies could be included in a larger deficit deal when the
bipartisan committee established under the debt-limit law issues
its report on debt reduction in November, he said.  As local governments lay off teachers, police officers and
firefighters because of fiscal constraints, “people will see
what the mantra ‘spending cuts create jobs’ really means,”
Andrews said.  “Let’s see what the environment looks like in November,”
Andrews said. “If he does an effective job in August,
September,
October framing this as action versus inaction, he’ll get
this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 