-- 
Obama, Bernanke Discuss U.S. Recovery, Europe at White House

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-08-10T21:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/obama-bernanke-discuss-u-s-recovery-europe-at-white-house.html
President  Barack Obama  and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  met today to discuss the
European economic crisis and the outlook for the U.S. recovery
and deficit reduction.  The afternoon meeting in the Oval Office of the White House
was their third this year, White House and Federal Reserve
officials said.  Obama and Bernanke “discussed the outlook for the recovery
and for jobs as well as fiscal issues, including the need to
tackle long-term deficit reduction,” a statement released
afterward by the administration said. “They also discussed the
situation in Europe.”  The meeting wasn’t listed on the president’s public daily
schedule. It was revealed by White House press secretary  Jay Carney  during the regular White House briefing.  The Fed said yesterday it would keep borrowing costs at an
all-time low to revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower”
than expected. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index dropped 4.4
percent to 1,120.76 amid concern the European sovereign debt
crisis is worsening. The market benchmark yesterday had its
biggest jump in more than two years. Treasuries rallied as a $24
billion sale of 10-year securities drew a record-low yield of
2.14 percent.  White House and Federal Reserve officials said the two men
met previously on Jan. 12 and July 18. Because the Fed is an
“independent body,” Carney said, Obama and Bernanke “speak
broadly” about the U.S. and global economy.  On Jan. 12, Bernanke met with Obama and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  in the Oval Office, according to a copy of
Bernanke’s schedule that was obtained under the Freedom of
Information Act. No details were provided about the content of
that meeting.  Economic Advisers  Geithner also attended today’s meeting, along with,
National Economic Council Director  Gene Sperling  and White House
chief of staff Bill Daley, according to the White House readout.  The session followed the Aug. 5 decision by Standard &
Poor’s to downgrade its rating for  U.S. debt  to AA+ from AAA.  S&P’s decision was at odds with the other two main ratings
companies, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which
continue to give top grades to U.S. debt.  The new rating is S&P’s second-highest and puts the U.S. on
the same level as Belgium and New Zealand, and above Japan and
 China . Under S&P’s definitions, debt rated AA is barely
different from AAA securities and shows that a borrower’s
ability to “meet its financial commitment on the obligation is
very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  