-- 
Tombini Says Fear of Uncontrolled Brazil Prices ‘Vanished’

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-08-10T16:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/tombini-says-fear-of-uncontrolled-brazil-prices-vanished-2-.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said today the fear that inflation is out of
control “vanished,” cementing bets policy makers may soon cut
the overnight  interest rate .  Tombini, in his first public comments since the benchmark
Bovespa index plunged on  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating, reiterated a commitment to bring consumer price
increases back to the 4.5 percent target next year from a six-
year-high. He added that annual inflation will have a
“significant” drop starting in September and will fall two
percentage points by April.  Traders are betting the central bank will cut rates before
the end of the year as slower expansion from the U.S. to  China 
reduces demand for raw materials, helping curb inflationary
pressures. In July, investors were still split on whether
Tombini would raise rates again in August.  “That feeling inflation was out of control vanished,”
Tombini said in an event in Brasilia. “The central bank
signaled it expects inflation to converge to target in 2012.”  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2013 fell for an eighth straight trading day, extending
its decline by one basis point to 11.84 percent at 12:08 p.m.
New York time.  “We had Tombini making a speech where apparently he has
sanctioned the movement that investors have made,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , chief strategist at Credit Agricola Brasil SA DTVM,
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Upper Limit  Inflation, which quickened to 6.87 percent in July,
breached the upper limit of the government’s 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent target range in April, according to the national
statistics agency.  Policy makers have raised the benchmark Selic rate five
times this year, to 12.5 percent, to control inflation running
at the fastest pace since 2005. Tombini also said the
government’s spending cuts are helping the central bank in its
fight against inflation.  “We’ve advanced in creating a solid fiscal policy, which
will open space in the future, who knows, to rebalance the
macroeconomic policies in a responsible way,” he said, without
providing details about future policy shifts.  Tombini cautioned investors again about the possibility of
the country’s currency suffering a “a strong adjustment” if
the global economic outlook worsens.  The real weakened 2.1 percent to 1.6223 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:09 p.m. New York time.  Better Prepared  Brazil is better prepared to deal with a global
slowdown, Tombini said. Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, the central bank has boosted foreign
currency reserves by $150 billion, raised  reserve requirements 
and taken steps to stem capital inflows that were pressuring the
real.  Tombini said he expects global liquidity to remain
“abundant” as rich nations use near-zero interest rates to
stimulate growth. In such a scenario, “our currency is a
candidate to keep strengthening,” he said at an event in
Brasilia today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloombreg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  