-- 
Home Prices Decline in Almost Three-Fourths of U.S. Metropolitan Areas

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T15:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/home-prices-decline-in-almost-three-fourths-of-u-s-metropolitan-areas.html
Home values fell in almost three-
fourths of U.S. cities in the second quarter as foreclosures
that sell at cut-rate prices devalued real estate.  The median price of a single-family home declined in 109
metropolitan areas out of 150 measured, the National Association
of Realtors said in a report today.  Real estate values are dropping as foreclosures undermine
prices. Almost a third of homes sold in June were distressed
properties, meaning foreclosures or short sales, in which a bank
agrees to a sale for less than the loan balance, the Chicago-
based Realtors group said last month. The mortgages on 6.5
million U.S. homes had late payments or were in foreclosure in
June, according to Lender Processing Services Inc. in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  Banks are “not in the business of owning homes, so they’ll
sell them at fire-sale prices,” said  Patrick Newport , an
economist with IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“That forces sellers of other homes to compete with them, and
in order to do that they have to lower their prices.”  The biggest second-quarter declines were in Salem,  Oregon ,
where the median price fell 23 percent, and Minnesota’s
Minneapolis and St. Paul region, where values dropped 18
percent.  The best-performing cities were Cape Coral and  Fort Myers ,
on Florida’s west coast, which were up 18 percent, and Elmira,
New York, which gained 16 percent.  The median price of a single-family home in the  New York 
metropolitan area fell 2.3 percent in the second quarter.  Boston 
had a decrease of 1.4 percent, the Realtors said in the report.  Sales of previously owned homes dropped in June to 4.77
million at an annual pace, a seven-month low, the National
Association of Realtors said on July 20. New-home sales declined
to an annualized rate of 312,000, according to the U.S. Commerce
Department. That pace, were it to represent the full year, would
give 2011 the lowest level on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 