-- 
OMV Petrom Second-Quarter Profit Rises 26% on Oil Prices

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-10T06:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/omv-petrom-second-quarter-profit-rises-26-on-oil-prices-2-.html
OMV Petrom SA (SNP) , Romania’s largest oil
company, said second-quarter net income rose 26 percent because
of higher  oil prices  and production levels.  Net income advanced to 903 million lei ($304 million) from
718 million lei a year earlier, the Bucharest-based company said
today in a  statement  on its website. Sales increased to 5.3
billion lei. First-half net income rose 15 percent to 1.7
billion lei.  “In a gradually improving Romanian economy, we continue to
capitalize on revenue-increasing initiatives and efficiency
improvement initiatives to support our underlying operation
performance,” Chief Executive Officer Mariana Gheorghe said in
the statement.  Petrom, majority-owned by Austria’s  OMV AG (OMV) , is profiting
because its production is concentrated in Romania and  Kazakhstan 
whereas its European peers, such as Total SA and Eni SpA, have
reported lower earnings as shutdowns in  Libya  crimped their
production. Output from Petrom’s Komsomoloskoe field in
Kazakhstan should continue to rise after production in the
country increased 38 percent to 1.12 million barrels of oil
equivalent in the second quarter, according to the statement.  The company expects refining margins to remain depressed
and sees key market drivers remaining volatile in 2011,
according to a presentation posted on its website today. Petrom
estimates the price of oil to stay in the range of $90 a barrel
to $110 a barrel this year.  Petrom’s total oil and gas output rose 3 percent to 17
million barrels of oil equivalent compared with the second
quarter of 2010.  The company, which plans to complete a gas-fired plant this
year in the southern town of Brazi, said the government’s
decision to freeze gas prices for households until March 2012,
will have a negative impact on the plant’s earnings next year.
The decision won’t affect Petrom’s earnings this year.  Petrom also plans to complete this year a 48 megawatts
wind-power farm at Dorobantu, close to the  Black Sea , where it
has already installed 13 turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  