-- 
Hacker Attack on Hong Kong Exchange Website Triggers Halt in HSBC Trading

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-11T03:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/hong-kong-exchange-halts-some-trading-after-website-glitch-1-.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s biggest bourse operator by market value, suspended
trading yesterday for companies including lender  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  after its website was hacked.  Europe ’s largest bank by market capitalization,  Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  and five other stocks were halted after a
“malicious attack” on the exchange’s website for corporate
filings, Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said yesterday. The
website was partially disabled as companies including Hong Kong
Exchanges reported earnings.  The bourse joins companies from Sony Corp. to Citigroup Inc.
and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. that have been targeted by hackers.
The attack came as Hong Kong stocks were rebounding after losing
$323 billion in value since Aug. 1 amid a global rout spurred by
concern that the  U.S. economy  is slowing and Europe won’t be
able to contain its sovereign-debt crisis.  “This has affected the creditability and trustworthiness
of information at a very critical time,” said Charles Mok, who
heads the Hong Kong division of the Internet Society, an
international standard-setting group. “The situation is very
worrying because the hacking is targeted at the information
disclosure mechanism.”  Suspensions  The exchange  suspended  trading of companies that published
price-sensitive information, including on earnings and
acquisitions, after noon to ensure investors had equal access to
statements, Li said. It set up an online bulletin board as an
alternative, and will place advertisements in newspapers to tell
investors where to find filings, said Mark Dickens, the
exchange’s head of listing.  “Our current assessment is that this is the result of
malicious attack by outside hacking,” Li said yesterday at a
press conference to announce a 14 percent increase in first-half
earnings. The exchange is working to discover the objective of
the attack, he said.  The website was disabled after traffic exceeded normal
levels, Hong Kong Exchanges Chairman Ronald Arculli said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television today. The exchange is
planning to review its technology infrastructure, he said.  Hong Kong Exchanges said today that the website has resumed
operation. Shares of the bourse dropped 2.6 percent to HK$137.40
as of 11:52 a.m. local time.  Police Investigation  The Technology Crime Division of the Hong Kong Police’s
Commercial Crime Bureau is investigating the matter, said Anita
Chow, a spokeswoman for the force. The Securities and Futures
Commission is also following up, spokesman Jonathan Li said.  In March, the U.S. National Security Agency was reported to
have joined an investigation of an October 2010 attack on Nasdaq
OMX. The second-largest U.S. equity exchange operator by trading
market share said in February that “suspicious files”
discovered on a website prompted it to start an investigation
with federal authorities into possible computer hacking.  Trading of HSBC, which makes up 15 percent of Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index, and Hong Kong Exchanges, which has a 2.6
percent weighting, was suspended yesterday. Cathay Pacific,  Dah
Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356) , Dah Sing Financial Group, China
Resources Microelectronics Ltd. and  China Power International
Development Ltd. (2380)  were also halted.  HSBC, Hong Kong Exchanges, Dah Sing Banking and Dah Sing
Financial said in filings yesterday that they would resume
trading today. HSBC said it was halted because of its statement
on the sale of its U.S. card and retail-services units.  Increased Hacking  The exchange “should have had the proper measures to make
sure this is secure,” said Terrace Chum, Hong Kong-based
managing director of greater China equities for Manulife Asset
Management, which oversees $210 billion. “In other media
channels, you can always find falsified news and rumors, but
this is supposed to be more official.”  Companies in Hong Kong face an increase in computer
intrusions as hackers target security flaws in some software,
Roy Ko, centre manager at the  Hong Kong Computer Emergency
Response Team Coordination Centre , said in a telephone interview
today. The center, funded by the government, found 22 websites
this year in which content was “defaced” by hackers, Ko said.  The suspensions didn’t disrupt the calculation of the  Hang
Seng Index (HSI) , said Vincent Kwan, director and general manager at
Hang Seng Indexes Co. in Hong Kong. The last trades before the
halt were used to calculate the equity gauge, he said.  ‘One Little Incident’  “Trust is something that takes years to build and
accumulate, so one little incident is not enough to cause a lot
of damage to the confidence in the exchange,” said Jonas Kan, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets.
“It’s not something you can lose overnight.”  Sony,  Japan ’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
estimated the attack that crippled its online services this year
may cost the company 14 billion yen ($183 million). The
 International Monetary Fund  said in June it was hacked.  China  was the target of 493,000 cyber attacks last year,
according to a report by the National Computer Network Emergency
Response Coordination Center of China, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency said Aug. 9. About half the attacks originated from
internet protocol addresses outside the nation, including from
the U.S. and  India , the report said.  “Anything that disrupts the flow of information is
serious,” said Steve Vickers, chief executive of Steve Vickers
Associates, a Hong Kong-based risk-consulting company. “Can you
defend a website absolutely against attack? The answer is no.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  