-- 
Hong Kong Exchanges Profit Rises 14% on Turnover, Listings

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 
2011-08-10T06:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/hong-kong-exchanges-first-half-net-income-increases-correct-.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
the world’s biggest bourse by market value, said first-half
profit rose 14 percent as turnover-related income and listing
fees increased.  Net income in the six months ended June 30 rose to HK$2.58
billion ($331 million) from a year earlier, the company said in
a statement today. Revenue and other income gained 15 percent to
HK$3.97 billion, it said.  “It was in line with market expectation,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales in UOB-Kay Hian Holdings
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I’m a little bit negative looking ahead as
I don’t see the overall market turnover picking up in the second
half. The stock isn’t cheap.”  Hong Kong exchanges is seeking to take advantage of  China ’s
economic growth with new trading products linked to yuan,
including the city’s first initial public offering of shares
denominated in the currency in April. The bourse faces
competition from alternative trading platforms and a slowing of
new share sales from the previous year after the Hang Seng Index
fell 16 percent this year through yesterday.  In the six months through June, the daily average value of
shares traded in the city rose to HK$73.2 billion from HK$63.5
billion in the same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  New Products  First-half listing fees brought in HK$467 million,
according to the exchange’s income statement. That compares with
the HK$425 million a year earlier. A total of 47 companies were
listed on the exchange, including transfers from the Growth
Enterprise Market, the exchange said. Trading fees advanced 14
percent to HK$1.47 billion, it said.  The bourse “benefited from the improved market activity,”
the statement said. “We will continue our efforts to attract a
wider cross-section of international companies with mainland-
focused growth strategies to list on the exchange.”  Hong Kong Exchanges tumbled 22 percent in Hong Kong trading
this year through yesterday, driving its shares down to about
24.5 times estimated forecast earnings. The stock gained 2.6
percent to HK$141.20 today before being suspended from trading.
That compares with a 3.1 percent increase by the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  as of 1:51 p.m.  Reforms Needed  IPOs in Hong Kong, which boosted profits from listing fees
for the exchange last year, have slowed to $13.4 billion in the
first half, compared with $45.6 billion in the previous six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bourse’s Chief Executive Officer, Charles Li, said in
an e-mailed statement on July 26 marginal benefits from listings
have slowed and the exchange must introduce reforms to
strengthen its competitiveness. That can be done by narrowing
bid-ask spreads and reinstating a closing auction session, he
said.  The bourse also faces competition from other exchanges amid
merger announcements that have totaled at least $37 billion
since Singapore Exchange Ltd. announced its failed bid for
 Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in October, according to Bloomberg data.  The deal collapsed in April after Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan said the deal was not in the national interest. The
Hong Kong Exchange has no immediate plans to buy a rival,
Executive Vice President Romnesh Lamba said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 