-- 
ONGC Preparing for Share Sale Next Month, Undeterred by Global Stocks Rout

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-08-10T07:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/ongc-preparing-for-share-sale-next-month-undeterred-by-global-stocks-rout.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.,  India ’s
biggest energy explorer, is going ahead with preparations for a
possible share sale next month as the stock escaped this week’s
global rout, Chairman A.K. Hazarika said.  The sale of a 5 percent stake by the government may take
place in September, Hazarika said by telephone today. He had
said July 21 that the offer may be made at the end of September.  “Our consolidated accounts will be ready and put up to the
board on Aug. 29 and we will be ready for the government’s go-
ahead after that,” Hazarika said. “Our shares have done
decently well this month and that could be a trigger.”  ONGC gained during the worldwide equity slump that followed
the U.S. credit rating downgrade last week as crude  oil prices 
fell, reducing the explorer’s government-mandated fuel-subsidy
burden. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee is seeking to revive
asset sales after raising 2.9 percent of the 400 billion rupee
($8.8 billion) target in this financial year.  The explorer’s shares gained 4.5 percent in Mumbai trading
in the three days since Aug. 4 as crude slumped to a 10-month
low. The stock fell 1.5 percent to 281 rupees at 12:25 p.m.
local time.  The benchmark Sensitive Index has dropped 16 percent this
year. The government, which has delayed stake sales in companies
including  Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) , is keeping its target
for the year ending March 31, Disinvestment Secretary Mohammad
Haleem Khan said Aug. 8. No dates have been set for the ONGC
share sale.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Nomura Holdings Inc., Bank of America
Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, JM Financial Services Ltd. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  may manage the ONGC share sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter said Jan. 16.  The government raised 11.4 billion rupees in the year that
began April 1 selling shares in Power Finance Corp. after
raising 227.6 billion rupees in the previous year, according to
the disinvestment department’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  