-- 
Mortgage-Bond Selloff Threatens Rebound in U.S. Commercial Property Market

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u ,   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-08-10T04:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/mortgage-bond-selloff-threatens-commercial-real-estate-rebound.html
The nascent recovery in U.S.
commercial real estate may be cut short as  Europe ’s debt crisis
and  Standard & Poor’s  credit downgrade of Treasuries send
borrowing costs to their highest in more than a year.  The outlook darkened in the past month amid a selloff in
securities linked to debt on properties such as office buildings
and retail outlets. Top-ranked commercial mortgage-backed
securities yielded about 298 basis points, or 2.98 percentage
points, more than Treasuries as of yesterday, according to a
Barclays Plc index. The yield was last that high in July 2010.
The spread jumped 35 basis points last week and is up 89 basis
points since the end of the second quarter.  Further cracks emerged on July 27 when S&P pulled its
rating on a $1.5 billion bond sale by Citigroup Inc. and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., roiling the $600 billion CMBS market. The
banks had already been forced to overhaul the transaction to
increase collateral protection and boost yields to attract
investors.  “It’s another hiccup we didn’t need in this recovery,”
said Dan Fasulo, managing director at New York-based property-
research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The CMBS market provided the cheap debt financing that
drove commercial real estate to record highs in 2007, and sales
of the securities were starting to come back gradually until
last week’s upheaval.  For Wall Street firms seeking to package commercial-
property loans into securities, the widening of spreads eroded
potential profits, said Mark Zytko, co-chief executive officer
at Mesa West Capital, a Los Angeles-based company that oversees
$2 billion in real estate loan funds. That will discourage
additional lending, leaving buyers and owners seeking to roll
over their debt with fewer financing options.  Caution Seen  “It’s a significant increase in the cost of capital,”
Zytko said. “It will cause dealers to become much more cautious
in putting their pools together.”  About $158 billion of CMBS is slated to be refinanced
through 2014, according to Citigroup data.  CMBS sales soared to a record $234 billion in the U.S.
during the peak in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
More than $22 billion of commercial-mortgage bonds have been
sold this year, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010, the
data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said July 22 it reduced its forecast
for CMBS sales this year to $30 billion to $35 billion from a
November forecast of as much as $45 billion. After the selloff,
previous forecasts were probably too optimistic, according to
Kevin Thorpe, chief economist of Washington-based property
broker Cassidy Turley.  Smaller Markets  “So far it has not blown up any deals from the sales
side,” said Spencer Levy, executive managing director in
Baltimore at CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., the world’s largest
commercial-property services firm. “If it does lead to a
sustained expanded cost of capital, we would certainly see it
put pressure on pricing for some deals.”  A slowdown in CMBS sales would hurt lesser-quality
properties in smaller cities the most, said Jim Sullivan,
manager of North American real estate investment trust research
at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport Beach ,  California .
That’s because owners of premium real estate have other sources
for loans, including insurance companies, commercial banks and
the U.S. government-controlled  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which
finance most apartment loans.  “The losers are probably properties that are a little down
the quality spectrum and in secondary markets,” Sullivan said.
“There’s plenty of capital for the best assets in the best
locations.”  Sale Planned  Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG are going ahead with a $1.4
billion CMBS pool, including the first sale in the public market
since November 2009. The deal is linked to 43 loans on 64
properties, according to a person with knowledge of the offering,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank and Zurich-based UBS slashed the
size of the deal from $2.2 billion as spreads widened,
preventing the banks from closing all the planned loans,
according to people familiar with the offering.  S&P on Aug. 5 cut the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the
first time, criticizing the nation’s partisan political process
and lawmakers for failing to cut spending or raise revenue
enough to reduce record budget deficits. The action triggered
declines in stocks and added to investor jitters that Europe
won’t be able to contain the debt crises within the single-
currency zone. U.S. stocks rose the most in more than two years
yesterday after the  Federal Reserve  said it would maintain
record-low  interest rates  through mid-2013.  Citigroup, Goldman Setback  The rating cut on Treasuries came a week after Citigroup
and Goldman Sachs were forced to shelve a $1.5 billion CMBS
offering that had already been placed with investors after S&P
said it wouldn’t rate the notes because of a discrepancy in how
it graded the transaction. S&P’s decision came after investors
pushed back on deal terms and demanded higher yields on $3
billion of bonds sold the prior week.  The gloomier outlook for commercial real estate follows a
strong first half. U.S. property investments more than doubled
in the second quarter to $55.6 billion, led by retail market
sales of $15.2 billion, according to Real Capital. New
commercial listings jumped 79 percent to $76.2 billion as rising
prices encouraged owners to offer assets for sale, the firm said.  In addition, new mortgage defaults, foreclosures and
transfers of loans into special servicing slowed to $12.3
billion last quarter, the lowest since the onset of the
recession, according to Real Capital.  Since early 2009, investors flocked to high-quality assets,
such as office towers in major coastal cities like New York and
 San Francisco , and to apartment buildings, buoyed by surging
rental demand in the wake of the housing crash.  Uneven Recovery  Real estate offered higher yields than bond alternatives,
and commercial occupancies on average were starting to climb,
prompting landlords to raise rents and test the market for
property sales. Publicly traded U.S. REITs, a barometer of high-
quality, income-producing property, more than tripled from their
March 2009 lows to their peak this year on July 22. REITs have
lost 16 percent since, compared with the 13 percent decline by
the S&P 500 Index of large U.S. stocks.  Outside of the urban centers and major cities, property
values haven’t recovered.  “We’ve seen it happen in  New York  but it hasn’t happened
in the rest of the country,” said Jeffrey Oram, executive
managing director in Parsippany,  New Jersey , at Colliers
International, a commercial-property broker. “Lots of places
are just trudging along at the same rate.”  Economic Concerns  Prices for the best properties and best locations have been
bid up to levels that in some cases have surpassed the peak,
said Green Street’s Sullivan. “There could be some room to go
but it requires a confidence in economic growth that’s being
undermined every day by the economic data we’re getting.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent
pace in the second quarter following revised growth of 0.4
percent in the first three months of the year that was less than
previously estimated, the Commerce Department said July 29.
 Consumer spending  grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the
second quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession. The
nation’s unemployment rate remained above 9 percent in July.  The CMBS market reflects the nervousness about the broader
economic outlook.  “If the spreads are widening, there’s going to be a
reduction in liquidity and that has negative implications on
commercial real estate just at the time we don’t need any more
bad news,” said Lawrence Longua, a professor and director of
New York University’s Schack Institute’s REIT Center.  Sales Hold Up  First-half property sales of $90.6 billion led Real Capital
to predict in July that sales were on course to “easily
surpass” $200 billion for the year. The bond market turmoil of
late May and early June didn’t appear to hurt volume in the
second quarter, though it “could temper closings in July and
August,” Real Capital said in its midyear review last month.  Fewer CMBS sales will lead to “higher cap rates, period,”
said Oram of Colliers. The capitalization rate is derived by
dividing a property’s annual net operating income by its sales
price. When prices fall, cap rates increase.  The historical cap rate based on transactions for the
NCREIF Index was about 8 percent in the 20 years through 2010,
according to the National Council of Real Estate Investment
Fiduciaries. During the market peak in 2007, cap rates fell to
as low as 4 percent on midtown Manhattan office buildings as
prices soared to records.  “‘Cap rate compression got too far ahead of leasing
fundamentals,” said Thorpe of Cassidy Turley.  Loan Alternatives  Life insurers, which typically finance the best-quality
properties and hold the loans instead of packaging them for
resale to investors, have so far not widened the spreads they’re
quoting in response to the CMBS market, said Michael Riccio, co-
head of national production in CB Richard Ellis’s capital
markets debt and equity finance division in Hartford,
 Connecticut .  During 2005 to 2007, the firm depended on the CMBS market
to finance about 40 percent of its deals, Riccio said. Life
insurers supplied about 30 percent and the rest came from
government-owned mortgage finance companies, banks and pension
funds. In the second quarter, CMBS business was up fivefold from
a year earlier, although it made up less than 10 percent of the
total.  “There is a whole segment of the world that needs CMBS and
it’s very important it doesn’t go away,” Riccio said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  