-- 
Osborne Defends Fiscal Squeeze as BOE Warning Becomes Opposition’s Weapon

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-11T13:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/osborne-may-defend-fiscal-plans-as-boe-warning-becomes-opposition-s-weapon.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  defended his economic plans today as  Europe ’s
debt crisis worsens and opposition politicians latch onto Bank
of England warnings that the outlook is worsening.  Events such as the euro-area debt crisis are a “reminder
of the reckless folly of those who said we were going too
fast,” Osborne said in Parliament in London today. The
alternative “would have been too little, too late, with
disastrous consequences for the U.K.”  The Bank of England lowered its outlook for the economy
yesterday and Governor Mervyn King said headwinds are
intensifying “by the day.” Stock markets have fallen this
month amid a global selloff sparked by concern that Europe will
fail to contain its debt turmoil.  “Since his policies have started to kick in, confidence
has collapsed, our economy has flatlined for nine months,”  Ed Balls , finance spokesman for the opposition  Labour Party , said
today. “We do need a tough medium-term plan to get our deficit
down, but it is our chancellor’s reckless policies -- too far
too fast -- that have ripped out the foundation” of the
economy.  Osborne pointed to a drop in U.K. bond yields and said his
budget squeeze, the biggest since World War II, has made Britain
a “safe haven in a storm.”  Osborne, who was due to be on vacation this week, was
speaking in a special sitting of Parliament. Cameron recalled
lawmakers for an emergency session to discuss riots in London
and other cities that led to the deployment of thousands of
additional police officers, forced the cancellation of soccer
games and raised security concerns a year before  London  stages
the 2012 Olympic Games.  ‘Unimaginable’  The Bank of England kept its key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent last week to aid the recovery. The National
Institute for Economic and Social Research lowered growth
forecasts this month, and the  International Monetary Fund  said
the economy may require further stimulus.  King warned yesterday the biggest risk to the U.K. stems
from the euro area, where the  European Central Bank  was forced
to start buying Spanish and Italian bonds after their borrowing
costs surged. He described the risks as “unmentionable and
unimaginable.”  Osborne said in the  Daily Telegraph  on Aug. 8 that the
region should follow Britain’s example in budget tightening.
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition
government has staked its reputation on being able to eliminate
a structural  budget deficit  within the current parliament term.  “Here in Britain, the events of the past month are a
vindication of the coalition’s decision to get ahead of the
curve,” he said.  Bond Yields  Concern that Europe will fail to contain its sovereign debt
crisis has weighed on global equity markets in recent weeks. The
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  declined about 16 percent from July 26
through yesterday to its lowest level a year, while the yield on
the 10-year gilt fell to a record low of 2.46 percent.  The FTSE 100 rose 0.9 percent to 5054.29 as of 2:40 p.m. in
London, while the yield on the 10-year note rose 3 basis points
to 2.51 percent.  “Look around the world, where people don’t make savings,
what you then get is much more economic turmoil,” Britain’s
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said in an interview on BBC
Radio today. “What we’re trying to do as a government is take
difficult decisions today for the long-term benefit.”  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, and Britons are seeing their spending power eroded as
inflation at 4.2 percent outpaces wage growth.  King said yesterday that while there’s “no reason” to add
stimulus now, “in the Monetary Policy Committee’s view, the
weakness in underlying activity is likely to be somewhat more
persistent than previously expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  