-- 
Louboutin Loses Court Bid to Block Yves Saint Laurent Red-Sole Shoe Sales

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-08-10T20:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/louboutin-loses-court-bid-to-block-yves-saint-laurent-red-sole-shoe-sales.html
Christian Louboutin SA lost a court
bid to stop Yves Saint Laurent America from selling women’s
shoes that Louboutin claims are identical to its trademarked
red-sole footwear.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in  New York  rejected
Louboutin’s request for a preliminary injunction halting sales
of the shoes during the case.  “Because in the fashion industry color serves ornamental
and aesthetic functions vital to robust competition, the court
finds that Louboutin is unlikely to be able to prove that its
red outsole brand is entitled to trademark protection,” Marrero
said in an opinion filed today.  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, sued Yves Saint
Laurent in April, accusing it of selling shoes “with red
outsoles that are virtually identical” to Louboutin’s. Saint
Laurent’s shoes “threaten to mislead the public,” according to
the complaint.  “We’re obviously very disappointed,” Harley Lewin, a
lawyer for Louboutin, said in a telephone interview. “We think
the judge missed it.”  After a court hearing July 22 where he argued for the
injunction, Lewin said, “This is the lifeblood of this company,
the red sole.” Louboutin’s sales from red-sole shoes are
projected at $135 million this year, Lewin said in court.  ‘Sex and the City’  Louboutin introduced the red sole in 1992, and the  U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office  awarded the company a trademark for
it in 2008, according to the complaint. The company uses the red
sole on all of its luxury shoes, which have been popularized by
actresses such as Sarah Jessica Parker in the television show
“Sex and the City.”  ‘This just reaffirms that no designer should be allowed to
monopolize a primary color for fashion,’’ David Bernstein, a
lawyer for  Yves Saint Laurent , said about the ruling today in a
telephone interview. “This is a trademark registration that
never should have been issued and can’t be enforced.”  Yves Saint Laurent will ask the judge in a motion for
summary judgment to dismiss the claims against the company and
cancel Louboutin’s trademark registration, Bernstein said.  Marrero said in his ruling that the companies must appear
in federal court in  Manhattan  Aug. 17, when Louboutin will have
to provide arguments against a motion to cancel the mark.  Louboutin’s red-sole high-heel shoes are priced from $535
to $4,645 a pair on the website of high-fashion department store
 Barneys .  Nail Polish  The designer Christian Louboutin, for whom the company is
named, got the idea for red soles when he painted red nail
polish on the black soles of a pair of women’s shoes, according
to court papers.  Yves Saint Laurent, named for the designer who died in
2008, is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , the owner of other luxury
brands including Gucci.  PPR fell 3.25 euros, or 2.9 percent, to 107.25 euros in
Paris trading.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  