-- 
Lloyds Plans to Help Finance Investments in Australian Shale Gas

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/lloyds-plans-to-help-finance-investments-in-australian-shale-gas.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
London-based lender, said it is in talks with U.S. energy
companies to help finance shale gas investments in Australia.  “The next shale gas opportunity will be Australia,”
Andrew Moorfield, managing director and global head of oil and
gas at Lloyds, said in a phone interview from Sydney. “We
believe it’s the next big play and that the shale gas story in
Australia is going to happen faster than people expect.”  Companies are keen to bring their experience developing
shale resources in the U.S. to Australia, tap Asian natural gas
demand and secure inexpensive prospects compared with assets in
 North America , Moorfield said, declining to name the companies
weighing transactions. Australia holds almost 400 trillion cubic
feet of estimated shale gas resources that may be recoverable,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, and  BG
Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, are
individually planning to fund shale gas exploration with
partners in Australia.  Most of the initial companies investing in Australian shale
projects and seeking partnerships in the country are likely to
be smaller oil and gas companies, Moorfield said yesterday.  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  and  AWE Ltd. (AWE)  are among Australian
companies developing shale gas resources in the country. Senex
Energy Ltd., exploring for shale gas in central Australia, said
it has held initial talks with global companies interested in a
possible partnership, Managing Director Ian Davies said Aug. 2.  Talks in Progress  “Financing discussions are well-progressed across a range
of our offices with companies looking to enter Australian shale
gas,” Moorfield said. “What we’ll see is steady foreign
investment into shale gas in Australia, and that investment will
primarily come from the U.S.”  Hunting Plc (HTG) , a U.K. oil-services provider, said earlier
this month it would use a loan from Lloyds, Barclays Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to help fund the purchase of
Titan Group. The $775 million acquisition of Texas-based Titan
gives Hunting technology for fracturing shale rock.  A  labor shortage  and insufficient infrastructure are
potential obstacles for Australian shale, Moorfield said.
Drilling costs in Australia are higher than those in the U.S.,
and “marginal economics may make development challenging,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts in Sydney said in a July report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 