-- 
Palfinger Says Slowdown Won’t Match Severity of 2009 Drop

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-08-10T15:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/palfinger-second-quarter-profit-up-55-misses-all-estimates-1-.html
Palfinger AG (PAL) , the world’s biggest
maker of truck-mounted cranes, said there’s no imminent risk of
a global economic crisis as severe as two years ago because
industries aren’t operating at the same “overheated” rate.  “We notice that of course there is rising uncertainty”
that has made customers unwilling to invest in equipment, Chief
Executive Officer Herbert Ortner told journalists in Vienna.
“But a collapse like after 2008 isn’t even possible now,
because we aren’t on such an overheated level as we were.”  Palfinger, which sells  mainly to builders and freight-
transport companies , is forecasting revenue growth in the second
half of the year to be slower than the 39 percent posted in the
first six months, Ortner said. The Salzburg, Austria-based
manufacturer still expects at least 20 percent sales growth for
the full year.  The company competes with  Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  of  Germany  and
 Cargotec Oyj (CGCBV)  and  Konecranes Oyj (KCR1V)  of  Finland . Revenue has
rebounded as the global economy has recovered. Second-quarter
sales were 222.7 million euros ($320 million), beating a three-
year-old record by 3.8 percent and marking a 90 percent surge
from the fourth quarter of 2009.  Palfinger declined 5.1 percent to 18.8 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Vienna, erasing earlier gains of as
much as 11 percent.  Chinese Strategy  Expanding in  China  is now a top priority for management,
and the company is already in “advanced” talks with “a
handful” of large Chinese building-equipment manufacturers
about starting a joint venture to make truck-mounted cranes in
that country, Ortner said.  “If we want to remain market leader, we have to go to
China,” Ortner said. “I’m confident we’ll take an interesting
step there.” It isn’t possible to say yet if there could be a
deal this year, he said, declining to identify the companies he
is in talks with.  Among China’s biggest construction equipment makers are
 Guangxi Liugong Machinery (000528)  Co.,  Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) , Sany Heavy
Industry Co., Shantui Construction Machinery Co. and Anhui Heli
Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Palfinger
competitor Cargotec announced plans last month for a joint
venture with Jiangsu Rainbow Heavy Industries Co. to manufacture
cargo cranes in China.  Second-quarter net income jumped 55 percent to 10 million
euros, helped by acquisitions and growth in deliveries,
 Palfinger said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  