-- 
Palin to Take Bus Tour to Iowa During Peak Week for Republicans

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-11T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/palin-to-start-iowa-bus-trip-during-peak-week-for-republican-candidates.html
Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin
plans a stop in Iowa this week as the 2012 Republican
presidential field descends there in full force for a debate,
state fair visits and straw poll.  “We are very happy to jump back on the bus for another leg
of our ‘One Nation Tour,’” a notice appearing yesterday on the
 website  for Palin’s political action committee said. “We accept
with gratefulness an invitation to meet folks at the  Iowa State
Fair  in  Des Moines  this week.”  The fair is a popular stop for White House contenders in
the state where caucuses are scheduled to start the nation’s
presidential nomination process on Feb. 6. Former Massachusetts
Governor  Mitt Romney , the frontrunner in the Republican race in
most polls, plans a speech at the fair today.  The announcement on Palin’s website didn’t say which day
she will be in Iowa or whether the tour would make other stops.
It did say: “The heartland is perfect territory for more of the
One Nation Tour as we put forth efforts to revitalize the
fundamental restoration of America by highlighting our nation’s
heart, history, and founding principles.”  Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential candidate, has
said she will announce later this month or next whether she
intends to seek the White House in the 2012 campaign. She is
also scheduled to be in  Iowa  on Labor Day weekend to speak to a
Tea Party gathering.  Candidate Debate  Her state fair visit comes as eight Republican presidential
candidates prepare to participate in a nationally televised
debate today in Ames, Iowa. That event will be a prelude to the
Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll, a state party fundraising event at  Iowa
State University  in Ames that offers an early test of candidate
popularity and organization.  Palin, 47, rode a bus tour through the Northeast in late
May and early June. The announcement for that trip came just as
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  was scheduled to
headline a Republican dinner in Iowa as a prelude to her
presidential candidacy announcement on June 27.  The final leg of Palin’s tour took her to  New Hampshire  on
June 2, the same day Romney announced his presidential candidacy
in the state that conducts the first nomination primary.  Palin also traveled to Iowa in late June to attend the
premiere of “The Undefeated,” a documentary about her
political career.  Also vying for attention later this week is another
possible late entrant into the Republican race, Texas Governor
 Rick Perry . On the day of the straw poll, Perry plans to deliver
speeches in  South Carolina  -- another early primary state -- and
New Hampshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  