-- 
Pay Television Faces ‘Toxic Mix’ as Subscribers Cancel in Record Numbers

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/pay-tv-faces-toxic-mix-as-subscribers-cancel-in-record-numbers.html
The six largest publicly traded U.S.
cable and satellite-TV providers combined to lose about 580,000
customers in the second quarter, the biggest such decline in
history, according to company and Bloomberg data.  The economy is forcing the industry to face the reality of
cord-cutting -- pay-TV customers canceling their subscriptions
in favor of online options such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC.
While cable executives dismiss the idea that subscribers are
switching to “over the top” Internet competitors, the reason
isn’t as important as the decision to stop paying for TV, said
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York.  “Rising prices for pay TV, coupled with growing
availability of lower-cost alternatives, add to a toxic mix at a
time when disposable income isn’t growing,” Moffett said. “For
younger demographics, where in many cohorts unemployment is
north of 30 percent, and especially for those with limited or no
interest in sports, the pay-TV equation is almost inarguably
getting less attractive.”  The catalysts, according to cable and satellite executives,
include increased competition from telephone companies  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which added a combined 386,000
video customers, and a sluggish economy that forced lower-income
customers to cancel service.  As new home sales slumped in May and again in June,
installations suffered, and there weren’t enough new subscribers
to make up the difference,  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  Chief
Operating Officer Tom Rutledge said yesterday on a conference
call.  Low-Income Areas  “The economic impact on our customers in lower-income
neighborhoods is more pronounced,” Rutledge said. “We see less
gross adds in low-income areas, and that’s the result of
economics and vacancies.”  Of the six largest publicly traded U.S. cable and satellite
providers, only DirecTV added customers in the second quarter.
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,  Charter Communications
Inc. (CHTR)  and Cablevision lost a total of 471,000 video customers in
the quarter.  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  lost 135,000 after adding 58,000
in the previous period.  Dish Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said yesterday
that one of his goals is to reposition the company away from
marketing to lower-income customers. Instead, he wants Dish to
rely on its technology and promotions to persuade customers to
buy more expensive offerings and increase average revenue per
user.  Going Upscale  Clayton rejected the idea of relaxing credit standards to
appeal to lower-income people, saying he’s “looking for a
better class of customer.” He plans to change the company’s
advertising strategy away from “cheap, cheap, cheap” and seek
out higher-paying subscribers who might have bypassed Dish for
 DirecTV (DTV)  in previous years.  “The cable companies have been losing for years, but what
you’re seeing is the satellite guys joining some of that,” said
Ian Olgeirson, senior analyst at market research firm  SNL Kagan .
“They are seeing the same kind of effects of being a mature
industry. How do you support your base of customers when you
don’t have a bunch of new households to convert? It’s difficult
to sustain in a down economic quarter.”  Some analysts caution that second-quarter results are not
always an appropriate guide for the state of the industry, given
seasonal factors such as departing college students cutting off
service and summer vacationers watching less TV.  The larger trend is clearly one of video losses, said Jason Bazinet, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , who notes
that pay-TV subscribers have declined in three of the past five
quarters.  “While second-quarter seasonality likely played a role,
some households may have left the pay-TV universe entirely,” he
wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  