-- 
PepsiCo Joins Honda Bracing for Weakened Consumer Demand

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-10T20:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/pepsico-joins-fossil-bracing-for-weak-demand-as-consumers-swoon.html
From soft-drink producers to theme-
park companies and automakers to cable TV providers,
corporations worldwide are seeing weak consumer demand.  PepsiCo Inc.’s chief executive officer said companies need
more demand for their products before they will start using cash
to expand.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  shares fell today on concern that
lower  consumer confidence  may hurt its businesses, and Honda
Motor Co. said the possibility of delayed car purchases may lead
to a revised forecast.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  said customers
are dropping subscriptions.  “You’ve got to stimulate demand growth,” said  Indra Nooyi , CEO of Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo, in an interview.
“Until we stimulate primary consumption, the cash will continue
to sit on the sidelines.”  The companies’ warnings follow a cut to the U.S. credit
rating on Aug. 5 and a two-week rout in global equity markets as
investors dumped stocks in favor of gold and Treasuries. With
three European countries having required bailouts, concern over
weakening demand and rising unemployment is spreading. A report
yesterday said confidence among small businesses fell in July
for the fifth consecutive month as the sales outlook dimmed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 17 percent
since July 22, including a 6.7 percent plunge on Aug. 8, in the
biggest slump since December 2008. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
fell 18 percent over that stretch and the MSCI World Index of
shares lost 16 percent.  Honda and GM  The Aug. 8 decline came after S&P stripped the U.S. of its
AAA rating, lowering it to AA+ for the first time. The  Federal
Reserve  responded yesterday by vowing to keep interest rates
near zero through mid-2013, sparking a rally that erased more
than two-thirds of the S&P 500’s previous day loss.  For Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker, and  General
Motors Co. (GM) , the biggest in the U.S., the turmoil may be hurting
their results. Honda said yesterday that a prolonged drop in
U.S. stocks will lead to a decline in consumption, and GM said
its forecast for 2011 U.S. vehicle sales may be in jeopardy.  “Consumer confidence is pretty fragile right now,” Don Johnson, GM’s vice president of U.S. sales, said in a
presentation. “With the recent volatility in the stock market,
we know that’s a concern we really have to watch closely.”  Automakers aren’t alone. Earnings and forecasts yesterday
from watchmaker  Fossil Inc. (FOSL) , Cablevision and satellite-
television provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  trailed analysts’
estimates, sending their stocks lower even as the market rose.
Cablevision and other cable providers are reporting subscriber
losses amid a sluggish economy and online competition.  Disney Decline  Disney plunged 9.1 percent, the most since December 2008,
in today’s New York Stock Exchange trading. Wunderlich
Securities cut its rating to “hold” from “buy” following the
theme-park and media company’s earnings report. TV station
advertising sales are down by a mid-single digit percentage this
quarter, Disney said yesterday on a conference call after the
market closed.  U.S. consumer spending from April through June showed the
smallest gain since the second quarter of 2009, when the economy
was in recession, according to a Commerce Department report on
July 29. That contributed to second-quarter economic growth that
trailed analysts’ estimates, as gross domestic product rose at a
1.3 percent annual rate in the period.  “What people shouldn’t be doing is shutting down because
it sets up a vicious cycle,” said Elaine Eisenman, dean of
executive and enterprise education at Babson College in
Wellesley,  Massachusetts , and a director at shoe retailer  DSW
Inc. (DSW)  “That’s the biggest danger for companies right now, where
people become paralyzed by fear, unable to do anything that can
enable a company to grow in these very difficult times.”  IPOs Delayed  Some private companies that were looking to tap the public
markets amid a rise in share sales are delaying their offerings.
Sunnyvale, California-based InvenSense Inc., a maker of software
used in consumer electronics, postponed its initial public
offering, as did Shanghai-based Cathay Industrial Biotech Ltd.
and Seattle-based community lender HomeStreet Inc.  More than $1.5 billion of offerings have been pushed back
in the past week, threatening to derail what was poised to be
the best year for IPOs since 2007.  “There is definitely going to be a raising of the bar on
the quality of companies that are going to be able to get
public,” said Sunil Dhaliwal, a partner at Battery Ventures in
 Boston .  Even before the U.S. downgrade, Europe was experiencing a
sovereign-debt crisis. Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have been
forced to seek aid from the European Union, and Italy and  Spain 
saw borrowing costs soar last month.  Europe, U.S.  The scarcity of jobs is contributing to the crisis. While
unemployment in the U.S. has been above 9 percent for the past
four months, Spain’s rate is more than double that at 20.9
percent. That presented a big enough challenge before the U.S.
downgrade, said Millan Alvarez-Miranda, CEO of  Unipapel SA (UPL) ,
Spain’s largest maker and distributor of paper products.  “We were all worried about the so-called double-dip
recession but thought Europe and the U.S. would be able to avoid
it,” Alvarez-Miranda said in an interview. “Right now, no one
knows what’s going to happen next.”  Not all corporate executives are so concerned. Some say the
market drop presents a buying opportunity and are taking the
opportunity to repurchase shares.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. construction company, and Japan’s  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  told investors they’re buying back stock.  ‘Well-Positioned’  The CEO of Constellation Brands Inc., the world’s second-
largest wine seller after E.&J. Gallo Winery, said his customers
tend to keep buying wine in a slump; what changes is that they
may get it at a store as opposed to paying the markup at a
restaurant.  “We’re very well-positioned for any kind of short-term
economic blip,” CEO Rob Sands said in an interview. Victor, New
York-based Constellation’s brands include Ravenswood and Robert Mondavi.  Companies that sell to businesses are also more optimistic
than those that rely on consumers. Santa Clara, California-based
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , which sells chips used in data centers in addition
to personal computers, is benefiting as customers upgrade their
infrastructure, Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said.  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , which provides web-based servers
and storage space for other companies, is still growing as
customers migrate to cloud computing, said Lew Moorman, head of
strategy. And unlike three years ago, when some investment banks
failed and others stopped lending, this market drop isn’t
paralyzing the economy, he said.  Executives said they are seeking a resolution that will
restore consumer demand and inspire businesses to spend, even as
the U.S. government adjusts to the loss of its top-level rating.  As a result of the downgrade, “we could see  interest rates 
going up, we could see higher cost of borrowing for businesses,
which are all bad for economic growth and employment,” Nooyi
said Aug. 6 in a Bloomberg Television interview with Willow Bay
at the BlogHer conference in  San Diego . “So, we have to address
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  