-- 
Texas’s Perry Says Spending Restraint Needed to End ‘National Nightmare’

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-10T15:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/perry-says-u-s-spending-restraint-necessary-to-end-national-nightmare-.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who may
seek the Republican presidential nomination in 2012, said the
U.S. must restrain spending to end “our national nightmare.”  The longest-serving U.S. governor said the  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating last week reflected
the federal government’s refusal to control spending and debt.  “Our fiscal house is built on shifting sands,” Perry said
today in  San Antonio  at a  National Conference of State
Legislatures  meeting of more than 1,000 lawmakers and aides.
“The federal government has tried to spend our way out of this
economic spiral, which has only increased our crisis and
increased our debt.”  Perry, 61, criticized Michigan, California and  Illinois  for
spending too much, creating burdens on citizens and businesses
that have hurt their economies.  “Texas made the tough choices,” he said, referring to $15
billion of cuts made in his state’s two-year budget.  “We tightened our belts because we know you can’t tax and
spend your way to prosperity,” Perry said. “We also know you
can’t put too heavy a burden on employers.”  Perry said Texas has created 40 percent of the new jobs in
the U.S. in the past two years and cited opportunities for
minimum-wage workers. Texas has the most minimum-wage jobs among
U.S. states, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which
has prompted criticism from labor unions about the quality of
jobs added in the state.  Speaking Tour  Perry may end speculation about his presidential intentions
Aug. 13 in Charleston,  South Carolina , where he will speak at a
conference sponsored by RedState.com, a Washington-based weblog
that describes itself as “conservative” on its site. Later in
the day, he plans to visit  New Hampshire , home of the nation’s
first primary election of the 2012 campaign.  In his speeches, Perry often cites the U.S. Constitution’s
10th Amendment granting power to the states over matters not
delegated to the federal government or the people. His 2010 book
“Fed Up” excoriates federal meddling in local affairs.  “I stand ready to work with fellow governors and
legislators to return power to the states where it belongs,”
Perry said today. States need to regain control over
environmental, education and health insurance programs from
federal authority, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 