-- 
Peru Bonds Rise as Fed Studies Measures to Bolster U.S. Economy

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T17:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/peru-bonds-rise-as-fed-studies-measures-to-bolster-u-s-economy.html
Peruvian bonds rose to a one-week
high as traders bet the  Federal Reserve  will announce measures
to bolster U.S. growth that would help boost prices for  Peru ’s
metal exports.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.12 percent at 12:30 p.m. New York time,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
0.26 centimo to 111.73 centimos per sol.  The Fed signaled yesterday it may expand record monetary
stimulus as the world’s largest economy grows more slowly than
it was expecting. Investors are betting the central bank will
announce another round of debt purchases, after buying $2.3
trillion in the first two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, said Kathryn Rooney Vera, an emerging markets analyst at
Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami.  “The market is pricing in QE3 after yesterday’s statement
and in that case a major commodity exporter would perform
well,” Rooney Vera said. “I don’t think QE3 is going to help
the economy that much at all, but what it will induce is another
leg down in the  U.S. dollar  versus a basket of world currencies,
which in turn means commodity prices rise.”  Peru is the world’s biggest silver producer, third largest
in copper and sixth in gold. Metals account for two thirds of
the Andean country’s exports.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points
to 217, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7515 per U.S. dollar,
from 2.7479 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  