-- 
Peso Insurance Costs Soar After U.S. Downgrade: Mexico Credit

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   B r y a n   G i b e l
-- 
2011-08-10T11:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/peso-insurance-costs-soar-as-loss-of-aaa-felt-across-border-mexico-credit.html
The cost of insuring against a
decline in the  Mexican peso  is rising at the fastest pace in
more than 2 1/2 years on concern the U.S. may fall into
recession, eroding demand for the country’s exports.  One-month options giving investors the right to sell the
peso yesterday cost 5.48 percentage points more than contracts
to buy. The premium surged 2.98 percentage points in the five
days through yesterday, the most since the period ended Jan. 20,
2009. The differential for the Brazilian real jumped 2.51
percentage points over the same period.  Growing signs the expansion in the U.S. is in jeopardy
fueled a 3.4 percent tumble in the peso over the past month, the
biggest slide among Latin American currencies. Weakening demand
from the U.S., the destination for 80 percent of  Mexico ’s
exports, prompted Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America
Corp. last week to cut their forecasts for growth in the Latin
American country.  “If the U.S. slows, Mexico will arguably get hit the
hardest of any emerging economy,”  Kevin Daly , who helps manage
about $7 billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc. in  London , said in a telephone interview. “It
just reflects  market sentiment . Right now, market sentiment is
obviously pretty jittery and guys are getting out.”  The slump in the peso is eroding bond investors’ dollar-
based returns. The securities lost 4.6 percent this month,
compared with a decline of 2.3 percent for local-currency
emerging-market debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso notes due 2024
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, yesterday to
6.56 percent.  Growth Forecasts  The peso’s weakening “is mostly driven by the slowdown
concerns in the market about the  U.S. economy  and a possible
double-dip recession,” Jorge Perez-Duarte, managing director
for emerging-market foreign exchange at TD Securities Inc. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. government’s credit rating
to AA+ on Aug. 5, spurring concern the economic slowdown will
worsen. Concern the expansion in the world’s biggest economy is
slackening deepened last week after reports showed it grew less
than forecast in the second quarter.  Goldman Sachs on Aug. 5 reduced its Mexican growth forecast
for this year to 4.1 percent from 4.4 percent and its estimate
for 2012 to 3.9 percent from 4.5 percent. A day earlier, Bank of
America cut its 2012 growth projection to 4 percent from 4.5
percent, while leaving its forecast for this year at 4 percent.  External Backdrop  “The external backdrop facing the Mexican economy is
turning less favorable,” Goldman Sachs economist  Alberto Ramos 
wrote in a research note on Aug. 5. U.S. growth in the first
half of the year “disappointed,” wrote Ramos, who is based in
New York.  The peso rose 2.4 percent yesterday to 12.0391, rebounding
from an 11-month low earlier in the day, after the  Federal
Reserve  vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.
U.S. stocks jumped the most in more than two years, rebounding
from the worst drop since 2008, and 10-year Treasury yields
touched a record low.  The Mexican currency weakened 0.7 percent to 12.1201 per
 U.S. dollar  at 7:38 a.m. in New York.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points
to 166 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years increased three basis points yesterday to 156,
according to CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if
the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  Futures Contracts  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in September fell 11 basis points yesterday to 5
percent, indicating traders expect the central bank will wait
until that month to raise benchmark borrowing costs from a
record low 4.5 percent.  Benito Berber, a strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in
 New York , said he’s keeping his year-end forecast for the peso
to strengthen to 11.5 percent as swings in global markets ease.  “The Mexican peso will come back,” Berber said in a
telephone interview. “With any sort of normalization, the
Mexican peso is going to rally a lot. This is so volatile that
it’s very difficult to change your forecast right now.”  The peso tumbled 20 percent in 2008 as U.S. demand for the
country’s exports slumped. Mexico’s economy,  Latin America ’s
second-biggest behind  Brazil , shrank 6.1 percent the following
year, the most since 1995. The U.S. economy contracted 3.5
percent in 2009.  “We all know the high correlation to the U.S.,”
Aberdeen’s Daly said. “It does take the brunt of the pressure
from a downturn in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Gibel in New York at 
 bgibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  