-- 
Pfizer’s Read Fights Medicare Cuts in Deficit Agreement

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-08-10T20:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/pfizer-s-read-fights-medicare-cuts-in-deficit-agreement-2-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  said his company, the world’s biggest drugmaker, will
fight attempts to cut Medicare payments for medicines after the
industry helped underwrite the U.S. health-care overhaul.  Drug companies contributed $112 billion in discounts and
refunds to last year’s health-care law, helping Democrats make
up for new spending in the bill. U.S. drugmakers led by Pfizer
and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  are concerned they will be asked to give more in
the debt-limit deal President  Barack Obama  signed Aug. 2 that
requires further negotiated cuts in government expenditures.  “We made a contribution to the Affordable Care Act that
was substantial and fundamental,” New York-based Pfizer’s Read
said in a telephone interview. “We are only 10 percent of the
health-care spend in the United States, and we are the most
efficient part of that.”  Squeezing drug savings from Medicare, the U.S. health
program for the elderly and disabled, may cost makers $20
billion and eliminate 260,000 jobs, according to the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America  in
Washington. Obama endorses a proposal to discount drugs for
Medicare patients who also qualify for Medicaid, the federal-
state health program for the poor.  Sixty-two percent of investors expect lawmakers to approve
the policy this year, according to an Aug. 3 e-mail survey of
391 investors by  Mark Schoenebaum  of ISI Group in New York.  12-Member Panel  Drugmakers are focusing their lobbying muscle on a yet-to-
be-named panel of 12 members of Congress charged with carving
savings from all parts of the government. In a July letter to
House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , and Democratic
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, 32 House
members argued against further drug discounts for the poorest
Medicare patients.  The drug companies and other health-care providers spend
more on Washington lobbying than any other industry, topping
$243 million last year, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington research group. Pfizer paid for 83
lobbyists and spent $13.38 million, more than any other  drug
company , while Merck devoted $7.61 million to lobbying.  A U.S. House and Senate rejection of the panel’s
recommendations would trigger an automatic 2 percent, across-
the-board reduction to Medicare under the accord reached this
month, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Pfizer fell 55 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $17.05 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:01 p.m. The shares have
declined 2.6 percent this year. Merck, which has dropped 17
percent this year, fell $1.41, or 4.5 percent, to $29.81.  Cuts Loom  Medicare is projected to cost $566 billion in 2012, and
$922 billion a year by 2020, according to a  study  in the journal
Health Affairs. The program spent about $62 billion for
 prescription drugs  in 2010,  according to the trustees  of the
Medicare trust funds.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, is arguing that
it be spared from Medicare cuts and “will vigorously oppose any
targeted, pharmaceutical-industry specific approach to
increasing federal revenues,” said  Ronald Rogers , a spokesman
for the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based company.  Drug industry lobbying is centering on Medicare’s Part D
drug benefit that the government funds and private insurers such
as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  run. Part D covers Medicare patients
as well as so-called dual eligibles, or the almost 8.8 million
people who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid, according to
the  Kaiser Family Foundation  in  Menlo Park , California.  Price Controls  Medicare pays higher prices for drugs for this group than
Medicaid would. Offering additional discounts to the government
to cover the mostly low-income elderly and disabled patients
amounts to price controls, industry executives have said.  “Merck will continue to advocate in favor of the highly
competitive and efficient Medicare Part D marketplace that
exists today,” Rogers said in an e-mail.  Pfizer “would oppose any further changes” to the program,
Read said.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis, also may see lower
revenue from changes to Part D. Its antipsychotic drug Zyprexa
is among those responsible for the most spending among dual-
eligible patients.  Monitoring Changes  “Programs like Medicare Part D should be considered a
model rather than as a potential cut,” said Greg Kueterman, a
spokesman for the company. Lilly is monitoring potential changes
“to ensure that innovation is protected,” he said.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  of New York also supports
preserving the Part D program, said Laura Hortas, a spokeswoman.  It is doubtful Republican members of the 12-member panel
would back new cost controls on the program, Christopher Bowe, a
New York-based analyst for research firm Informa Plc of London,
in a telephone interview.  “Part D was a windfall for certain companies with products
that were very dual-eligible heavy,” Bowe said.  While cuts to Medicare drug prices might find favor with
the Democrats, “they are anathema to many Republicans who want
less, not more, government involvement,” said  Tim Anderson , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., in an Aug. 8 note to
clients. “Unfortunately for investors, there is no useful
detail yet on what will actually happen to drug spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 