-- 
TPG, VTB Take Control of Lenta After Buying Stake From Meyer

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-08-10T08:59:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/tpg-vtb-take-control-of-lenta-after-buying-stake-from-meyer.html
TPG Capital, the U.S. buyout firm
founded by  David Bonderman , and Russia’s VTB Capital agreed to
buy 41 percent of Lenta LLC from August Meyer, ending a year-
long dispute over the supermarket chain.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, and Moscow-based VTB
didn’t disclose the price in a statement today. Minority
shareholders Dmitry Kostygin and Sergei Yuschenko, who had
served as Lenta’s chief executive officer, are also selling
their stakes.  The purchase brings TPG and VTB’s stake in the St.
Petersburg-based grocery retailer to more than 70 percent and
ends a spat with Meyer, Lenta’s largest shareholder, over
strategy. Meyer, a U.S.-born lawyer who settled in  St.
Petersburg  more than a decade ago, is leaving Lenta’s board,
along with his representatives.  Meyer in March sought to acquire TPG and VTB Capital’s
stake for $806 million, or about eight times their initial
investment in 2009. TPG rejected the offer and proposed they bid
against each other in an auction with a starting valuation of $2
billion for the company.  Russia  is seeking to attract private-equity groups to join
a $10 billion government-led fund initiative that President
 Dmitry Medvedev  is promoting to lure foreign buyout managers
into Russia.  Lenta was founded in 1993 as a cash-and-carry store with
two checkout desks and owns about 40 stores across Russia,
selling everything from food and cigarettes to toys and
television sets. Sales grew 27 percent to 70.6 billion rubles
($2.4 billion) last year.  The deal is expected to close in one month and must be
approved by Russia’s Federal Antimonopoly Service of Russia,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  