-- 
Philippine Peso Rebounds From Three-Week Low on Fed Rate Pledge

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-08-10T08:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/philippine-peso-rebounds-from-three-week-low-on-fed-rate-pledge.html
The Philippine peso rebounded from a
three-week low after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to maintain a
near-zero benchmark  interest rate  through mid-2013, spurring
demand for emerging-market assets.  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today the
timeframe given by the Fed gives local authorities leeway in
adjusting borrowing costs even as capital inflows may continue
to “complicate” policy-setting. The  European Central Bank 
bought Italian and Spanish bonds yesterday, according to three
people with knowledge of the transactions, who declined to be
identified because the trades are confidential.  “People have been looking for measures of stability and
the Fed has taken that step,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, a Manila-
based economist at ING Groep NV. “The news that ECB has started
to do their bond purchases has also stabilized European concerns
on the debt. Investors are cautiously open to taking on more
risk. Asian currencies are beneficiaries of that.”  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 42.495 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency touched 42.770 yesterday, the weakest level since July
20.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of shares snapped a six-day
losing streak. The Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index
rose 3.2 percent, the most since December.  The U.S. central bank’s pledge to keep its policy rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent “signals that interest-rate
differentials would likely continue in favor of emerging-market
economies,” Tetangco said in a mobile-phone message. Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas has a benchmark rate of 4.5 percent.  The yield on the Philippines’ 7 percent bonds due April
2016 increased 2.5 basis points, or 0.025 percentage point, to
4.937 percent, according to prices from the Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  