-- 
Poland Needs Franc-Hit Consumers to Propel Economy, Tusk’s Adviser Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-08-10T13:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/poland-needs-franc-hit-consumers-to-propel-economy-tusk-s-adviser-says.html
Poland ’s government, which faces
elections in October, wants consumers to keep spending to help
fend off economic shocks such as the zloty’s plunge against the
Swiss franc, Premier Donald Tusk’s chief economic adviser said.  “A recent survey has shown that Poles are in a positive
mood, and it is vital to maintain that optimism, which is
crucial for keeping consumption afloat,” Jan Krzysztof Bielecki
said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “We mustn’t
exaggerate the positive aspects, but we have to make sure we
don’t scare people into leaving their wallets at home.”  Spending by Poland’s 38 million consumers, which drove
economic growth while the country’s export markets contracted,
may dip as a stronger franc increases loan payments for
borrowers in the Alpine country’s currency. The franc, seen as a
haven for investors after the U.S. credit-rating downgrade, is
the world’s best-performing currency this year.  Poland, which accounts for more than a third of output in
the EU’s former communist members, was the only country in the
27-nation bloc to avoid recession in 2009. The country’s A- debt
grade was affirmed by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 3, citing
“sound” growth prospects, three days before the rating company
downgraded the U.S. one step to AA+.  Poland’s borrowing costs fell today as the country sold 5
billion zloty ($1.7 billion) of notes maturing in 2013, 2014 and
2016, with the average two-year yield dropping to 4.469 percent,
the lowest since May 2006, according to data on the Finance
Ministry website.  The zloty dropped 16 percent against the franc in the past
month, the most among the currencies of EU nations. It traded at
3.9374 at 2:35 p.m. in Warsaw from 3.9589 yesterday. The
currency gained 0.2 percent against the euro to 4.1023.  Swiss Franc Effect  The zloty’s decline against the franc was 20 percent in the
past two months, which may cut consumption by 0.4 percentage
points, the economic council headed by Bielecki said in an Aug.
8 report. First-quarter consumption rose 3.9 percent from a year
earlier.  Franc-denominated mortgages totaled 151.8 billion zloty in
June, accounting for almost 53 percent of total home loans,
according to the Polish financial regulator.  Tusk’s government forecasts 4 percent economic growth for
next year. Poland is relying on the expansion to narrow the
 budget deficit  to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2012
from 7.9 percent last year. The central bank last month lowered
its growth forecast for next year to 3.2 percent.  Economy Slows  Growth in the three months through June slowed for a second
quarter, to 4.2 percent compared with a year earlier, from 4.4
percent in the previous period, according to 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The statistics office will announce
official preliminary data on Aug. 30.  “We expect the Polish economy, which benefits from a large
internal market and lower dependence on export-led growth than
some other countries in the region, to post relatively strong
growth in the medium term,” S&P wrote in its Aug. 3 report,
predicting per capita GDP will grow almost 4 percent “in the
medium term.”  Poland’s five-year credit-default swaps, used to protect
investors from non-payment or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, are trading at around 210 basis points, compared
with 348 for  Spain , according to figures from data provider CMA.  Budget, Debt  Tusk needs to keep public debt, which stood at 52.8 percent
of GDP last year under Polish accounting standards, from
reaching 55 percent to avoid triggering mandatory austerity
measures. The general government deficit may be below the
planned 5.6 percent of GDP this year, Deputy Finance Minister
 Ludwik Kotecki  said in an interview with the central bank’s
Obserwator Finansowy website published today.  The European Union’s largest eastern member has covered 85
percent of its 2011 borrowing needs and has the backup of a $30
billion flexible  credit line  from the  International Monetary
Fund  to help it withstand the tremors of the U.S. credit-rating
cut and the euro area’s debt crisis, Bielecki said.  Poland’s borrowing costs fell below Spain’s for the first
time in a 10-year debt sale last month after Deputy Finance
Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said the central budget deficit may
be more than 10 billion zloty ($3.52 billion) less than the
planned 40.2 billion zloty.  Measures taken by the U.S. and the EU were too late to
prevent the spread of debt concerns, Bielecki said.  “The institutions that are supposed to be in charge are
always a little bit late in their reactions, so any given
situation is only being reacted to,” Bielecki said. “What’s
needed today is preventive, not reactive action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  