-- 
Portugal Attempts to Seduce Asset Buyers at ‘Worst of Times’: Euro Credit

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-08-11T15:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/portugal-attempts-to-seduce-asset-buyers-at-worst-of-times-euro-credit.html
Portugal  may have to brave the most
turbulent stock markets in three years as it seeks buyers for
state-owned assets to meet the terms of its bailout package.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  in the third quarter is
seeking to sell holdings in power company EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA and grid operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais
SA, which have a combined value of 2.17 billion euros. Under its
78 billion-euro ($112 billion) European Union-led rescue,
Portugal agreed to speed asset sales through 2013. The EU and
the  International Monetary Fund  are due to conclude their first
review of Portugal’s program this week.  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery and
credit-rating cut are fueling market turmoil. Benchmark stock
indexes saw their biggest slump since Dec. 2008 before the
 Federal Reserve  said on Aug. 8 that it’s prepared to bolster the
economy, sparking the biggest surge in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index since March 2009.  “It’s clearly the worst of times to carry out
privatizations,” Andre Pinheiro, who helps oversee 100 million
euros of assets at Orey Financial SA in Lisbon, said by phone.
“Market instability won’t help.”  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield was at 10.5 percent, down
from a euro-era record 13.44 percent on July 11, after the
 European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish debt for a
third day to tame borrowing costs. The nation’s two-year bonds
yielded 11.7 percent, indicating higher perceived risk in
lending to Portugal for two years than for a decade.  Brighter Outlook  Three weeks ago, after European leaders agreed on a new
Greek bailout and steps to bolster the region’s rescue fund at
July 21 summit, the outlook for Portugal’s sales was brighter.  Joaquim Reis, chairman of state-holding company Parpublica,
said by phone the next day that the agreement may mean increased
demand for Portugal’s assets. Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar had
said on July 14 that he aimed to be “way ahead” of schedule
and raise more than the estimated 5.5 billion euros laid out in
the bailout plan for state-asset sales.  “I would like to exceed that amount,” said Gaspar, who
was unavailable to comment yesterday. The government will try to
“choose a moment for the privatizations in which conditions are
relatively favorable.” Other possible targets for sale include
airline TAP SGPS SA and postal service CTT-Correios de Portugal.  Portugal’s benchmark index PSI-20 has lost 16 percent since
the world equities rout began on July 26, with EDP’s shares
falling 15 percent to the lowest in six years and REN declining
8 percent in the last two weeks. The index declined 0.5 percent
to 5,888.01 at 11:30 a.m. in Lisbon.  Rising Debt  With the country’s debt and borrowing costs soaring,
Portugal followed Greece and Ireland in April in seeking a
bailout. Portugal’s debt swelled to 93 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010 from 68 percent in 2007. The European Commission
forecasts debt will rise to 101.7 percent this year and 107.4
percent in 2012 before starting to decline after 2013.  The asset sales represent 3 percent to 4 percent of the
country’s debt, not a significant chunk, said Manuel Caldeira
Cabral, an economics professor at Minho University in Braga.  “The moment Portugal and Europe are facing isn’t the best,
but privatizations can be a sign we are working and not
postponing our problems,” he said. “They can be a sign to
markets that the country is working to stop public debt from
growing and in that way help the nation return to markets
sooner.”  Portugal’s austerity plan aims to reduce the  budget deficit 
to the EU ceiling of 3 percent of GDP by 2013 from 5.9 percent
in 2011 and last year’s 9.1 percent. Still, the package risks
deepening Portugal’s recession, making it harder to achieve
revenue targets for containing the shortfall.  Deeper Recession  The government said on July 14 it expects the economy to
shrink more than previously forecast, with GDP likely dropping
2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. The bailout plan
included forecasts for a contraction of 2.2 percent in 2011 and
1.8 percent in 2012.  Under the rescue, the government must still identify two
additional “large enterprises” to sell by the end of 2012 and
submit an updated asset-sale plan by March next year.  “I’m afraid that the government insisting on
privatizations at any price is ruining our national heritage,
without solid compensation,” former President Mario Soares, who
was premier when Portugal first sought IMF aid in 1977, wrote in
an article published today in magazine Visao. “And why? So they
are sold for next to nothing to foreign companies, and some of
them curiously state-owned.”  Newspaper Expresso reported on July 9 that State Grid Corp.
of  China  and another Chinese company were interested in buying a
stake in EDP. REN also attracted interest from State Grid of
China, as well as funds including  Norway ’s sovereign wealth
fund, Expresso said. Yesterday, China Power International
Development Ltd. said its parent company has been in talks with
EDP and at the moment has no plan to acquire shares.  “The environment has become increasingly more difficult
and the state may have to offer assets at quite a significant
discount on the price,” said Tullia Bucco, an economist at
UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “For Portugal overall, I
see more risk regarding the price the country can get for the
assets than the capacity to actually fulfill the program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 