-- 
Gilt Yield Falls to Record Low Before King’s Inflation Report

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-10T09:31:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/pound-weakens-as-king-s-inflation-report-may-bolster-low-rate-expectations.html
Gilts rallied and the pound weakened
against the dollar and euro before  Bank of England  Governor
 Mervyn King  presents new economic and inflation estimates that
may boost the case for keeping borrowing costs at record lows.  Yields on 10-year gilts sank to a record low while sterling
declined against 13 of its 16 major peers tracked by Bloomberg,
losing most against the South Korean won. King’s address will be
his first since the U.S. lost its AAA credit rating last week,
and follows a pledge by the  Federal Reserve  late yesterday to
keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.  “In a world of dwindling safe places to put your money,
gilts are still among the least ugly assets out there,” said
Mark Schofield, head of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc.
in  London . “In a global environment where you’ve got the Fed
pledging low rates, you’ve got slowing growth and speculation
about downgrades, safe haven flows are dominating.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt sank as much as 13 basis
points to a record low 2.582 percent before yielding 2.61
percent as of 10:03 a.m. in London. Two-year note yields
declined five basis points to 0.56 percent.  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.6251 and declined 0.3
percent to 88.39 pence per euro. Sterling lost 0.8 percent to
124.56 yen.  Signs of slowing economic growth in the U.K. come as the
government implements the deepest spending cuts since World War
II, boosting speculation that the central bank will maintain
monetary stimulus measures for longer to revive growth.  “The inflation report will probably point to slower
economic growth and inflation, which suggests investors will
push their expectations for interest rate hikes even further
out,” said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. in London. “That could take the shine off
of sterling.”  Stocks rebounded worldwide after the Fed’s low rate pledge,
helping to ease investor concerns sparked by  Standard & Poor’s 
lowering of the U.S.’s credit rating last week which sent
markets plunging around the world. The Stoxx Europe 600 index
climbed 1.1 percent to 234.76 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  