-- 
British Gilt Yields at a Record Low as BOE Sees Inflation, Growth Slowing

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-10T16:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/pound-falls-gilt-yields-at-record-low-as-boe-sees-economic-growth-slowing.html
Gilt yields slid the most in more
than two years, reaching a record low, while the pound weakened
against the dollar after the  Bank of England  said inflation is
likely to moderate as economic growth deteriorates.  British bonds tracked gains in Treasuries and German bunds
as concern the global economic recovery is faltering sent stock
markets lower in  Europe  and the U.S., boosting demand for the
safest assets. Near-term growth in the U.K. is “likely to
remain sluggish” and inflation should be “a little below
target in the medium term,” the Bank of England said in its
quarterly Inflation Report today. The  Federal Reserve  pledged
late yesterday to keep interest rates near zero through the
middle of 2013 to boost the economy.  “What’s going on in the U.K. is good enough to justify the
drop in yields,” said Chris Scicluna, deputy head of economic
research at Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in  London . “Risks to
inflation and growth are skewed to the downside. There’s a
significant possibility of further quantitative easing. There’s
also a global theme, with gilts tracking the sharp downward
moves in Treasury and bund yields after the Fed.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt sank 25 basis points to an
all-time low of 2.47 percent at 4:39 p.m. in London, the
steepest intraday drop since March 2009. Two-year note yields
declined eight basis points to 0.53 percent.  The pound fell 1 percent to $1.6146 and lost 1.7 percent to
123.49 yen. Sterling strengthened 0.4 percent to 87.78 pence per
euro, reversing an earlier 0.9 percent decline.  Slowing Growth  Signs of slowing economic growth in the U.K. come as the
government implements the deepest spending cuts since World War
II, boosting speculation that interest rates will stay at a
record low for longer to revive growth. Policy makers around the
world are boosting steps to revive their economies, with the
 European Central Bank  resuming bond purchases and the Swiss
central bank attempting to weaken the franc to boost exports.  “If we see further deterioration in the economy, the Bank
of England will not hesitate to consider another round of
quantitative easing to boost growth,” said Audrey Childe- Freeman, head of European currency strategy in London at the
private-banking unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Gilt yields have
moved lower on the back of that.”  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee left its
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent last week and maintained
its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds. The U.K. economy
grew 0.2 percent in the second quarter, while manufacturing
shrank in July.  Monetary easing, “over the longer term, could actually
have a positive effect on the pound if it proves to be
supportive of growth,” Childe-Freeman said.  Inflation Outlook  “In a world of dwindling safe places to put your money,
gilts are still among the least ugly assets out there,” said
Mark Schofield, head of  interest-rate  strategy at Citigroup Inc.
in London. “In a global environment where you’ve got the Fed
pledging low rates, you’ve got slowing growth and speculation
about downgrades, safe-haven flows are dominating.”  Inflation may reach 5 percent this year before easing
through 2012 and falling to about 1.8 percent in the second
quarter of 2013, based on a chart of quarterly average
projections, the central bank said today. Gross-domestic-product
growth is expected to reach 2.7 percent over the period.  The chances of inflation being above or below the 2 percent
goal are “judged to be roughly equal,” the bank added. U.K.
consumer-price inflation was 4.2 percent in June.  The implied yield on short-sterling futures expiring in
June 2013 fell 26 basis point to 0.90 percent, and have tumbled
from a nine-month high of 3.48 percent in February, when some
traders were expecting an imminent interest rate increase.
Short-sterling contracts are used by analysts to gauge the
future trajectory of borrowing costs between banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  