-- 
Q-Cells Declines to Record-Low After Forecasting Operating Loss

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-08-10T18:16:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/q-cells-declines-to-record-low-after-forecasting-operating-loss.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s biggest
solar company, dropped to a record-low in Frankfurt trading
after reporting a quarterly net loss and forecasting a full-year
operating loss in the “three-digit million euro” range.  Q-Cells fell 18 percent to 76.6 euro cents as of 5:30 p.m.
local time, the lowest close since the stock started trading in
October 2005. The Thalheim, Germany-based company posted a
second-quarter net loss of 355 million euros ($504 million),
even as it doubled sales from the previous three months.  Q-Cells and its peers  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and Conergy AG, which
are due to release results tomorrow, are struggling to combat
dwindling orders in  Europe , where  Germany , Italy and  France  have
cut solar subsidies in the past 12 months. They’re also under
pressure from Chinese manufacturers that have boosted production
capacity just as cell and module prices slump amid lower demand.  “Q-Cells is in big trouble,” Lars Dannenberg, an analyst
with Berenberg Bank in London, said in a telephone interview.
“If they want to survive, one of the options is an outside
investor,” he said, adding that the company may need more money
to repay a 211 million-euro bond due at the end of February.  “Demand for modules will pick up strongly in the second
half but only at prices not achievable for companies with old
manufacturing capacity,” Jenny Chase, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said by e-mail. “There is more overcapacity
in silicon, wafers, cells and modules in 2012 than in 2011.”  Shift Abroad  Q-Cells is shifting some units to  Asia  from Germany in a
bid to generate positive earnings before interest and tax next
year. The company plans to transfer more cell production to its
more modern plant in  Malaysia , which will run at full capacity
by the end of the year, Chief Executive Officer Nedim Cen said
today on a call with analysts.  “I expect competition to remain tough in the coming year
with no significant changes to demand, but we will be in a much
better position to deal with it,” Cen said in a statement. Q-
Cells expects higher sales in the coming months and targets as
much as 350 million euros in cash by year-end, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in  London  at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 