-- 
Qatar Central Bank Lowers Rates Second Time in 2011 as Credit Growth Slows

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-08-10T14:22:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/qatar-central-bank-reduces-lending-deposits-rates-second-time-this-year.html
Qatar’s central bank lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  for the second time this year as credit
growth slowed, banks accumulated cash and the difference between
the rates in Qatar and the U.S. led to arbitrage trading.  The central bank reduced the key overnight lending rate and
also the repurchase rate by a half percentage point to 4.5
percent, the regulator said on its  website  today. The overnight
deposit rate was lowered by a quarter point to 0.75 percent.
Central Bank Governor Abdullah bin Saud Al Thani confirmed that
the bank reduced rates without giving details or an explanation.  “The cut of overnight deposit and lending rates are part
of the QCB’s efforts to stem this inflow of capital and add
vigor to the local lending,” Akber Khan, a director at Al
Rayan Investment in the Qatari capital Doha, said in an e-mail.  The loans-to-deposits ratio at Qatari banks fell to 90
percent at the end of June from 96 percent in December as
lenders added a total of 47 billion riyals ($12.9 billion) in
deposits, according to data posted on the central bank website.
Bank credit growth slowed to an annual 14 percent in June from
26 percent in the same month last year, according to bank data.  “Rates in Qatar were too high, leading to arbitrage
opportunities as the riyal is pegged to the USD,” Marios Maratheftis, chief economist for the  Middle East  and North
Africa at Standard Chartered Plc said. “The cuts we are seeing
this year are a normalization.”  Fed Action  The cuts also come as U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s said yesterday that he planned to hold interest rates
near zero through at least mid-2013.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, held interest rates at levels higher than other Persian
Gulf nations as the global credit crisis crimped borrowing. The
government supported banks by buying real-estate portfolios and
has recently sold treasury bills on a monthly basis. The
government forecasts the economy will expand 15.7 percent this
year.  The central bank reduced the lending rate to 5 percent from
5.5 percent in April, the repurchase rate 55 basis points to 5
percent and the overnight deposit rate 50 basis points to 1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  