-- 
Rajaratnam Should Spend More Than 24 Years in Prison for Trades, U.S. Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/rajaratnam-should-spend-more-than-24-years-in-prison-for-trades-u-s-says.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , labeled by prosecutors as the “face of illegal
 insider trading ,” should spend as long as 24 years and five
months in prison, the U.S. told the judge who will sentence him.  Lawyers for Rajaratnam, in a separate court filing
yesterday, asked U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan for a prison term “substantially below” what federal
guidelines recommend. Rajaratnam’s attorneys, citing their
client’s poor health, urged Holwell not to force him to die in
prison.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of all 14 criminal
counts of conspiracy and securities fraud he was charged with.
He’s scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27. Prosecutors said he
should serve at least 19 years, seven months in prison.  “Rajaratnam repeatedly leveraged the power of money and
his position as the head of a $7 billion hedge fund to induce
friends, employees and associates to participate in his criminal
activities,” Justice Department lawyers said in their
sentencing memorandum yesterday. “He is the modern face of
illegal insider trading.”  Prosecutors called Rajaratnam the most “egregious
violator” of insider-trading laws ever to be caught. He engaged
in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside information from
corporate executives, bankers, consultants, traders and
directors of public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , they said. He gained $63.8 million as a result of the
scheme, according to the government.  Intel, Google  Rajaratnam used the information to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies, according to evidence
presented during Rajaratnam’s trial. His trades covered  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and Clearwire Corp.  Prosecutors called Rajaratnam a “fundamentally deceptive
and dishonest person.” They said he lied under oath in a civil
deposition and told others how to avoid detection. They also
urged the judge to send a message of “deterrence” to combat
the “rampant insider trading during the last several years.”  “Rajaratnam represents the worst of illegal insider
trading,” prosecutors wrote. They compared him to Enron Corp.’s
 Jeffrey Skilling  and WorldCom Inc.’s Bernard Ebbers, convicted
in what prosecutors called “the worst of accounting frauds,”
and  Bernard Madoff , who they said represents “the worst of
Ponzi schemes.” Skilling was sentenced to 24 years, Ebbers to
25 years, and Madoff to 150 years.  Guidelines Advisory  Prosecutors and defense lawyers are awaiting a pre-
sentencing report from the federal probation office to help
determine a range under U.S. sentencing guidelines, according to
yesterday’s filing by  John Dowd , the lead lawyer for Rajaratnam.
Holwell is free to disregard the guidelines, which are advisory.  “Mr. Rajaratnam is not a healthy man,” his lawyers wrote,
citing “significant and challenging medical issues” that are
known to the court’s probation department. “His death will be
hastened by a term of imprisonment,” they said.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers submitted letters on his behalf from
his family members, former business associates, ex-employees and
even his apartment doorman. Some of the letters detail what the
defense said is more than $45 million in charitable donations by
Rajaratnam in the U.S. and abroad, including millions of dollars
to help victims of a tsunami that devastated his native  Sri
Lanka .  ‘Enriched’ Lives  “Whereas the crimes of his conviction had not a single
identifiable victim, his charitable acts enriched countless
lives,” Dowd wrote.  The defense argued that Rajaratnam’s crimes are “not in
the same league” as those committed by Enron or WorldCom
executives “since those defendants betrayed their own
shareholders and employees.”  Rajaratnam did nothing to harm his investors, Dowd wrote.  Dowd also said that Rajaratnam’s sentence should be
consistent with those imposed on others convicted of insider
trading, including former New Castle Funds Analyst LLC Danielle Chiesi, a co-defendant who was sentenced on July 20 to 2 1/2
years behind bars.  In exhibits to their legal brief, prosecutors included
wiretaps of Rajaratnam that weren’t offered into evidence at the
trial. They include wiretaps of Rajaratnam talking to an unnamed
“Cisco executive,” a reference to Cisco Systems Inc., and to
Ali Far, co-founder of fund Spherix Capital LLC in  San Jose ,
 California , who has pleaded guilty in the case.  Also included is a recorded call between Rajaratnam and ex-
McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar talking about merger tips that
weren’t disclosed at the trial. Kumar, who testified for
prosecutors, has pleaded guilty in the case.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 