-- 
Ramsay’s Protege Beats Blumenthal to New Restaurant Award

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-11T09:29:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/ramsay-protege-atherton-beats-blumenthal-to-best-new-u-k-restaurant-award.html
Jason Atherton, the chef who created
Maze for Gordon Ramsay before quitting to open his own  London 
restaurant, has won two awards in the 2012 Good Food Guide for
Pollen Street Social: Best New Entry and the Highest New Entry.  Atherton beats Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal , the highest-
profile new restaurant of the year. Pollen Street Social places
eighth and Dinner is 19th. Blumenthal’s the Fat Duck, which is
outside London, comes top. Maze has been dropped from the guide.  “Jason’s cooking has just got stronger and stronger,”
Elizabeth Carter, the consultant editor, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Moving to his own place, running with his
own ideas, he’s opened one of the most exciting restaurants in
London. Now that he’s not traveling round the world opening
Mazes for  Gordon Ramsay , he’s re-energized and he’s in the
kitchen all the time. He’s also got a strong team.”  Gordon Ramsay drops to fourth from second. L’Enclume moves
up to second place from fourth. The restaurant in Cartmel is
owned by chef Simon Rogan, who has just opened Roganic in
London. Sat Bains, Nottingham, goes to third from sixth.  The Ledbury jumps to 17th from 29th. (Chef  Brett Graham ’s
 restaurant was invaded  on Monday night by rioters who robbed
some diners.) Galvin La Chapelle enters the Top 50 for the first
time, placing 50th. Maze came 11th in 2010 and was unclassified
last year because Atherton had resigned.  Good Chefs  “We went in to do a final inspection at Maze this year and
I was surprised to see that it was still a very Jason Atherton
menu,” Carter said. “I’m sure they have a very good chef --one
thing you can say for Gordon Ramsay is that he has good chefs --
but so much air and energy had been sucked out of the place that
we couldn’t give it a decent score. So we decided not to put
them in and give them a year to sort themselves out.”  Angela Hartnett  of Murano is named as “The Good Food Guide
2012” Chef of the Year in the Editors Awards.  The other London restaurants in the Top 50 are  Marcus Wareing  at the Berkeley, seventh (unchanged from last year);
Hibiscus, ninth (11th last year); The Square, 10th (unchanged);
Le Gavroche, 14th (15th);  Alain Ducasse  at the Dorchester, 15th
(12th); Murano, 22nd (unchanged); The Greenhouse, 42nd, (40th);
and Club Gascon, 48th (45th).  New entries include the  Gilbert Scott , owned by another
Ramsay protege, Marcus Wareing; Ramsay’s Savoy Grill; and St
John Hotel. Opera Tavern, Spuntino and Nopi are also among the
358 London restaurants featured in the guide.  The other new London entries are: Dishoom; Les Deux Salons;
Cigalon; Apsleys; La Fromagerie; Vinoteca; Amaranto; Hakkasan
Mayfair; Fernandez & Wells; Koya; Nopi; 28-50; Bar Battu; Coq
d’Argent; Morito; Vanilla Black; Brawn; Indian Zilla; Retro
Bistrot; Made in Camden; Sushi of Shiori; The Horseshoe; Kentish
Canteen; Sardo Canale; Homa; Entree; Wuli Wuli; four o nine;
Cantinetta; The Fox & Grapes; Koffmann’s; Kiraku; Yashin Sushi;
Chabrot Bistrot d’Amis; Tinello; The Havelock Tavern; Cassis.  “The Good Food Guide 2012” will be published on Sept. 8
and can be ordered at  http://www.thegoodfoodguide.co.uk/shop . It
is priced at 16.99 pounds.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 