-- 
Rand Rebounds from One-Year Low as Fed’s Rate Pledge Boosts Risk Appetite

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-10T16:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/rand-rebounds-as-fed-s-interest-rate-ledge-boosts-risk-appetite.html
The rand rebounded from a one-year
low against the dollar after the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to
keep U.S. interest rates at near-zero levels for two more years
shored up demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The rand gained as much as 4.5 percent to 7.0748 per
dollar, before paring its gains to trade 1.9 percent stronger
from yesterday’s London close at 7.2635 as of 5:55 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand gained 2.2 percent to 10.3049 per euro
and 2.2 percent to 11.7376 a pound.  South Africa’s currency surged after the U.S. Federal Open
Market Committee said yesterday that it would keep benchmark
borrowing costs at a record low at least through mid-2013,
sparking a rally in emerging-market stocks and commodity prices.
The rand depreciated to 7.6131 per dollar yesterday, the weakest
level since July 2010, after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s
credit rating. Most of the rand’s gain came after the London
close yesterday, a public holiday in South Africa.  “After a volatile few sessions global markets may settle
back somewhat today,”  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana,
currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in a research note. “The U.S. downgrade news is now out
of the market and the promise by the Fed to keep rates low has
revived some confidence.”  The rand pared its advance after U.S. stocks tumbled and
European shares slid on concern French banks may fall victim to
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Volatility Rises  The rand’s one-month implied volatility versus the dollar
rose as high as 19.7 percent today, near the highest in more
than a year, indicating traders see wider swings in the currency
in coming weeks, according to the prices of options contracts
monitored by Bloomberg.  “Increasing volatility is going to be with us for a while;
the world is a very uncertain place at the moment,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Bidvest Bank in Johannesburg,
which runs  South Africa ’s largest chain of moneychangers, said
by phone. “We got used to 5 cent trading ranges; we’re going to
get used to 25 cent intraday ranges.”  South Africa’s currency may decline to 7.80 per dollar “in
the medium term,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note. The
currency often moves more than its emerging-market peers because
South Africa doesn’t have controls to stem capital flows, the
analysts said.  “The rand remains vulnerable in the medium term,” the
Standard Bank analysts said. A decline to 7.80 per dollar
“would mean that the rand has reverted to its long-term
purchasing-power parity fair value.”  The likelihood of the rand declining to 7.80 per dollar
within the next three months was 48 percent, implied volatility
from options trading monitored by Bloomberg showed. The
calculation was made when the rand traded at 7.2549 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  