-- 
Reliance Industries Said to Plan to Sign $1.09 Billion Loan

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-08-10T10:18:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/reliance-said-to-plan-to-sign-1-09-billion-loan-with-31-banks.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , controlled
by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , plans to sign a $1.09 billion loan
tomorrow after 13 banks joined the original 18 hired to arrange
the five-year term facility, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Mumbai-based Reliance,  India ’s biggest company by market
value, has the equivalent of $10.2 billion of loans maturing
before the end of 2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The petrochemical and textiles maker is seeking to expand in
financial services and hotels as domestic demand in the South
Asia nation increases.  Proceeds from this facility will be used to refinance debt,
and final documentation for the loan should be completed today,
the first person said, asking not to be identified as details
are private.  The 13 banks which joined in syndication are lead arrangers
 DZ Bank  AG and Westpac Banking Corp.; co-arrangers Norinchukin
Bank, Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co. and United Overseas Bank
Ltd.; and lead managers Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA,
Chang Hwa Commercial Bank, Chinatrust Commercial Bank, Export-
Import Bank of the Republic of  China , Hua Nan Commercial Bank
Ltd., Jih Sun International Bank Co., Mega International
Commercial Bank Co. and Taiwan Cooperative Bank, the second
person familiar with the matter said.  All-In Payment  Lenders committing $30 million or more received margin and
fees for a so-called all-in payment of 174 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate while those contributing
$20 million to $29 million get an all-in rate of 171 basis
points, the second person said.  Those committing $10 million to $19 million receive 168
basis points more than Libor, that person said.  The 18 original banks were Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., Bank of America Corp., Bank of Nova Scotia, Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole
CIB, DBS Group Holdings Ltd., DnB NOR ASA, HSBC Holdings Plc,
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Standard Chartered Plc,  State Bank  of India
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., another person familiar with
the matter said in June.  All contributed $47.75 million each except Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria which contributed $60.64 million, the second
person said today. Lead arrangers DZ Bank and Westpac committed
$43 million and $30 million respectively while all three co-
arrangers lent $20 million each. The eight lead managers lent
$10 million each except Mega International Commercial Bank and
Chinatrust Commercial Bank, which committed $15 million and $11
million apiece, the person said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ; 