-- 
Tremonti to Present New Austerity Plan as Unions Threaten General Strike

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-11T11:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/tremonti-to-present-new-austerity-plan-as-unions-threaten-general-strike.html
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti 
said Italy will seek to ease labor market laws, sell local
services and possibly raise the capital-gains tax to balance its
budget and secure European Central Bank support for its bonds.  Italy must “overcome its rigid, centralized system,”
Tremonti said today in testimony today before bicameral
committees of Parliament in  Rome . “This is a choice that marks
the end of an era in which the West could sell  government bonds 
at preferred rates.”  The new measures and the plan to balance the budget in 2013
are part of an effort to convince investors that Italy can tame
the region’s second-biggest debt and maintain ECB support in
bringing down the country’s borrowing costs, which reached a
euro-era high last week. The ECB began buying Italian debt on
Aug. 8 after the government pledged the deficit cuts, helping
trim on Italy’s 10-year bond yield 104 basis points in four
days.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  sent a letter to the
government last week that called on Italy to possibly lower the
wages of public-sector employees, liberalize laws on firing
workers, accelerate plans to balance the budget and sell off
local state-owned service companies, Tremonti said. The full
contents of the letter remain “confidential,” he added. The
letter prompted Berlusconi to pledge Aug. 5 to speed the budget
adjustments, prompting the ECB bond purchases.  Meeting Demands  Tremonti said the government is studying ways to carry out
Trichet’s requests, and may also raise the capital-gains tax
rate to 20 percent from the current 12.5 percent, excluding
 government securities . Hiring and firing practices also need to
be eased, he said. He also said there were no plans to cut the
wages of public workers.  “We note with bitterness that we are taking requests from
the ECB,” Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the main opposition
 Democratic Party , said during today’s session. “It’s not
something I like to see for the seventh-biggest industrial power
in the world, but that’s what we’ve been reduced to.”  Tremonti also raised today the possibility of a
“solidarity contribution,” to help ease government finances,
without giving details.  Allies were quick to say that he wasn’t referring to a
 wealth tax  that has been called for by unions. “There isn’t any
room for a wealth tax and I don’t think that was the minister’s
intention,” said Maurizio Gasparri, the head of the ruling
People of Liberty Party’s delegation in the Senate.  Union Threat  Tremonti’s testimony comes after he and Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  discussed the proposals last night with
business leaders and unions, the biggest of which threatened a
general strike if it deems that the government is seeking to
balance the budget on the backs of workers.  With the new austerity package,  Italy  aims to reduce the
shortfall next year to between 1.5 percent and 1.7 percent of
gross domestic product before eliminating it in 2013. Tremonti
and Berlusconi yesterday said the new measures would be approved
by the Cabinet by Aug. 18.  The government plans to further accelerate an increase in
the  retirement age  and may consider cuts to health-care
spending, Italian newspapers including la Repubblica have
reported. Tremonti didn’t give details of those moves today.  “If the measures that end up in the budget adjustment are
those that have been circulated in the newspapers and that the
government hasn’t denied, the only response will be a general
strike,” Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest federation of
unions, the CGIL, said after yesterday’s talks.  Market Dives  Tremonti’s testimony comes a day after the country’s
benchmark stock index plunged 6.7 percent, with UniCredit SpA
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s biggest banks, falling
9.4 percent and 13.7 percent respectively on concern that Italy
may become the next victim of the region’s debt crisis.  Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index was down 1.1 percent at
1:30 p.m. in Milan. UniCredit was down 4.5 percent while Intesa
lost 3.5 percent.  The new measures supplement a 48 billion-euro ($68 billion)
austerity package announced last month, when the government also
pledged to overhaul the tax system and raise the retirement age.
The plan failed to convince investors that the government could
control a debt set to reach 120 percent of GDP this year, and
the yield on the country’s 10-year bond surged to 6.2 percent
last week, the highest in more than a decade.  Raffaele Bonanni, head of the smaller CISL union, said a
strike would be counterproductive. “What we need today is
cohesion as the house is burning,” he said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  London  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Roma at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 