-- 
Republicans’ No-Tax Stand Unsupported by History or Facts: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-10T00:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/republicans-no-tax-stand-unsupported-by-history-or-facts-view.html
You would think that abysmal growth
and jobs data, the first-ever downgrade of  U.S. debt  and heart-
stopping gyrations in the financial markets would impel
political leaders to at least take a second look at some of
their assumptions about restoring confidence in the  U.S.
economy .  Sadly, you would be mistaken.  President  Barack Obama  called again this week for a
deficit-reduction plan that includes both new revenue and
spending cuts, a solution that he said would require “common
sense and compromise.” Alas, we have seen little of either
quality from Speaker  John Boehner  and the House majority leader,
 Eric Cantor . The Republican leaders reiterated their
determination to oppose any solution to the U.S. fiscal mess
that involves revenue increases.  Whatever one thinks of the validity of  Standard & Poor’s 
decision to downgrade U.S. debt, it contained an admonition that
we should take seriously: Spending cuts alone won’t be
sufficient to place the debt, and by extension, the economy, on
a sustainable path. In a memo to his Republican colleagues,
Cantor warned that S&P’s analysis put the party under “pressure
to compromise on tax increases” on the ground that there is
“no other way forward.” His response: “I respectfully
disagree.”  As always, the Republican leaders justified their
intransigence by invoking the demons of job-killing taxes that
would suppress the dynamism of overtaxed Americans, hampering
growth.  Low Taxes  This is partisan nonsense. First, consider the claim that
Americans are being taxed to death. In fact, in terms of the
economy as a whole, federal taxes are at their lowest level
since 1950. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimated that
 federal taxes  would account for 14.8 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011.  That isn’t a one-year anomaly: Revenue was 14.9 percent of
GDP in both 2009 and 2010. Compare that with a postwar average
of about 18.5 percent of GDP, and an average of 18.2 percent
during the administration of President  Ronald Reagan .  Which brings us to a second dubious claim: Raising taxes in
a downturn hinders growth. In 1982, amid a punishing 16-month
recession, Reagan approved the largest peacetime tax increase in
U.S. history. A booming economy followed in 1983 and 1984,
enabling him to sail to re-election.  ‘Job Killer’  In 1993, President  Bill Clinton  forced a tax increase
through Congress that Representative Dick Armey, then chairman
of the House Republican Caucus, condemned as a “job killer”
that would push the economy into recession. That increase was
succeeded by the creation of 23 million new jobs, and the
Clinton administration left a budget surplus of about $236
billion. By contrast, President  George W. Bush  pushed through
two rounds of tax cuts and created just 3 million jobs. He also
turned the surplus he inherited into a $1.2 trillion deficit.  Obviously, today’s economic crisis is vastly more severe
than anything Reagan or Clinton faced, thus the timing and scope
of tax increases must be carefully calibrated. Over the long
term, however, the Republican mantra of “no higher taxes,
ever” is as senseless as are claims by some Democrats that we
can solve our fiscal gaps simply by soaking the rich. Both
spending cuts and revenue increases are required.  One of the oddest aspects of this debate is that the
Republican position may not even be good politics -- at least
outside safe Republican districts. Public-opinion polls show an
increasing acceptance of the need to raise taxes to put the
nation’s fiscal house in order. (A large majority of voters
would like to see the wealthiest 1 percent raise their hands
first.)  The American people are showing that they grasp a
fundamental notion that still eludes some of their political
leaders. As Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes said, “Taxes are what
we pay for a civilized society.” That is well worth the price.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 