-- 
Research In Motion, Apple, Vermillion, Ikea, RIAA: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-10T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/research-in-motion-apple-vermillion-ikea-riaa-intellectual-property.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, said it is assisting London police
investigating the use of the company’s messaging service by
rioters to plan disturbances.  “Police have got very extensive monitoring of the
BlackBerry Messenger model,” Stephen Kavanagh, deputy assistant
commissioner of London’s Metropolitan Police, told reporters
yesterday. “A lot of people who are seeing those messages are
forwarding them to police.”  David Lammy, the U.K.’s intellectual-property minister,
called yesterday for a suspension of BlackBerry service to
prevent its use among rioters to communicate plans, according to
a statement from his office. Kavanagh has said technology is
being used to organize people and undermine the police, who must
adapt their policing style to deal with it.  The riots and looting throughout the city, which began Aug.
6 following a protest over the shooting and killing of Tottenham
resident Mark Duggan by police, have resulted in dozens of
officers being injured and at least 525 arrests, with people as
young as 11 being apprehended for looting. After a third night
of violence, police will also review the role of messages sent
using other popular networking systems, including Twitter Inc.  Research In Motion, based in Waterloo, Ontario, posted a
message on its official U.K. Twitter account saying, “We feel
for those impacted by the riots in  London . We have engaged with
the authorities to assist in any way we can.”  BlackBerry messenger is “significantly less encrypted
compared to the BlackBerry e-mail that corporations are using,”
said Leif-Olof Wallin, an analyst at Gartner Inc., based in
 Sweden . “Any kind of cryptographer should be able to crack it
without the involvement of RIM to be honest.”  Social media have been used to coordinate demonstrations
against Middle Eastern regimes, campaign for Saudi women’s right
to drive and for lower prices for cottage cheese in  Israel . In
the U.K., the use of Twitter and mobile phones by troublemakers
may help authorities identify them and restore calm in the
capital, Steve O’Connell, a member of the Metropolitan Police
Authority, said by telephone.  Twitter spokeswoman Rachel Bremer declined to comment. The
San Francisco-based company’s policy is to require a subpoena or
court order before giving law enforcement private information
about users, according to guidelines on its website.  Patents  Apple Says It Won Order Against Samsung Galaxy Tablet in EU  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it won a temporary order that prevents
Samsung Electronics Co. from distributing the Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer in the European Union, except the Netherlands.  A district court in Dusseldorf,  Germany , granted the
injunction, the dpa-AFX news service reported, citing
unidentified people involved in the court negotiations. Apple
spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet  confirmed the report in a phone
interview yesterday.  Apple contends that Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet
computer “slavishly copy” the iPhone and iPad. Apple is also
seeking a court order to block sales in the U.S. until a trial
can be held on patent-infringement claims. In  Australia , Samsung
has agreed not to introduce a version of its Galaxy tablet
computer until an Apple lawsuit there is resolved.  The dispute between the companies began in April when Apple
sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming that the Galaxy products
imitated Apple designs and technology. Samsung, which supplies
memory chips for Apple, has retaliated with lawsuits in  South
Korea , Japan, Germany and the U.S.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Huguet said,
reiterating comments made by the company in April. “This kind
of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  A spokeswoman for Samsung in Germany, Annika Karstadt, said
she couldn’t confirm the European Union injunction. “We’re
looking into it,” Karstadt said when reached by Bloomberg News.  Flagstar Retains Sanctions Against Patent-Owning Company  Flagstar Bancorp Inc. (FBC)  convinced a federal appeals court
that it’s entitled to the almost $500,000 in sanctions and
attorney fees awarded in a patent-infringement case.  The Washington-based Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit said the judgment against Eon-Net LLP was appropriate in
light of the patent-owning company’s actions in a series of
infringement suits.  Eon-Net, based in Tortola, British Virgin Islands, sued
Flagstar for patent infringement in 2005 in federal court in
 Seattle . According to court papers, a companion company to Eon-
Net began suing over the disputed patents in 1996, and
ultimately more than 100 suits were filed.  In most cases, Eon-Net offered to settle for a licensing
fee based on the defendant’s annual sales, with fees ranging
from $25,000 to $75,000. The appeals court said it became
apparent why the vast majority of defendants chose to settle,
because the low settlement value allowed the company “to
continue to collect additional nuisance value settlements.”  Since Eon-Net doesn’t make any products based on its
patents, the appeals court said the company “placed little at
risk” when filing infringement suits. The companies it sued
faced high costs if they sought to fight the suits because they
“often possess enormous amounts of potentially relevant
documents that are ultimately collected and produced.”  The appeals court agreed with the trial court that Eon-Net
“pursued baseless infringement allegations in bad faith and for
an improper purpose.”  The disputed patents related to a system and method of
inputting information from a document, storing portions of the
input document information in memory and formatting the
information for use by a computer program.  The lower court case is Eon-Net LP V. Flagstar Bancorp.,
2:05-cv-02129-RSM, U.C. District Court, Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  The appeals court case is Eon-Net V.
Flagstar Bancorp, 09-01308,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit (Washington).  Vermillion to Get Patent on Test for Peripheral Artery Disease  Vermillion Inc. (VRML) , a biotechnology company that develops
diagnostic tests for human disease, will be awarded a patent for
a method of diagnosing peripheral artery disease, the Austin,
Texas-based company said in a  statement .  The company said it received notice from the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office that the office is about to issue a patent
for the use of Beta-t microglobulin as a marker for peripheral
artery disease.  According to  statistics from the Atlanta-based Centers for
Disease Control , about 8 million people in the U.S. have
peripheral artery disease, including between 12 percent and 20
percent of those who are age 60 or older.  Vermillion said the patent will be the fourth the company
has received related to the diagnosis of peripheral artery
disease. The company has  one product  on the market, the OVA1
test for evaluating potential ovarian cancer.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ikea to Discuss Look-Alike Chinese Store With Lawyers  Ikea of Sweden AB said it’s consulting with lawyers over an
apparent knock-off store that opened in Kumming,  China , The
U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  The store, called “11 Furniture,” sells modern-looking
furniture and has Ikea’s yellow-and-blue color scheme, according
to the Daily Mail.  Kumming is the same city in which fake versions of Apple
Inc.’s stores were found earlier this year, the Daily Mail
reported.  The Chinese name for 11 Furniture sounds very much like
Ikea’s Chinese name, according to the Daily Mail.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Bakery Drops ‘Scarborough Fair’ Tribute Bread After Complaint  Fairway Café to Go  changed the title of one of its breads
after receiving a cease-and-desist letter from the pop duo  Simon
& Garfunkel , the Toronto Sun  reported .  The bread, previously known as the “Scarborough Fairway”
bread, will be renamed “Fairway’s Herb Wreath,” because of
concerns over potential copyright infringement, according to the
newspaper.  The bread’s name -- chosen because the loaf contains the
herbs parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme -- was intended to be a
tribute to Simon & Garfunkel’s “ Scarborough Fair ” song, the
Toronto Sun reported.  The bakery opened Aug. 8 on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side,
according to the Sun.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  RIAA Names Former General Counsel Cary Sherman to Top Post  The Recording Industry Association of America named Cary
Sherman chairman and chief executive officer, the Washington-
based advocacy group for the recorded-music industry said in a
 statement .  Sherman replaces Mitch Bainwol, who resigned to become
chief executive of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers.  Before he was named to RIAA’s top post, Sherman served as
president, and, before that, general counsel of the
organization. He was previously outside counsel to RIAA and a
partner in Washington’s Arnold & Porter LLP.  In the RIAA statement, Sherman said he was looking forward
to work on “setting the legislative agenda at both national and
state levels, working to protect and promote  intellectual
property  in the U.S. and throughout the world, coordinating with
law enforcement on both physical and digital theft, and
representing the industry in negotiations and before government
tribunals to empower new business models and standards.”  He has an undergraduate degree from Cornell University and
a law degree from  Harvard University .  Lathrop & Gage Expands  Boston  IP Practice With New Hires  Lathrop & Gage LLP added two new intellectual-property
practitioners to its Boston office, the Kansas City, Missouri-
based firm said in a  statement .  Sean M. Coughlin , who previously practiced at Boston’s
Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky & Popeo PC, does patent
acquisition and patent-related transactional work. He has
represented clients in the biochemistry, biofuel, organic
chemistry, cellular and molecular biology, immunology,
pharmaceutical, stem-cell and medical-device industries.  He has an undergraduate and a master’s degree in
biochemistry from Brown University and a law degree from
Georgetown University.  Steven M. Mills , who previously practiced at the Boston
firm then known as Mills & Onello LLP, has worked as a design
engineer for RCA Corp. and Raytheon Co.  He does patent and trademark acquisition work for clients
whose technologies include electronics, computer software and
hardware, semiconductors, mechanical devices and medical
diagnostics.  He has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from the University of Notre Dame, a second undergraduate degree
in liberal arts from Stonehill College and a law degree from
Suffolk University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 