-- 
Rheinmetall Said to Sell Up To 60% of Shares in IPO of Kolbenschmidt Unit

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-08-10T13:28:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/rheinmetall-said-to-sell-up-to-60-of-shares-in-ipo-of-kolbenschmidt-unit.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  aims to sell as much
as 60 percent of its Kolbenschmidt Pierburg AG car-components
unit to investors in an initial public offering, according to
two people familiar with the preparations.  The division’s freefloat, or portion of publicly traded
shares, may be between 40 percent and 60 percent if the share
sale goes ahead, said the people, who declined to be identified
because talks are private.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising Rheinmetall
and Deutsche Bank AG, Commerzbank AG and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit are managing the IPO, they said.  The Dusseldorf, Germany-based company said in a July 28
statement that it was investigating the possibility of listing
the automotive unit so that both it and the business’s defense
arm might “further develop their market positions with more
flexibility.” The company’s 20,000 employees produce automotive
parts and weapons systems, and provide engineering services for
clients including the German army.  The equities rout since then has hurt the IPO market, which
was headed for its best year since 2007. WageWorks Inc. and
Cathay Industrial Biotech Ltd. are among companies that have
delayed or scrapped first-time share sales as volatile markets
sapped demand for new stock. At least nine IPOs have been
postponed or canceled since the global slump started Aug. 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have nothing further to add to the issue than that
which was said in a press release the week before last,” Peter Ruecker, a spokesman for Rheinmetall, said by telephone today.
“Everything in that statement remains valid.”  The IPO may value Kolbenschmidt Pierburg at more than 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion), the people said. The company aims
to sell the shares in September and presentations to prospective
investors are ongoing, one of the people said. No capital
increase is planned, with all the funds going to Rheinmetall,
the person said. The final timing for the IPO depends on market
developments, the other person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  