-- 
Rick Perry’s Candidacy Crowds Pews on Right: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T00:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/rick-perry-s-candidacy-crowds-the-pews-on-romney-s-right-margaret-carlson.html
One month after Texas Governor Rick Perry told the Des Moines Register that he felt called to run
for president, he is scheduled to answer the summons at an event
this Saturday in  South Carolina .  To get a sense of what a Perry presidential campaign might
be like, his appearance last weekend at a gathering of Christian
conservatives in Houston is instructive. The event offered high-
tech visuals, thumping Christian rock music, country singers and
plenty of old-time religion.  The sponsors were a who’s who of cultural reaction: the
 American Family Association  (which footed most of the more than
$1 million cost),  Focus on the Family , the  Family Research
Council  and Dr. Richard Land, the conservative president of the
Southern Baptist Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission.  Perry brought men to their feet and women to tears, easily
pureeing the roles of public official and preacher. He’s
comfortable telling us to welcome the light of Jesus into our
dark lives. For all the event’s hype, the turnout was
disappointing. (In the parlance of Perry’s home state, it was
more hat than cattle.) The air-conditioned stadium, which has a
71,000-seat capacity, was less than half-filled. Perry violated
one of the ten commandments of politics: Always rent a room too
small for the crowd.  The event was still big, providing additional encouragement
to those who believe Perry will be a shining star in a
lackluster 2012 field. After seven hours of praying and fasting,
the Texan proved he is every bit as appealing to religious
conservatives as Representative  Michele Bachmann , the Minnesota
firebrand who is hoping for a convincing win at this Saturday’s
straw poll in Ames,  Iowa . (Perry isn’t on the ballot, but his
supporters will be writing in his name.)  Mixed Blessing  Perry is a mixed blessing for Republicans. He’ll compete
with Bachmann for voters on the right wing of the party, and if
he trounces her, the party elite will breathe easy. Bachmann is
every bit as polarizing as Sarah Palin. As she becomes better
known, polls will show she has no chance of winning the White
House. That, however, is why a Bachmann vs. Mitt Romney fight
may ultimately be in the party’s interest; it will force
mainstream Republican primary voters who don’t much like Romney,
the former Massachusetts governor, to come to his aid, lest
Republicans waste their chance to oust the Kenyan socialist in
2012.  Perry complicates that scenario. He can bleed Bachmann’s
 Tea Party  and religious support while remaining a member in good
standing of the establishment, the governor of one of the
nation’s largest states, a superb fundraiser, a Southerner --
and a man.  If Perry eclipses Bachmann, he and Romney may be in for a
long, drawn-out struggle that weakens them both. Their brawl --
across a primary landscape in which early states award delegates
proportionally, rather than winner-take-all -- will be
mesmerizing. By the time it’s over, it will be hard for Romney
or anyone else to swing the party back to the middle for the
general election.  And Perry could win the nomination. In his decade as
governor, Perry has done more than rabble-rouse, which is pretty
much the sum of Bachmann’s record in Congress. Trouble is,
general election voters may not cotton to his accomplishments.  Upon close inspection, his  Texas  economic  miracle  turns out
to run on extremely low wages. Given the state’s chronic
deficits and low levels of taxation, public services are spare.
According to Gallup, Texas has the highest percentage of
residents without health insurance. Almost 1 in 4 children live
in poverty. The state’s public schools rival those of perennial
bottom dwellers Mississippi and  Alabama  and aren’t likely to
improve after $4 billion in education cuts this year. All that
may not trouble Tea Partiers, but it’s hardly an attractive
package to independent voters.  Far-Out Ideas  In addition, Perry places right behind Bachmann when it
comes to saying far-out things. He called the 2010 BP oil spill
an “act of God” and told Texas residents that prayer was the
best way to combat the state’s devastating drought. (It didn’t
work.) He has variously advocated abandoning Social Security,
scuttling Medicaid and ending the federal income tax. For good
measure, he has mused that if socialism continues its inexorable
spread from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Texas may opt to secede
from the Union.  This year, Perry signed into law “emergency legislation”
forcing a woman seeking an abortion to have a sonogram, after
which she’ll be told everything about the fetus. And after
Texas’s anti-sodomy law was struck down by the U.S. Supreme
Court in 2003, he supported the state legislature’s refusal to
remove the law from its books and called the justices “nine
oligarchs in robes.”  As the Houston rally closed, Perry predicted that it would
be “a day that people are going to discuss for years to come.”
That might be preferable to them discussing his record. Although
Perry is chairman of the  Republican Governors Association , only
one fellow Republican governor --  Sam Brownback  of  Kansas  --
attended his religious revival. Brownback joined Perry for a big
Christian bearhug on stage. If Perry drags down Romney while
failing to capture the political middle himself, that may be the
last Republican hug he gets.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 