-- 
Ringgit Rebounds After Fed Pledges to Hold Down Borrowing Costs

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-08-10T08:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/ringgit-rebounds-after-fed-pledges-to-hold-down-borrowing-costs.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit rose, rebounding
from near its weakest level since June, after the  Federal
Reserve  pledged to maintain a near-zero  interest rate  for two
more years to bolster a recovery in the world’s largest economy.  The Fed’s statement helped shore up demand for equities and
emerging-market assets, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
stocks advancing for the first time in seven days. A government
report today shows Malaysia’s industrial output unexpectedly
rose 1 percent in June from a year earlier, after declining a
revised 5.6 percent in May. Analysts had expected a 0.8 percent
contraction, according to the median estimate of 16 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The Fed’s statement is helping to revive interest in
Asian currencies,” said Suzaizi Mohd Morshid, head of treasury
at RHB Islamic Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit may
stabilize at current levels.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent to 3.0058 per dollar
as of 4:33 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency climbed 0.2 percent yesterday after
losing more than 3 percent in the previous five days.  Funds Inflow  The impact of a “looser monetary policy” in the U.S. on
Malaysia will be positive on the back of a rise in foreign funds
inflow into the country, Kuala Lumpur-based AmResearch Sdn.
wrote in a report today. It predicts the ringgit to settle
between 2.80 and 2.90 per dollar this year.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement
yesterday that it would keep benchmark borrowing costs at a
record low at least through mid-2013 and is “prepared to
employ” additional tools to spur the economy.  Malaysian  government bonds  fell. The yield on the 4.16
percent notes due July 2021 rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.73 percent, prices from Bursa Malaysia
show. The treasury will auction 3 billion ringgit ($998 million)
of 15-year bonds on Aug. 12, according to data published by the
central bank on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  