-- 
Romanian Inflation Rate Falls to Year Low as Tax Increase Fades

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-08-10T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/romanian-inflation-rate-falls-to-year-low-as-tax-increase-fades.html
Romania ’s inflation rate dropped in
July for a second month in a row as the harvest cut food costs
and the effect of a government tax-increase waned.  The rate fell to 4.85 percent from 7.9 percent in June, the
lowest since June 2010, the  National Statistics Institute  in
Bucharest said today in an e-mailed statement. The decline
exceeded the median forecast of nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg of 5.3 percent. Prices fell 0.35 percent on the month.  Central banks in eastern  Europe  including Romania have kept
borrowing costs steady in the past months amid concern about the
negative economic effects of the debt crises in Europe and U.S.
Romania’s central bank lowered the inflation forecast for this
year and next on Aug. 8, as a good farm harvest and the fading
effects of a government tax drive prices down.  Romanian policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 6.25 percent, the European Union’s highest, for a
10th meeting on Aug. 3, saying “a continued prudent stance” is
needed to boost a recovery and contain medium-term inflation
risks stemming from possible government-energy price increases.  The central bank targets an inflation rate of 3 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point, for this year and next and
expects the rate at 4.6 percent at the end of the year. The
 International Monetary Fund  forecasts a 5.5 percent rate for the
year, the lender’s Mission Chief to Romania Jeffrey Franks said
on Aug. 1.  Food-price growth slowed to 5.7 percent in July from a year
earlier, compared with 9.8 percent in June, on lower vegetable
and fruit prices, the institute said.  Non-food costs dropped to 5 percent in July from 7.7
percent the previous month, while price growth for services
slowed to 3.1 percent from 4.8 percent in June as a 0.2 percent
gain by the leu currency to the euro reduced telephone and rent
costs gauged in the common currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  