-- 
RPC Lures Buyers With Cheapest Oil-Service Value on Profit Surge: Real M&A

-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-08-10T03:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/rpc-lures-buyers-with-cheapest-oil-service-value-on-profit-surge-real-m-a.html
RPC Inc. (RES) , the Atlanta-based oil
services company that has been considering a sale, may lure
acquirers with the industry’s cheapest valuation and profits
that are projected to double to a record this year.  The provider of pressure pumping that helps drillers unlock
oil and gas trapped in shale rock has hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. for advice, three people with knowledge of the matter said
this week. At yesterday’s closing price of $21.51, RPC trades at
13 times earnings, the lowest among U.S. oil-field services
companies with market values greater than $2 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income will surge 115 percent
to a high of $315 million this year, analysts’ estimates show.  RPC, which has returned more on average to investors in the
last five years than all of its U.S. rivals, may warrant a
takeover price of $35 a share, with C&J Energy Services Inc.,
 Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. (PTEN)  and  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) 
among the potential acquirers, said Gabelli & Co. While the
biggest stock market slump since 2008 may spur the controlling
Rollins brothers to delay the sale, according to Global Hunter
Securities LLC, RPC is now even cheaper for buyers after this
month’s rout battered energy shares.  “From a valuation perspective, it’s really taken a hit
recently,” John Lawrence, an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. LLC, the Houston-based investment bank specializing
in energy companies, said in a telephone interview. RPC “has
strong pressure pumping capacity and a good domestic footprint
that’s hard to replicate over time. The pool of potential buyers
is large,” he said.  Pressure Pumping  Jim Landers, vice president of corporate finance at RPC,
said the company doesn’t comment on market rumors.  RPC hired New York-based Goldman Sachs after interviewing
several investment banks in the past few weeks, said the people
familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the information is private.  The oil-services firm gets about half of its revenue from
pressure pumping, including from hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking. In fracking, which is useful for drilling in
unconventional reservoirs lined with hard rock, companies inject
water, chemicals and sand under high pressure to release gas.  A new combination of drilling techniques has been developed
to exploit shale deposits that were previously considered
unrecoverable, boosting the U.S. Energy Information
Administration’s estimate for recoverable natural-gas resources
in the country by 50 percent from a decade ago.  New exploration and production projects are boosting demand
for pressure pumping and prompting drillers to add more
equipment, said Andrea Sharkey, a research analyst at Rye, New
York-based Gabelli, which owns RPC shares.  ‘Earnings Sweet Spot’  “Capacity is very tight, volumes are rising and pricing is
rising as well,”  Mark Demos , a portfolio manager at Fifth Third
Asset Management in  Minneapolis , said in a phone interview. “The
industry is in an earnings sweet spot.”  RPC’s net income is projected to more than double this year
to a record $315 million and gain an additional 21 percent in
2012, according to four analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “They’re thinking that pressure pumping is hot right now -
- maybe a little colder today than a few weeks ago marketwise --
so why not sell while the market is good,” Timothy Parker, who
oversees $8.5 billion in natural-resource stocks, including RPC
shares, at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., said in a phone interview
from Baltimore.  Cheaper Than Rivals  RPC trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of 13, which is
lower than eight other U.S. oil-field services companies with
market values greater than $2 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The industry average is 24.  Even before the market rout this month, RPC was cheaper
than its comparably sized rivals. The shares rose 10 percent
this week after Bloomberg News reported on Aug. 7 that the
company was weighing a sale, giving it a market value of $3.2
billion as of yesterday. It posted the biggest gain in the  New
York  Stock Exchange Energy Index, which was down 3.5 percent.  For the last five years, RPC’s return on equity, which
measures how much a company earns for each dollar invested, has
averaged 28 percent, the best among its competitors, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  RPC may garner about $35 a share from a strategic buyer,
according to Gabelli’s Sharkey, based on about 6 times her
estimate for the company’s 2012 earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $850 million. That price would
equate to about $5.2 billion and a 63 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price. It’s about 29 percent higher than the
company’s peak of $27.05 in April.  Price Tag  Fifth Third’s Demos said RPC would seek a sale price that’s
as much as 30 percent above its record.  “I’d imagine they’re looking for something well above
their previous high,” he said. “If we’re not going to go in
recession and it’s just a slower-growth economic environment,
 oil prices  will remain high enough for activity to keep
increasing. Companies like RPC will still have assets that are
very valuable in the market.”  While RPC has been evaluating a sale, growing concern that
the American economy will fall back into a recession wiped out
more than $2 trillion in value from U.S. stocks this month
before yesterday’s rebound. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbled the most since December 2008 two days ago after S&P cut
the U.S.’s AAA credit rating for the first time.  Oil Prices  Crude oil for delivery next month declined to $79.30 a
barrel yesterday, the lowest settlement since September, after
the  Federal Reserve  said risks to the economic outlook have
increased. The U.S.’s rebound from the worst recession since the
Great Depression had pushed oil up 236 percent since December
2008 to its 2011 high of $113.93 on April 29.  Oil will average $103 next year, 9.6 percent below this
year’s peak, according to the median of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the huge drop in the general stock market and oil
prices, any buyout price that would’ve been considered a week
ago is probably lower today,” Scott Burk, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity in New York, said in a phone interview.  The market turmoil may make RPC Chairman Randall Rollins
and his brother Gary Rollins less likely to sell, said Matt Beeby, an energy analyst at Global Hunter in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .
The brothers -- 79 and 66, respectively, according to the
company’s  website  -- own more than half of the shares
outstanding and are both on the board. RPC was formed in  1984 
when it was spun off from the family’s company, Rollins Inc.  ‘Sit and Wait’  “I doubt the Rollins family would want to sell at this
point,” Beeby said in a phone interview. “They can certainly
sit and wait.”  According to T. Rowe’s Parker, larger companies in the
pressure pumping business such as  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-biggest oil services provider, may be interested in
acquiring RPC to increase scale. In April 2010, Baker Hughes of
Houston completed a $7.1 billion acquisition of BJ Services Co.,
another pressure pumping company.  RPC’s similarly sized competitors in the well pressure
pumping industry like C&J Energy Services may want to quickly
expand the size of their pumping fleet, Canaccord’s Burk said.
Houston-based C&J sold shares in an initial public offering last
month. Patterson-UTI, the Houston-based owner of oil and gas
rigs, and Weatherford, a Geneva-based oil-rig owner, may also be
potential acquirers of RPC, Gabelli’s Sharkey said.  Representatives for Baker Hughes, C&J, Patterson-UTI and
Weatherford didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Market Stabilization  “Buying any of the smaller pressure pumping companies
would be a quick way to add capacity,” Sharkey said. “A company
might view the market pullback as a reason to make a lower offer
and try to get RPC a little cheaper than they could’ve a couple
months ago.”  RPC ended a three-day slump yesterday, rising 11 percent as
the  S&P 500  posted its biggest rebound since March 2009. The
benchmark gauge for American equity climbed 4.7 percent as the
Fed vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.  “Despite the big stock pullback, it’s still a pretty good
time to sell,” Tudor Pickering’s Lawrence said. “I think it
gets sold as long as the markets can stabilize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 