-- 
Trump Opposes Scottish Offshore Wind Farm as Golf Courses Near Completion

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-10T18:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/trump-opposes-scottish-offshore-wind-park-by-vattenfall-technip.html
Donald Trump , the New York real-
estate developer planning two golf courses on the northeast
coast of  Scotland , opposes an offshore wind project by
Vattenfall AB and  Technip SA. (TEC)   “I am very disappointed that Scotland may allow the
development of a wind power plant directly off Aberdeen’s
beautiful coastline,” Trump said today in an e-mail.  Vattenfall, which is planning the 11-turbine project off
Aberdeen Bay, submitted an application for permission to build
the wind farm this month. The application is now subject to a
formal consultation and decision process, the Swedish utility
said on its website.  Trump Organization LLC released a separate statement on
Aug. 5 saying it opposed the wind farm site and would fight the
proposal. Trump is planning a 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion)
 golf  complex comprising a hotel, golf academy and upscale
residential community on 1,400 acres of Scottish dunes.  “I was repeatedly promised, as an incentive for us to go
forward and proceed with this project, that  wind turbines  would
not be destroying and distorting the magnificent coastline,”
Trump, whose mother is Scottish, said in the statement.  “Unfortunately, despite these prior assurances that the
wind project would not proceed, I am now learning that this
issue has again raised its ugly head,” he said.  The golf course construction is weeks away from completion
with a planned opening by next July, according to Trump. Trump
first identified the site as a potential golf resort in 2005.  Vattenfall and Technip’s project would test 11 “next
generation” wind turbines in a bid to accelerate clean energy
use with the development of an offshore wind industry.  “We believe we have made a good case for the development,
which places Aberdeen at the heart of the development of new
technologies to serve the growing European offshore wind
sector,” David Hodkinson, U.K. country manager for Vattenfall,
said in the statement.  He said the project would be built with “the same
attention to detail in respect of environmental and community
considerations as we have for our previous developments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  