-- 
Russian Economy Probably Slowed Last Quarter on Weaker Industry

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-08-10T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/russia-s-economic-growth-probably-slowed-last-quarter-on-weaker-industry.html
Russia ’s economy probably slowed in
the second quarter as industrial growth eased and inflation
eroded consumer buying power, leaving the world’s largest energy
exporter lagging behind emerging-market peers.  Gross domestic product expanded 4 percent from a year
earlier in the April-June period, compared with 4.1 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median forecast of 14
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Economy Ministry gave a
preliminary estimate of 3.7 percent last month. The Federal
Statistics Service may report the figure today or tomorrow.  “Important drivers of economic growth such as construction
and transportation, as well as consumer demand and retail trade,
were sluggish,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Moscow-
based Otkritie Capital, said yesterday by phone. He forecasts
growth of 3.8 percent.  Russia is struggling to return to pre-crisis growth rates
as a slowing global recovery curbs demand for its commodity
exports. President  Dmitry Medvedev  is targeting annual growth of
8 percent within five years to keep pace with so-called BRIC
peers  Brazil ,  India  and  China . Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said in May that Russia should almost double GDP per capita
within 10 years to become a top-five global economy.  Industrial production advanced 4.8 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, down from a 5.9 percent gain in
the first three months, according to the statistics service.
Natural resources output fell while manufacturing grew.  Sales at carmakers such as OAO AvtoVAZ, the country’s
largest, continued to surge in the second quarter before the
government’s cash-for-clunkers rebate program ended in July.  Popularity Dips  Russia’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent during Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before
plunging 7.8 percent in 2009. The government forecasts a 4.2
percent expansion this year, slipping to 3.5 percent in 2012,
when Russians will elect their next president. Both Medvedev and
Putin have said they may run in the March 4 vote.  Support for Russia’s top two politicians, known as the
ruling tandem since Putin chose Medvedev to succeed him in 2008,
has dipped as inflation during the first half of the year eroded
household spending power.  Consumer-price growth peaked at 9.6 percent in April and
May before easing in June. Real disposable incomes fell 2.5
percent in the second quarter, according to the statistics
service.  The central bank expects inflation within its 7 percent
target, the lowest since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  Bank Rossii left  interest rates  unchanged for a third month
in August, citing a balance between risks from inflation and a
slowing economy. Central banks in China, India and Brazil
tightened monetary policy last month.  ‘Unstable Investment Climate’  Economists cited disappointing investment volumes as a
reason for lower-than-expected first-quarter GDP growth. Net
capital outflows from Russia slowed to $9.9 billion in the
second quarter, from $21.3 billion in the first quarter and $34
billion in 2010, according to preliminary central bank  data .  “Despite high  oil prices , capital outflows continued,
which speaks to the unstable investment climate and investor
caution about Russia,”  Yaroslav Lissovolik , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank in Moscow, said yesterday by phone. “To boost
economic growth rates, Russia needs above all to make the
economy more attractive for investment.”  To lure investment, Medvedev has pledged to sell stakes in
state companies such as OAO Rosneft, the country’s largest oil
producer, to reduce the state’s sway over the economy.  The economy should pick up in the second half on growth in
the agricultural sector, Lissovolik said. So far, this year’s
wheat harvest is 11 percent higher than a year ago, while yields
are 35 percent better, the  Agriculture Ministry  said yesterday.
Russia endured its worst drought in half a century last year.  “The third quarter may be significantly better because of
agriculture,” Otkritie’s Tikhomirov said. “A good harvest may
drive the economy to 4.5 percent growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 