-- 
Samsung to Fight Apple’s Win on German Galaxy Tablet Order

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-10T18:41:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/samsung-to-fight-german-galaxy-tablet-injunction-won-by-apple.html
Samsung Electronics Co. will seek to
lift a temporary order won by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  that may stop sales of
the Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer in most European Union
countries.  Samsung will file its opposition in the Dusseldorf Regional
Court, which issued the injunction, Annika Karstadt, a German
spokeswoman for the Suwon, South Korea-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The court issued the order under an
emergency procedure without a hearing.  “We will take all necessary measures to ensure that
Samsung’s innovative mobile-communication devices are available
for customers in  Europe  and around the world,” Karstadt said.  Apple, which said yesterday it won the injunction, contends
Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet computer “slavishly copy”
the iPhone and iPad. Apple is also seeking a court order to
block sales in the U.S. until a trial can be held on patent-
infringement claims there. In  Australia , Samsung has agreed not
to introduce a version of the Galaxy tablet until an Apple
lawsuit there is resolved.  Court hearings on the issue were scheduled for today and
tomorrow in the Netherlands, the only EU country where the
German order isn’t applicable.  Peter Schuetz, Dusseldorf Regional Court spokesman, said
the injunction was issued yesterday. Samsung told him Apple has
served it with the order, he said.  Origins of Dispute  Apple must protect its intellectual property when other
companies are stealing its ideas, a German spokesman for the
Cupertino, California-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  The dispute began in April when Apple sued Samsung in the
U.S. claiming that the Galaxy products imitated Apple designs
and technology. Samsung, which supplies memory chips for Apple,
has retaliated with lawsuits in  South Korea , Japan,  Germany  and
the U.S.  Apple also has patent-infringement claims against Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. over its Xoom tablet computer. Motorola
sued Apple first in Germany in April, and Apple responded by
filing claims in May, said Christa Smith, a spokeswoman for
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility.  “Motorola has reviewed Apple’s claims and believe they
have no merit,” Smith said. “We intend to vigorously defend
Motorola’s own product designs.”  The companies also have dueling litigation in the U.S. --
Motorola Mobility filed the first complaint against Apple at the
U.S.  International Trade Commission  in October, and Apple
countered the same month. The commission has the authority to
block imports into the U.S.  Motorola Mobility’s case against Apple at the ITC,
scheduled for trial later this month, has been postponed because
of the recent retirement of the judge assigned to the case.
Apple’s claims against Motorola Mobility at the agency in
 Washington  are scheduled for trial in September.  The German case against Samsung is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  