-- 
Sarulla Consortium Hires Banks for $410 Million Geothermal Loan

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-08-10T01:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/sarulla-consortium-hires-banks-for-410-million-geothermal-loan.html
A consortium formed to build the
Sarulla geothermal power project in  Indonesia  hired six banks to
help arrange a $410 million loan, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd.,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. will market the
20-year project finance facility to other lenders, the person
said, asking not to be identified as details are private. The
loan will pay a margin of around 200 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate, the person said.  The Sarulla power project will require total financing of
$1.26 billion, the person said. A further $600 million will come
from the  Japan  Bank for International Cooperation while another
$250 million will be lent by the  Asian Development Bank , the
person said.   PT Medco Energi Internasional, Indonesia’s biggest publicly
traded oil company, U.S. turbine manufacturer  Ormat Industries (ORMT) 
Ltd. and Japan’s  Itochu Corp. (8001)  won a contract in 2006 to
construct and operate the 340-megawatt geothermal power plant,
which will be located in Sumatra, an island in the Southeast
Asian nation’s north. Kyushu Electric Power Co. signed an
agreement in 2007 to join the group.  Upon completion, the plant will be the largest single-
contract geothermal power project, according to information
about the project located on the ADB’s website.  PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara, Indonesia’s state-owned
electricity company, signed an agreement with Medco Energi to
buy electricity from the plant under a 30-year contract, Listrik
Negara President Director Dahlan Iskan said in April last year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  