-- 
Saudis Pump Most Oil in 30 Years, Boosting OPEC July Output

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-08-10T08:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/saudis-pump-most-oil-in-30-years-boosting-opec-output-iea-says.html
Saudi Arabia  pumped the most oil in
three decades last month, reaching 9.8 million barrels a day and
boosting OPEC production, the  International Energy Agency  said.
Increased output in Angola helped replace lower supply in  Libya .  Daily supply from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ 12 members rose to 30.05 million barrels a day in
July from 29.94 million in June, the Paris-based IEA said today
in its monthly oil market report.  “Output has regained levels close to those seen before the
Libyan crisis, although OPEC spare capacity now stands at only
3.3 million barrels per day,” the IEA said. Production is still
below what the market demands, even as Saudi Arabia ramps up
output to the highest level since 1981.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s top producer, has replaced almost 70
percent of lost Libyan crude, the IEA said. The Kingdom will
boost output further to ship an extra 3 million barrels of oil
to  India  in August to compensate for lower Iranian supplies.  Output in  Iran , OPEC’s second-biggest producer, fell to the
lowest in more than eight and a half years, dipping to 3.53
million barrels a day, the IEA said. Exports to India were
reduced by a seven-month dispute over payments.  Libyan Output  Libya’s daily production slumped by a further 20,000
barrels in July to 60,000 barrels. Output is now reportedly
entirely shut in, down from about 1.6 million barrels of daily
output at the end of last year, due to violence between anti-
government rebels and forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  Angola pumped 1.66 million barrels a day in July, its
highest output in a year, after completing maintenance on
fields, the IEA said. Capacity may rise to 2 million barrels a
day by the end of the year as new projects begin producing,
according to the report.  Output from the 11 members bound by quotas rose to 27.37
million barrels a day in July from 27.22 million in June, the
IEA said. That implies a compliance rate of 40 percent with
OPEC’s production targets, compared with 43 percent in June.  OPEC, provider of about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
set its biggest-ever supply cuts in late 2008 amid a collapse in
global demand. The decision capped production at 24.845 million
barrels a day for all members except  Iraq , which is exempt from
the quota system. Members have largely exceeded quotas this year
as they sought to take advantage of higher global crude prices
earlier this year and to make up for the lack of Libyan crude.  Compliance percentages are based on combined output from
the 11 members that committed to reduce from a base production
rate in September 2008 of 29.045 million barrels a day.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 