-- 
Sbarro Pizza-Restaurant Chain Files Plan to Restructure, Exit Bankruptcy

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-10T15:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/sbarro-pizza-restaurant-chain-files-plan-to-restructure-exit-bankruptcy.html
Sbarro Inc., the pizza restaurant
chain that entered bankruptcy this year, proposed a
restructuring plan that would give ownership of the company to
senior lenders.  The plan, which requires court approval, would reduce its
debt by 73 percent, or $295 million, and convert senior debt to
equity, Sbarro said today in a statement.  “The plan gives us a clear path to emerge from the
bankruptcy process with significantly reduced debt and increased
financial flexibility and liquidity,” Nicholas McGrane, interim
president and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Sbarro owns and franchises more than 1,000 fast-food
Italian restaurants worldwide. The Sbarro family founded the
company as a single Italian delicatessen more than half a
century ago in  Brooklyn ,  New York , according to its website. The
family opened its first mall location about a decade later.  The Melville, New York-based company filed for bankruptcy
in April, blaming reduced consumer traffic at shopping malls,
where most of its stores are located, and increased competition
at food courts.  When the company filed for Chapter 11, it said it had
negotiated a restructuring agreement backed by Ares Management
LLC and MidOcean Partners. MidOcean owns Sbarro, according to
Sbarro’s website, and Ares owns senior notes, according to court
papers.  Agreement Ended  In May, Sbarro said it was terminating the agreement with
Ares and MidOcean and would continue negotiations with creditors
and a potential buyer.  Sbarro said it intends to hold an auction to allow bidders
to make rival offers. It is in discussions “with a number of
interested parties” that may submit competing proposals, the
company said.  Under the proposed plan, about $173 million in first-lien
debt would be converted into part of an exit term loan facility
and 100 percent of the common equity of the reorganized company,
subject to dilution by shares issued under a management equity
plan, the company said.  Second-lien debt and senior notes will be canceled under
the plan, according to court papers.  The case is In re Sbarro, 11-11527,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 