-- 
SEC Freezes Assets Tied to Investor Suspected of Swindling College Coaches

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-08-10T22:55:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/sec-reaches-accord-on-asset-freeze-in-suit-over-coaches-money-manager.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission reached an agreement freezing assets connected to an
investment manager suspected of swindling clients including
college basketball coaches out of more than $50 million.  The manager, J. David Salinas, killed himself last month
while federal agents investigated him and his companies for
running a  Ponzi scheme , allegedly selling investors bonds that
didn’t exist. The SEC filed a fraud lawsuit Aug. 1 against
Salinas’s estate, his companies including Select Asset
Management and J. David Group, and Brian A. Bjork, chief
investment officer of Select Asset.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison on Aug. 1 ordered a
temporary hold on the assets of the Salinas estate, his
companies and Bjork. The defendants agreed to accept the asset
freeze while the lawsuit is pending, according to filings in
federal court in Houston.  Bjork agreed to the preliminary asset freeze in exchange
for the right to “keep assets valued at up to $10,000 to cover
reasonable and ordinary household and living expenses,” Timothy McCole, SEC attorney, said in a court filing. Bjork agreed to
submit monthly bank records to Steven Harr, the court-appointed
receiver in the case.  Bjork agreed to an order by Ellison today prohibiting him
from engaging in fraud or violating securities laws. He agreed
to this “without admitting or denying the allegations contained
in the complaint in this case,” Ellison said.  Swindled Investors  Securities regulators asked to extend the asset freeze to
ensure reimbursements to swindled investors. The SEC accuses
Salinas, his companies and Bjork of defrauding clients of more
than $50 million beginning in 2004.  “Bjork and Salinas promised investors safe, fixed-income
by investing in highly rated corporate and other bonds with
annual yields up to 9 percent,” the SEC said. “In reality, the
J. David Group corporate bond offering was bogus.”  The investors included college basketball coaches such as
Lute Olson, formerly of the  University of Arizona , and Scott Drew of Baylor University. Salinas was a founder of an elite
high school summer basketball program in Houston and a donor to
college sports programs.  Matt Hennessy, Bjork’s lawyer, said today in a phone
interview that his client wasn’t part of any fraud and is
cooperating with the investigation into what happened to
investors’ money. Salinas left a note before his death claiming
sole responsibility for his actions and absolving Bjork and
others, Hennessy said.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, said the agency had no
comment beyond its court filings.  Gunshot Wound  Salinas, 60, was found dead of a gunshot wound on July 17
at his home in the Houston suburb of Friendswood,  Texas . His
death certificate lists the cause of death as suicide, according
to the Galveston County Medical Examiner’s Office.  The SEC claims that investors were sold corporate bonds and
were issued monthly account statements to reflect their
holdings.  “Neither Salinas nor Bjork, through J. David Group, J.
David Financial, Select Asset, or otherwise, had ever actually
acquired the bonds reflected in the account statements,” the
SEC said. “The bond offering was a sham.”  The case is SEC v. Bjork, 11-cv-02830, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  