-- 
SEC Sues Stifel Over Wisconsin School Losses Tied to $200 Million of CDOs

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-10T23:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/sec-sues-stifel-for-fraud-on-losses-after-200-million-wisconsin-cdo-sales.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued broker Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. for fraud,
claiming it misled five  Wisconsin  school districts about the
risks of complex investments that wiped out $200 million.  Stifel and David Noack, a former executive, masked the
risks in persuading the schools to buy notes tied to synthetic
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, a type of derivative
linked to corporate bonds, the SEC said today in a complaint
brought against the two in U.S. District Court in Milwaukee.  While the schools lost their entire investment, Stifel and
Noack, 48, received “significant fees,” the agency said in a
statement. The districts used $37.3 million of their own cash
and borrowed $162.7 million to invest in the securities in 2006,
trying to produce earnings to help pay retiree health costs. The
SEC said the firm and Noack misled officials about the risks of
products typically sold to hedge funds, banks and insurers.  “Stifel and Noack abused their longstanding relationships
of trust with the school districts by fraudulently peddling
these inappropriate products to them,” Elaine Greenberg, head
of the SEC’s unit that handles municipal bond cases, said in the
statement. “They were clearly aware that the school districts
could ill afford to bear the risk of catastrophic loss.”  Shares Drop  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the broker’s St. Louis-based
parent, fell $2.72 a share, or 9.5 percent, to $25.88 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after dropping
as much as 19 percent, the most in more than 19 years.  Stifel said the notes were rated AA- when they were sold to
the districts and faulted  RBC Capital Markets , a New York unit
of Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada, for the loss. The bank
and its affiliates created the investments, according to the
SEC, which didn’t accuse the bank in its complaint.  “Based on what we knew in 2006, the investments were
suitable,” Stifel said in a statement. “To allege in 2011 that
Stifel should have foreseen the 2008 economic collapse, the
structural flaws in derivatives which caused billions of dollars
in losses, as well as the misrepresentations and conflicts
Stifel believes RBC hid from it and the school districts, is
20/20 hindsight.”  The districts acknowledged in writing that they were
“sophisticated” investors who understood the risks of the
products and who could withstand losses, Stifel said. AA- is
 Standard & Poor’s  fourth-highest credit rating.  Deflecting Blame  “We take exception to Stifel’s attempt to deflect blame
without acknowledging their own, central role in the school
districts’ losses,”  Kevin Foster , an RBC Capital spokesman,
said by e-mail. He said Stifel created the investment program,
asked Wall Street banks to participate and sold it to the
districts, while representing to RBC that it was suitable.  Ron Kane, a lawyer for Noack, didn’t return telephone calls
seeking comment. A call to a telephone number listed in Noack’s
name in Hartland, Wisconsin, went unanswered.  The SEC action follows lawsuits by the school districts and
a government initiative to crack down on municipal  securities
fraud . The agency has also brought other cases tied to CDOs,
including suing Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year.  Stifel and Noack persuaded the school districts to invest
in the derivatives, providing a kind of insurance on the
underlying assets.  Publicly Funded Insurance  “In effect, Stifel and Noack persuaded the school
districts essentially to insure the performance of a select
group of corporate bonds, and do so with public funds,” the SEC
said in its complaint.  The districts -- serving Kenosha, the Kimberly area,
Waukesha, West Allis-West  Milwaukee , and Whitefish Bay -- were
sold the investments as a means to help cover retiree health
costs that they hadn’t set aside money to fund, the SEC said.  The investments, in three transactions from June to
December 2006, were unsuitable for the districts, which had no
experience with CDOs and related instruments, the SEC said. The
agency said that Noack also misled district officials about the
chances of failure for the investments.  Stifel and Noack knew the districts lacked the
sophistication and expertise to evaluate the risks they were
taking, relying instead on recommendations from the company and
Noack, the SEC said.  Noack also gave “sweeping assurances” as to the safety of
the investments, the SEC said. In one instance, Noack and the
company said that 100 of the top 800 companies in the world
would have to go under before the school districts would lose
their principal, according to the complaint. They also told the
districts it would take the collapse of “15 Enrons” for the
investments to fail, a reference to Enron Corp., the Houston
energy trader that went bankrupt in December 2001.  ‘Teaching Moment’  “Let this be a teaching moment for sellers of complex
financial products,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s
Enforcement Division, said in the statement. Those who push such
investments must meet standards of disclosure and ensure the
suitability of the products for the buyer, he said.  “Stifel and Noack violated these standards and jeopardized
the ability of the school districts to fund operations and
provide a quality education to students,” he said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stifel
Nicolaus & Co Inc., 11-cv-00755 U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  