-- 
SEC to Settle Lawsuit Against Ex-FrontPoint Partners Hedge Fund Manager

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-10T21:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/sec-to-settle-lawsuit-against-ex-frontpoint-partners-hedge-fund-manager.html
Ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC hedge
 fund manager  Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron and the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission agreed in principle to settle a lawsuit,
according to court papers.  Skowron, who also charged by federal prosecutors as part of
a nationwide insider-trading crackdown, last week agreed to
waive his right to be indicted, the government said in a court
filing. Defendants regularly take that step when agreeing to
plead guilty.  Skowron surrendered in April to Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents in New York to face charges of conspiracy,
 securities fraud  and obstruction. Prosecutors accused him of
obtaining information from an insider about hepatitis C drug
trials enabled Greenwich, Connecticut-based FrontPoint to avoid
more than $30 million in losses.  The SEC separately accused Skowron of  insider trading  in a
lawsuit filed the same day of his surrender.  The defendant and the staff of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement have agreed in principle to the terms of a
settlement that the division will recommend that the commission
accept and that would “fully resolve the SEC’s claims against
defendant,” lawyers for the SEC and Skowron said in a court
filing dated today.  The government claims Skowron obtained nonpublic
information from Yves Benhamou, an expert in hepatitis drugs and
former adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  who has pleaded
guilty in the case.  Skowron, the co-portfolio manager of FrontPoint’s health-
care funds, was placed on leave in November after Benhamou was
arrested. The funds were closed.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission vs.
Benhamou, 10-cv-8266, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 