-- 
Serbian Central Bank May Lower Benchmark Rate as Inflation Pressures Ease

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-08-10T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/serbian-central-bank-may-lower-benchmark-rate-as-inflation-pressures-ease.html
Serbia ’s central bank will lower its
benchmark  interest rate , the second-highest in  Europe , for a
third consecutive meeting as inflationary pressures subside, a
survey of economists shows.  The Narodna Banka Srbije will cut the two-week repurchase
rate by a quarter-point to 11.5 percent today, according to 12
of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Four expect a half-point
decrease and six see no change. The rate, which is 10 times
higher than the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark, is topped in
Europe only by former Soviet republic Belarus. A reduction is
may also spur further dinar weakness, according to the survey.  Serbia is taking advantage of slowing inflation as it tries
to spur an economic recovery before starting talks to join the
European Union. A lowering of rates would buck the regional
trend amid Europe’s widening debt crisis and a faltering U.S.
economy.  Romania , the  Czech Republic ,  Russia , Hungary and  Poland 
have all held borrowing costs steady in the last month.  Rate-cut expectations are “motivated by perception that
inflation is all the central bank really cares about when it
comes to rate decisions, and since inflation is apparently going
to decline, they will continue lowering the interest rate”
regardless of global markets turmoil, said Aleksandar Jaredic,
head of treasury division at Belgrade-based Volksbanka a.d.  Inflation Peak  Serbian policy makers unexpectedly dropped the benchmark
rate by a half-point on June 9 to 12 percent on the belief
inflation has peaked and the possibility that the  consumer price
index  may fall below the target in the medium term.  The central bank is trying to contain prices through
inflation-targeting while the  International Monetary Fund  has
advised policy makers to further boost the use of the dinar in
the economy to make its policy decisions more effective.  The bank targets an inflation rate of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, this year and 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, next year. The June rate fell to
12.7 percent from 13.4 percent in May after peaking at 14.7
percent in April.  Food items make up 37.8 percent of the consumer-price
basket and with no disruptions to harvests, “one should
expect” food prices to start easing, said Predrag Stojanovic,
treasury department chief at Piraeus Bank a.d. Beograd.  Expectations  Inflationary expectations were unchanged for a fifth month
at 8 percent for the year ahead, according to the Bloomberg
survey.  The bank may be better off waiting on a rate cut as it
balances a weakening dinar along with inflation, said analysts
including Ljiljana Grubic at Belgrade-based Raiffeisenbank.  The dinar, which has dropped 1.3 percent against the euro
in the last month, traded at 102.49 to the common currency at in
Belgrade at 5:48 p.m., according to Bloomberg data.  “Even with a good farming season it’s too early for
another rate cut,” said Grubic. “The dinar weakening and its
volatility will definitely affect inflation.”  The dinar is seen in the Bloomberg survey at an average of
102 to the euro at the end of August, compared with 101.5 per
euro in last month’s poll. The market sees it at 103 to the euro
at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  