-- 
Serbian BELEX Stock Index Rises 8.58%, Tops Global Indexes

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-08-10T13:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/serbian-belex-stock-index-rises-8-58-tops-global-indexes-1-.html
Serbia ’s BELEX15 stock index rose
8.58 percent to close at 644.5 points today in Belgrade, led by
banking shares and outperforming worldwide share indexes,
according to Bloomberg data.  The rally, the highest daily move since May 2009, ended a
five-day decline in which Serbia’s index of the 15-most actively
traded assets shed 18.84 percent amid weak market liquidity and
on concern about the effects of the U.S. credit downgrade and
the debt crisis in Europe.  Stock market declines and a 3 percent drop in the dinar in
two days this week prompted Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  to
call a meeting with the central bank governor, members of his
Cabinet and the Fiscal Council to discuss the potential impact
of renewed global turmoil on Serbia. The government will issue a
statement after the meeting.  Serbian shares, still among the cheapest assets in  Europe ,
recovered as European stocks gained for a second day and
commodities rallied after the  Federal Reserve  said it will keep
 interest rates  at a record low for two more years.  “All eyes are on the U.S. markets,” Kristian Dinic, the
head of Belgrade-based  Ilirika Investments a.d.  brokers, said in
a phone interview. “We need to see if this is a dead cat bounce
or the recovery trend continues.”  ‘Buy Orders’  Vladan Rankov, the head of corporate services at the
Belgrade-based  WiseBroker , said that following two days of panic
and haste, the brokerage already had “buy orders from foreign
investment funds yesterday to take advantage of low prices.”  The BELEX15 outperformed stock indexes in  Brazil ,
Kazakhstan, Chile and Romania, according to Bloomberg data, led
by a 14.34 percent increase in AIK Banka a.d. and a 13.56
percent rise in Agrobanka a.d. shares. The most actively traded
Naftna Industrija Srbije AD rose 9.52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  