-- 
SingTel Posts Unexpected Profit Drop as Regional Units Drag Down Earnings

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-11T09:29:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/singtel-1st-quarter-profit-of-s-916-2-million-less-than-analysts-estimates.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest phone company, reported an unexpected
drop in first-quarter profit as costs cut earnings at home and
currency gains crimped income from regional businesses.  Net income fell 2.9 percent to S$916.2 million ($755
million), or 5.7 cents a share, in the three months ended in
June from S$943.2 million, or 5.9 cents, a year earlier, SingTel
said in a statement today. Analysts had expected profit would
rise to S$991 million, according to the average of three
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Six consecutive quarters of lower earnings at affiliate
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and
the  Singapore  dollar’s appreciation against nine major Asian
currencies this year are crimping overseas income. Earnings from
the Optus unit in  Australia  are rising, boosted by currency
gains and customers won from rivals, while program content costs
at its mioTV Internet protocol service cut profit at home.  “The currency is destroying all the fun and clearly the
risk of translating those earnings is going up,” said  Theo Maas , who holds SingTel stock among the $5.4 billion he helps
manage at Arnhem Investment Management Pty. in Sydney. “We’ve
been seeing those trends for mioTV for three of four quarters
now and the margins in Singapore were disappointing.”  SingTel fell 1 percent to $2.92 at the close of trading in
Singapore today, the lowest level in more than four months. The
 Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  dropped 0.9 percent.  Australian Gains  International associates such as Bharti in India and
Africa, Telkomsel in Indonesia,  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC)  in
 Thailand  and Globe in the  Philippines , contributed S$472 million
to earnings, down 10 percent from a year earlier.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization from Singapore operations fell 4 percent to S$567
million on mioTV costs. Revenue rose 2 percent.  Income at Sydney-based Optus, Australia’s second-largest
phone company, rose 1 percent to A$560 million ($573 million)
after the company added mobile customers.  Optus and larger rival Telstra Corp. are both winning
customers from third-ranked Vodafone Hutchison Australia, which
last week reported the loss of 375,000 users in the six months
to June amid a rise in dropped calls and complaints.  Telstra, Australia’s largest telephone company, today
reported second-half earnings that beat analysts’ estimates
after winning more mobile-phone customers and cutting costs.  Telstra Earnings  Net income was A$2.04 billion in the six months ended June,
compared with the A$1.81 billion average forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of three analysts’ estimates, as the Melbourne-based
company added customers at a faster pace than Optus.  Telstra added 1.66 million new users in the past 12 months,
compared with 408,000 new mobile customers at Optus.  Telstra shares rose as much as 5.7 percent, the biggest
gain on an intraday basis since Nov. 25 and were trading 5
percent higher at A$2.97 as of 12:47 p.m. in Sydney.  SingTel, which owns minority stakes in six operators with
businesses across 25 countries, has 416 million mobile phone
customers, the company said in the statement.  In addition to its wholly owned units in Australia and
Singapore, the company has stakes in operators in India,
Pakistan,  Bangladesh , Thailand, the Philippines, and  Indonesia .  “Our Singapore and Australian businesses continue to
perform well, especially in the mobile segments,” Chief
Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong said in the statement.
“Geographical diversity helped reduce the impact of foreign
exchange volatility.”  New Delhi-based Bharti, of which SingTel owns a stake, last
week reported a 27 percent drop in quarterly profit amid higher
borrowing costs and the start of new services.  Earnings from PT Telekomunikasi Selular Tbk in Indonesia,
dropped 4.8 percent in Singapore dollars even as profit in local
currency terms rose 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  