-- 
Singapore Miracle Dimming as Income Gap Widens Squeeze by Rich

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-08-10T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/singapore-miracle-dimming-as-income-gap-widens-squeeze-by-rich.html
Economic miracles sometimes need
course corrections, even in  Singapore , which last year was home
to more U.S. dollar-millionaire households per capita than any
other country, according to Boston Consulting Group Inc.  From 1959 onward, under the leadership of Lee Kuan Yew and
his successors, Singapore transformed itself into a rich hub for
a range of industries, from financial services to
transportation, to pharmaceuticals, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in the September issue. From 1960 to 2010, the city-
state’s GDP increased 41-fold, to 285 billion Singapore dollars,
as it became the world’s second-busiest container port and
fourth-largest financial center. Three of the world’s six
strongest banks are based in Singapore, according to a June
Bloomberg Markets ranking.  As non-Singaporean workers and companies have poured into
what the  World Bank  says is the easiest place on earth to do
business, some Singaporeans have been left behind. The  income
gap  between richest and poorest has widened in recent years,
according to the government statistics department.  Non-Singaporeans now make up more than one-third of the
island’s population of 5 million. The influx of wealthy
expatriates has inflated demand for housing, pushing up prices,
while the opposition Workers’ Party argues that large numbers of
immigrant laborers have depressed local wages.  ‘Learn and Lead’  Against this backdrop, the voters in May’s general election
handed the ruling People’s Action Party (PAP) its smallest
margin of victory since 1965. While the PAP still collected 60
percent of the votes cast, the decline from previous showings
was bracing enough for Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,  Lee Kuan
Yew ’s eldest son, to promise a period of soul-searching.  The government pledged to pay attention to the electorate.
“My mantra is to listen, learn and lead,” says Lui Tuck Yew, the
new transport minister.  The Workers’ Party, which won six seats in  Parliament  (up
from one in the 2006 election), called it a watershed election.
Some Singaporeans went further. Catherine Lim, a best-selling
novelist and political commentator, said the electoral landscape
had turned toxic for the PAP by the time voters went to the
polls. “This election shocked them like no other,” Lim, 69,
says. “I call it a renaissance -- a Singapore revolution of
sorts, like the Arab Spring.”  In reality, Singapore bears little resemblance to the
fragile autocracies of countries in North Africa and the  Middle
East , politically or economically.  Hybrid Democracy  Lee Kuan Yew co-founded the PAP and was the world’s
longest-serving prime minister when he stepped down in 1990
after 31 years in office. He presided over a hybrid democracy:
Though political opposition was minimal, there were regular
elections. Remaining in the cabinet first as senior minister and
then as minister mentor, Lee was succeeded by Goh Chok Tong and,
in 2004, by Lee Hsien Loong.  Over the decades, the city-state achieved its success by
encouraging foreign investment, avoiding corruption and
emphasizing discipline, efficiency and interracial harmony. In
order to reduce Singapore’s reliance on exports, successive
governments encouraged the growth of new industries through
business-friendly taxes and a minimum of red tape.  The Singaporean economy has grown mostly without
interruption since 1986. The exceptions are a 2.1 percent
contraction during the Asian financial crisis in 1998, a 1.2
percent decline in 2001 after the dot-com bubble burst and a 0.8
percent decrease during the 2009 global financial crisis.  Casino Gambling  While Macau,  China , has been the world’s biggest player in
casino gambling since it overtook  Las Vegas  in 2006, Singapore
will move into second place by the end of this year, forecasts
Frank Fahrenkopf, president of the American Gaming Association.  In 2005, as part of an effort to further diversify the
economy, the government lifted a four-decade ban on casinos.
Singapore moved with lightning speed: The island’s two huge
gaming resorts opened last year. The casinos say they employ
about 21,600 people and had attracted almost 35 million people
as of recently.  Immigration has driven Singapore’s development. Smaller
than  New York City  in area, the city-state has few natural
resources. It has one of the lowest fertility rates in the
world: 1.2 births per woman compared with 2.1 in the U.S.,
according to 2009  World Bank  data.  ‘An Invasion’  To fuel its ambitions, Singapore attracted globe-trotting
professionals and entrepreneurs from places such as  North
America ,  Europe  and  India , as well as lower-paid laborers from
countries including China, the  Philippines  and  Bangladesh .  “It feels like an invasion because one day you wake up and
there seem to be foreigners wherever you go,” says Dixon Chew,
34, a Singaporean maintenance engineer. “It used to be that most
of the foreign workers were maids or laborers, but now they’re
driving the buses, they’re taking your orders at McDonald’s,
they’re the cashiers at the supermarkets.”  Unaccustomed as it is to opposition, the ruling PAP may
have underestimated popular discontent, says  Vishnu Varathan , an
economist at  Capital Economics  ( Asia ) Pte in Singapore. “The
government has missed some clues, and there are very legitimate
reasons why people are unhappy,” he says. “The onus is on the
PAP to show that it is not old wine in a new bottle or it will
continue to lose votes.”  After the election, Lee Hsien Loong moved quickly to show
he had heard the voters. He reshuffled his cabinet. The
government announced plans to release more land for
homebuilding.  Coded Language  It also said it would review ministerial salaries that are
among the highest in the world: Prime Minister Lee made $2.1
million in 2009, while cabinet ministers earned about $1.1
million each.  Lee Kuan Yew, who turns 88 on Sept. 16, left the cabinet,
as did Goh, who had assumed the role of senior minister in 2004.
In somewhat coded language, the elder Lee and Goh said in a
statement a week after the election that it was time for change
in Singapore.  “We have made our contributions to the development of
Singapore,” they said. “The time has come for a younger
generation to carry Singapore forward in a more difficult and
complex situation.”  The government began to address immigration before the
election. “We have moved quite fast over the last five years,”
Lee Hsien Loong said last year. “But now, I think we should
consolidate, slow down the pace. We cannot continue going like
this and  increasing our population  100,000, 150,000 a year
indefinitely, and we should give Singaporeans time to adjust and
our society time to settle and integrate better the newer
arrivals.”  Reaching Out  In that vein, the government granted 48,023 permanent-
residence and citizenship applications in 2010, down about 40
percent from 79,388 the year before.  Ministers are increasingly reaching out to the public. Some
are connecting in time-worn ways. In June, Minister for
Environment and Water Resources Vivian Balakrishnan waded
through a shopping mall to see firsthand the effects of a flash
flood.  Others are flocking to the Internet. “I will consult
widely, with experts, customers, industry players and
Singaporeans,” Minister for National Development Khaw Boon Wan
said on his Housing Matters blog.  Adapting to shifting currents is something that Singapore
has excelled at since Lee Kuan Yew came to power a half century
ago. His exit marks more than a symbolic threshold for Singapore
and for his son. The government recognizes that popular demands
at home can’t go unmet.  ‘Significant Concerns’  “Singapore has entered a new phase in its political
development,” Lee Hsien Loong said at the swearing-in ceremony
of his new cabinet in May. “It is clear that Singaporeans do
have significant concerns over both the substance of government
policies and the way they are implemented. In implementation,
our approach must be more flexible, thoughtful and
compassionate.”  Lee’s challenge will be to keep making the city-state his
father built attractive to business and foreign workers while
making sure born-and-bred Singaporeans continue to get a piece
of the economic miracle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill in New York at   mserrill@bloomberg.net  