-- 
Singapore Cuts 2011 Export Growth Forecast as Risks to Global Economy Rise

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-08-10T03:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/singapore-cuts-export-growth-forecast-as-risks-to-global-recovery-increase.html
Singapore  cut its forecast for
export growth this year as a struggling U.S. economy and
Europe’s debt crisis threaten overseas sales, valued at more
than half of the island’s gross domestic product.  Non-oil domestic exports will probably rise 6 percent to 7
percent in 2011, less than a previous forecast for shipments to
grow 8 percent to 10 percent, the trade promotion agency said in
a statement today. Gross domestic product fell an annualized 6.5
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months,
compared with a preliminary estimate of 7.8 percent, the trade
ministry said separately.  Asia  faces the risks of weakening export demand and rising
currencies after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its U.S. credit rating
and a sell-off in Italian and Spanish debt intensified risks to
world growth. A global stocks rout in the past week may put
pressure on central banks to delay further monetary policy
tightening after the region led  interest-rate  increases in the
past year, even as inflation remains elevated.  “The effects of slower global growth are usually more
pronounced in Singapore than other Asian countries because it is
more open,” said Wai Ho Leong, senior regional economist at
 Barclays Capital  in Singapore. “Still, domestic demand is
running at a high note. Inflation is still going to be with us
in the second half so the central bank will maintain a strong
Singapore dollar policy at about the current pace.”  Singapore Dollar  The currency, the best performer in Asia this year among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, pared gains to 0.3 percent
after the economic report, trading at S$1.2095 against its U.S.
counterpart as of 11:05 a.m. local time, from as much as 0.6
percent previously.  The  Singapore dollar  has reached unprecedented levels since
the central bank said in April it would allow further
appreciation to tame price gains, the third policy tightening in
a year. The monetary authority raised its inflation estimate for
2011 to 4 percent to 5 percent last month, from a previous
estimate of 3 percent to 4 percent.  Singapore’s monetary policy stance remains appropriate, Ong Chong Tee, deputy managing director at the central bank, told
reporters today. Policy makers are giving equal priority to
containing inflation and spurring growth, Kwek Mean Luck, a
deputy secretary at the trade ministry, said at the same
briefing.  Volatile Economy  Singapore will be one of the main beneficiaries of inflows
into the region as global funds step up diversification into
non-dollar assets after the U.S. rating downgrade, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. It is the only economy in  Southeast Asia 
with a top rating from S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings.  Still, Singapore remains vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas orders for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts financial services and tourism, making it the most
volatile Asian economy, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The
island, located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-
kilometer) Malacca Strait, is home to the world’s second-busiest
container port.  “Singapore is historically more sensitive to a U.S. and
global downturn,” Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said before the report.
“Inflation remains high while growth is stalling. The Monetary
Authority of Singapore faces a difficult policy decision in
October.”  Growth Forecast  Gross domestic product will probably rise 5 percent to 6
percent this year, less than an earlier estimate of growth of as
much as 7 percent, the trade ministry said today. Prime Minister
Lee Hsien Loong first gave the new forecast on Aug. 8.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Credit Suisse have also cut their 2011 growth estimates for
Singapore in the past week.  Downside risks have increased amid “sluggish” growth in
developed economies, the trade ministry said today. Market
sentiment remains fragile in the European Union amid concern of
contagion from the peripheral economies to the wider region, it
said.  “Concerns of a double-dip recession in the U.S. have
emerged, as upcoming plans for fiscal consolidation and weak
labor and housing markets dampen consumer and business
sentiments,” it said. “Should these situations worsen,
Singapore’s economic growth could be lower than expected.”  Market Confidence  Europe ’s debt woes and a struggling U.S. economy have
contributed to a loss in investor confidence that has wiped
about $9 trillion off stocks worldwide since the beginning of
May. The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged yesterday for the first
time to keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low at
least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  The Fed’s announcement “helps to stem the lack of
confidence in the market,” Kwek said.  The People’s Bank of China will leave borrowing costs
unchanged for the rest of this year, according to eight of 10
analysts surveyed yesterday. Economists’ median forecast is for
 South Korea  to extend a pause for a second month tomorrow, while
 Indonesia  stayed on hold yesterday.  Singapore’s GDP increased 0.9 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 0.4
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  