-- 
SNB May Use Unorthodox Measures to Curb Franc’s Advance, Bank Sarasin Say

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-10T14:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/snb-may-use-unorthodox-measures-to-curb-franc-s-advance-bank-sarasin-say.html
The  Swiss National Bank  may
introduce “unorthodox measures” to curb currency gains,
according to a report by Bank Sarasin published yesterday.  The SNB trimmed borrowing costs to zero on Aug. 3 and said
today it will “significantly increase” the supply of liquidity
to the money market, after the franc yesterday strengthened to
record levels versus the euro and dollar.  “We do not think the SNB will shy away from unorthodox
measures, such as penalty interest rates on franc deposits, if
the data continues to deteriorate,” wrote Jan Amrit Poser,
chief economist at Bank Sarasin in the report. “The central
bank has burnt its fingers in the past with currency
interventions and will only resort to this option in an extreme
situation. This means the downside potential of the euro-franc
pair is limited, while its upside potential is also limited for
the present.”  Swiss policy makers quadrupled the bank’s holdings of
foreign currencies in the 15 months through mid-June 2010, as it
struggled to control the surging franc through interventions in
the  currency markets , but the measure resulted in a record loss
of $21 billion last year.  The Swiss franc has jumped 24 percent year-to-date against
a basket of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, as investors seek a haven
from market turmoil and European sovereign debt concerns.  “The franc has appreciated against the euro by 40 percent
since the beginning of 2009,” Poser wrote. “No economy on
earth can cope with such a loss of competitiveness in the long
run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 