-- 
SNB Steps Up Franc Fight to Counter ‘Massive Overvaluation’

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-10T15:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/snb-steps-up-franc-fight-on-overvaluation-.html
The Swiss central bank stepped up
its fight to counter what it called a “massive overvaluation”
of the currency by boosting liquidity. The franc dropped.  The  Swiss National Bank  will “significantly increase” the
supply of liquidity to the money market and expand banks’ sight
deposits to 120 billion francs ($165 billion) from 80 billion
francs. It will also conduct foreign-exchange swap transactions
to create liquidity, a measure last used in 2008, it said in an
e-mailed statement from Zurich today.  The franc has been pushed to records against the euro and
the dollar, reflecting investor concern that the euro region’s
fiscal crisis may continue to worsen and the Standard & Poor
decision to strip the U.S. of its AAA credit rating. While the
SNB trimmed borrowing costs to zero on Aug. 3 and almost tripled
sight deposits to 80 billion francs, the currency continued to
appreciate, choking economic growth and exports.  “There is a chance that they will be successful in
stabilizing the franc at its current level,” said  Marcus Hettinger , a foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Zurich. If they don’t, they may “resort to further
measures like interventions.”  The franc traded at 1.03241 versus the euro at 5:12 p.m. in
Zurich. It reached a record 1.0075 yesterday, bringing its gain
this year to 20 percent. Against the dollar, the currency was at
72.82 centimes, down from an all-time high of 70.71 centimes
yesterday.  ‘Massive Overvaluation’  SNB Vice President Thomas Jordan said in an interview with
Weltwoche magazine published today that policy makers are
assessing “a whole range of measures” to counter further franc
gains if needed. He declined to elaborate.  The franc dropped against all of its 16 major peers tracked
by Bloomberg after today’s decision. It has jumped 23 percent
year-to-date against a basket of nine developed-market
currencies, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  With exports accounting for about half of gross domestic
product, the Swiss economy is vulnerable to an appreciating
franc.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company based in
Vevey,  Switzerland , said today the franc’s strength stripped 14
percentage points off its first-half sales growth.  ‘Safe-Haven Trades’  Peter Rosenstreich, Geneva-based chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA, said today’s decision is “probably not
going to be enough” to stop the franc from appreciating.  “At some point we are going to see an intervention by the
SNB, just because they can’t handle this rate of appreciation,”
he said. “I’m not sure that even if they intervene, the will
for safe-haven trades dissipates.”  While the franc’s ascent is making exports less
competitive, it’s also increasing deflation risks as the economy
cools. Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in July from a year
earlier after increasing an annual 0.6 percent in June.  “The massive overvaluation of the franc poses a threat to
the development of the economy in Switzerland and has further
increased the downside risks to  price stability ,” the SNB said.
“The SNB is keeping a close watch on developments on the
foreign-exchange market and on financial markets. If necessary,
it will take further measures against the strength of the
franc.”  The SNB will hold its next quarterly rate assessment on
Sept. 15 in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  