-- 
Societe Generale Leads Fall in French Banks as Credit-Default Swaps Climb

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-08-10T14:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/socgen-leads-fall-in-french-banks-as-credit-default-swaps-gain.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA posted a record
decline and led a drop in French banking shares as the cost of
insuring the country’s government bonds increased.  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank, paced a retreat in Italian banks
after the country’s credit-default swaps widened.  Societe Generale shares slumped as much as 23 percent and
were down 16 percent at 21.89 euros at 4:27 p.m. in Paris.
Credit-default swaps on the bank rose 29 basis points to a
record 299 basis points.  Societe Generale “categorically denies all market rumors,”
Emmanuelle Renaudat, a spokeswoman for the French bank said in
an interview. She declined to be more specific.  Bank shares lost 5.3 percent, for the biggest decline among
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and the
steepest drop since May 2009. French and Italian banks led the
retreat.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA shed 11 percent to 35.06 euros and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  sank 15 percent to 5.82 euros.  “If credit default swaps on  France  are under attack,
that’s not a good sign,” said Yves Marcais, a sales trader at
Global Equities in Paris. “That means that France is under
attack and that’s worrisome. French banks hold a lot of French
bonds.”  The cost to insure French government debt against default
rose 10 basis points to a record 171 basis points, according to
CMA.  The FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index fell as much as 9.4
percent, the most since May 2010. UniCredit dropped as much as
9.1 percent, and was down 8.9 cents to 98 cents by 4:40 p.m.,
giving the bank a market value of 19 billion euros ($27
billion).  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-largest lender, lost
as much as 13 percent, and was down 17 cents to 1.14 euros.  Rome  Meeting  Italian government officials are meeting representatives of
labor unions and business executives in Rome to discuss the
country’s austerity initiatives amid the euro region’s debt
crisis. The meeting follows the Aug. 6 announcement by Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  that Italy will balance the budget in
2013, a year earlier than previously planned, to prevent a
contagion to Europe’s third-biggest economy.  The European Central Bank bought Spanish and Italian bonds
today, according to four people with knowledge of the
transactions. The amount of securities acquired by the central
bank was smaller than in the past two days, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the trades are
confidential.  Buying Bonds  An ECB spokesman declined to comment on whether the central
bank bought the bonds.  European Central Bank  President Jean-
Claude Trichet signaled on Aug. 7 he was ready to start buying
Italian and Spanish debt.  Investors currently demand about 90 basis points of extra
yield to buy 10-year French debt rather than German bunds, even
though both carry AAA grades from the major rating companies.
That spread is almost triple the 2010 average of 33, and
compares with 17 in the second half of the previous decade.  French bonds are the most costly AAA government securities
to insure as investors raise bets that top-rated euro-region
nations may be next in the firing line after the U.S. was
downgraded by one notch to AA+ by S&P on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Whitehouse at 
 dwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  