-- 
Societe Generale Denies ‘Rumors,’ Seeks Probe as Shares Drop

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-08-11T05:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/societe-generale-leads-fall-in-french-banks-as-credit-default-swaps-climb.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s
second-largest bank, denied “all market rumors” and asked the
nation’s market watchdog for an investigation after speculation
France’s creditworthiness was in doubt sent the shares tumbling.  The lender’s performance in July and early August shows it
will be able to post “solid” results in the future, Paris-
based Societe Generale said in a statement after the market
closed yesterday. The bank asked France’s Autorite des Marches
Financiers to open a probe into the origin of speculation that
is “extremely harmful to the interests of its shareholders.”  Societe Generale led European bank stocks to the lowest
since the aftermath of the credit crisis yesterday, tumbling 15
percent in Paris, the biggest drop since Oct. 27, 2008. France’s
top credit rating was affirmed by all three major rating
companies as speculation that  Europe ’s debt crisis would spread
to the region’s second-biggest economy pushed the cost of
insuring its government debt against default to a record.  “There is no indication whatsoever that France would waver
in its determination to honor its obligations,” Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in London, said
in a report to clients. “The resilience of the French banks
against a freeze in the short-term funding market is very
high,” he said, predicting that the sell-off in French banking
shares “should be short-lived.”  Stocks Decline  European banks tumbled to the lowest since March 2009, when
stocks fell to the weakest since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. six months earlier. The Euro Stoxx Banks Index
fell 8.9 percent.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s largest bank, slid
9.5 percent and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  slumped 12 percent.  The cost of insuring France’s government debt from default
has risen 53 basis points to 174.475 basis points this month,
prices from data provider CMA show. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Asian stocks fell today, driving the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index lower for the seventh time in eight days, as concern
Europe will fail to contain its debt crisis soured exporters’
earnings outlook.  France’s AMF said it’s watching to ensure “good
functioning” of markets with an eye toward financial shares in
particular.  Watchdog ‘Vigilant’  “Like in each period of turbulence, the AMF is vigilant,”
the regulator said in a statement read in a telephone interview.  Societe Generale said it has low exposure to peripheral
European sovereign debt and has fulfilled “almost all” of its
financing plan for 2011. The company said Aug. 3 that it may
miss its 2012 earnings target after second-quarter profit fell
31 percent because of a writedown on Greek government debt.  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  defended Societe
Generale and said speculation that France’s creditworthiness is
in doubt is “absolute rubbish.”  “I think the situation is really under control in France
and in good hands,” Oudea said in an interview yesterday with
CNBC. “In such a market, you know, which is nervous, it’s
really easy to circulate absolutely unfounded information.”  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for borrowing
in euros for three months was 1.5 percent yesterday, according
to the British Bankers’ Association. Societe Generale reported a
rate of 1.46 percent for the same period.  ECB Intervention  The  European Central Bank  was forced to buy Spanish and
Italian bonds yesterday, according to four people with knowledge
of the transactions. The amount of securities acquired by the
central bank was smaller than in the previous two days, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the trades
are confidential.  The extra yield investors demand to buy 10-year French debt
rather than German bunds jumped to 90 basis points, even though
both carry AAA grades from the major rating companies. That
spread is almost triple the 2010 average of 33, and compares
with 17 in the second half of the previous decade.  Francesco Meucci, a spokesman for Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a telephone interview that the country’s Aaa
grade is “stable,” echoing his counterparts at  Standard &
Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings.  ‘Fear Effect’  French bonds are the most costly AAA government securities
to insure as investors raise bets that top-rated euro-region
nations may be next in the firing line after the U.S. was
downgraded one notch to AA+ by S&P on Aug. 5. Credit-default
swaps on France trade at more than double the rate to protect
German securities, CMA data show.  BNP options prices rose to the highest level since at least
2005 and Societe Generale’s reached a two-year high.  The slide in French banking shares “seems to be prompted
by concerns about the U.S. downgrade and the idea that France
could be next, but that’s something Standard & Poor’s has
denied,” said  John Raymond , a banking analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in  London . “I don’t see any reason for what happened,” he
said. “It seems to be a fear effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  