-- 
Somali President Says Government Will Continue to Pursue Al-Shabaab Rebels

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-08-10T08:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/somali-president-says-governemnt-will-continue-to-pursue-al-shabaab-rebels.html
Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed vowed to hunt al-Shabaab rebels until they are no
longer a threat in the Horn of Africa country, where famine is
threatening 3.5 million people.  “We will not stop pursuing them,” Sheikh Sharif told
reporters today in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital of
 Tanzania , where he held talks with President Jakaya Kikwete.
“The government’s determination is to clear al-Shabaab from all
of  Somalia .”  Al-Shabaab, which has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda,
withdrew its forces from the Somali capital, Mogadishu, on Aug.
6. The militant group has waged a four-year campaign to remove
Sheikh Sharif’s Western-backed administration and controls most
of southern and central Somalia.  Last month, the  United Nations  declared a famine in five
southern regions of Somalia, including Mogadishu, amid the worst
drought in the region in 60 years. With the exception of the
capital, four areas are controlled by al-Shabaab, which has
blocked the delivery of humanitarian aid, Sheikh Sharif said.  “Al-Shabaab has exacerbated the situation because they have
refused aid to go to areas where it is needed,” he said.  Sheikh Sharif appealed for more peacekeepers to be sent to
the country to deal with al-Shabaab. The group presents a threat
to Somali, regional and international security, he said.  The UN last year authorized an increase in the number of
African Union peacekeepers in Somalia to 12,000, up from 9,000
Ugandan and Burundian soldiers now. The 53-member
African bloc wants the operation to expand to 20,000 troops.  Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni held talks with Sheikh
Sharif on Aug. 8 and promised to send 2,000 more troops to
Mogadishu to bolster the peacekeeping force, the  Suna Times 
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 