-- 
South African Consumer Spending to Buoy Economic Growth, Central Bank Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-10T13:44:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/south-african-consumers-can-raise-spending-as-debt-low-central-bank-says.html
South Africa ’s central bank said it
sees scope for increased consumer spending, which would help
boost economic growth and offset lower demand for exports in the
U.S. and  Europe .  “Our current level of debt-service cost is really very
tame,” Johan van den Heever, the  Reserve Bank ’s deputy chief
economist, told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “That gives some
room for households to continue to spend, which we think will
continue to support the upswing in the domestic economy.”  The Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent on July 21 to bolster a flagging
recovery in Africa’s biggest economy. Consumer spending makes up
about two-thirds of expenditure in the economy, while an average
household spends 6.9 percent of its income on interest payments
on debt, according to the  central bank .  Interest rates may be left unchanged until at least May
2012, Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank said in an e-mailed
report today, changing its previous forecast for a rate increase
in November.  Business and consumer confidence may come under pressure
because of rising financial market turmoil, Van den Heever said.
U.S. stocks sank on Aug. 8 as $2.5 trillion was erased from
global equities after  U.S. debt  was downgraded by  Standard &
Poor’s  and concerns about debt defaults in Europe increased.  Consumer Upswing  This is “not good news for short-term growth and for
longer-term investment,” Van den Heever said. “A consumer-led
upswing, as we currently have, which is not heavily credit
dependent is a far more sustainable animal.”  The U.S. downgrade won’t change South  Africa ’s foreign
exchange reserves policy, Van den Heever said.  “We have many commitments of South Africa that are
denominated in U.S. dollars, we have many transactions which are
denominated in U.S. dollars, so a wholesale revamp of our
reserve holding strategy has not been necessary,” he said.  South Africa held $50.1 billion in reserves at the end of
last month. Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said in November 2009
purchases of euros and pounds have been stepped up to
“rebalance” South Africa’s reserves after a slump in the value
of the dollar.  Yesterday’s announcement by the U.S. Federal Open Market
Committee that it would keep benchmark borrowing costs at a
record low at least through mid-2013 is likely to sustain demand
for South Africa’s interest-bearings securities, Van Den Heever
said.  “That incentive to put money into emerging markets,
including South Africa, will just be continued for quite a bit
longer than probably anybody would have imagined two years
ago,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  