-- 
South Korea Says North Korea Fired Artillery Shots Near Yellow Sea Border

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-11T00:58:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/south-korea-fires-artillery-off-yeonpyeong-after-hearing-shells-from-north.html
South Korea  said  North Korea  fired
artillery salvos near a  disputed sea border  that was the scene
of a deadly shelling in November, a charge North Korea denied.  South Korea returned fire after North Korea lobbed three
shells into the waters near Yeonpyeong Island about 1 p.m.
yesterday and shot back again around 7:46 p.m. when two more
shells landed in the ocean, said an official from the defense
ministry in Seoul who declined to be identified, citing military
policy. North Korea denied firing any artillery and accused its
neighbor of using construction blasting in nearby Hwanghaenam
Province as a pretext for confrontation, according to a report
from the state-run Korean  Central News Agency .  The incident came a month after both nations said they
would try to revive multilateral talks on North Korea’s nuclear-
weapons program, signaling an easing of tension between the two
rivals that has been an irritant to U.S.-China ties over the
past year. The so-called Northern Limit Line dividing their
western border in the  Yellow Sea  has been a source of repeated
conflict since the 1950-1953 civil war ended in a cease-fire.  “North Korea appears to be provoking the South in a
calculated manner to highlight the need for a peace treaty to
replace the armistice agreement after the war,” said Kim Yong
Hyun, a professor at  Dongguk University  in Seoul. “I doubt the
North will go so far as to risk breaking down the dialogue.”  U.S. Forces  U.S. forces in South Korea are closely monitoring the
situation, said Navy Commander Leslie Hull-Ryde, a Pentagon
spokeswoman. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said
“we are asking North Korea to exercise restraint.”  South Korea stepped up surveillance in the area after the
first shelling, said the defense ministry official, who declined
provide details or comment on military alert levels. KCNA said
South Korea had increased the number of warships in the area and
flew fighters around five islands in the vicinity.  The JoongAng Ilbo newspaper reported yesterday that North
Korean spies with orders to assassinate South Korean Defense
Minister Kim Kwan Jin have entered the country. South Korean and
U.S. intelligence officials are working to find them, the report
said, citing unidentified South Korean officials.  The Dong-A Ilbo newspaper said today that South Korea has
tightened security for President  Lee Myung Bak , the prime
minister and some other government officials.  Presidential Security  Officials in the defense ministry and the president’s
office declined to comment on the Dong-A Ilbo report or security
levels.  Defense Minister Kim said after the November artillery
bombardment by North Korea that in the event of further attacks
his country would “mobilize all combat capabilities available
to severely punish the enemy,” including airstrikes.  Four South Koreans died in November when the North shelled
Yeonpyeong Island in retaliation for South Korea firing rounds
into the disputed waters during a training exercise. Relations
soured earlier in the year over the sinking of a South Korean
warship in March, killing 46 sailors.  The two incidents spurred the U.S. to put pressure on  China ,
North Korea’s main source of trade and financial aid, to rein in
Kim Jong Il’s government. China accounted for 83 percent of
North Korea’s $4.2 billion of international commerce in 2010,
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency said in May. China
made up 79 percent of trade in 2009 and 53 percent in 2005,
according to the Seoul-based organization.  Nuclear Envoys  South Korea’s chief nuclear envoy, Wi Sung Lac, said on
July 22 that his two-hour discussion with his North Korean
counterpart, Ri Yong Ho, at a regional security forum on the
Indonesian island of Bali was “very constructive.” The U.S.
then invited North Korean officials to  New York  for further
negotiations.  The six-party talks involving the two Koreas, the U.S.,
China,  Russia  and  Japan  have been stalled since 2008.  The  maritime border  between the two countries snakes around
the Ongjin peninsula, creating a buffer for five island groups
that South Korea kept under the armistice. That agreement
doesn’t mention a sea border, which isn’t on United Nations maps
drawn up at the time. North Korea says it doesn’t recognize the
border, which hems in its ships and excludes it from fertile
crabbing and fishing grounds.  The three-nautical-mile (3.5-statute-mile) territorial
limit used to devise the line was standard then. Today, almost
all countries, including both Koreas, use a 12-mile rule, and
the islands are within 12 miles of the North Korean mainland.
The farthest is about 100 miles (160 kilometers) from the
closest major South Korean port at Incheon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  