-- 
South Africa Bonds Extend Gains; 4-Year Yield Falls to Record, Data Shows

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-10T13:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/south-africa-bonds-extend-gains-4-year-yield-falls-to-record-data-shows.html
South African bonds rose, driving
four-year yields to a record low, on bets the central bank will
leave borrowing costs on hold as the global economy slows.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 99 cents to 123.11
rand, reducing the yield 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage
point, to 6.893 percent as of 3:15 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
lowest since the securities were issued, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders are paring bets on an interest-rate increase in
 Africa ’s largest economy after the U.S. Federal Reserve said
yesterday it will keep its key rate at a record low for at least
two years to shore up investor confidence in a U.S. recovery.
With global growth slowing, the South African Reserve Bank is
not likely to tighten monetary policy soon, said  Leon Myburgh , a
Johannesburg-based analyst at  Citibank NA .  “There is a belief that monetary policy will stay lower
for longer, that growth rates will be revised down,” Myburgh
said by phone. “The expectation is that this will filter down
to South Africa. In such an environment you’re going to prefer
less risky assets” such as  government bonds , he said.  Forward-rate agreements starting in December, a month after
the last Monetary Policy Committee meeting of this year, dropped
four basis points today to 5.58 percent, indicating traders see
a 7 percent chance of an interest-rate increase in 2011. The
rate has dropped from  6.92 percent on June 15, the highest this
year.  Rand Merchant Bank, a unit of  South Africa ’s second-biggest
lender, today revised its interest-rate forecast, saying the
central bank will likely raise its key repo rate in May next
year. The lender previously expected a rate increase in
November, analysts led by Carmen Nel said in a research note.  “We have taken rate hikes off the table for 2011, with the
first hike only likely in May 2012,” the Rand Merchant Bank
analysts said. “However, we think there is a significant
probability that the hiking cycle will be delayed into 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  