-- 
Spanish Airports Sale Said to Lure Heathrow-Owner Ferrovial, Investor GIP

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-08-10T11:28:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/spanish-airports-sale-said-to-lure-heathrow-owner-ferrovial-investor-gip.html
Madrid airport , put up for sale by
the debt-laden Spanish government, is attracting interest from
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) , Global Infrastructure Partners and
 Ferrovial SA (FER) , the owner of  London ’s Heathrow hub, five people
with knowledge of the auction said.  Spain plans to push ahead with the 5.3 billion-euro ($7.6
billion) disposal of Madrid and Barcelona airports even with the
volatility in the world’s financial markets and a general
election little over three months away, according to state-owned
Aena Aeropuertos SA, which currently runs both hubs.  Interested parties have until Sept. 5 to prove that they
have at least 3 billion euros in assets and experience running
an airport that handled 25 million people or more in 2010. Aena
says offers should then be received by the end of October, with
the contracts awarded sometime in November.  “ Madrid  and Barcelona have tremendous potential for
growth,” Juan Ignacio Lema Devesa, Aena’s CEO, said in an
interview this week. “They’re among the few airports in Europe
which have the capacity to handle more traffic without extra
investment. Between the two, traffic could practically double.”  Spanish builder Ferrovial, which bought Heathrow owner BAA
Ltd. for 10 billion pounds ($16 billion) in 2006, Barcelona-
based rival Abertis, which has interests in 29 airports and runs
London Luton and Stockholm Skavsta through its Tbi unit, and
investment fund GIP, the owner of  London Gatwick  since 2009, are
among several parties assessing bids, according to the people
who declined to be identified because the process is private.  Agenda Squeeze  Abertis is studying a bid for both concessions while
awaiting more detail on the pricing regime and other terms
before coming up with a definitive evaluation, said a
spokeswoman who declined to be named, citing company policy.  Ferrovial and GIP declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg, beyond saying that they are examining the tenders.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is managing the sale.  Spain, grappling with the euro-region’s biggest budget
deficit after Greece and Ireland, equal to 9.2 percent of gross
domestic product, is selling two concessions of 20 years, which
may be extended for a further five years. The government is also
seeking buyers for a 49 percent stake in Aena Aeropuertos,
though the Nov. 20 election could be an obstacle to quick sales.  “The agenda for the bidding process has become really
squeezed,” said Pablo Ortiz de Juan, an analyst at research firm
Interdin Bolsa in Madrid. “It’s unlikely a foreign company will
bid for the airports alone, especially considering the political
and electoral uncertainty surrounding the contracts.”  Room to Grow  The charges to be imposed on airlines once the airports
have been sold have yet to be fixed, so that bidders can’t
currently make long-term revenue predictions, the analyst said.
Still, investors need security and measures shouldn’t be rushed
through only to be modified under a new government, he said.  Madrid Barajas airport last year attracted 49.8 million
passengers, an increase of 2.8 percent, making it Europe’s
fourth-busiest hub and the No. 12 worldwide, according to data
from industry group Airport Councils International.  The home hub of Iberia,  Spain ’s biggest airline, added a
fourth terminal and two new runways in 2006, doubling the total
and giving it the capacity to handle 120 flights an hour and 70
million people annually, said Lema of Aena Aeropuertos, which
operates 47 Spanish airports and 28 more overseas, attracting
about 200 million people a year.  Realistic Prices  Barcelona El Prat ranked as the 10th-busiest European
airport in 2010, with 29.2 million passengers. A revamped
Terminal 1 opened in 2009 and a further satellite will be added
next year, giving a capacity of 55 million people, Lema said.  The upgrades may help the government achieve its target
prices of at least 3.7 billion euros for Madrid and 1.6 billion
euros for Barcelona, said Germa Bel, a professor at Barcelona
University’s School of Economics who specializes in public-
sector reform, infrastructure and transportation.  “No further important investment will be required in the
coming years,” Bel said.  GIP, set up by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE) , paid 1.51 million pounds for Gatwick, Britain’s second-
biggest hub with 31.4 million passengers. Ferrovial’s BAA sold
the world’s busiest single-runway airport under pressure from
regulators and has since been ordered to sell London Stansted.  Abertis runs eight international airports including
 Florida ’s Orlando Sanford through Tbi, which also has contracts
at five other sites including Raleigh-Durham and Atlanta, the
world’s busiest hub.  Madrid-based Ferrovial’s airport holdings include BAA’s six
U.K. bases plus Cerro Moreno at Antofagasta in  Chile .  Hochtief Auction  Manchester Airports Group, which lost out to GIP in the
Gatwick sale, isn’t able to bid for the Spanish concessions
since it’s owned by local councils and barred from holding
foreign assets, spokesman John Greenway said.  In addition to BAA’s Stansted base and a Scottish terminal,
which it may also be required to dispose of, assets for sale in
 Europe  right now include the airports unit of German builder
 Hochtief AG , itself a unit of Spanish building group Actividades
de Construccion & Servicios SA, whose hubs include Sydney,
 Athens , Dusseldorf, Hamburg, Budapest and Tirana.  China ’s HNA Group, controlled by the Hainan provincial
government and the largest shareholder in Hainan Airlines Co.,
plans to bid for the Hochtief holdings, it said Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  