-- 
Standard Life’s Profit Beats Estimates on Fees

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T06:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/standard-life-s-profit-beats-estimates-on-fees.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, said first-half profit rose 44 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates, as revenue from fees climbed and inflows of
savings increased.  Operating profit was 262 million pounds ($426 million) for
the six months to June 30, compared with 182 million pounds a
year earlier, the Edinburgh-based firm said today in a
statement. That beat the 193.5 million-pound estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Today’s results demonstrate the real progress we are
making in our transformation,” Chief Executive Officer David Nish said in the statement. “Successful delivery of this will
see us improve operating profit and returns for our
shareholders.”  Standard Life last year spent a third of its operating
profit on developing new technology and savings products that
Nish says will provide a “step up” in profitability in 2012.
Other British insurers are focusing on squeezing more cash from
existing policies so they can raise their dividends.  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  and  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  increased their half-year
payout at least 20 percent last week while Aviva raised its
dividend 5 percent.  Standard Life today raised its dividend 5.7 percent to 4.6
pence a share, matching the analysts’ forecast. Net income rose
9.3 percent to 199 million pounds.  Increased Spending  Fee-based revenue rose 14 percent to 611 million pounds and
inflows of long-term savings also grew 14 percent to 2.8 billion
pounds, Standard Life said.  Unlike British rivals Resolution Ltd. and Aviva, Standard
Life has increased spending on new fund platforms for financial
advisers, acquisitions of smaller technology firms and
investments in products. The changes will boost revenue at the
firm after the government’s Retail Distribution Review is
implemented next year, Nish said in April.  Standard Life is the second-worst performing member of the
FTSE 350 ASX Life Insurance Index in the last six months,
tumbling 27 percent compared to the gauge’s 19 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 