-- 
Swiss Stocks Plunge Most in Two Years; UBS, Credit Suisse Tumble

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-10T16:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/swiss-stocks-advance-for-second-day-nestle-ubs-shares-rally.html
Swiss stocks sank the most in more
than two years amid increasing concern that the European debt
crisis is spreading and as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep
interest rates low failed to boost optimism in the economy.  Financial shares led losses, with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , the nation’s biggest banks, sinking more than 3
percent.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, slumped the most in seven years.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the
world’s second-biggest cement maker, fell 6.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, declined 4.1 percent to 4,791.96 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. That’s the largest drop since
March 2009. The gauge entered a  bear market  on Aug. 4 and has
plummeted 29 percent from its high this year on Feb. 18 as
Europe’s debt crisis and the slowing global economy prompted
investors to buy the Swiss franc, reducing the value of
exporters’ revenue. The broader Swiss Performance Index fell 3.8
percent today.  “We’re back to reality,” said John Plassard, director at
Louis Capital Markets in Geneva. “As long as we don’t see an
improvement in what I call the economic triptych -- the
sovereign debt crisis, U.S. economic growth and Chinese
inflation -- the markets won’t rally longer-term.”  Strengthen Growth  The Fed yesterday said that officials “discussed the range
of policy tools” to strengthen growth and are “prepared to
employ these tools as appropriate” while pledging to keep the
benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at least mid-2013.  “Keeping rates close to zero is a very strong signal, but
it especially means that the economic outlook is not positive at
all,” Plassard said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  lowered its economic
assessment, saying it now “expects a somewhat slower pace of
recovery over the coming quarters.”  The Swiss central bank stepped up its fight to counter a
surge in the franc today. The  Swiss National Bank  said that it
will “significantly increase” the supply of liquidity to the
money market and expand banks’ sight deposits to 120 billion
francs ($166 billion) from 80 billion francs. It will also
conduct foreign-exchange swap transactions to boost liquidity.  European bank shares tumbled the most in two years as the
cost of insuring French debt rose to a record. UBS dropped 5.4
percent to 10.03 Swiss francs. Credit Suisse slid 3.5 percent to
21 francs, its lowest price since March 2003, while  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old wealth manager, sank 5.5 percent to
27.08 francs.  Adecco Falls  Adecco slumped 11 percent to 34.50 francs, the largest
decrease since 2004, as the company said it would focus on cost
control even after second-quarter net income rose to 141 million
euros ($202 million) from 97 million euros a year earlier.  “I think this is more about what’s implicit in Adecco’s
statement than what they actually said,” Teun Teeuwisse, an
analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV who has a “hold” rating on the
stock, said by telephone. “It focused a lot on costs and, in my
view, that indicates that the outlook is not so strong.”  Holcim fell 6.3 percent to 43.44 francs as a gauge of
European construction companies was among the worst performers
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Geberit
AG (GEBN) , Europe’s biggest maker of toilet flushing systems, retreated
4.9 percent to 150.30 francs.  Sika AG (SIK) , Europe’s biggest maker of
chemicals used in construction, plunged 6.8 percent to 1,528
francs.  Logitech International SA, the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, slid 6 percent to 5.99 francs, its lowest price
since January 2000. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including
Simon F. Schafer cut their price target for the stock to 7.50
francs from 11 francs, saying management outlook statements
“suggest continued caution in consumer electronics-facing
stocks” in the technology sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  