-- 
Swiss, Germany Agree to Settlement in Tax-Evasion Dispute

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-08-10T15:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/swiss-settle-tax-evasion-dispute-with-germany.html
Switzerland  and Germany completed an
accord to end a dispute over tax evasion by wealthy Germans
holding cross-border accounts with Swiss private banks.  As part of the settlement, Swiss banks will pay 2 billion
Swiss francs ($2.8 billion) to the German government to cover
the failure by their clients to disclose undeclared money in the
past, the Swiss  Finance Ministry  said today in a  statement . That
amount will later be reimbursed to the banks from taxes paid by
their customers, the ministry said.  The  tax treaty  comes after Switzerland agreed in March 2009
to meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a
tax haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . Relations between Germany and Switzerland soured
early last year when German authorities began an investigation
into  tax evasion  based on purchased CDs of stolen bank data.  “The times of illicit accounts in Switzerland are now over
for good,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, the financial-policy spokesman
in parliament for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bloc, said in a
statement. “The agreement will lead to more tax fairness and
strengthen the income basis of federal, state and municipal
governments.”  While the agreement protects bank clients’ privacy, it also
ensures the “implementation of legitimate tax claims,” the
Swiss Finance Ministry said.  Triggering Outflows  The settlement may trigger outflows by Europeans who
question the value of cross-border accounts as Swiss banking
secrecy crumbles. Switzerland’s commitment to tax compliance is
putting pressure on the country’s banks as western European
clients repatriate their wealth,  Boston Consulting Group  said in
a May 31 report.  “The agreement draws a line under the German-Swiss
discussions, but it may well affect assets under management held
offshore,” said Michael Rohr, a Frankfurt-based analyst with
Silvia Quandt. “There will be a move toward onshore.”  Going forward, Swiss banks will levy a 26.375 percent
withholding tax on interest, dividends and capital gains earned
by Germans with offshore accounts, today’s statement said.
Revenue generated will go to the German treasury while client
identities remain secret.  “The tax agreement does not come without a price tag for
the banks,” the  Swiss Bankers Association  said in a statement.
“The implementation of the measures will cost the banks in
Switzerland a mid-three-digit million Swiss franc amount.”  Step Forward  The tax on assets from the past will range from 19 percent
to 34 percent, depending on the duration of the client
relationship and the initial and final amount of capital, the
ministry said without giving further details.  Alternatively, account holders can disclose their holdings
to German tax authorities.  “It would be completely wrong to say we won the war. We
didn’t win the war,” said Michel Derobert, secretary-general of
the Swiss Private Bankers Association, whose members include
 Pictet & Cie . “It’s a great step forward.”  Swiss financial institutions will get better access to the
German market, according to the statement.  “The implementation of the exemption procedure for Swiss
banks in  Germany  will be simplified, and the obligation to
initiate client relationships via a local institution will be
eliminated,” the ministry said.  Information Requests  To prevent new, undeclared funds from being deposited in
Switzerland, German authorities can submit requests for
information that must state the name of the client, though not
necessarily the name of the bank, the Finance Ministry said. The
number of requests will be limited to 999 over a two-year
period.  The initialed tax agreement should be signed by both
governments in the next few weeks and may take effect from
January 2013, the ministry said.  “The negotiators conducted tough negotiations and achieved
good results,” Swiss Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf
said in the statement. “This creates legal certainty and will
strengthen the competitiveness and the reputation of Switzerland
as a financial centre in the long term.”  More than 10,000 people rushed to declare their holdings in
Swiss accounts in the six weeks after German authorities
announced their intention to buy a CD containing data on Swiss
bank accounts on Feb. 2, 2010. Tax authorities in North Rhine-
Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state, first bought a CD for
1.25 million euros ($1.8 million) from an informant, the
government told lawmakers in parliament’s finance committee on
March 3, 2010. The data yielded “many” investigative leads, it
said.  Tax Tension  The practice became a source of tension between Germany and
the Swiss government, which refused to offer legal assistance to
pursue tax dodgers in the case of stolen data.  About 69 percent of the 280.6 billion francs of offshore
assets held by German clients in Swiss banks was undeclared,
according to estimates by Helvea SA two years ago. That share
may have dropped to 50 percent,  Peter Thorne , a London-based
analyst with Helvea, said last month.  Switzerland is the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth with about 1.96 trillion francs of assets last year,
according to Boston Consulting.  “Increased certainty is likely to be welcomed and
ultimately that helps eliminate a persistent concern over the
offshore business model,” said  Matthew Clark , an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in  London . “Importantly this
allows Swiss private banks to hold on to offshore German
customers.”  Treaty Template  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank,
welcomed the agreement and said it had been “preparing for the
changes in cross-border  wealth management  for a long time.”  Switzerland is negotiating a similar treaty with the U.K.
with British authorities likely to receive an upfront payment of
500 million francs from Swiss banks, SonntagsZeitung reported on
July 31, citing people familiar with the talks.  “This treaty can be used as a template that other European
countries can adapt to their own tax systems” said Alfredo Gysi, the chief executive officer of  BSI Group , a Swiss private
bank owned by  Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)  “I’m confident we
will see other countries follow relatively quickly”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at   pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  