-- 
Swiss Franc Weakens as SNB Expands Measures to Counter Currency’s Strength

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-08-10T16:10:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/swiss-franc-weakens-as-snb-expands-measures-to-counter-currency-s-strength.html
The  Swiss franc  weakened versus the
dollar after the nation’s central bank said it expanded measures
to fight the currency’s “massive overvaluation.”  The franc slipped from near a record versus the greenback
after the  Swiss National Bank  said it will “significantly
increase” the supply of liquidity to the money market and
expand banks’ sight deposits. The SNB will also conduct foreign-
exchange swap transactions as it attempts to curb gains in the
Swiss currency caused by investors seeking a haven from the
European debt crisis.  “Their objective to increase liquidity has given the Swiss
franc a decent move,” said Peter Rosenstreich, Geneva-based
chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA. “Long-term, the
swap transactions and increase in the  money supply  is probably
not going to be enough to free up liquidity and really dent the
fundamental rationale for why the Swiss continues to appreciate.
People want to be holding Swiss francs.”  The franc weakened 1.2 percent to 72.92 centimes against
the dollar, at 4:54 p.m. in London, after dropping as much 1.7
percent after the announcement. It strengthened to a record
70.71 centimes yesterday. The currency was little changed at
1.0354 per euro, after paring a 1.5 percent slide. It approached
parity with the 17-nation currency yesterday.  ‘Further Measures’  “The massive overvaluation of the franc poses a threat to
the development of the economy in  Switzerland  and has further
increased the downside risks to  price stability ,” the bank said
in an e-mailed statement from Zurich today. “The SNB is keeping
a close watch on developments on the foreign-exchange market and
on financial markets. If necessary, it will take further
measures against the strength of the franc.”  The Swiss franc has jumped 24 percent year-to-date against
a basket of nine developed-market peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. Concern over the impact
of this advance on exports, which account for more than half the
economy, has boosted speculation the SNB may resume currency
interventions for the first time in more than a year.  The central bank quadrupled its holdings of foreign
currencies in the 15 months through mid-June 2010, as it
struggled to curb the franc’s gains, but the measure resulted in
a record loss of $21 billion last year.  “At some point we are going to see an intervention by the
SNB, just because they can’t handle this rate of appreciation,”
said Rosenstreich. “The problem is that the reasons people are
fleeing to safe havens are structural, and long term, these
aren’t going to be solved. I’m not sure that even if they
intervene, the will for safe-haven trades dissipates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  