-- 
Symrise Cuts Sales Goal as Scents Fail to Boost Order Pace

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-10T09:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/symrise-cuts-sales-goal-as-fragrance-market-grinds-to-a-halt.html
Symrise AG (SY1) , the German maker of
ingredients for Dior’s Fahrenheit fragrance, cut its full-year
sales forecast and said growth in demand at its scents unit may
falter as customers have become more cautious on orders.  Revenue is now expected to increase by about 3 percent, the
Holzminden-based company said today in a statement. It had
previously predicted a rise of 3 percent to 5 percent.  “The number of orders hasn’t fallen, but the volume of
individual orders has,” Chief Executive Officer Heinz-Juergen
Bertram said on a conference call today. “Customers have become
more careful in light of economic uncertainty.”  Symrise’s results raise the specter of destocking and that
the $4.4 trillion  chemical industry  could enter another slump
amid ongoing turmoil in U.S. and European economies. Earnings
and sales missed analyst estimates in the second quarter,
echoing results of bigger rival Givaudan SA, as the companies
contend with higher costs for raw-materials such as citrus and
oil derivatives.  Symrise shares rose 0.7 percent to 18.22 euros as of 11:30
a.m. in Frankfurt trading. Results were not as bad as feared in
light of Givaudan’s earnings miss, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analyst Laurent Favre said in a note.  BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical company, on July 28
forecast growth will slow in the second half as customers are
becoming more cautious. The maker of polymers and catalysts saw
an economic slowdown at the end of the second quarter, and some
clients in  China  are destocking, it said when reporting results
that also missed analyst estimates.  Mint, Onions  Raw-material costs will probably increase by a “high one-
digit” percentage figure this year, Bertram said today.
 Switzerland ’s Givaudan said last week it is looking to source
more ingredients directly from farmers to battle rising costs.
Symrise already has partnerships with local producers of onions,
mint, vanilla and citrus.  “We are no longer expecting any significant growth for the
year” at the scent and care unit, Symrise said today. The
company’s flavor unit will grow “steadily” amid higher demand
for spicy flavors in  Latin America  and menthols in  North America 
and  Asia .  Operating profit as a percentage of sales declined to 20
percent from 22.3 percent, Symrise said. It’s sticking to a goal
to maintain margins at the 20 percent level for the year, it
said today.  Sales dropped 2.8 percent to 395.1 million euros, missing a
404.6 million-euro estimate. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 77.3 million euros missed
WestLB’s estimate of 80 million euros, analyst Norbert Barth
said in a note.  Symrise is still looking for acquisitions to boost growth
and the company has made progress during the quarter, Bertram
said today on the conference call. The company will only make a
purchase if it can create sustainable value and that’s not
always possible with the prices expected by the market at the
moment, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  