-- 
Syria Faces Criticism From Arab Nations

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T07:04:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/syria-faces-more-un-action-as-arab-nations-condemn-crackdown-on-dissidents.html
As Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
is rebuked by Arab nations for his government’s deadly five-
month crackdown on dissidents, pressure is mounting at the
United Nations for a resolution against the bloodshed.  The UN  Security Council  today will hear an update from
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on the deepening violence in Syria
a week after the council condemned Assad’s use of force against
civilians in a statement that fell short of a formal resolution
sought by Europe and the U.S.  “A UN resolution would be nice, but it’s not going to stop
a regime that is engaging in unspeakable brutality,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in
Qatar.  Momentum may be building for bolder steps after  Saudi
Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors from
Damascus, and Turkey said its neighbor is entering a
“critical” period. Saudi Arabia’s ruling family, like most of
 Syria ’s population, are  Sunni Muslims  while Assad and many of
his top officials are from the Alawite branch of Shiism. The
recalls came after Syrian troops backed by tanks killed more
than 100 people in assaults on towns across the country.  ‘Allegiance to Assad’  Gulf governments “had until now provided Assad with some
measure of diplomatic support” by remaining largely silent,
said Ayham Kamel an analyst at Eurasia Group in  Washington .
Their shift to condemnation will “signal to the Syrian
political and economic elites, especially Sunnis, that they
should reconsider their allegiance to Assad.”  Egyptian Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel called for an
immediate cease-fire in Syria late yesterday, warning that the
situation is “heading to the point of no return” and that
“reforms that are mixed with blood are in vain,” according to
the state-run Middle East  News Agency .  As the UN considers its options, delegates from  Brazil ,
 India , and  South Africa  -- nations in the Security Council that
had been reluctant to come down hard on Assad -- will meet with
Syrian authorities. Russia, a leading opponent to a UN
resolution, has adopted a firmer tone, with Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov calling for “immediate” reforms.  ‘Targeted’ Sanctions  Human Rights Watch  said yesterday the 15-member UN body
should consider “targeted” sanctions, an arms embargo and an
inquiry commission as the death toll in Syria climbs to more
than 2,400 since protests began in mid-March.  The U.S. has been looking at ways to bolster existing
sanctions in a country it has little influence on. So far, Obama
has not gone further than saying almost a month ago that Assad
had lost legitimacy, leaving room for a statement calling
explicitly for the Syrian leader to give up power.  At least 30 protesters were killed yesterday as the army
used tanks, machine guns and armored vehicles to renew its
attack on the northern province of Idlib, close to the border
with  Turkey , and on a town near the central city of Hama, Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria
said in a telephone interview. Many were killed by sniper fire,
he said.  Qurabi said children ages 11 and 13 were killed as well as
a 17-year-old boy.  At least 24 demonstrators were killed yesterday in Deir al-
Zour and Homs in central Syria and in the southern province of
Daraa, where the unrest began, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by telephone from Damascus.
Deir al-Zour came under renewed attack early today, he said.  ‘Stop the Bloodshed’  “Our first priority is to stop the bloodshed right away,”
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said yesterday in
Ankara after his delegation met with Syrian counterparts for 6
1/2 hours. “Our dialogue with all Syrian groups will continue.
The important thing is for the process to take a peaceful turn
and for Syrians to determine their own future.”  Davutoglu said he met with Assad for 3 1/2 hours and they
discussed “concrete” issues in a “clear” manner.
“Developments in the coming days will be important and critical
in terms of meeting expectations for both Turkey and the Syrian
people,” he said.  Syria is pursuing “comprehensive reform” and is open to
help from nations that are its friends, Assad said after meeting
with Davutoglu, the Syrian state-run news agency Sana reported.
He said “armed terrorist groups” killed civilians and members
of security forces in some cities and that Syria won’t
“relent” in pursuing them.  The  Arab League  and the Gulf Cooperation Council condemned
Assad’s policies, urging him to meet demands for change.  Arab criticism and Syria’s growing isolation will
“increase the leverage that Saudi and Turkey have over Syria,”
and “might pressure it into making concessions,” said Chris Phillips, a London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at 
6486 or  fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  