-- 
U.K. Prime Minister’s Riot Meeting Disturbed by Beach Volleyball Games

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-10T16:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-k-prime-minister-s-riot-meeting-disturbed-by-beach-volleyball-games.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
office required the organizers of a 2012 Olympics beach
volleyball test event to turn down its sound system because it
interfered with a meeting about rioting across the country.  A six-day beach volleyball exhibition is taking place at
Horse Guards Parade, behind the prime minister’s official
residence at 10 Downing Street. Cameron convened a session of
the government’s emergency response committee to discuss the
unrest that’s led to more than 1,250 arrests since looting and
arson attacks began on Aug. 6.  “We were asked to reduce the volume while the prime
minister did his briefing yesterday on the riots,” Duncan
Firth, director of Drivers Jonas Deloitte, the company
responsible for the beach volleyball venue, said in an interview
today.  London  beat cities like Paris and  New York  to the right to
host the games after promising to host events at iconic
locations like Horse Guards Parade. The temporary stadium is
next to the prime minister’s residence, close to  Buckingham
Palace , Whitehall and Trafalgar Square.  Next year the horse-shoe shaped stadium will hold 15,000
people, offering a vista of the London Eye observation wheel.
The capacity is limited to 1,500 for the beach volleyball event
as organizers assess transport and security procedures.  A Downing Street spokeswoman confirmed that there was a
request made to turn down sound system.  ‘Bonkers’  The volume from the speakers, which blasted out music such
as London artist  Dizzee Rascal’s  “Bonkers” between points, and
game commentary, had to be reduced again briefly today as
Cameron stepped out of his office to address the media at 11
a.m. local time with the latest information about the rioting.  “The prime minister made a speech earlier, so we had to
keep our volume down,” announcer Layla Anna-Lee told the crowd
as competitors from the Netherlands and Vanuatu played a game.
“We can make some noise now.”  Cameron has visited the site and was presented with a
volleyball before he left for a vacation in  Italy , Firth said.
He returned a week earlier than scheduled.  Extra security was in place because of the arena’s
proximity to government offices and residences of the country’s
royal family. Background checks have been done on construction
workers who share a road to get to the venue with officials,
including the prime minister.  “It’s a big challenge,” said Firth, who’s visited Downing
Street and worked closely with the Metropolitan Police. “We’ve
got a lot of important neighbors. I’ve been to Downing Street to
discuss security issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  