-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Surges to Highest in a Year on Europe

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T21:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-bank-credit-default-swaps-rise-on-renewed-european-concern.html
The cost to protect the debt of U.S.
companies surged to the highest level in more than a year on
concern that the European sovereign crisis is worsening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 5.8 basis points to a mid-price of 115.8 basis points
as of 5:09 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd. That’s the highest level since July 2010.  Investor confidence in corporate debt deteriorated as
central banks struggle to prevent a recession, with Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  vowing yesterday to keep
borrowing costs at an all-time low through mid-2013 to revive a
recovery that’s “considerably slower” than expected.  While the  European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish
bonds to help reduce borrowing costs, the cost to insure French
government debt against default climbed to a record 174.5 basis
points. France’s top credit grade was affirmed by  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings amid concern
that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is intensifying.  The index of high-grade corporate debt, which typically
falls when investor confidence improves and rises when it
deteriorates, increased 12.1 basis points on Aug. 8 in its
biggest gain since June 2010 following S&P’s Aug. 5 downgrade of
the U.S. debt rating.  Credit-default swaps on  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added 26 basis points to 304 basis points,
according to data provider CMA.  Contracts on New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed by 8.9
basis points to 193.9 basis points, according to the data
provider, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  