-- 
Judge Lets U.S. Weigh in Against New York Fracking Lawsuit

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-11T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-can-try-to-dismiss-new-york-lawsuit-on-fracking-process-judge-rules.html
The U.S. government won a judge’s
permission to advocate for dismissal of a  New York  lawsuit
seeking fuller regulation of natural-gas extraction through
hydraulic fracturing.  U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis said yesterday
that the U.S. can move to dismiss the case, which pits arguments
for environmental conservation against those for a domestic
energy source and new jobs.  “There are constitutional issues,” Garaufis said. “It’s
regulatory. It’s statutory. It’s quite a mix of arguments.”  New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman sued federal
agencies May 31, saying the Delaware River Basin Commission has
proposed regulations that will allow hydraulic fracturing, known
as fracking, at 15,000 to 18,000 gas wells without a full
environmental review, affecting the drinking water of 9 million
New Yorkers.  The lawsuit might shut down gas development in the  Delaware 
River Basin “for many years to come,” according to court
papers filed by trade groups representing oil and gas companies
that hold natural gas leases in New York State. The Marcellus
Shale, which lies beneath parts of New York, Pennsylvania,  Ohio ,
 Maryland , West  Virginia  and Virginia, has an estimated 400
trillion cubic feet of natural gas, one of the largest such
formations in the world, the trade associations said.  Trade Associations  Trade groups have standing to file briefs on the U.S.
motion to dismiss the case while they seek more formal status to
intervene, he said.  The U.S. said in court papers it plans to ask for dismissal
of the case on the grounds that the state can’t prove injury and
doesn’t have the right to sue federal agencies.  The  American Petroleum Institute , the  Independent Petroleum
Association of America  and the US Oil & Gas Association said
they asked to intervene in the case to support that argument
because their members -- pipeline operators, natural gas
producers and other businesses -- could be economically
affected.  “Very substantial natural-gas development activity is
anticipated in the basin once new rules are issued by DRBC,”
wrote Alex J. Kaplan, a lawyer with Sidley Austin LLP
representing the trade associations.  Two of 10 federal agencies sued by New York State -- the
 National Park Service  and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service --
have supported the state and urge a fuller review of fracking,
making the trade groups participation even more important to
protect companies and their investments, Kaplan said.  Lawsuit Aim  Schneiderman’s suit seeks to halt the regulations until the
commission complies with the National Environmental Policy Act’s
requirement for a full review of all health and safety risks.  The Delaware River Basin covers 58 percent of the land area
of  New York City ’s watershed west of the  Hudson River , according
to Schneiderman. The region targeted for exploration is
protected by a 50-year-old agreement among the U.S. government,
New York,  New Jersey  and Delaware.  New York City has spent almost $1.5 billion to protect the
drinking water that flows from the watershed west of the Hudson,
Schneiderman said in his complaint. The money has gone to buying
land to serve as a buffer for pollutants, upgrading sewage
plants and regulating human activity.  In Pennsylvania, natural gas and related industries have
created 72,000 jobs, 3,143 well permits and more than $1 billion
in  tax revenue  since 2009, the trade associations said.  River Basin Commission  The Delaware River Basin Commission, which oversees
activities in the gas-rich area known as the Marcellus Shale,
has a pending application from XTO Energy Inc., a unit of  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , to explore in the area, and has refused to produce
a full environmental impact assessment, according to
Schneiderman’s complaint.  Fracking is the process in which water, sand and chemicals
are pumped underground to break apart rock formations and
release natural gas.  More than 2,000 natural gas wells have been drilled in
Pennsylvania, resulting in “hundreds of violations of water
pollution laws,” Schneiderman said in the complaint, citing an
April 19 blowout of a natural-gas well owned by Chesapeake
Energy Corp.  A separate case brought by the Delaware Riverkeeper Network
that makes the same claims against U.S. federal agencies and the
DRBC in  Brooklyn  court will be consolidated with New York
State’s case, the judge said yesterday.  Damascus Citizens for Sustainability will file a similar
lawsuit later yesterday, said Jeff Zimmerman, a lawyer for the
nonprofit formed in Damascus,  Pennsylvania , across the border
from Cochecton, New York.  The case is New York v. U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 