-- 
U.S. Killed Taliban Behind Afghanistan Helicopter Downing

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-10T15:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-killed-taliban-behind-afghanistan-helicopter-downing-1-.html
U.S. Marine General  John Allen , the
top U.S. and NATO commander in  Afghanistan , said coalition
troops have killed the Taliban militants responsible for the
deadly downing of a CH-47 Chinook helicopter on Aug. 6.  Intelligence “gave us significant certainty who they
were,” Allen told reporters at the Pentagon today via video
link from Afghanistan.  An air strike from an F-16 fighter jet about midnight on
Aug. 8 killed Mullah Mohibullah, the leader of a Taliban cell in
the Tangi Valley in eastern Afghanistan, and the insurgent who
fired the rocket-propelled grenade that struck the helicopter
two nights earlier, Allen said. “Several” of their associates
also were killed in the strike, the coalition said today in a
 statement .  U.S. troops are still pursuing the Taliban leader who was
the target of the operation under way when the helicopter
crashed in Wardak province in eastern Afghanistan, said Allen,
who took over as the top commander three weeks ago.  The crash of the Boeing Co. helicopter during the firefight
killed 30 American troops, including 22 Navy SEALs, and eight
Afghans. It was the single biggest U.S. loss of the almost
decade-long war. Coalition forces have accelerated operations in
eastern Afghanistan in recent weeks after reversing Taliban
gains in the country’s south.  Military Investigation  The U.S. military is investigating the crash, including
whether the rocket-propelled grenade alone or small-arms fire
was the cause.  Allen defended the decision to send so many SEALs into the
firefight on a single helicopter.  Troops of the  48-nation coalition  undertake similar
operations across Afghanistan every night, Allen said. The
crash doesn’t mean that the U.S. will stop using the Chinook
helicopter, he said.  “We’ve run more than a couple of thousand of these night
operations over the last year, and this is the only occasion
where this has occurred,” Allen said.  Such commando operations will become more prominent as the
U.S. reduces its force in Afghanistan, he said. President  Barack Obama  has ordered the withdrawal of 10,000 U.S. troops this year
and 23,000 more by September 2012, reducing the number of
military personnel in the country to fewer than 70,000.  Allen maintained that the coalition is making progress
against the Taliban, sidelining the militants in their former
heartlands of Helmand and Kandahar provinces in the south and in
areas where local Afghan police forces have taken control.  “We do expect that the enemy is going to target those
areas where they can get high-profile payoff,” he said,
referring to recent attacks such as one on the Intercontinental
Hotel in Kabul and the assassinations of President Hamid Karzai’s brother and the mayor of Kandahar.  “There are going to be long days ahead and some pretty
heavy lifts,” Allen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  