-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump as Dow Falls to Lowest Level Since September on Europe

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-10T20:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-stock-futures-fluctuate-after-s-p-500-s-biggest-advance-in-two-years.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to the lowest level since September, as
banks slumped on concern that  Europe  will fail to contain its
debt crisis and that the economy is faltering.  All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell at
least 2 percent. Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.
dropped more than 10 percent, pacing losses in financial shares,
as the costs to protect the government debt of  Greece , Italy,
 Spain  and  France  rose.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the largest theme-park
company, tumbled 9.1 percent on concerns that the slowing
economy and  consumer confidence  may hurt its businesses.  The S&P 500 fell 4.4 percent to 1,120.76 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The benchmark gauge jumped 4.7 percent yesterday as the
 Federal Reserve  said it would keep borrowing costs at an all-
time low and was prepared to use a range of tools to bolster the
economy. The Dow declined 519.83 points, or 4.6 percent, to
10,719.94. About 15 billion shares changed hands at 4:15 p.m.,
almost twice the three-month average, Bloomberg data show.  “The message is that the market is concerned about the
financial industry,” Kevin Caron, market strategist in Florham
Park,  New Jersey , at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a telephone
interview. His firm has $115 billion in client assets. “The
banks are exposed to a deteriorating economy. The European debt
crisis has a whole set of issues. The concern is about a
spillover effect of that.”  Europe Debt Concern  The  S&P 500  has fallen 18 percent from this year’s high on
April 29 on concern about Europe’s debt crisis and a political
battle over the U.S. debt ceiling that prompted S&P to cut the
country’s credit rating. Both European shares and the Russell
2000 Index of small companies entered a so-called bear market
this week, falling at least 20 percent from their previous
highs. Yesterday’s gain in the S&P 500 pared a 6.7 percent slide
on Aug. 8 following the cut of the U.S. credit rating.  Stocks fell across the globe today as the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index lost 3.8 percent to 223.50. A gauge of European
banks tumbled 6.7 percent.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA options prices rose to
the highest level since at least 2005 and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s
reached a two-year high as the cost of insuring French
 government bonds  increased. The shares plunged.  France’s top credit grade was affirmed by S&P, Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings as yields on the nation’s
debt climbed on concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is
intensifying.  ‘Getting Killed’  “European banks are putting pressure on stocks,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook
Investments in Lisle, Illinois, said in a telephone interview.
“The focus still remains over there, even if it had shifted a
bit to the debt-ceiling concern in the U.S. It’s not a concern
that the banks are going out of business. It’s just a concern
that the cost of operation is going up. We’ve been watching
financial stocks getting killed over here.”  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks slumped 8.2 percent. Banks,
insurers, brokerages and investment firms in the S&P 500 led
gains yesterday, jumping 8.2 percent.  Stocks briefly pared losses after Bank of America’s Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said he is comfortable with
the company’s capital. “The fundamentals are so much better in
our country and in our company and in our industry than they
were four years ago, when the financial crisis hit,” Moynihan
said today during a conference call hosted by mutual fund
manager  Bruce Berkowitz .  Bank of America dropped 11 percent to $6.77, extending its
decline for the year to 49 percent.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  retreated 10
percent to $28.49.  Gold Rallies  Treasuries rose, pushing yields on two- and 10-year notes
toward record lows reached yesterday. Gold rallied to a record
for a third straight day. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using options as
insurance against declines in the S&P 500, soared 23 percent to
42.99, after tumbling 27 percent yesterday.  Companies whose earnings are most-dependent on economic
growth also helped lead the declines in the S&P 500. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index of 30 stocks slid 4.7 percent.  Walt Disney plunged 9.1 percent, the most since 2008, to
$31.54. Wunderlich Securities cut its rating on the stock to
“hold” from “buy” following its quarterly earnings report.
TV station advertising sales are down by a mid-single digit
percentage this quarter, the company said yesterday on a
conference call after the market closed. Net income rose 11
percent to $1.48 billion, or 77 cents a share, in the period
ended July 2.  Dividend Yield  The 2.28 percent dividend yield of S&P 500 companies topped
the 2.11 percent yield of 10-year Treasury notes for the first
time since May 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
While the likelihood that the U.S. economy will contract is low,
investors should buy stocks with dividend yields that are higher
than the 10-year Treasury yield and have strong earnings growth
until equity markets recover, Thomas J. Lee, the New York-based
chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote
yesterday.  U.S. stocks most-tied to the economy will perform better
than the overall market as profit growth in the S&P 500 is
fueled by global demand, according to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   David Bianco , the New York-based head of U.S. equity
strategy at the firm, lifted his ratings for energy, materials
and industrial stocks to “overweight” from “market weight.”
He maintained his “overweight” on technology companies. He cut
his recommendations for consumer and health-care stocks to
“underweight,” citing a government-spending drop and weak
consumption, and he has an “underweight” rating on
telecommunications companies.  Defensive Sector  Bianco raised his rating for utility companies to “market
weight” from “underweight,” saying that’s his “preferred
defensive sector” because of low risk and high dividend yields.
He kept his “market weight” recommendation for financial
stocks and noted that the group may catch up to the rest of the
market in the rest of the year if the S&P 500 has a strong
rally.  Bianco forecasts the benchmark measure for U.S. stocks will
climb to 1,400 by the end of 2011, higher than the 1,389 average
estimate of 13 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  