-- 
U.S. Treasury to Freeze Assets of Syrian Bank

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-10T16:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-treasury-to-freeze-assets-of-syrian-bank.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department  said
today that it will freeze the assets of the Commercial Bank of
 Syria ; the Syrian Lebanese Commercial Bank, a subsidiary; and
the mobile phone company Syriatel for supporting Syrian and
North Korean weapons programs.  “We are taking aim at the financial infrastructure that is
helping provide support” to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad,
 David Cohen , under secretary for terrorism and financial
intelligence, said in a Treasury press statement.  Assad has sparked international criticism for a deadly
five-month crackdown on dissidents.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and
Bahrain have withdrawn their ambassadors from Damascus, and
 Turkey  said its neighbor is entering a “critical” period. U.S.
President Barack Obama has said Assad is losing legitimacy as a
leader, stopping short of calling for him to step down.  Pressure is mounting at the  United Nations  for a formal
resolution against the bloodshed. UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-
moon  will update the Security Council today on the deepening
violence in Syria, a week after it condemned Assad’s use of
force against civilians in a statement that fell short of the
resolution  Europe  and the U.S. sought.  The U.S. is interested in tougher sanctions on the country,
including possible action on oil and gas, State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters yesterday in
Washington.  Weapons Ties  In the statement, Treasury said it sanctioned the
Commercial Bank of Syria because it provided financial services
to Syria’s Scientific Studies and Research Center and North
Korea’s Tanchon Commercial Bank.  The Syrian research center controls the country’s missile
production facilities and manages Syria’s development of
unconventional weapons, according to the Treasury statement.  Tanchon is the primary financial agent for the Korea Mining
Development Corp., North Korea’s main arms dealer, the statement
said.  The bank also has had dealings with several Iranian banks
that have been sanctioned by the U.S., the statement said.  Syriatel is owned and run by Rami Makhluf, a “regime
insider” who has contributed to the corruption of Syrian public
officials, the Treasury Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  