-- 
U.S. Wholesale Inventories Climbed in June at Slowest Pace in Seven Months

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-10T15:14:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-wholesale-inventories-rose-less-than-forecast-in-june.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers
climbed in June at the slowest pace in seven months as
distributors kept stockpiles in line with sales.  The 0.6 percent increase in inventories followed a revised
1.7 percent rise in May, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. Economists projected a 1 percent gain,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Sales also rose 0.6 percent in June after dropping the previous
month.  Wholesalers may be trying to limit the amount of unsold
merchandise on hand after the U.S. economic expansion slowed in
the first half of this year. To help bolster the economy,
Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday pledged to keep their
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least through mid-
2013.  “Inventories are likely desired at a much lower level so
they’re probably excessive given new expected future economic
growth,”  Robert Brusca , president of Fact & Opinion Economics
in New York, said before the report. “That’s one of the reason
we’re seeing the manufacturing industry wind down.”  The median projection for wholesale inventories was based
on a survey of 34 economists whose estimates ranged from
increases of 0.3 percent to 1.5 percent. The May reading was
revised from a previously reported 1.8 percent increase.  Stocks tumbled following the biggest gain since March 2009.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 3.4 percent to 1,133.26
at 11:13 a.m. in  New York . Treasuries climbed, pushing down the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.14 percent from 2.25
percent late yesterday.  Inventories of Durables  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1.3 percent in June, led by a
surge in imported automobiles and parts, today’s report showed.
Metals and machinery inventories also picked up in June.  Economists at  Barclays Capital  revised down their estimate
for second-quarter growth to 1 percent from 1.3 percent
initially reported by the Commerce Department because of the
smaller-than-projected gain in wholesale inventories excluding
automobiles.  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories decreased
0.4 percent as the value of farm products and petroleum
stockpiles fell.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods on
hand to last 1.16 months in June, the same as a month earlier
and compared with a record low of 1.13 months reached in March.  After helping drive the early stages of the economic
recovery, inventory rebuilding slowed in the second quarter of
2011. Stockpiles contributed 0.2 percentage point to gross
domestic product from April to June, according to Commerce
Department data.  Fed’s View  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate
during that quarter, raising concerns of a prolonged slowdown.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy makers said
in June that they expected growth to pick up as supply chain
disruptions related to  Japan ’s earthquake eased and commodity
costs moderated. Yesterday, they offered a dimmer view.  “Economic growth so far this year has been considerably
slower than the committee had expected,” it said. The Fed also
said it expects a “somewhat slower pace of recovery over coming
quarters,” adding that “downside risks to the economic outlook
have increased.”  Consumers may spend less as the economy cools, reducing the
need for companies to step up additions to inventories.
Household spending rose at 0.1 percent pace in the second
quarter, the weakest since the April-June period of 2009.  ‘Pretty Fragile’  “The consumer’s level of confidence is pretty fragile,”
 Don Johnson , General Motor Co.’s vice president of U.S. sales,
said on an Aug. 2 conference call. “We do clearly understand
the need to actively manage our inventories and if need be we
will use production schedule changes as our main tool to manage
inventory, and we’ll remain competitive with our incentives.”  Johnson said the economy has lost some momentum and will
recover more gradually than Detroit-based GM had anticipated.  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 0.2 percent in June, the Commerce Department
said Aug 3. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the Aug. 12 business inventories report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  