-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Rebound on Fed Pledge

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-10T11:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-rebound-on-fed-pledge.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Rebound From Eight-Month Low on Fed’s Rate Pledge  Crude oil  and copper paced a rebound in commodities from an
eight-month low after the Federal Reserve pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low for a further two years
to bolster the economy, boosting stocks.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Umicore Chief Says Expansion Projects Make Acquisitions Optional  Umicore SA Chief Executive Officer Marc Grynberg said the
Belgian maker of cathodes and catalysts has a “full pipeline”
of expansion projects, leaving acquisitions as a secondary
option to add technology.  Worst Ruble Rout in 6 Years Shows Oil Dependence: Russia Credit  The ruble’s biggest retreat in six years is signaling
concern that Russia is failing to cut the economy’s dependence
on revenue from energy sales.  Brent Drop Below $100 Risks OPEC Cuts on Price: Energy Markets  Brent crude’s slide to below $100 a barrel for the first
time in six months may trigger production cuts by OPEC members
concerned that the meltdown in global markets will sap oil
revenue.  Norway’s Moe Says Emerging Market Demand to Stabilize Oil (1)  Norway’s Energy and Petroleum Minister Ola Borten Moe said
emerging economies will keep up demand and stabilize  oil prices 
after crude futures plunged this month on concern that global
growth will slow.  Temasek Said to Weigh Sale of $253 Million Chandra Asri Stake  Temasek Holdings Pte., Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, is considering selling its stake in Indonesia’s PT
Chandra Asri Petrochemical, five people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Cheap Shale Gas Means Record U.S. Chemical Industry Expansion  Dow Chemical Co. spent a decade moving chemical production
to the  Middle East  and  Asia . Now it’s leading the biggest
expansion ever seen back home in the U.S. as shale gas revives
the industry’s economics.  Being Like Soros in Buying Farmland Reaps Annual Gains of 16%  Perry Vieth baled hay on a neighbor’s farm in  Wisconsin  for
two summers during high school in 1972 and 1973.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises Most in Eight Weeks on Fed  Interest-Rate  Pledge  Copper rose the most in eight weeks in  London  after the
Federal Reserve pledged to keep interest rates near zero through
mid-2013 and imports of the metal into  China  climbed for a
second month.  ArcelorMittal South Africa Falls to 2005 Low on Shut Furnace (1)  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. fell as much as 4.1 percent
in Johannesburg trading to the lowest since November 2005 after
saying its blast furnace in Newcastle failed.  MINING:  Deutsche Bank Sees Value in BHP, Glencore After Mine Stocks Fall  Deutsche Bank AG analysts said they see value in stocks of
mining companies including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s
largest, and Glencore International Plc following a slump in
their share prices this month.  Randgold Bid for Centamin Would Be ‘Accretive,’ Investec Says  Randgold Resources Ltd. would find an opportunistic bid for
Centamin Egypt Ltd., whose shares have dropped 25 percent since
Aug. 2, “accretive on all measures,” Investec Plc said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  U.S. Mint’s Gold Coin Sales Up to 39,000 Ounces So Far in August  The U.S. Mint’s American Eagle gold coin sales are 39,000
ounces so far in August, according to figures on the Mint’s
website.  Gold Advances After  Federal Reserve  Pledges to Keep Rates Low  Gold gained for a fourth session in London after the U.S.
Federal Reserve pledged to keep its benchmark interest rate at a
record low through at least mid-2013, boosting demand for the
metal as a protection of wealth.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Advances as Crude Rallies on Low Interest-Rate Pledge  Palm oil climbed for the first time in five days as a rally
in crude oil after the Federal Reserve pledged to keep interest
rates near zero through mid-2013 boosted the appeal of the
vegetable oil as biofuel.  India  Sugar Output Climbs 29% to 24.05 Million Tons, Group Says  Sugar production in India, the world’s biggest grower after
 Brazil , climbed 29 percent this year after farmers boosted the
crop area to benefit from high prices, a millers’ group said.  Coffee Advances as Stocks in  Europe  May Drop; Raw Sugar Climbs  Coffee climbed to a one-week high in London on speculation
stocks at European ports will start to fall due to a lack of
beans from Vietnam and Indonesia, the world’s largest and third-
largest producers of the robusta variety. Raw sugar advanced in
 New York .  Chickens Going Organic Cuts Resistant Germs, Research Shows  U.S. poultry farms that switched to organic methods and
stopped using antibiotics had significantly lower levels of
drug-resistant enterococci bacteria, research from the
University of  Maryland  showed.  Sugar Output to Rise 59% in  Russia  Customs Union, Group Says (1)  Sugar output from beets will rise 59 percent to 5.1 million
metric tons in the customs union of Russia, Belarus and
Kazakhstan in 2011 from 3.2 million tons last year, Russia’s
Sugar Producers’ Union said.  Palm Oil Stockpiles in  Malaysia  Decline on Record Exports (1)  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the second-biggest grower,
dropped for the first time in six months in July as exports
reached a record and output declined.  Rubber Rebounds After Fed’s Pledge Bolsters Outlook for Demand  Rubber rebounded from a six-week low, joining a rally in
equities and commodities, after the Federal Reserve pledged to
keep its benchmark interest rate low at least through mid-2013
in a bid to revive the world’s biggest economy.  SHIPPING:  North Sea Ekofisk Crude Loadings at 15 Cargoes in September (1)  Exports of the North Sea Ekofisk crude in September will
total 15 cargoes after one shipment was deferred from this
month, according to a revised loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News.  North Sea Flotta Oil Exports Increase to 3 Cargoes in September  North Sea Flotta crude exports will increase to three
cargoes next month, compared with one in August, a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Chinese Iron-Ore Import Estimate for 2011 Is Lowered at Arctic  Iron-ore imports into China, the world’s largest consumer
of the steelmaking ingredient, will be 20 million metric tons
lower than previously estimated this year at 670 million tons,
Arctic Securities ASA said.  Vitol to Ship Rotterdam Fuel Oil to  Singapore , Tanker Data Show  Vitol Group will ship as much as 2 million barrels of fuel
oil to Singapore from Rotterdam, the first reported supertanker
charter in three weeks between the two oil-storage hubs,
shipping data showed.  ECONOMIES:  China Trade Surplus Rises to $31.5 Billion on Record Exports (2)  China’s trade surplus surged to $31.5 billion in July, the
highest level in more than two years, as exports rose to a
record.  Yuan Climbs to 17-Year High on Fed Rate Pledge, Inflation Data  The yuan rose to a 17-year high after the Federal Reserve
pledged to keep interest rates at a record low and on
speculation China’s central bank will allow appreciation to
temper inflation.  China May Delay Rate Rises Until 2012 on Financial ‘Chaos’ (1)  China may join Asian nations from  South Korea  to India in
delaying interest-rate increases after the nation’s leaders
urged global cooperation to stabilize financial markets.  China’s Wen Urges Global Action to Stabilize Financial Markets  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao urged global cooperation to
stabilize financial markets after a U.S. rating downgrade and
Europe’s debt crisis triggered a slump in equities worldwide.  Downgrade Doesn’t Matter as Bonds Show Faith in Fed After S&P  The $9.4 trillion U.S. government bond market is proving
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke matters more than
 Standard & Poor’s .  Bernanke Stirs Most Dissent Since 1992 on Time Period for Rates  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s plan to hold
interest rates near zero through at least mid-2013 provoked the
most opposition among voting policy makers in 18 years as
central bank consensus frayed.  King Says U.K.’s Headwinds Intensifying as Growth Outlook Cut  Bank of England  Governor Meryvn King said headwinds
buffeting the U.K. economy are intensifying “by the day” and
officials can expand stimulus if the outlook for growth
deteriorates further.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Commodities Climb on Fed Rates; Swiss Franc Weakens  European stocks gained for a second day, U.S. index futures
pared losses and commodities rallied after the Federal Reserve
pledged to keep interest rates at a record low for two more
years. The franc slid after the Swiss central bank expanded
efforts to fight the currency’s strength.  Yen Advances as Fed Fails to Ease Growth Concern; Franc Weakens  The yen strengthened as the Federal Reserve’s pledge to
keep interest rates at a record low for two more years failed to
convince investors global growth will be sustained, boosting
demand for haven currencies.  Swiss Franc Threat May Force SNB Action After Record Loss (1)  Switzerland’s central bank may be forced to resume currency
interventions for the first time in more than a year in a move
that could burden it with billions of francs in further losses.  European Stocks Rise on Fed Support; Nestle, Commerzbank Advance  European stocks rose after the Federal Reserve said it’s
prepared to keep interest rates low and use a range of tools to
bolster the economy. Asian shares rallied while U.S. index
futures fluctuated.  Oil Rises From 10-Month Low on Fed Comments; IEA Sees 2012 Risks  Oil rebounded from a 10-month low in New York as investors
bet fuel demand will increase amid shrinking stockpiles and
comments by the Federal Reserve that it is prepared to use a
range of methods to bolster the economy.  London Violence Is Calmed by Extra Police as Unrest Spreads (1)  A surge of police on the streets prevented a fourth night
of unrest in London following Britain’s worst rioting since the
1980s as violence moved instead to northern cities including
Manchester.  SPORTS:  Chelsea May Offer Benayoun to Spurs for Modric: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the websites.  Inter CEO Paolillo Says Eto’o Leaving, Sneijder Not to Be Sold  Striker Samuel Eto’o is to leave Italian soccer club Inter
Milan, club Chief Executive Officer Ernesto Paolillo said in a
text message.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  