-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 5 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-08-10T14:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-aug-5-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.6 million barrels per
day during the week ending August 5, 135 thousand barrels per
day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
90.0 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.5 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.1 million barrels per day last
week, down by 34 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
just under 9.4 million barrels per day, 696 thousand barrels per
day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 633 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 99 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 5.2 million barrels
from the previous week. At 349.8 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are slightly above the upper limit of the average
range for this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories
decreased by 1.6 million barrels last week and are in the upper
limit of the average range. Finished gasoline inventories
increased while blending components inventories decreased last
week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 0.7 million
barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the average
range for this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories
increased by 0.2 million barrels last week and are below the
lower limit of the average range. Total commercial petroleum
inventories decreased by 8.2 million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 19.3 million barrels per day, down by 0.6 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 9.1 million
barrels per day, down by 3.4 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged 3.7 million
barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 7.1 percent from
the same period last year. Jet fuel product supplied is 2.5
percent higher over the last four weeks compared to the same
four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  