-- 
U.S. Should Probe Waste Management-Oakleaf Deal, Group Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-08-10T17:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-should-probe-waste-management-oakleaf-deal-group-says.html
Waste Management Inc. (WM) ’s acquisition
of  Oakleaf Global Holdings Inc.  should be investigated by the
 U.S. Justice Department  as the garbage-hauling industry
continues to consolidate, said a group that favors stronger
antitrust enforcement.  By buying Oakleaf,  Waste Management  will rid itself of a
national competitor, wrote Bert Foer, president of the
Washington-based American Antitrust Institute, in a letter to
Acting Assistant Attorney General Sharis Pozen.  The $425 million purchase would leave two dominant
companies, Houston-based Waste Management and Phoenix-based
 Republic Services Inc. (RSG) , which could lead to higher prices, Foer
said in the letter.  “The industry has now reached what should be seen as a
code-red competitive condition because of the concentration of
landfill ownership in the hands of WM and Republic,” he wrote.  Peter Anderson, executive director of the Center for a
Competitive Waste Industry in Madison,  Wisconsin , sent a letter
Aug. 8 to Pozen also asking for an investigation. Foer serves on
the center’s board of advisers.  On July 28, Waste Management said it would close the
Oakleaf acquisition.  The transaction is structured in a way that doesn’t trigger
a federal law requiring a pre-merger review of the acquisition
by the Justice Department or the Federal Trade Commission, Lynn Brown, a Waste Management spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Brown said the Justice Department is aware of the
transaction.  “We feel comfortable that this deal does not change the
competitive landscape in the industry since we acquired no
trucks, no transfer stations, no landfills,” she said.  Gina Talamona, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately response to a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  