-- 
U.S. Stocks Are in Bear-Market Rally, Prechter Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-10T19:45:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/u-s-stocks-are-in-bear-market-rally-prechter-says-tom-keene.html
The advance for U.S. stocks since a
12-year low in March 2009 has been a bear-market rally as the
economic recovery has faltered, according to Robert Prechter’s
Elliott Wave International Inc.  “Part of the proof that it’s a bear-market rally is the
fact that the economy has really stayed in the dumps,” Prechter
said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “Mostly we’re in cash. The only
other things I recommended recently were bear funds and short
sales,” he said. “I’m staying completely safe right now.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 73 percent through
yesterday from March 9, 2009, following government stimulus
measures and higher-than-estimated corporate earnings. The
benchmark gauge for American equities fell 14 percent from this
year’s high on April 29 on concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis
and a political battle over the U.S. debt ceiling that prompted
S&P to cut the country’s credit rating.  “Even in early 2009 when we were looking for a big rally,
we said it’s going to be a bear-market rally -- a partial
retracement -- not a new  bull market ,” Prechter said.  The  S&P 500  advanced yesterday, following the  Federal
Reserve ’s announcement that it plans to keep its benchmark rate
at a record low through mid-2013 as it considers other tools to
bolster growth. Yesterday’s gain pared a 6.7 percent slide on
Aug. 8, the first trading session following S&P’s reduction of
the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA.  ‘Quite Oversold’  “We’re quite oversold, everybody knows that,” Prechter
said. “We’re not at the kind of readings that would prompt me
to come out as in early 2009 and say it’s an opportunity.”  Prechter is famed for predicting the stock market crash of
1987 via a system of measuring investor psychology known as the
Elliott Wave Principle, though his forecasts have had mixed
results. His standing suffered in the 1990s when he missed the
almost decade-long bull market. In December 2002, he said the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  would fall below 1,000. It hasn’t
dipped below 6,500 since then, climbing 25 percent in 2003 and
another 35 percent through Oct. 9, 2007.  The Elliott Wave Theory was originally developed by
accountant  Ralph Nelson Elliott  during the Great Depression.
Elliott concluded that market swings, or waves, follow a
predictable, five-stage structure of three steps forward, two
steps back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  