-- 
Huaneng Rises in Hong Kong as Net Income Beats Estimates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-10T02:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/huaneng-rises-in-hong-kong-as-net-income-beats-estimates-1-.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , a
unit of  China ’s biggest electricity producer, rose in Hong Kong
trading after reporting first-half profit that beat analysts’
estimates, helped by higher prices.  The shares advanced 0.3 percent to HK$3.35 at 10:32 a.m.
local time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  gained 3.6 percent.  Net income reached 1.1 billion yuan ($171 billion), beating
the 706 million-yuan mean estimate of three analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. China’s government raised tariffs that grid
operators pay  power plants  in 16 provinces in April to help
generators cope with higher fuel costs, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  “The results certainly beat my expectations,”  Michael Parker , a senior research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said by telephone from  Hong Kong . “It’s obviously good results,
but to the extent of what we’re seeing is a one-time recognition
of the adjustment to tariffs, then that’s obviously not
sustainable going forward.”  Profit fell 42 percent from a year earlier even as sales
increased 31 percent to 64 billion yuan, because of higher fuel
expenses. Fuel costs rose 35 percent to 42.9 billion yuan in the
first six months, Huaneng said in the statement.  The average first-half spot price of benchmark coal at
Qinhuangdao port gained 8.3 percent from a year earlier to 798
yuan a metric ton, data from the China Coal Transport and
Distribution Association show. The country burns coal as fuel at
more than 70 percent of its power stations.  Huaneng rose 1.3 percent to 4.54 yuan in Shanghai trading.
The Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.6 percent.  “What we’re seeing priced into equity markets globally in
the past few days has been expectations of continuing global
slowdown,” Parker said. “It has affected commodity prices
globally and it will affect demand for Chinese manufactured
goods and the seaborne price of coal. All of those things should
result in a decline in Chinese coal prices, which is beneficial
to the power producers.”  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo, Indranil Ghosh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane, Ching Shen Lee at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net . 