-- 
Umicore Chief Says Expansion Projects Make Acquisitions Optional

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-08-10T10:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/umicore-chief-says-expansion-projects-make-acquisitions-optional.html
Umicore (UMI)  SA Chief Executive Officer
Marc Grynberg said the Belgian maker of cathodes and catalysts
has a “full pipeline” of expansion projects, leaving
acquisitions as a secondary option to add technology.  Grynberg will in the next two to three years make a
decision on a greenfield recycling plant that would cost
“hundreds of millions” of euros, he said in an interview in
London. The outlay would be additional to more than 100 million
euros ($144 million) the Brussels-based company typically
budgets each year for new projects, he said.  Umicore, poised to report record earnings this year, faces
competition from  China . The Asian nation is moving beyond
production and is throwing more resources into developing its
own technology in areas such as rechargeable battery materials.  “A technology edge is never granted forever; you need to
carry on innovating to keep the edge where it is,” Grynberg
said. “When you are confronted by more ideas than resources and
have to be selective, that’s a good sign and better than too few
projects on the table.”  The company plans to expand plants in  Japan ,  Korea  and
China to meet demand for battery materials for electric vehicles
and will boost catalyst operations as carmakers move to reduce
vehicle emissions. It also plans to upgrade plants making thin-
film coatings used in liquid crystal displays and photovoltaic
panels.  Umicore, which competes with  BASF SE (BAS) ,  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) 
and a Toyota Motor Corp. subsidiary in the automotive-catalyst
market, has fallen 19 percent this year in Brussels trading,
giving the company a market value of 3.77 billion euros. Johnson
Matthey has fallen 9.7 percent in London in the period.  Recycling Plant  Building a recycling facility from scratch to collect the
precious metals contained in discarded phones and other
electronics would require a “sizeable” investment, Grynberg
said. Umicore first needs to test new technology it has
developed at a pilot plant in  Belgium , he said. Europe has tight
environmental legislation, which creates demand for recycling,
he said.  “Once the test phase is done and over with, we should be
in a position to decide where to build industrial-scale
facilities,” the CEO said. “There are a number of options and
you should not write off  Europe .”  Grynberg’s strategy is centered on providing the materials
for more high-performance electronics such as tablet computers
and touchscreen phones. That’s intended to help the company
skirt the competition from volume-based manufacturers that are
depressing prices for cathodes used in more basic electrical
goods, he said.  While takeovers will take a backseat to expanding existing
businesses, they are an option when the market is moving so
quickly that buying-in technology from universities and other
sources is necessary, Grynberg said. Umicore bought the
precious-metal and catalyst divisions of German chemical company
Degussa AG in 2003.  “Our focus is on organic growth,” said Grynberg. “These
are must-have projects, opportunities we must seize and exploit
to the maximum. Acquisitions are optional and come on top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  