-- 
Munich Re, Swiss Re Tap China’s Auto Market for Insurance-Premium Growth

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-08-10T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/munich-re-swiss-re-tap-china-s-auto-market-for-insurance-premium-growth.html
Munich Re and Swiss Re Ltd. are
tapping growth in  China  by helping local motor insurers write
more coverage in the world’s largest auto market.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, reported
first-half Chinese premiums of more than $1 billion compared
with $885 million for the whole of 2010. Premium income from
China is expected to rise about 70 percent to 1.1 billion euros
($1.6 billion) this year on demand for motor insurance, Tobias
Farny, chief executive officer for Greater China and  Southeast
Asia  at larger rival Munich Re, said in an interview yesterday.  Reinsurance can help reduce the amount of capital that
Chinese primary insurers need to support increasing demand for
motor cover following a 32 percent jump in auto sales last year,
 Munich Re  said. Swiss Re Chief Executive Officer Stefan Lippe
expects China to overtake the U.K. as the Zurich-based company’s
second-biggest market within 10 years.  “There are a lot of opportunities for reinsurers in
China,” said  Ben Cohen , a London-based analyst with Collins
Stewart Hawkpoint Plc. “Large groups such as Munich Re and
Swiss Re are able to provide capital in the sizable amounts
needed by China’s large insurance groups.”  Buying reinsurance from Swiss Re and Munich Re provides
insurers, such as PICC Property & Casualty Co., China Pacific
Insurance Group Co. and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., with an
alternative to raising capital to cover against potential
claims.  Market Domination  “The Chinese market is dominated by three major companies,
PICC, CIPC and Ping An,” Swiss Re Chief Financial Officer
 George Quinn  said in an interview. “These three companies are
the source of the growth that you see at the moment.”  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission has encouraged
the nation’s insurers to make use of more traditional forms of
capital, such as reinsurance, which boosted demand in the third
quarter of last year, Quinn said.  Insurance premiums in China rose almost 32 percent to a
total of $214.6 billion last year, according to figures compiled
by Swiss Re. That was almost 5 percent of the global market
compared with about 27 percent for the U.S.  Swiss Re started writing more business in China four years
ago, Quinn said, adding that there was “significantly more
demand” in January and again in the second quarter.  ‘Big-Ticket’  “These are big-ticket transactions,” he said. “They’re
growing at very high rates and they’ve got to find the capital
to support this, and we are one of the sources.”  The Chinese market does have legal risks and questions
around customer loyalty once primary insurers have built
capital, said Cohen of  Collins Stewart .  “These are not hugely profitable contracts” because the
large Chinese insurers have purchasing power, said Stefan Schuermann, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich.
“Pricing is just average, not more.”  The motor insurance market in  Germany  remains unprofitable
following a seven-year price war. Even this year’s forecast 3.4
percent increase in premiums won’t change that, according to
Germany’s GDV insurance association.  “Where have most insurers lost most money over the years?
-- it was motor business,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based
analyst with Helvea SA. “You don’t even have to go to China, if
you look at  Italy  or the U.K., and you look at what has happened
to personal injury awards.”  In the U.K., the average motor insurance premium has risen
40 percent in the past year following soaring claims costs and
rising fraud, according to the Automobile Association Ltd.  Profitability  Profitability in China won’t be a concern for the “near
future,” said Farny of Munich Re.  “What makes the Chinese motor insurance market less
difficult than markets in  Europe  is that insurance rates in
China are regulated, making the business profitable for primary
insurers and therefore also for reinsurers,” he said. “We are
ready to end contracts where our profitability requirements are
not being met.”  Auto sales in China climbed 3.2 percent in the first seven
months of this year, even after the government phased out
incentives and imposed ownership restrictions to curb traffic
congestion.  “At the moment it’s certainly peak time and I don’t expect
that the growth will continue at the same pace in motor
insurance in China in 2012,” said Farny.  Still, Munich Re expects to expand in other areas, such as
environmental and product liability and renewable energy
coverage, he said.  “Growth will be volatile,” Swiss Re’s Quinn said. “It
won’t be a nice straight line, but the trend is clear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  