-- 
Universa, Pimco Posted Gains on Black-Swan Funds as Market Fell

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-08-10T17:45:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/universa-pimco-posted-gains-on-black-swan-funds-as-market-fell.html
Black-swan  funds run by Universa
Investments LP and Pacific Investment Management Co., designed
to protect against financial cataclysms, paid off this month as
stocks took their steepest dive in almost three years.  Universa, a hedge fund founded and owned by Mark Spitznagel
that consults with New York University professor Nassim Taleb,
had a 10-fold return this year through Aug. 8 on the capital in
its black-swan accounts, said a person familiar with the firm
who asked not to be identified because the information is
private. Black-swan clients of Pimco, manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund, saw gains this month of as much as 5.5
times the premiums they paid, according to Vineer Bhansali, a
Pimco portfolio manager.  The 13 percent decline in the benchmark Standard & Poor’s
500 Index from July 29 through Aug. 8 may bolster demand for the
strategies, also known as tail-risk insurance, that hedge
against rare events that can cause financial markets to
collapse. Investors have tail-risk coverage for about $38
billion in assets, compared with less than $500 million prior to
the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
according to an April research report by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Cost Issue  “Given the huge move in the markets, a lot of investors,
especially fast-money investors, must have been caught off
guard,” said John-Mark Piampiano, a portfolio manager at Pine
River Capital Management LP, a Minnetonka, Minnesota, firm that
runs the $160 million Nisswa Tail Hedge Master Fund Ltd. “At
this point, everyone is trying to buy protection in some form or
another.”  Taleb made the case for tail-risk insurance through his
2007 best-seller “The Black Swan,” whose title is a reference
to a widely held Western belief that all swans were white --
until explorers discovered the black variety in  Australia  in
1697. He argued that high-impact, unforeseen events occur far
more frequently than statistical analysis predicts, thereby
justifying the high cost of hedging against disasters.  At issue is whether tail-risk events occur frequently
enough to warrant the annual costs. In June, James Montier, a
strategist at Boston-based Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. who
is known for his bearish views on markets, published a white
paper arguing that investors should simply keep some of their
assets in cash rather than buy tail-risk protection.  “Anytime you are looking for a tail event to occur, it
always takes longer to occur than you think,” said Paul Alar,
managing director at West Mountain LLC, an Atlanta-based  money
manager  that provides tail-risk strategies for clients. “The
concern we want to avoid is buying a long-term put on something
and then just watching it decay.”  Put Profits  Tail risk refers to the bell-shaped curve that represents
all potential market outcomes. Most of these outcomes are in the
middle of the curve, while more extreme scenarios, such as huge
gains or declines, are located on the tails.  Spitznagel, who declined to comment on Universa’s results,
published a white paper in June telling clients that there was a
one-in-five chance that the S&P 500 would fall more than 40
percent during the next three years. Universa, based in  Santa
Monica ,  California , buys put options and futures on indexes such
as the  S&P 500  that become profitable when the benchmark
declines more sharply than usual.  The firm reaped big gains on derivatives tied to the S&P
500 as the benchmark index fell almost 6.7 percent on Aug. 8,
its largest one-day decline since December 2008, and market
volatility rose. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index, better known as the VIX, increased for a record ninth
straight time to 48 on Aug. 8, raising the value of options on
stocks and indexes.  Differing Approaches  Under Universa’s Black Swan Protection Protocols, customers
invest capital equal to 1 percent to 5 percent of the value of
assets they want to protect. Through the Aug. 8 rout, these
investors had 10-fold gains for the year on their money with
Universa, equating to average returns of 20 percent to 25
percent on the full value of their protected holdings, according
to the person familiar with the firm’s strategy.  Pimco, co-founded by  Bill Gross , takes a different
approach. The  Newport Beach , California-based firm charges
clients premiums to cap losses at 15 percent to 20 percent. For
a portfolio with 60 percent in stocks and 40 percent bonds, the
fee would run from 1.5 percent to 2 percent of assets.  Pimco’s tail-risk hedging program covers about $30 billion
of assets in customer accounts, investment funds and a
partnership dedicated to the strategy. These customers had gains
of 4 to 5.5 times fees, according to Bhansali.  Added Returns  At funds such as the $4.9 billion Pimco Global Multi-Asset,
the insurance program has added 3 percentage points to 5
percentage points of performance this year, according to
Bhansali, the chief architect of the firm’s tail-risk management
program. The global multi-asset fund, co-managed by Bhansali and
Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer, is down about
1.1 percent so far this year, a performance that ranks among the
top 9 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pine River  Pine River’s Nisswa tail-risk fund had double-digit gains
during the first eight days of August, according to an investor
who requested anonymity because the returns are private.
Piampiano, the fund’s manager, said it had a strong performance
and declined further comment.  Nisswa’s returns are not directly comparable to those of
Pimco and Universa because its strategy is structured
differently: while the two larger firms tailor their tail risk
strategies to individual clients and require just a small amount
of capital, Nisswa pools investor capital in a single fund that
buys protection each month. The gains enjoyed by his fund and
those at Pimco and Universa mean that new investors will pay a
much greater price to obtain protection against  Black Swans ,
Piampiano said.  “For anyone who wants to buy insurance at this level, the
cost is very steep,” Piampiano said. “The price of insurance
has roughly doubled on the equity side relative to the beginning
of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  