-- 
Rupert Murdoch Says News Corp. Board Backs Him in Chairman, CEO Positions

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-08-11T13:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/murdoch-says-news-corp-s-directors-want-him-to-remain-as-chairman-chief.html
Rupert Murdoch  said  News Corp. (NWS) ’s
board wants him to remain as chairman and chief executive
officer and that Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  would
succeed him if he were unable to do the job.  Murdoch, 80, made the comment on a conference call
yesterday after News Corp. released fourth-quarter earnings
beating estimates. Some investors have asked the company, owner
of the Wall Street Journal and Fox TV, to separate the jobs and
make other governance changes following a phone-hacking scandal
that led Murdoch to close the News of the World tabloid in July.  “I hope the job won’t be open in the near future,”
Murdoch said in response to a question. “Chase is my partner if
anything happened to me. I’m sure he’d get it immediately if I
run under a bus.”  In a question and answer session with the media at the end
of the call, Murdoch didn’t directly answer whether his son
James, 38, is his anointed successor, saying, “Chase and I have
full confidence in James.” He also dismissed the notion that
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s board isn’t independent.  “I don’t think anyone really thought he would leave,”
said Brett Harriss, an analyst with Rye, New York-based Gabelli
& Co. “As long as he does what he says, they buy back stock and
focus on smaller transactions, investors will be happy,” said
Harriss, whose company held 5.3 million non-voting Class A
shares and 90,016 Class B voting shares as of March, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Harriss raised his rating on the stock to “buy,” citing the
company’s buyback plan and “highly-profitable” cable networks.
Wunderlich Securities raised its price estimate to $20 from $18,
based on the earnings improvement and repurchases.  Investor Concerns  Last week, an investor group including Wespath Investment
Management asked to meet with News Corp.’s lead independent
director, Roderick Eddington, on ways to restore shareholder
confidence.  The group, with 1.11 million Class A shares and 201,000
shares of the Class B voting stock, cited “several areas of
concern, including dual chairman/CEO role, a high number of
inside or affiliated directors, and a dual share class
structure.”  News Corp. rose $1.76, or 13 percent, to $15.47 at 9:48
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Before today,
it had retreated 24 percent since July 4, when the  Guardian
newspaper  in the U.K. broke the phone-hacking story.  The newspaper said reporters at News Corp.’s News of the
World tabloid had hacked into the telephone of a murdered
teenager in 2002 and altered voice mails.  “I’ve run this company for more than 50 years,” Murdoch
said on the call. “The kind of behavior that occurred in that
newsroom has no place at News Corporation. We are all committed
to doing the right thing. We have taken decisive actions to hold
people accountable.”  Scandal Fallout  The scandal that followed led to the arrests of at least 12
people, the resignations of two News Corp. executives, the
shutdown of the 168-year-old tabloid and the termination of New
Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid to buy the 61
percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t own.  News Corp. paid a $63 million breakup fee to BSkyB after
being forced to call off the bid, according to a statement.  The company also established a Management and Standards
Committee in the U.K. in the wake of the scandal. The panel
reports to  Joel Klein , a company executive vice president and
board member. He, in turn, reports to Viet Dinh, an independent
director with ties to the Murdoch family.  James Murdoch , News Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer,
has until today to submit written replies to the U.K. Parliament
to respond to former executives of News of the World who said
some of his statements in July 19 testimony were “mistaken.”  The scandal has had no material impact on the company’s
other businesses, said the elder Murdoch, who controls the
company through an almost 40 percent stake in the voting shares.
News Corp. also owns the Twentieth Century Fox film studio and
the Times of  London  newspaper.  Stock Repurchases  News Corp. yesterday said it will increase its dividend 27
percent, a move that may mollify investors who have suffered
losses since the scandal broke.  The company also announced that on Aug. 15 it will begin
repurchasing shares under an expanded $5 billion buyback of
voting and nonvoting stock approved last month. The company
hasn’t said whether Murdoch will sell any of his shares.  After markets closed yesterday, News Corp. reported
operating income rose 8.9 percent to $982 million, or 35 cents a
share, in the fourth quarter ended June 30. Excluding items,
analysts were predicting profit of 30 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income fell 22 percent to $683 million, or 26 cents a
share, reflecting a loss on the sale of the MySpace website.
Sales rose 11 percent to $8.96 billion, exceeding analysts’
projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  