-- 
Turkey Joins Greece, South Korea in Curbing Short Sales After Global Rout

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-08-11T12:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/turkey-scrutinizes-short-sales-amid-rout-after-bans-in-greece-south-korea.html
Turkey  moved to curb short sales and
threatened “severe penalties” for stock manipulation, joining
nations from  Greece  to South Korea in trying to stem bearish
bets after the worst tumble in global shares since 2008.  The minimum cash or equity required to initiate a short
sale on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  was raised to 70 percent
from 50 percent, according to an e-mailed statement from
Turkey’s Capital Markets Board today. In a short sale, an
investor borrows a security and sells it, expecting to profit
from a decline by repurchasing it later at a lower price.  Turkish regulators are investigating whether short sellers
manipulated share prices after the ISE National 100 Index
tumbled 19 percent this month.  South Korea  began a three-month
ban on short sales yesterday, while Greece started a two-month
prohibition on Aug. 9. Italy increased disclosure rules for
short sales in July.  The curbs in Turkey are “basically a confidence move to
reduce the volatility, particularly in times like these,” Omer Omerbas, head of research at Ekspres Invest, an Istanbul-based
brokerage, said in a phone interview today.  The bourse must ensure short sales aren’t “used for
negative purposes,” Huseyin Erkan, chairman of the Istanbul
exchange, said in an interview with Bloomberg HT television
yesterday. The transactions increase liquidity and have “to be
carried out according to regulations,” Erkan said.  Panic Selling  Traders who execute so-called naked short sales will face
penalties, the Capital Markets Board said today. In a naked
short sale, a speculator places the sell order without obtaining
the underlying securities.  Curbs against short sellers will probably help ease
“panic” among investors after losses this month that erased
about $7 trillion of world equity market value, Suha Yaygin,
deputy chief of emerging markets at Toronto-Dominion Bank in
 London , said in e-mailed comments. The ISE 100 index rallied as
much as 2.9 percent today before reversing its gains. The gauge
fell 2.6 percent at 2:55 p.m. in Istanbul.  Restrictions on short sales are unlikely to provide a long-
term boost to markets when “long-only” investors are dumping
their holdings, according to Will Duff Gordon, London-based
senior research analyst at Data Explorers, which tracks
 securities lending  for institutional money managers. Global
equity markets plunged to six-year lows in March 2009 even after
at least 17 countries banned or restricted short selling during
the second half of 2008.  Global Rout  “Last time, banning short selling didn’t stop the markets
from falling,” Duff Gordon said in a phone interview yesterday.
“You can’t stop asset owners selling their shares, or retail
investors panicking. You’re only covering one group of traders,
which may have not been that active anyway.”  Of the $7 trillion in equities available for lending
globally, about $700 billion has been borrowed, according to
 Data Explorers . The total amount of stock lent was within about
7 percent of historic lows before stocks began tumbling last
week, Duff Gordon said.  World equity market capitalization has dropped to about $47
trillion from $54 trillion at the end of July amid speculation
that the global economic expansion is faltering, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
stocks in developed and emerging countries tumbled 8.6 percent
last week, the most since November 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 