-- 
Vitol to Ship Rotterdam Fuel Oil to Singapore, Tanker Data Show

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-08-10T09:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/vitol-to-ship-rotterdam-fuel-oil-to-singapore-tanker-data-show.html
Vitol Group will ship as much as 2
million barrels of fuel oil to  Singapore  from Rotterdam, the
first reported supertanker charter in three weeks between the
two oil-storage hubs, shipping data showed.  The Geneva-based trader hired the Front Cecilie to load
270,000 metric tons on Aug. 26, according to reports from
companies including Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest shipbroker. The Hong Kong-flagged very large
crude carrier has been sailing near West Africa in the past
month, based on transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg.  The loss from turning crude into fuel oil is the lowest
since March 2010 in Singapore,  Asia ’s largest oil-trading
center, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
broker. The product’s discount to crude was at $3.65 a barrel
today, from $14.19 at the end of April. Refiners typically
accept a loss from making  fuel oil , used to power ships or to
generate electricity, because of the profit gained from higher-
value products including gasoline and diesel.  Elizabeth Adams, a London-based spokeswoman for Vitol,
declined to comment on trading operations when contacted by e-
mail.  In the most recent reported Rotterdam-to-Singapore
supertanker shipment of fuel oil, Gunvor International BV loaded
270,000 tons on the Neptune Glory on Aug. 3 for $3.1 million,
Bloomberg data showed.  Fuel-oil inventories in the European hub of Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp rose in the past two weeks to 854,000 tons,
the highest since June, according to PJK International BV, a
consultant in Oosterhout,  Netherlands . Onshore stockpiles of
residue in Singapore last week fell to a three-week low of 19.65
million barrels, or about 3 million tons, based on trade
ministry data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee at   jalee@bloomberg.net  