-- 
Vodafone Says Piramal Buys Indian Stake Ahead of Potential IPO

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-11T01:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/vodafone-says-piramal-to-take-5-5-stake-in-vodafone-essar.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  sold a stake in
its Indian unit to  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC)  for $640 million, a
deal that puts the world’s largest mobile-phone operator back
into compliance with rules limiting foreign ownership.  Piramal will pay cash for 5.5 percent of Vodafone Essar,
the U.K. company said in a statement yesterday. The deal allows
Piramal to take part in a potential IPO of Vodafone Essar,
India’s third-largest mobile-phone carrier, or sell its stake
back to the U.K. company, the Vodafone statement said.  The sale brings Vodafone’s stake in Essar back under the 74
percent that foreign companies are allowed to own in local
mobile-phone operators. Vodafone had boosted its share of Essar
to just above that when it paid $5.46 billion for 33 percent of
the company last month.  Vodafone has faced regulatory hurdles in  India  as it seeks
to expand in one of its fastest-growing markets. An
“uncertain” regulatory environment is hindering an initial
public offering of Vodafone Essar, Vodafone Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao said last month. The Newbury, England-
based company is also appealing a $2.5 billion tax demand in
India’s highest court.  The transaction values the Indian venture at $11.6 billion.
The U.K. operator’s 33 percent stake purchase had valued the
whole company at more than $15 billion.  Two calls to Piramal’s headquarters in Mumbai weren’t
immediately returned outside of business hours. Piramal sold its
domestic generic-medicine business to Abbott Laboratories for
$3.7 billion in May 2010.  Wireless customers in India will exceed 993 million by the
end of 2014, according to estimates by Stamford, Connecticut-
based Gartner Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  