-- 
Westfield to Buy 50% of Brazil’s Almeida Shopping Centers for $466 Million

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-08-10T12:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/westfield-to-buy-50-of-sao-paolo-almeida-mall-owner-for-466-million.html
Westfield Group (WDC) , the world’s biggest
shopping-center operator by assets, has made its first move into
a new market in 11 years by purchasing 50 percent of a Sao
Paulo-based mall owner.  Westfield will spend 740 million reais ($466 million) on
the stake in Almeida Junior Shopping Centers SA, including a
direct capital investment of 400 million reais, the Sydney-based
company said in a  statement  today. It will be the first time
Westfield has entered a market since gaining a U.K. presence.  “Whilst the climate in the world financial markets is
volatile at present, this transaction is in the group’s long-
term investment and funding plan, and one we have been
investigating for an extensive period of time,” Chairman  Frank Lowy  said in the statement.  The move into Brazil follows the group’s decision last year
to spin off the  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  to own half of the
company’s Australian and New Zealand malls, and an announcement
that it was seeking new markets. Westfield said last month it is
investing $612.5 million to develop the retail part of the World
Trade Center in New York in a venture with the  Port Authority  of
New York and  New Jersey , even as it seeks to sell some
properties in the U.S.  New Name  The joint company, which will own and operate five shopping
centers in southern Brazil, will be renamed Westfield Almeida
Junior Shopping Centers S.A.  “Our Brazilian partnership will become a major contributor
to the earnings and development pipeline of the group,” Steven
Lowy, Westfield’s co-chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Brazil ’s economy grew 7.5 percent last year, the fastest in
two decades, as unemployment fell to a record low in December,
fueling wage growth and  consumer confidence . Retail sales rose
6.2 percent in May from a year earlier as the emerging middle
class lifted spending. At least 36 million of the country’s of
190 million people have risen out of poverty since 2003,
President Dilma Rousseff said on June 6.  Almeida owns and manages three shopping centers in the
southern Brazilian state of Santa Catarina, which has a
population of 6 million, Westfield said.  BR Malls Participacoes SA, Brazil’s biggest mall owner, on
Aug. 8 said it bought 70 percent of Alvear Participacoes SA,
which owns four shopping centers in the southern Brazilian state
of Parana. BR Malls paid 510.5 million reais for two existing
shopping centers and will invest 262.3 million reais in two
projects in development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in  London  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 