-- 
White House Seeks Ways to Stem Glut of Foreclosures

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-08-10T19:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/white-house-seeks-to-reduce-foreclosed-homes.html
The Obama administration, aiming to
boost a housing market showing little sign of recovery from the
2008 credit crisis, is seeking ideas for renting, selling or
disposing of foreclosed homes controlled by the government.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , regulator of Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac , U.S. Treasury Department and the Department of
Housing and Urban Development announced the solicitation in a
statement today.  The agencies are seeking to shrink the pool of foreclosures
and boost  home prices  by finding investors for properties owned
by the  Federal Housing Administration  and U.S.-run Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. Combined, FHA and the two companies own or
guarantee about 90 percent of U.S. mortgages.  Selling or renting properties in blocks “may reduce
taxpayer losses and meet the enterprises’ responsibility to
bring stability and liquidity to housing markets,” FHFA Acting
Director Edward J. DeMarco said in the statement.  President  Barack Obama  has struggled to right the housing
market since he took office in January 2009, four months after
losses stemming from defaults on subprime loans pushed  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac into government conservatorship.  Freddie Mac, of McLean,  Virginia , and its larger rival,
Washington-based Fannie Mae, have survived on government aid
since they were seized in September 2008. Since then they have
drawn almost $170 billion in Treasury aid to remain solvent.  Little to Show  As he prepares to seek re-election next year, critics say
Obama has little to show for his efforts. The administration’s
Home Affordable Modification Program has helped about 650,000
borrowers keep their homes, far short of the 3 million to 4
million it had targeted.  “In the 2008 campaign they said the president would come
in and fix the housing problem,” said  Keith Hennessey , who was
director of the National Economic Council under President  George W. Bush . “We literally couldn’t see a way that policy could
solve the problem. I think they’ve figured that out now.”  With today’s announcement, the focus shifts from keeping
borrowers in their homes to finding a future for the houses
whose owners couldn’t be helped.  ‘This Is Political’  “They have mishandled the foreclosure process, now they’re
stuck with all these properties,” said  Peter Morici , a
professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H. School of
Business. “This is political, but there’s also a certain amount
of necessity here.”  The  announcement  particularly seeks input from companies
with “the technical and financial capability to engage in
large-scale transactions.”  One challenge is to find economies of scale for disposing
of housing inventory scattered across the country. That might
include auctioning houses in bulk to investors, finding firms to
partner with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in managing rentals, or
even demolition, according to the announcement.  Proposals should be tailored to a region’s economic
conditions and involve pools of property worth between $50
million and up to $1 billion, the agencies said.  As of the end of June, Freddie Mac held nearly 60,600
foreclosed single-family homes, known as real-estate owned or
REO. Fannie Mae reported more than 135,700.  “We anticipate that it will take years before our REO
inventory is reduced to pre-2008 levels,” Fannie Mae said in
its earnings report on Aug. 5.  Comments are due to the agencies by Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  