-- 
Wisconsin Democrats Vow Extended Walker Recall Drive After Ballot Failure

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-10T19:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/wisconsin-democrats-vow-extended-walker-recall-drive-after-ballot-failure.html
Wisconsin  Democrats will extend
their recall battle into next year with an effort to oust
Republican Governor  Scott Walker , possibly on Election Day 2012,
the state’s party chairman said today.  One day after falling short of a goal to recall three
Republican state senators and gain control of the legislative
chamber, Wisconsin Democratic Party Chairman Mike Tate said he
would like to see a signature-gathering effort to force a vote
“as soon as feasible.”  Republicans fended off four of six recall attempts
yesterday. The outcome still left Walker and Republicans, who
now hold a 17-16 majority in the state Senate, “vulnerable
going into 2012,” Tate said today in a conference call with
reporters.  Wisconsin has gone through six months of political battles
since Walker used Republican legislative majorities to enact
collective-bargaining curbs on most public employee unions in
March. The governor, 43, said the restrictions were needed to
save money for the state and local governments. Critics accused
him of trying to crush unions, a traditional Democratic support
group.  Walker “reached out to the leadership of both the
Republicans and Democrats in the Assembly and State Senate,” he
said in a statement today. “I shared with them that I believe
we can work together to grow jobs and improve our state.”  Democrats’ Challenge  Charles Franklin , a political scientist at the  University
of Wisconsin-Madison , said it will be a challenge for Democrats
to sustain the recall intensity because they will need their
resources next year for the presidential race and a U.S. Senate
contest in the state.  “The money is just not available for all of these,”
Franklin said in a telephone interview. “It’s very up in the
air what they say the morning after and what they say a few
weeks and months from now.”  Walker cannot legally be recalled until he has been in
office for at least one year, which would be January. Recall
advocates would need to collect about 540,000 signatures in 60
days to force a vote.  The fight in Wisconsin exemplifies a growing discontent in
the nation, and the mobilization effort for yesterday’s ballots
will carry over to other campaigns, said  John Russo , a professor
and co-director of the Center for Working-Class Studies at
Youngstown State University in  Ohio .  Political ‘War’  “You may lose the battles, but this is a war, and this is
going to be a war for some time,” Russo said in a telephone
interview.  Ohio voters on Nov. 8 will decide the fate of a law
restricting collective bargaining for public employees after  We
Are Ohio , a coalition of labor leaders, Democrats and others
opposed to the law, submitted 915,456 valid signatures last
month to put a referendum on the ballot.  Republicans and Republican governors such as Walker and
Ohio’s  John Kasich  will see the outcome in Wisconsin as a
victory, said  John Green , a political scientist at the
University of Akron. The Democrats’ efforts may still influence
those governors because “very few politicians of either party
can face this kind of opposition over and over again,” he said.  “It may affirm their agenda and lead them to stay the
course, but it may not embolden them,” Green said in a
telephone interview. “In fact, it may make them a bit more
cautious about future proposals.”  2012 Implications  The battles over labor issues in Wisconsin and Ohio, a
presidential battleground state, may also have implications for
President Barack Obama’s bid for re-election, Green said.  “If that energy and organization is carried forward into
the presidential campaign, we may see a particularly close
contest,” he said.  The record number of recall elections in Wisconsin spurred
national Republican and Democratic interest groups -- most from
outside the state -- to spend tens of millions of dollars in
television and radio ads that mirrored the nation’s political
divisions.  Republican incumbents Alberta Darling, Sheila Harsdorf,
Luther Olsen and Robert Cowles survived yesterday’s recalls.
Democrats took two seats. Jennifer Shilling defeated Senator Dan Kapanke and Jessica King beat Senator Randy Hopper.  After yesterday’s results, the Aug. 16 recall election of
two Democratic senators won’t have any bearing on control of the
chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  