-- 
Wisconsin Republicans Retain Control of Senate in Win for Walker

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-08-10T05:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/wisconsin-republicans-keep-senate-control-after-recalls-in-win-for-walker.html
Democrats in Wisconsin fell short of
their goal of capturing control of the state Senate and blunting
the agenda of Governor  Scott Walker  when they failed to oust
three Republicans in six recall elections.  Republican incumbents Alberta Darling, Sheila Harsdorf,
Luther Olsen and Robert Cowles survived yesterday’s recalls,
according to vote tallies by the  Associated Press . Democrats
took two seats, cutting the Republican margin in the Senate to
17-16. Jennifer Shilling defeated Senator Dan Kapanke and
Jessica King beat Senator Randy Hopper, AP said.  The results represent a victory for Walker, 43, who used
his legislative majorities to place collective-bargaining curbs
on most public employee unions in March, sparking weeks of
protests. The Aug. 16 recall election of two Democratic senators
will now have no bearing on control of the chamber.  The recall elections for the state legislative seats drew
national attention and a projected $40 million in campaign
spending from Republican and Democratic support groups in a
fight that was viewed as the first battle of the 2012 election
season.  The votes were the climax of months of political fighting
in  Wisconsin , sparked by Walker’s collective-bargaining bill,
which he signed into law March 11.  Recall efforts by Democrats began as Walker used Republican
majorities in the Legislature to push through the union curbs.
Republicans retaliated with ouster efforts against some of the
14 Democrats who fled the state in February in an unsuccessful
effort to block a vote on Walker’s plan.  Outside Spending  The record number of recall elections spurred national
Republican and Democratic interest groups -- most from outside
the state -- to spend tens of millions of dollars in television
and radio ads that mirrored the nation’s political divisions.  Republican groups saw the votes as an attack on Walker and
a potential threat to his fiscally conservative policies and
efforts to rein in the influence of public-employee unions.
Democratic groups and organized labor, a traditional ally,
viewed the collective-bargaining curbs as a political assault on
unions that could spread nationally.  Political interest groups registered with the Wisconsin
 Government Accountability Board , the state’s elections bureau,
reported $14.2 million in spending as of this week. At least $14
million in additional money has come from unregistered groups
for television ads and other efforts, said Michael Buelow,
research director for the nonpartisan Wisconsin Democracy
Campaign, which tracks campaign spending.  Labor Groups  The biggest contributors for Democrats were We Are
Wisconsin, a coalition of labor groups led by the AFL-CIO, and
the  Greater Wisconsin Committee . The leading Republican support
groups were the  Club for Growth  and Americans for Prosperity.  Voter turnout in the Milwaukee suburb of Glendale was
heavier than expected, said Susanne Hanaman, the city clerk.
Voting in off-year special elections is normally light, election
officials said. Precincts in Milwaukee suburbs reported turnout
of 50 percent or higher.  Some recall supporters said the vote was a warm-up for an
ouster vote of Walker, who legally can’t be recalled until he
has been in office for one year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  