-- 
Woods Praises Scott Rather Than Criticize Williams for Comments After Win

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-08-10T16:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/woods-praises-scott-rather-than-criticize-williams-for-comments-after-win.html
Tiger Woods said he was surprised by
former caddie  Steve Williams ’s reaction to winning a tournament
with a different golfer, while refusing to criticize him
directly.  Woods, addressing the situation for the first time since
Williams described his Aug. 7 victory with  Adam Scott  as the
“most satisfying win of my career,” instead focused on
complimenting Scott’s play.  “I was happy to see Stevie and Adam win,” Woods said in a
press conference at the  Atlanta Athletic Club , where the  PGA
Championship  begins tomorrow. “It was great to see him play
that well.”  Woods said he sent Williams a congratulatory text message
after the win at the Bridgestone Invitational in Akron,  Ohio . He
referred to his former caddie as a friend and said he would keep
any conversations that he might have had with Williams since
then private.  “All I can control is my life and how I feel,” Woods said
when asked if he regretted how much attention the end of their
working relationship created. “I’m not going to speculate on
Steve. Those are obviously his feelings and his decision to say
what he wants to say.”  Williams told Foxsports.com this week that he went “over
the top” with his comments following Scott’s victory, in which
he focused more on himself rather than the play of his new boss.  Today, the New Zealander apologized on his  website , saying
it was a “complete surprise” that CBS Corp. asked him for an
interview after Scott’s four-shot win, his first title in the
U.S. in more than a year.  ‘Emotions High’  “My emotions were running very high, and at the time I
felt my emotions poured out and got the better of me,” wrote
Williams, who caddied for Woods during 13 of his 14 major
victories. “I apologize to my fellow caddies and professionals
for failing to mention Adam’s outstanding performance. I would
like to thank all those fans at Firestone who made this victory
the most special of my career.”  As Scott played the final holes of the event, fans
repeatedly chanted “Stev-ie.” Scott, a 31-year-old Australian,
said yesterday that he hopes his clubs can “do the talking”
this week at the PGA, the final major of the golf season.  Woods said he would stop using Williams as his caddie last
month. Williams had worked for him for 12 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  