-- 
Chord Rumbles at New Low in 639-Year Concert in German Church

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-08-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/world-s-longest-concert-reaches-low-as-new-chord-rumbles-in-german-church.html
A crowd gathered outside a
dilapidated, medieval church in the cobbled town of Halberstadt
in eastern  Germany  for a musical event that is becoming a
ritual: a chord change in the longest concert in the world.  It is an organ recital due to end only in 2640. The piece
is by the American composer John Cage, who died in 1992. He
first wrote it for piano with the tempo command “As Slow as
Possible,” then transposed it for the organ.  How slow is as slow as possible? As long as the organist
can play without keeling over? Or even longer? A recent
recording lasts 75 minutes; the 1987 debut performance by Gerd
Zacher, lasted 29 minutes. The performance at the draughty,
disused 1,000-year-old St. Burchardi church (which has served as
a barn, a distillery and a sty) is due  to last 639 years .  A sound change is an eagerly anticipated occasion and this
one, on Aug. 5, was the 11th in the first 10 years of the
recital. The new chord has the lowest notes so far. They are C
and D-flat, just a semitone apart. The C will sound for 36
years, while the D-flat will rumble on until March 2071.  “Think of Hamburg harbor,” said Rainer Neugebauer, a
teacher and member of the foundation that runs the project. The
new chord does sound like the horn of a vast container ship.  Hundreds of onlookers -- some local Halberstadters, others
from further afield -- watched as the old organ pipe was removed
and new ones unblocked, and the new chord began to reverberate.  Chords Compared  Half joking, half in earnest, spectators exchanged views on
how it compared with the old one. One said it sounded more
serious. Another heard new urgency.  Nicholas Riddle, the chief executive of John Cage’s
publisher,  Edition Peters Group , flew in from  London  for the
occasion. It was his second chord change.  “I thought when I came here last time it was going to be
either rather weird or rather serious in a heavyweight
musicological, slightly dull way,” he said. “It wasn’t at all.
The project, when you experience it in the church, is amazingly
moving and profound.”  The first organ with a modern keyboard was built in
Halberstadt in 1361, 639 years before the year 2000, when the
Cage recital was due to start. That figure gave the performance
its length. So far, only the note changes for the first part --
through 2072 -- have been scheduled. The next change is in July
next year.  The keys are held down with bags of flour, so there is no
need to rely on the good health of an organist. The organ is a
makeshift one: New pipes are produced as required for the new
note and removed when no longer needed.  Faith and Hope  The spirit of the performance is optimistic. It carries the
faith that future generations will want to keep it going; the
hope that no major disaster or war will destroy it; the belief
that future governments will allow the concert to continue.  The  website  says the idealism involved is equal to that of
the creators of  Europe ’s great cathedrals, who began building
knowing they would never live to see their projects completed.  The scale of the investment and manpower required isn’t
comparable to that. And the biggest threat to the John Cage
Organ Project is a lack of funding. It costs between 20,000
euros ($29,000) and 30,000 euros a year to run.  “We are managing hand-to-mouth,” said Neugebauer. “We
still don’t have the money for an organ.”  St. Burchardi receives about 10,000 visitors a year. Donors
can  reserve a year  between now and 2640 and get a plaque on the
church wall. Some of those already taken mark private
anniversaries -- a 100th wedding anniversary in 2067 in one
case. Others commemorate the 1,000th anniversary of the
Reformation in Saxony in 2539, or  Richard Wagner ’s 500th
birthday in 2313.  Snow Dusk  I have been there on a Sunday in December at dusk when the
church was blanketed in snow and locked up. The chord was
audible from the courtyard, strangely comforting. There was
something spiritual about being there, even for a non-believer.
I know I will go back.  The length of the performance also raised some legal
questions, joked Riddle. Though most of the performance will
take place after the copyright has expired, the beginning is
within the copyright limitations, and that is what counts.  “But the royalties are only due when the performance is
over, so we have to have a lot of patience,” Riddle said.
“Still, the interest on the fee will be absolutely enormous.”  The performance of “Organ2/ASLSP” in the St. Burchardi
church in Halberstadt is open to visitors from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
from Tuesday through Sunday until October, and from noon to 4
p.m. from November through March. For more information, go to
 http://www.john-cage.halberstadt.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Halberstadt, Germany, at 
   chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 