-- 
Swiss Franc Falls Most Since 1999 on Possible Euro Peg; NZ Dollar Climbs

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-11T21:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/yen-strengthens-on-concern-over-europe-debt-crisis-slowing-global-growth.html
The franc tumbled the most against
the euro since the shared currency’s 1999 debut after  Swiss
National Bank  Vice President Thomas Jordan said a temporary peg
to the euro would be legal as policy makers try to stem the
franc’s gains.  The New Zealand and Australian dollars climbed against the
greenback as stocks surged. The franc fell versus all its most-
traded peers after rising to records this week versus the euro
and dollar as  Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S. economic weakness
spurred refuge demand. The yen approached a post-World War II
high versus the dollar, spurring bets  Japan  may intervene.  “The Swiss announcement effect is certainly negative, and
it pushed out some speculators at the margin,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank. “It has
been very difficult for the Swiss National Bank to take the tide
on safe haven buying. I fully expect to see further Swiss
appreciation next week.”  The franc dropped as much as 6 percent to 1.0921 per euro
before trading at 1.0844 at 5 p.m. in New York, down 5.3
percent. The Swiss currency weakened 4.6 percent to 76.14
centimes versus the dollar, from 72.66 centimes yesterday.  The dollar lost 0.4 percent to $1.4241 versus the euro,
from $1.4178 yesterday. The U.S. currency was little changed at
76.84 yen after earlier weakening to 76.31. It reached a postwar
low of 76.25 yen on March 17.  Stocks Climb  The dollar erased earlier gains against the euro as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 4.6 percent after falling 4.4
percent yesterday. Initial claims for jobless benefits in the
U.S. unexpectedly fell last week to a four-month low of 395,000,
Labor Department data showed.  Belgium,  France , Italy and Spain plan to impose bans on
short selling or short positions, the European Securities and
Markets Authority said in a statement late today New York time.
A short position is a bet a currency or security will fall.  Implied volatility among currencies of the Group of Seven
nations touched 14.72, the highest level since June 2010,
according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars through
the swaps market reached the most in almost eight months, a sign
of concern that officials in the region are struggling to
contain the fiscal crisis.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, was 47.7
basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
indicating a higher premium to buy the greenback. It widened
earlier to as much as 50.8 basis points, the most since Dec. 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Basis swaps allow
investors to borrow in one currency and simultaneously lend in
another.  Risk Appetite  The currencies of  New Zealand  and  Australia  were among the
top gainers versus the dollar amid higher appetite for risk. Key
 interest rates  are 2.5 percent in New Zealand and 4.75 percent
in Australia, versus the U.S. benchmark of zero to 0.25 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, strengthened 2.6
percent to 83.19 U.S. cents, and Australia’s dollar added 1.7
percent to $1.0352.  “You’re having a risk-on day with stocks up,” said  John Doyle , a strategist in Washington at the currency-trading firm
Tempus Consulting Inc.  A temporary Swiss franc peg with the euro is within the
range of options that policy makers may use to stem the
currency’s record-breaking rally, the SNB’s Jordan said in an
interview with the newspaper Tages-Anzeiger today.  “Any temporary measures to influence the  exchange rate  are
permissible under our mandate as long as these are consistent
with long-term  price stability ,” Jordan said.  ‘Obligations to Intervene’  A peg to the euro would require constant SNB efforts to
defend the trading range as investors continue to flock to the
currency’s perceived safety, said  George Magnus , a senior
economic adviser to UBS AG. It “actually gives them obligations
to intervene,” he said in an interview in  London . Central banks
intervene by selling or buying currencies to influence prices.  The franc gained 9.2 percent over the past month against
the currencies of nine developed-nation counterparts, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen
appreciated 3.5 percent, euro rose 0.1 percent and the dollar
dropped 1.4 percent.  “People were piling into the franc for safe haven,” said
 John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an
online currency dealer, by telephone from Toronto. “If people
decide to get out of that, it could be like elephants running
through a squash door -- that thing could get smashed.”  The U.S. currency earlier weakened for a fifth day against
the yen in its longest run of daily declines since June 8.  One-Sided  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the yen’s
movements have continued to be one-sided even after the
government sold the currency on Aug. 4 to curb its gains. He was
speaking to lawmakers in parliament in  Tokyo  today.  The euro dropped earlier amid growing concern the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis may spread to France. Banks’ overnight
borrowings from the  European Central Bank  jumped to the highest
in three months today, a sign some lenders may have need for
emergency cash.  “On a micro level, the banks have been under attack, and
that’s a proxy for what’s going on with sovereign issues,” said
 Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman
& Co. in New York. “Until there’s a resolution from policy
makers on this front, there’s still too much uncertainty about
what’s going on in the euro-zone banking sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  