-- 
President Zuma’s Support at Risk If South Africa’s ANC Disciplines Malema

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-08-10T11:15:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-10/zuma-s-support-at-risk-if-south-african-anc-disciplines-malema.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
risks losing support of the  African National Congress ’s Youth
League, which helped sweep him into power, if the ruling party
takes disciplinary action against youth wing leaders such as
 Julius Malema .  “If they opt for disciplinary action, that would be a real
watershed,” William Gumede, associate professor at the
University of the Witwatersrand, said by phone from Johannesburg
today. “That would become an open boxing match. At the moment
they’re just shadow boxing.”  The Youth League has stepped up pressure on Zuma’s
government to nationalize mines and banks, sparking concern
among investors in the world’s biggest producer of chrome and
platinum. Last month, the league drew a public rebuke from the
ANC when it pledged to work to oust the Botswana government,
which it called a “footstool of imperialism.”  ANC spokesman Brian Sokutu, in an interview today, said
disciplinary action “is being considered.”  Zuma is still considering ways of wooing the Youth League
in a bid for a second term as party leader, Gumede said. In
2007, it helped Zuma wrest control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki ,
enabling him to become president 17 months later.  Turned Against Zuma  Gumede, author of “ Thabo Mbeki and The Battle for the Soul
of the ANC ,” said the Youth League has already turned against
Zuma.  “They have already decided that he’s out,” he said.
“They want someone who will give them more explicit backing on
their ideas.”  The ANC in May last year fined Malema, 30, and forced him
to apologize and seek anger-management help after he challenged
Zuma with comments backing Robert Mugabe, president of  Zimbabwe ,
where  South Africa  is mediating a political crisis. The censure
also included the possibility of suspension from the party if he
committed a similar infraction within two years.  The foreign policy statements are particularly irritating
to the ANC leadership because “state sovereignty is a holy
grail” in African politics, Gumede said. “Malema and the Youth
League talking about regime change hits at the heart of this
principle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 