-- ‘Abortion Queen’ in Last-Ditch Battle to Save Mississippi Clinic
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/-abortion-queen-in-last-ditch-battle-to-save-mississippi-clinic.html
Diane Derzis carries a Taser, a
Smith and Wesson and a nickname: “abortion queen.”  “It doesn’t in any way injure my self-confidence,” said
Derzis, who owns Mississippi’s last abortion clinic and three
others in the U.S. South. “I kind of like being the queen.”  Her dominion, though, is shrinking. Derzis’s Birmingham
clinic was shut for what Alabama health officials called “a
history of deficiencies” in what she said was a witch hunt.
Now, the  Jackson Women’s Health Organization  may close, thanks
to a  law  Mississippi’s Republican-led Legislature passed
requiring that abortion doctors have admitting privileges at a
local hospital.  Derzis, 58, and her lawyers are trying to prevent the state
from becoming the first with no abortion clinic, and argued in
U.S. District Court yesterday that the requirement is
unconstitutional because it will effectively ban the procedure.
Judge Daniel P. Jordan III ruled that the law will remain
blocked as he considers new material filed by the state.  Derzis, seen as a hero by allies and an enabler of murder
by the anti-abortion movement, bought the Jackson clinic two
years ago. She had become known in the region after Eric Robert
Rudolph bombed her New Woman All Women Health Care Clinic in
Birmingham in 1998, punctuating years of attacks on clinics. The
blast killed an off-duty police officer and maimed a nurse.  Abortion-Free State  Politicians now present the greatest threat to Derzis’s
professional survival. States passed a record 92 abortion
restrictions last year, according to the New York-based
Guttmacher Institute, which compiles reproductive-health data.
 Mississippi  joined nine other states with laws requiring
admitting privileges when Republican Governor Phil Bryant signed
the bill in April.  In the two years that Derzis has owned the Jackson clinic,
she has been the largely unnamed force behind a business that
lawmakers have made a focus of state politics.  When Bryant signed the law argued in court yesterday, he
said he would “continue to work to make Mississippi abortion-
free,” according to Derzis’s suit. Lieutenant Governor Tate Reeves says on his website that the law “not only protects the
health of the mother but should close the only abortion clinic
in Mississippi.”  None of the state’s 120 hospitals is licensed as an
abortion facility -- meaning each provides fewer than 10 per
month or 100 per year, according to the state health department.  The state, which had 14 providers in 1981, is one of five
with a single clinic. Derzis’s facility provided 2,378 in the
year ending June 30, 2011, according to Betty Thompson, a
spokeswoman.  Dwindling Force  Charlotte  Taft, who directs the Abortion Care Network, a
Washington nonprofit that seeks to reduce stigma around the
practice, treated Derzis’s Birmingham employees for emotional
trauma after the 1998 bombing. She says Derzis and she are among
a shrinking pool of  baby boomers  who joined the movement after
Roe v. Wade, the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court ruling guaranteeing the
right to an abortion.  “At this point, our greatest challenge is challenges from
the states and that’s what’s happening to Diane Derzis,” said
Taft. “If anyone can stand up to this assault it could be
Diane.”  Derzis never unlisted her phone numbers or addresses or
made a habit of wearing a bullet-proof vest.  “You can’t think about it,” she said. “You can’t live
like that or you couldn’t live. When you hide from those people,
that’s what makes them come after you. They know I’m as crazy as
they are.”  Packing Heat  Derzis says she can’t remember when she started carrying a
firearm.  “If I’m going, I’m going to take some of them with me,”
she told the  Associated Press  in 1995, after vowing to replace
the Beretta pistol she had at the time with a semiautomatic that
she now carries in her purse.  Long a magnet for protesters, the Jackson facility requires
patients to leave backpacks and purses outside and be buzzed in
by an attendant. The metal detector -- a reminder of past
violence -- was removed a few months ago, Derzis said.  Derzis credits the anti-abortion movement for creating an
environment where the practice is shunned, especially in the
South.  “They have patience,” she says of her opponents. “They
are a force to be reckoned with.”  Nothing Personal  One of those forces is Terri Herring, national director of
the Mississippi-based Pro Life America Network, who has lobbied
state lawmakers since 1986. While Derzis isn’t nearly as visible
as the Jackson clinic’s doctors or staff, Herring says, she
symbolizes an industry that hurts women.  “This is not a personal thing for me,” said Herring, who
helped get the new law passed. “Our goals are not to personally
attack anyone.”  Derzis, who wears red lipstick and shoulder-length curly
blond hair, was born in  California  and raised in Elkton,
 Virginia . She has a bachelor’s degree in psychology and
sociology from the University of Montevallo, south of
Birmingham, and a law degree -- though she didn’t take the bar
exam and has never practiced -- from the Birmingham School of
Law.  Since 2006, Derzis and her second husband, Sam Hess, have
maintained a long-distance relationship. He visits a few times a
month from Virginia, where he works on their horse and cattle
farm.  Derzis, who has no children, had an abortion in a doctor’s
office in 1974 when she was in college and married to her first
husband. It was a hostile experience during which she was meant
to feel shamed, she says. Shortly after, she made it her mission
to make the procedure more comfortable for clients.  She operates the for-profit Jackson clinic and facilities
in Birmingham; Columbus,  Georgia ; and Richmond, Virginia. Her
investors include doctors and, until her death two weeks ago,
her mother.  Derzis sees her fight to keep the Jackson clinic open as
the highest stakes battle yet.  “My crown’s a little tarnished at this point,” the
abortion queen said. “But I’m not dead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  