-- ’No More Solyndras’ Bill Seen Hurting Clean-Energy Innovation
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-12T17:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/-no-more-solyndras-bill-seen-hurting-clean-energy-innovation.html
A House bill introduced by
Republicans in response to Solyndra LLC’s collapse may keep the
U.S. from backing the latest clean-energy projects under its
remaining $34 billion in loan authority, the Energy Department
said.  The bill, a response to an 18-month investigation into
Solyndra’s $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, would bar the
Energy Department from issuing loan backing for future projects.  That could keep the U.S. from supporting the most promising
proposals, David Frantz, the acting director of the department’s
loan-guarantee program, said today at a House energy committee
hearing on the measure, which Republicans are calling the “No
More Solyndras” bill.  “We feel it would preclude us from proceeding on new and
innovative technology,” Frantz said.  He also objected to a provision in the legislation
prohibiting taxpayers from taking a back seat to private
investors in case of liquidation, which occurred when the Energy
Department made a last-minute effort to save Solyndra.  The prohibition could weaken the Energy Department’s
ability to save a project, Frantz said.  Republicans led by Representative  Cliff Stearns  of  Florida ,
chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s oversight
panel, said the bill was designed to fix problems in the loan-
guarantee program uncovered during the investigation into
Solyndra. The solar company failed two years after it received
its guarantee.  Rushed Approval  The department rushed to approve backing for Solyndra’s
loan despite “red flags” about the company and failed to
monitor the loan as the firm spiraled toward bankruptcy,
Republicans said.  “There’s more than enough evidence to declare this program
a failure,” Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican
and chairman of the energy committee’s energy and power panel,
said during the hearing.  Representative  Diana DeGette , a Colorado Democrat, said the
Republican-led investigation was motivated by a desire to make
“cheap political points in an election year.”  Not all Republicans think the program should be ended.  “I do think we can reform the program” without
terminating it, said Texas Republican Representative  Joe Barton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  