-- ’Right to Work’ Is an Old and Bipartisan Idea
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   T a n d y   S h e r m e r
-- 2012-07-12T15:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/-right-to-work-is-an-old-and-bipartisan-idea.html
Republican legislators across the
country have recently reinvigorated debate about the “right to
work.” To the great fury of Democrats, they have introduced
bills to either create or strengthen laws prohibiting unions
from bargaining for contract clauses that make membership a
requirement to work in an organized firm.  But the concept of a “right to work” has a long and
bipartisan history.  One of the earliest uses of the phrase came in a 1903
McClure’s magazine expose titled “ The Right to Work ,” by
muckraker Ray Stannard Baker. He described harrowing attacks on
those who crossed picket lines in a bitter anthracite coal
strike, bringing evidence of a powerful  labor movement  to
middle-class readers far from mining camps.  During the two world wars,  union membership  shed some of
its negative connotations, and became synonymous with
patriotism. The idea of a “right to work” seemed treasonous.
“The open shop,” unionized painter Joe Rodriguez declared during
1944 hearings before the Arizona Legislature, “only creates
bitter feeling, disruption and very low standard of living, but
if it was to be enacted throughout the nation today, one of the
most chaotic and dangerous conditions would develop in America
to the point where I am sure Mr. Hitler and Mr. Hirohito would
be in Heaven that such developments took place.”  Truman’s Slogan  Some business leaders agreed -- at least in part. The
president of the California Chamber of Commerce said that
although his members objected to “compulsory unionism” they also
opposed right-to-work laws in “the interest of national unity,
the uninterrupted prosecution of the war and maintenance of our
vital production scheduled at this time of crisis.” After the
war, President  Harry Truman  seized the slogan to promote
federally assured full employment, attempting to reframe the
issue as the right to a job.  In 1947, amendments to the  National Labor Relations Act 
(usually called Taft-Hartley) forever cemented the “right to
work” as a protection against “compulsory unionism” and a
defense of the “open shop.” Section 14(b) of the law permitted
states to pass restrictions on contractual membership
agreements.  This only legalized what managers had already pressured
many legislators to do. Wisconsin businesses had lobbied in 1939
for an “Employment Peace Act,” which placed limits on union
tactics and strengthened protections for employers during
organizing drives. This law served as a model for six other
state assemblies, as well as for more stringent right-to-work
ballot initiatives held in  California ,  Arkansas  and  Florida  in
1944.  But bills flooded statehouses and appeared on ballots
across the country after Taft-Hartley’s enactment. All offered
the same edict: “A person has the right to work, and to seek,
obtain and hold employment without interference with or
impairment or abridgement of said right because he does or does
not belong to or pay money to a labor organization.”  Even before the organization of a well-funded and energetic
National Right to Work Committee in 1955, national business
groups, such as the  National Association of Manufacturers  and
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, promoted right-to-work laws and
pushed for state-level legislation.  Patriotic, Pro-Investment  The business leaders who spearheaded these campaigns often
framed them as a patriotic duty when talking to voters. “It’s
almost as if we were living in pre-war  Germany ,” a 1946  Arizona 
radio ad charged, “These despotic little labor racketeers, the
would-be Hitlers, must be crushed now -- once and for all --
before it’s too late.”  Southerners, for their part, often deemed the right to work
a bulwark against Communists and civil-rights activists. “This
outside influence is just a bunch of pot-bellied Yankees with
big cigars in their mouths and the dues they collect will just
go up North,” read one Dixie handbill introduced into the
 Congressional Record  in 1953, “If they come in, you will share
the same restroom with Negroes and work side by side with them.
It comes right out of  Russia  and is pure communism and nothing
else.”  Campaigners in the Sun Belt sold the laws as a means of
luring investors, and used the same tactic to defeat attempts at
repealing them. In 1956, Arizona Senator  Barry Goldwater  warned
voters that General Electric executives had already threatened
not to “go into any state that did not have a right-to-work
law.”  By 1958, something of a right-to-work belt already
stretched across much of the American South, Southwest and
Mountain West. Voters in six more states weighed the matter in
elections that year, encountering a barrage of arguments for and
against from business, civil rights, and labor groups. In the
years that followed, lawyers from the National Right to Work
Legal Defense Foundation went to court to ensure that unions
complied with restrictions and labor leaders made their case in
 Washington  (unsuccessfully) to repeal Section 14(b).  Public debate over right-to-work laws subsided, after  23
states  had enacted such restrictions. But they are back in
fashion now that the Steel Belt has rusted, the labor movement
is weak and the economy is growing slowly. Still, some
executives continue to fear union and voter reprisals more,
especially in an election year. For example, with right-to-work
legislation pending in  Michigan  this year, both the trade group
Business Leaders for Michigan and an executive of the Michigan
Manufacturers Association  warned  that the proposed law would be
a divisive distraction from more important issues.  Yet the right to work will undoubtedly remain central to
business politics -- no matter the outcome of the 2012
elections.  (Elizabeth Tandy Shermer is an assistant professor of
history at Loyola University Chicago. She is the editor, with
 Nelson Lichtenstein , of “The Right and Labor in America:
Politics, Ideology, and Imagination.” The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Elizabeth Tandy Shermer at
 eshermer@luc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  