-- A&E TV, Philip Morris, LucasFilm: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-12T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/a-e-television-philip-morris-lucasfilm-intellectual-property.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
patent on the company’s biggest selling drug, the Copaxone
multiple-sclerosis treatment, was upheld by a U.K. court.  The U.K. decision comes almost three weeks after a U.S.
federal district judge ruled in Teva’s favor, saying Copaxone’s
patents are valid and enforceable. Teva is trying to stave off
competition for Copaxone, which generated 21 percent of its
revenue last year.  “It helps to get another court victory on their major
drug,” Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage,
said by phone from  Tel Aviv . “Still, the decision was in line
with market expectations.”  New treatments such as Novartis AG’s Gilenya and the
possible introduction of generics before Copaxone’s U.S. patents
expire in 2014 and 2015 threaten to erode Teva’s market share.  Mylan Inc. had filed suit in the U.K. to try to invalidate
a Copaxone patent and allow a generic copy, Teva said. The court
declared Teva’s patents expiring May 2015 valid.  Bank of America Gets Patent to Make Customers Feel Connected  Bank of America Corp.  has received a patent for a
technology aimed at making large banks’ customers feel more
connected to their local communities.  Patent 8,219,499, issued July 10, covers a review platform
for online banking through which the bank’s customers can rate
and review the bank’s business customers.  The system provides a forum through which the bank’s
customers can “interact with each other to exchange information
related to activities, local events, offers, business knowledge,
business contacts, business reviews, and/or the like,”
according to the patent.  According to the patent, the increased emphasis on
computerized services offered by large banks have
“significantly changed the customer experience of banking with
a local community bank.” As a result, banks are “less likely”
to be places where customers and the bank’s business customers
can interact with each other and the bank employees on a regular
basis.  According to the patent, when large banks participate in
community events or charities, they aren’t often recognized by
their customers unless the customers themselves are involved
with a particular charity or event.  Application for this patent was filed in February, 2010,
with the assistance of Moore & Van Allen Pllc, which is based in
Bank of America’s  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , hometown.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  TV Networks Fight Over History Repeating in U.K. Trademark Trial  A&E Television Networks LLC, which airs the History
channel, said viewers were fooled into watching a similarly-
named channel run by a  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  unit.  A&E claims Discovery infringed its History channel
trademark when it renamed one of its channels “Discovery
History” in 2010 and is seeking a London court order blocking
the Silver Spring, Maryland-based company’s use of “History.”  “People are watching their channels thinking they are
watching ours,” A&E’s lawyer, James Mellor, said at the start
of a five-day trial. That’s “going to have some impact on
viewing figures and will have some impact on revenues.”  History , formerly known as The History Channel, is the
second most-watched of the fact-based pay-TV stations in the
U.K., according to A&E court documents. Both Discovery History
and History are known for “documentaries about tanks trundling
across the Russian steppe,” said Judge Peter Smith, who said he
watched them regularly.  A&E will present viewers as witnesses during the trial who
told the New York-based broadcaster they’d been deceived by the
Discovery History name, to show “what real people think,”
Mellor said.  The channels’ names are similar “as a matter of simple
English,” Discovery said in court papers. A&E wants “a
monopoly in the word history.”  A&E is trying to stop other broadcasters from using the
word only “in a particular context,” Mellor said in response
to a question by Smith. Discovery’s use is deceptive, he said.  Discovery, which also broadcasts the Animal Planet and TLC
channels, has 1.7 billion subscribers in 209 countries,
according to its website.  Jeremy Dickerson, Discovery’s lawyer, and Debra Johnson, an
A&E spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
requesting comment.  Philip Morris Won’t Appeal Russian ‘Zolotaya Optima’ Ruling  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ’s appeal of the rejection
of a Russian trademark registration has come to naught, the
Russian Legal Information Agency reported.  The company had sought to register “Optima Zolotaya,”
which the Federal Service for  Intellectual Property , Patents and
Trademarks said was confusingly similar to a trademark
registered by the BAT Russia-Java, according to the news
service.  The court dismissed the suit and affirmed the IP
regulators’ refusal to register the mark, and  Philip Morris  said
it won’t make further efforts to overcome the court’s
objections, according to the news service.  The agency had said that the word “Zolotaya” in the
Philip Morris application could be viewed as a separate element
and this would potentially confuse consumers, the news service
reported.  Chrysler Seeks ‘Ecodiesel 3.0L’ Trademark for Car Engines  Chrysler Group LLC, which is majority owned by Turin-based
 Fiat SpA (F) , has applied to register “Ecodiesel 3.0L” as a
trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Chrysler applied for the mark June 25 and plans to use
it for automotive engines.  In 1992,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  registered “Ecodiesel” as a U.S.
trademark, to be used with cars and their structural parts. That
registration was later canceled for procedural reasons,
according to the patent office database.  A Hawaiian company, Unitek Solvent Services Inc. of
Kapolei,  Hawaii , registered “Ecodiesel” in October 2006. That
company uses the mark for  diesel fuel  for motor vehicles.  In May 2012 a Canadian company filed an application to
register “Ecodiesel System,” and plans to use it for an anti-
pollution device for engines and motors. That company is
Technocarb Equipment (2004) Ltd. of Abbotsford, British
Columbia.  LucasFilm Loses ‘Brandroid’ Trademark Challenge in Sweden  LucasFilm Ltd., director  George Lucas ’s film production
company, has lost its challenge to a Swedish company’s attempt
to register “Brandroid” as a Swedish trademark, The Limited
English-language newspaper  reported .  Ocean Observations , a Stockholm-based branding company,
applied to register the term in 2011, saying the word was a
combination of “brand” and “Android,” and receiving a cease-
and-desist notice from LucasFilm, the Limited reported.  The Nicasio, California-based company had claimed the name
was too close to a series of trademarks it had containing
“droid” that were related to the intelligent robots it had
used in its “Star Wars” movies, according to The Limited.  The Swedish Patent office rejected LucasFilm’s claim,
determining that there would be little possibility of confusion,
because “Brandroid” is an invented word with no connection to
the meaning of “droid,” The Limited reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  EU Seeks to Ease Licensing Rules That Block Online Music Stores  The European Union proposed changes to ease licensing rules
that prevent Internet music stores, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes, from selling digital music across the 27-nation bloc.  Royalty-collection societies could be forced under the
draft rules to transfer their revenue-gathering activities to
rivals if they lack the technical capacity to license music to
Internet services in multiple countries.  Music copyright licenses are granted on a national basis in
the EU so consumers can only download music from an iTunes store
in their home country. The EU has sought to promote pan-European
licensing for years, and the commission issued an antitrust
decision in 2008 against national agencies that collect
royalties on behalf of artists.  Under current rules, European consumers “have less access
to innovative services,” EU Internal Market Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  said. “It’s not surprising that young consumers look
elsewhere than the legal” online music stores.  Collection societies also face more oversight and must
report quickly to musicians on the royalties they’ve collected
under the draft rules, which need the support of EU governments
and lawmakers before becoming law.  Apple rolled out iTunes stores in  Poland ,  Hungary  and 10
other European countries last year, seven years since arriving
in  Germany , the U.K. and  France . Obtaining licensing rights from
publishers and royalty-collecting societies was an obstacle to
opening stores in all EU nations, it said in 2009.  Most royalty revenue comes from music played on radio and
television, according to the International Confederation of
Societies of Authors and Composers. Digital music accounts for
1.7 percent of the 7.5 billion euros ($9.2 billion) the French
group, known as CISAC, collected in 2010 and doesn’t offset the
royalties lost as recorded-music sales fall, according to its
 statement  this year.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 