-- AB Foods Revenue Advances on Primark, Rise in Sugar Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-12T08:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ab-foods-sales-rise-on-primark-clothing-surge-in-sugar-demand.html
Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the
U.K. sugar producer that owns Primark clothing stores, said
revenue gained 13 percent in its fiscal third quarter on higher
retail sales and rising sugar prices in  Europe .  Sugar sales surged 54 percent and Primark revenue rose 13
percent in the 16 weeks to June 23, the London-based maker of
Twinings tea said today in a statement. The company also said it
should meet its earlier projection of “substantial growth” in
full-year profit.  Sales at the sugar division, the company’s second-biggest
contributor to profit, were “substantially ahead,” boosted by
higher prices in Europe. Primark’s “strong” revenue was hurt
by weak U.K. and Ireland sales in April because of the cold and
wet weather, causing “more variability than usual” in its
business, the company said. Its newest store opened yesterday in
Berlin and had the highest first-day sales in the chain’s
history, as shoppers continue to seek out its budget fashions.  “April was a poor month for retailing in general, but we
were nowhere near as bad as some other retailers and June was
good for us,” Finance Director John Bason said in an interview.  AB Foods fell 1 percent to 1,255 pence at 9:18 a.m. in
London, paring the stock’s gain this year to 13 percent.  Growth Outlook  Sales in Primark stores open at least a year rose about 2
percent in the quarter, unchanged from the first six months of
the year, and its profit margins are expanding because of
falling cotton prices,  Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure
Gordon, said in a note to clients today. He cut his
recommendation on the stock to hold from buy after the shares
performed “strongly” in the past 12 months.  The increase in revenue contrasts with Marks & Spencer
Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, which posted a
bigger drop in quarterly sales than analysts had estimated on
July 10.  “ABF remains on track to deliver substantial growth in
earnings growth in the current year,” Jack Gorman, an analyst
at Irish brokerage Davy said today in a note to clients. “There
is an increasing prospect that the company will generate double-
digit growth next year as well.”  AB Foods, which also makes the Ovaltine malt drink,
reported unchanged revenue at its grocery unit, hurt by
continued pressure on U.K. household budgets. This month AB
Foods’ Westmill Foods agreed to buy Elephant Atta and smaller
related ethnic flour brands from Premier Foods for 34 million
pounds ($52.7 million) in cash. Westmill supplies foods such as
Patak’s sauces to British retailers and wholesalers.  Sales at AB Foods’ ingredients unit fell 2 percent, and
revenue at the agriculture division rose 10 percent. Excluding
the impact of currency fluctuations, AB Foods’ revenue rose 12
percent in the first nine months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  