-- Abraham Lincoln’s Demons, and Ours
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-07-12T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/abraham-lincoln-s-demons-and-ours.html
Finally saw “ Abraham Lincoln:
Vampire Hunter ” the other day. Once I stopped worrying about the
divergence of even the non-supernatural timeline from actual
history, I had plenty of guilty fun. I also came away wondering
at the upsurge of interest in our 16th president these past few
years.  Every season seems to bring a dozen new Lincoln books. Or
maybe more than a dozen: Starting this year, visitors to Ford’s
Theatre in Washington have been able to view a  34-foot tower 
constructed largely of some of the 15,000-odd books published
about Lincoln. That’s an average of about 100 books each year
since he was assassinated. Even an amateur Lincoln buff such as
myself can always find fresh reading material.  The Great Emancipator has long been an attractive subject
for filmmakers, and over the years many a great actor, from
 Henry Fonda  to Gregory Peck, from F. Murray Abraham to Sam Waterston, has portrayed him. More recently, in addition to his
feats slaying vampires, Lincoln has loomed large in the second
films of both the “ National Treasure ” and “ Night at the Museum ”
franchises. He shows up in the “ Fight Club ” and “ Fallout ” video
games. He will be the subject of a Steven Spielberg epic  this
fall .  Serious Buffs  Not every Lincoln appearance in fiction is accurate or even
respectful, of course, and few of the many biographies published
each year will make the serious buff forget Carl Sandburg or
 David Herbert Donald . But the way we keep returning to Lincoln
suggests a trend, and some explanation is in order. I suspect
that our fascination with Lincoln says less about him and his
times than it does about us and ours.  Many Americans, looking around at a nation and a world
whose problems seem unsolvable, turn toward the past. Our
leaders today seem small compared with the heroes of history.
There were giants upon the earth in those days, we tell
ourselves, even if deep down we know it isn’t true.  History runs over the facts like rushing water, wearing the
jagged edges smooth. When today’s politicians invoke the name
Lincoln -- and they all do, all the time -- they mean us to
envision the bearded Father Abraham who saved the Union, freed
the slaves, and broods over  Washington  from his intimidating
Memorial. They do not conjure the canny politician whose
handpicked managers printed thousands of counterfeit tickets to
the Republican convention that nominated him for president in
1860, allowing them to fill the seats with “Lincoln men”; or the
single-minded commander in chief who, during the Civil War,
allowed his secretary of State to shutter opposition newspapers
and throw journalists in prison for impeding the war effort.  In any moment of democratic life, we do -- or we should --
value the means more than the ends. This bias preserves our
liberty. Thus it is not enough, or shouldn’t be enough, that the
government pursue the right goal. It must also follow a proper
method in pursuing its goal. Otherwise we might as well appoint
a dictator with whose views we agree, and let it go at that.  This inchoate sense of the importance of means is part of
why we pay so much attention to the scandals of a given moment,
rather than taking a longer view. Scandals, as a rule, involve
abuse of means, not ends.  Viewing events through the lens of history, however, we
tend to magnify the ends, not the means. What we see are
Lincoln’s acts -- winning the Civil War, issuing the
Emancipation Proclamation, demanding a constitutional amendment
to abolish slavery -- and not the means that he might have used
to attain them.  Mighty Acts  In historical terms, this may be correct. We don’t mind the
ends precisely because the acts themselves were so mighty -- and
so moral. But we are able to make this judgment because of our
ability, as it were, to look up the answers in the back of the
book.  We minimize  Franklin Roosevelt ’s role in the Japanese
internment, because of our reverence for the New Deal and the
victory in World War II. We don’t tear down the Jefferson
Memorial because of the third president’s dalliance with a slave
(bearing in mind that due to the power relation, we could use a
stronger word than “dalliance”).  We are less forgiving of politicians we see before us,
especially in this era of all-politics-all-the-time. Daily we
seek out cable outlets and bloggers who will catalog every flaw
of those with whom we disagree -- a process, as the economist
Arnold Kling has  noted , of closing our minds further to any
disagreement. Naturally today’s leaders seem smaller than the
supposed giants of the past.  Ian Watt pointed out half a century ago in “ The Rise of the
Novel”  that before the advent of modern literature, fictional
characters tended to have names that made them identifiable
types -- because, to the audience, seeing the type was more
important than seeing the individual. To see the individual was
to partake of complexity; to see the type was to partake of
simplicity.  The irony of our day is that we style ourselves modern, and
yet we want people to be simple again. Depending on political
preference, Republicans or Democrats, conservatives or liberals,
are simply bad guys -- no individuality, simply types. The
complexity that sustained U.S. politics through most of the 20th
century is dead: In our politics, at least, we have rejected
modernity, in search of more primitive models. And it is our
growing primitivism that causes us to revere the great figures
of the past.  But the end of the book that is the current era has not
been written -- and won’t be written, in fact, until almost
everyone now living is long dead. We should try to remember what
Lincoln knew, for he rarely cited other politicians as
authority. Rather than invoking the greats of the past, Lincoln
preferred to give reasons for his actions, and to leave judgment
to the American people.  I am an enormous fan of Lincoln, and read everything I can
get my hands on. Like so many writers before me, I have even
yielded to the temptation to write  a novel  about him. But we
mustn’t pretend that he possessed some secret magic -- as
politician or as vampire hunter -- that we lack. We won’t solve
today’s problems by imagining a Golden Age in which those
elected to lead the nation were tougher and wiser than they are
today. Invoking the great names of history is more often a way
of avoiding our challenges, not resolving them.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
latest novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in  Pennsylvania ;
William Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the  Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on  fixing
health care ; Frederic Block on how he  sentences federal
criminals.   To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  