-- Abu Dhabi Leads Gulf Nations With Oil Pipe to Avoid Iran
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-07-13T07:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/abu-dhabi-leads-gulf-oil-producers-with-pipeline-to-avoid-iran.html
Abu Dhabi is exporting oil through
the first Middle Eastern pipeline in three decades to circumvent
the  Strait of Hormuz  as producers seek to nullify Iranian
threats to block the shipping chokepoint.  The $3.3 billion link across the  United Arab Emirates  to
the port of Fujairah, to be inaugurated July 15, ensures that at
least some Abu Dhabi crude will reach buyers if  Iran  shuts the
waterway. A closure of the transit point would put at risk a
fifth of the world’s oil supplies.  “This is a significant step to maintain the flow of oil if
there is ever an issue of security around the Gulf,” said Danny Sebright, president of the U.S.-U.A.E. Business Council in
 Washington  and a former Defense Department and intelligence
official who worked on the Gulf region. “The opening of this
pipeline will spur others to give careful consideration to
similar plans that may have been put on the shelf,” he said in
a July 1 telephone interview.  The U.S. and European Union are tightening economic
sanctions against Iran, demanding that the country allow greater
scrutiny of a nuclear program they suspect is aimed at
developing atomic arms. The EU embargoed purchases of Iranian
crude starting July 1, and Iranian officials have threatened to
retaliate for what they call economic warfare by closing Hormuz
to shipping.  Abu Dhabi  holds almost all of the oil in the
U.A.E., OPEC’s fifth-biggest producer, and its link to Fujairah
will enable as much as 1.5 million barrels a day of crude to
bypass the Strait at the mouth of the  Persian Gulf .  Seeking Alternatives  As tensions mounted earlier this year,  Iraq  and  Kuwait ,
fellow members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, said they too were seeking alternatives to exporting
oil through Hormuz.  Brent crude  surged 14 percent in the first
quarter on concern that supply from the Gulf would be
interrupted. An average of 14 crude tankers sail each day
through the Strait, which is 21 miles (34 kilometers) wide at
its narrowest point, according to the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration . August Brent traded at $101.83 a barrel at 8:48
a.m. in  London  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The Abu Dhabi network will transport crude from Habshan,
the collection point for the emirate’s onshore oil fields,
across 230 miles of desert and razorback mountains to export
terminals on the U.A.E.’s eastern coast, beyond Hormuz, on the
 Gulf of Oman . The pipeline, together with an existing network in
 Saudi Arabia  and a link from Iraq to  Turkey , will be able to
transport less than half of the 17 million barrels of crude that
the EIA says moves daily through the Strait.  Saudi Output  Saudi Arabia can pump about 5 million barrels a day, half
its current output, through the pipeline it opened in 1982 from
the kingdom’s main eastern fields to its western Red Sea coast.
Iraq’s link to the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan, Turkey, has a
capacity of 1.6 million barrels a day, though it currently
exports about a quarter of that amount.  “The Iranian situation has highlighted the need for
alternatives,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief economist at Jeddah-
based  National Commercial Bank , said by telephone July 8.
“There have been talks in the past about links from Saudi
Arabia to the  Arabian Sea , either via Oman or Yemen.”  The Iraqi cabinet in March approved steps to diversify
export routes in case of a blockage at Hormuz, including the
possible revival of disused pipelines through Syria and Lebanon
and a separate line into Saudi Arabia. Kuwaiti Oil Minister Hani Hussein was evaluating plans to truck its oil overland for
export from Saudi or U.A.E. ports, Kuwait newspaper  Al-Anba 
reported March 4.  LNG Exports  Qatar, the world’s largest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, relies completely on the waterway for sales of its 77
million tons of annual capacity.  Should there be a closure of Hormuz it would hurt Iran as
well because the nation also exports crude through the Strait, a
geographical and commercial reality that suggests the Islamic
republic may not act on its threats. Most Gulf oil ministers say
a closure is unlikely.  “If you believe Hormuz will be closed, I will sell you the
Empire State or the Egyptian pyramids,”  Ali al-Naimi  said in a
March 20 briefing with reporters in Doha, Qatar.  In 2003, the six nations comprising the Gulf Cooperation
Council -- Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E., Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and
Oman -- began weighing a regional plan to build a pipeline from
southern Iraq through Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to Oman. The Arab
group decided in 2007 not to proceed,  Mustafa Alani , an analyst
at the Geneva-based Gulf Research Center, said in a February
interview.  Shipments Vulnerable  The group’s failure to agree on a coordinated plan for
exports left shipments from the Gulf vulnerable, especially
cargoes to buyers in  Asia , said Alani, who published a report at
the time examining the potential pipeline routes.  “Any move by Iran to shut off this channel or hamper the
passage of vessels in retaliation to the sanctions would have
catastrophic consequences for Asia,” Vienna-based consultant
JBC Energy GmbH said in a March report. National Commercial Bank
said in a report the same month that crude would rise to $200 a
barrel within 72 hours of any attack on the Strait.  The U.S. announced additional sanctions yesterday on Iran
targeting its weapons proliferation networks and “front
companies” helping to evade international sanctions.  The action is intended to disrupt Iran’s “nuclear and
ballistic missile programs as well as its deceptive efforts to
use front companies to sell and move its oil,” the  U.S.
Treasury  said in a statement. Iran says its nuclear research is
for civilian use only and denies it is making weapons.  Pricing the Exports  The first exports of oil via the pipeline to Fujairah will
be priced at the same level as  Murban crude  loaded inside the
Persian Gulf, three people with knowledge of the matter said
earlier this week. Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. may later devise a
separate formula including a premium to account for the cost of
using the pipeline, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. An Adnoc official
said the company won’t comment on pricing details.  Fujairah may also be used for energy imports. The U.A.E.
already buys cargoes of liquefied natural gas to supplement its
own domestic gas supply for power stations.  Two Abu Dhabi state-owned investment funds, Mubadala
Development Co. and International Petroleum Investment Co., were
seeking international banks and contractors to advise them on
financing and construction plans for an LNG import terminal at
Fujairah, two people with knowledge of the project said in May,
declining to be identified because the talks are confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  