-- Actelion Plans to Cut 135 Jobs, Refocus Research Effort
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-12T16:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/actelion-plans-to-cut-135-jobs-refocus-research-effort.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  plans to cut 135 jobs
and refocus research on rare diseases and specialty
pharmaceuticals as sales decline for the company’s best-selling
product, the Tracleer blood-pressure drug.  The cost savings will reduce research spending, and some
projects will be stopped, the Allschwil, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today. Actelion will take a charge
against 2012 earnings, though the amount hasn’t been determined
yet, the company said.  Lowering expenses will address challenges including the
strength of the Swiss franc, increased competition in the U.S.
and lower prices and government reimbursement for drugs in
 Europe , the company said. The jobs, to be cut in research and
administration, equal 5.3 percent of the company’s workforce of
about 2,570 people, according to the annual report.  “It’s good to see they’re doing the right thing,”  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s a bit more than they had been
talking about” at a briefing in May, when the company said it
would seek cost reductions in research, and not administration.  Actelion fell 1.8 percent to 40.13 Swiss francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 5.2 billion francs ($5.3
billion). The stock has returned 0.2 percent in the past 12
months, including reinvested dividends,  compared  with an 18
percent return in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Profit Forecast  The company will provide a business update when it reports
half-year earnings on July 19, it said in today’s statement.
Actelion said in May earnings will remain stable in 2013 before
rising in 2014 and accelerating to “double-digit” growth in
2015 as a new blood-pressure drug spurs sales. The company said
at the time that it planned deeper cost cuts and more targeted
spending on research and development.  Sales of Tracleer fell to 1.5 billion Swiss francs last
year as the drug faces increased competition from  Gilead
Sciences Inc.’s (GILD)  Letairis.  “In order to take full advantage of the growth
opportunities ahead of us, we must take decisive action now,”
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel said in the statement.
“We will maintain the earning power of our business, thereby
balancing long-term growth opportunities with short-term
profitability enhancement.”  Trial results announced in April of an experimental drug
called macitentan suggested Actelion has succeeded in developing
a successor for Tracleer, the blood-pressure medicine that
accounts for 87 percent of sales and will face competition from
cheaper copycat pills in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  