-- Affymax Rises on Deal With Fresenius for Kidney Therapy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-12T20:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/affymax-rises-on-deal-with-fresenius-for-kidney-therapy.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  rose the most in seven
months after the biotechnology company and partner  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  agreed to supply their anemia drug Omontys to
Fresenius Medical Care AG for use in dialysis patients.  Affymax  gained  19 percent to $14.24 at the close in New
York, the biggest increase since Dec. 8, the day after a U.S.
Food and Drug Administration advisory panel recommended approval
of Omontys. The company’s shares have gained 97 percent in the
past 12 months.  Fresenius, based in  Bad Homburg , Germany, will buy the drug
that boosts red blood cell production for more than 100 of its
U.S. dialysis centers in the next few weeks while it considers
broader use, Palo Alto, California-based Affymax and Osaka,
Japan-based Takeda said today in a statement. The deal lasts
through April 2013 and will give Fresenius discounts and
rebates. Additional financial details weren’t provided.  The 100 centers represent about 5 percent of Fresenius’
facilities in the U.S., an opportunity that may be worth $700
million in peak sales of Omontys,  Ian Somaiya , an analyst at
Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients. The
medicine is injected once a month, compared with three times a
week for  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Epogen and every other week for the first
six months with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Mircera.  “We believe the companies may opt to sign a new longer-
term deal following the trial period,” perhaps by the end of
the year, Somaiya wrote. “We believe that once Fresenius makes
the switch to Omontys, physicians, patients and support staff
are unlikely to want to switch back” to the more frequently
given medications, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  