-- AFL-CIO Has Yet to Commit Funding for Democratic Convention
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-12T22:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/afl-cio-has-yet-to-commit-funding-for-democratic-convention.html
AFL-CIO chief  Richard Trumka  said
the labor group will work to elect Democrats, though it has
still not decided if it will contribute cash for the party’s
convention in right-to-work North Carolina.  “We have not as of yet,” Trumka, president of the
nation’s largest federation of unions, said today at a press
conference in  Washington .  The AFL-CIO endorsed President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
in March and will have members at the convention as delegates.
The federation is not, however, planning to host big events such
as the reception it hosted at Coors Field, home of the  Colorado
Rockies , at the Democratic convention in Denver in 2008.  This year’s convention is expected to culminate in Obama’s
re-nomination in Bank of America Stadium in  Charlotte  on Sept.
6. Last month, two people familiar with the matter who requested
anonymity told Bloomberg News the host committee was grappling
with a fundraising deficit of about $27 million. Four years ago,
unions contributed more than $8 million to the Democratic
convention in Denver, according to financial disclosure reports.  Some unions, including the AFL-CIO’s Building and
Construction Trades Department,  said  last year that they would
not participate in the Charlotte convention because the party
chose to hold its convention in a state that lacks unionized
hotels for candidates and delegates. As a right-to-work state,
North Carolina bars agreements that make union membership and
payment of dues a job requirement.  Philadelphia Event  “I will not be there,” Edwin Hill, the president of the
 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , said at today’s
press conference. “We do not intend to put any money into the
convention.”  Trumka said the unions would use their resources to
mobilize and educate voters across the U.S., with Obama’s
reelection a top priority.  The AFL-CIO is planning a one-day rally in Philadelphia in
August, a month before the convention, to highlight the need for
higher wages and improved educational opportunities. The rally
was suggested by labor leaders after some complained about the
 North Carolina  convention site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  