-- African Leadership Fight Hampers Continent’s Peace Effort
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-07-13T06:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/african-leadership-fight-hampers-continent-s-peace-effort.html
A fight for the  African Union ’s top
position has split its members and undermined its ability to
deal with crises in nations such as  Mali , Sudan and Somalia,
said former Nigerian and U.S. envoys to the region.  AU Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  will face South African
Home Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in a vote by
Africa’s 54 states at a summit that begins July 15 in  Addis
Ababa ,  Ethiopia ’s capital. While Ping, 69, led the last election
in January, he failed to win the required two-thirds majority,
prompting the African Union to extend his term until this month.  “This impasse, unless it’s resolved, is really going to
continue to make the African secretariat a lame-duck
organization,” Olusegun Akinsanya, a former Nigerian ambassador
to the African Union, said in a July 10 interview in Addis
Ababa.  Among the crises that emerged since the January vote are
military coups in Mali and Guinea-Bissau, renewed conflict
between Sudan and South Sudan, and the spread of attacks by
militant Islamist groups in northern  Nigeria  and the Sahel
region.  “If this paralysis goes on for a long period of time it
could have major consequences,” Andrew Natsios, the former U.S.
Special Envoy to Sudan, said in a phone interview. “The
reputation of the continent is on the line.”  Dlamini-Zuma, 63, is backed by  South Africa , which has the
continent’s biggest economy, while Ping, from  Gabon , enjoys the
support of Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer and most populous
nation.  Back Seat  Since the leadership dispute emerged, the African Union has
taken a back seat to regional groups mediating political
transitions in Somalia and Mali, said Mehari Taddele Maru, who
formerly worked as a legal expert for the African Union
Commission.  In Somalia, while African Union troops are helping
government forces battle al-Qaeda-linked al-Shabaab militants,
the Intergovernmental Authority on Development of seven East
African nations is spearheading peace efforts. In Mali, the
Economic Commission of West African States has the lead role,
Mehari said.  “Ping’s visits to Somalia were much more frequent before
the January summit,” Mehari, the head of the African Conflict
Prevention Programme at the Pretoria-based  Institute for
Security Studies , said in an interview in Addis Ababa. “We
would have hoped for the AU to play more of a role.”  Sudan Oil  African Union-mediated talks between  Sudan  and South Sudan
haven’t resolved disputes over sharing oil revenue, borders and
citizenship rights after the two nations’ separation last year
that took them to the brink of war in April.  South Sudan shut down its 350,000 barrels a day of oil
production after it accused President Umar al-Bashir’s
government in Sudan of stealing $815 million worth of crude.
Sudan said it was confiscated to pay unpaid transportation fees.  In Mali, rebel groups seized the remote north following the
ouster of Malian President Amadou Toure in a March 22 coup.  Islamist rebels of the Ansar ud-Din group have been
destroying historic mausoleums in Timbuktu that they regard as
“idolatrous” and also seized the cities of Gao and Kidal after
clashes with Touareg insurgents who declared independence in the
area in April.  At the African Union, “there’s lots of room for
improvement, just how it works, how it implements decisions,”
Dlamini-Zuma, the former wife of South African President  Jacob Zuma , said in a July 6 interview in  Pretoria . “It’s a concern
that we’re seeing a resurgence of coups again.”  UN Resolution  Ping has criticized South Africa’s actions in  Ivory Coast 
and  Libya .  In Ivory Coast, South Africa supported President  Laurent Gbagbo , who refused to leave office after the Ecowas group of
regional states and the  United Nations  said he lost elections in
November 2010. At least 3,000 people were killed in violence
before Gbagbo was captured in April 2011.  South Africa backed the March 2011 UN resolution that
authorized “all necessary measures” to protect Libyan
civilians, and paved the way for air strikes by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization that helped oust  Muammar Qaddafi .
The African Union was trying to negotiate a transition to
democracy.  Libya Bombing  Zuma later said the bombing campaign constituted an abuse
of the UN resolution, which was supported by the  Security
Council ’s other two member states: Nigeria and Gabon.  “It is well known that it is the government of South
Africa which impeded Ecowas’s efforts to settle the Ivory Coast
crisis timeously and the same government that voted in favor of
UN resolution 1973 that authorized the bombing of Libya,” Ping
said in an e-mailed statement on July 10.  The  Southern African Development Community  asked Ping to
apologize for his statement, saying he abused African Union
resources for his personal election campaign, divulging
confidential information on a member state’s position.  “This has the potential of sowing seeds of animosity and
division among AU member states,” the group said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  The AU has denied that it has been weakened by the
leadership battle. The “institution is running” normally,
Ping’s deputy, Erastus Mwencha, told reporters in Addis Ababa on
July 10. “A disagreement yesterday does not mean a disagreement
tomorrow.”  Consensus Candidate  Eight heads of state, including from Gabon and South
 Africa , have met several times since the January impasse and
will decide a day before the summit starts how to proceed with
the leadership contest.  Options include introducing a consensus candidate, reducing
the winning majority needed, or the “much more probable” step
of prolonging the deadlock until the next summit, said Mehari of
the Institute for Security Studies. That may result in the
nomination of new candidates, he said.  “The hopes, the expectations are that this will not end in
another impasse,” said Akinsanya, “because the implications
will be very serious for Africa.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  