-- Aid Welcomed by Drought-Stricken States Facing Crop Loss
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/aid-welcomed-by-drought-stricken-states-facing-crop-loss.html
State leaders welcomed a pledge of
U.S. aid for the worst drought in decades, even as the
assistance paled in comparison to potential losses and a
forecaster said weather conditions may not improve in some areas
until September.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  yesterday named 1,016
counties in 26 states natural-disaster areas, the agency’s
biggest such declaration ever. Substantial rains that would
relieve the worst-hit areas may not arrive for months, said Mike Pigott, meteorologist at Accuweather Inc.  “When you are one of the biggest agricultural-producing
states in the nation, a monumental drought causes enormous
losses,” said Bryan Black, a spokesman for the  Texas  Department
of Agriculture. “The disaster-relief assistance from USDA will
help Texas farmers and ranchers recover from devastating
losses.”  The federal  action  makes farmers and ranchers eligible for
low-interest loans to help weather the drought, wildfires and
other disasters. The projected cost to the federal government is
about $4 million as loans are ultimately repaid, according to
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. Still, with a budget-cutting
farm-policy bill going through Congress and prospects for other
disaster aid slim, officials say the low-cost loans and reduced
penalties for grazing livestock on land set aside for
conservation announced yesterday are better than nothing.  Mother Nature  “Farmers and ranchers are at the mercy of Mother Nature,”
 Kansas  Governor  Sam Brownback  said in a statement. The state
“will continue working to make sure farmers and ranchers have
access to the resources they need to cope with crop losses and
impacts on livestock.” Kansas was the seventh-biggest farm
state in 2010, producing  $8.2 billion  in crops.  Moderate to extreme drought now covers about 53 percent of
the Midwest, the country’s main region, fueling price gains that
are the biggest this year among the 24 commodities tracked by
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index. The rallies are boosting
costs for companies from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to
 Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  and  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)   The area covered by the declaration includes most of the
Southwest, which has been affected by wildfires, as well as the
Southeast and the southern and eastern parts of the Corn Belt,
mainly Illinois and Indiana.  Iowa , the biggest U.S. producer of
the grain, is not included.  ‘Building Heat’  The drought, which may be the worst since a 1988 dry spell
that caused $78 billion in damages, is “beginning to have an
impact on the corn crop in parts of the Midwest,” Pigott, whose
company is based in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , said in an
interview. “The building heat and humidity could affect
maturity and eventual production.” Corn and soybeans are the
two biggest U.S. crops.  Central Illinois, Indiana and Ohio are expected to remain
under severe drought, which may worsen as July continues. Parts
of Arkansas,  Missouri  and southern Illinois have been
“substantially affected,” he said.  Some southern areas are experiencing multi-year droughts,
including Texas, where all 254 of the state’s counties are
covered by the declaration. Texas grows more cotton than any
other state.  ‘Limited Tools’  The USDA is also changing procedures to allow disaster
claims to be processed more quickly. The steps taken by the USDA
are among the “limited tools” the department has available to
agricultural producers with drought, Vilsack said.  The secretary called on Congress to pass a five-year
reauthorization of all agricultural programs before Sept. 30,
when current authorization expires, to enhance the department’s
ability to help farmers and ranchers in times of need.  Congress needs “to have that bill come to the floor and be
voted on,” Vilsack said. The Senate approved a half-trillion-
dollar plan last month. The House Agriculture Committee spent
yesterday considering its version of the bill.  Democratic Representative  David Scott  of  Georgia  said
farmers aren’t helped best by “throwing money at the problem,”
saying attention to long-term agricultural issues such as
keeping small farms profitable are more important. “Some of the
farmers are really struggling,” he said in an interview. “We
need to use our resources effectively.”  Heart Break  Representative Vicky Hartzler, a first-term Republican from
Missouri and member of the agriculture committee, said farmers
affected by the drought will rely on existing programs for aid.  “It breaks your heart to see what’s happening,” said
Hartzler, whose family farms 2,000 acres. Still, “that’s why we
have crop insurance, to help with these times,” she said in an
interview.  The declaration covers counties in the following states:
California, Oregon, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado,
Nebraska, Wyoming, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas,
Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, Illinois, Indiana, Alabama,
Mississippi, Georgia,  South Carolina , Florida, Delaware and
Hawaii.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  