-- Air France Crash Shows Need for Realistic Flight Simulators
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-12T18:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/air-france-crash-shows-need-for-realistic-flight-simulators-1-.html
Air  France  Flight 447’s three-minute
plunge from 38,000 feet into the Atlantic Ocean off  Brazil , its
wings rocking as alarms blared in the cockpit, was something the
jet’s pilots weren’t trained to handle.  Pilots can’t practice responding to so-called aerodynamic
stalls because flight simulators they train on don’t portray
them realistically, French investigators said July 6 in their
 report  on the 2009 accident.  Stalling, a sometimes-violent condition in which wings lose
lift, remains a top cause of airline accidents as others such as
wind shear and icing have been almost eliminated through better
technology and training, according to  Boeing Co. (BA)  statistics.  “This is a horrible tragedy, but one of the things that
would give it some kind of redemption would be the effort to
improve the training,” said Jack Ralston, president of  Bihrle
Applied Research Inc.  of Hampton,  Virginia , which develops
advanced computer models for simulators.  Congress in 2010 mandated stall training and the U.S.
 Federal Aviation Administration , which regulates airlines, last
year endorsed such training in a proposed rule.  “We want to give pilots more and better training on how to
recognize and recover from stalls and aircraft upsets,” FAA
Acting Administrator Michael Huerta told an Air Line Pilots
Association training forum today in Washington, according to a
transcript of his remarks. “We will be able to do this in the
advanced flight simulators we have today.”  Blind Spot  It’s not known when airlines would begin simulator training
for stalls. None use it now. The FAA’s  proposal , part of a
larger effort to revamp airline training rules projected to cost
the industry $391.9 million over 10 years, isn’t expected to be
completed until next year, according to a filing on a U.S.
Transportation Department website.  The advent of computer-driven graphics in the late 1980s
enabled the widespread use of simulators to train airline
pilots. While they allow pilots to practice potentially
dangerous maneuvers, such as flying with an engine failure or
out of a thunderstorm, in a risk-free setting, simulators have a
weakness: they’re programmed to display normal flight, according
to last week’s report from France’s Bureau d’Enquetes et
d’Analyses and similar findings by the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board.  Stalls in simulators appear to be smooth and easily
controlled. In flight, they’re often sudden and violent,
according to accident reports. Because the simulators can be so
misleading, pilots are shown how to avoid getting into stalls,
not how to recover from them.  Growing Acceptance  Stalls aren’t portrayed accurately because mathematical
models used to predict how a plane will behave are much more
complex when an aircraft goes out of control, according to a
2005 paper by NASA researchers.  Aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing and  Airbus SAS (EAD) ,
don’t supply simulator programmers with data on how aircraft
behave while stalled, Ralston said.  Bihrle has been developing simulations of stalls and other
out-of-control maneuvers for military planes for more than two
decades, Ralston said.  Regulators have resisted requiring such techniques in
commercial-jet simulators out of concern they wouldn’t be
accurate, he said. Erroneous training in how to handle unusual
flight situations has been cited by the NTSB in previous
accidents.  Advances in aerodynamic modeling and wind-tunnel testing
have made it possible to overcome those hurdles, according to
the NASA research.  Simulators Endorsed  Simulator manufacturer  CAE Inc. (CAE)  of  Canada  now believes
stalls can be portrayed, Lou Nemeth, the firm’s chief safety
officer, said in an interview.  Other companies that make simulators include France’s
 Thales SA (HO) ,  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/A)  Inc.’s FlightSafety International
Inc. of  New York  and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s Sim Industries BV
of the Netherlands.  The FAA may write a separate rule to ensure simulators
realistically portray stalls, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The agency is weighing whether to require aircraft-specific
testing for stalls or allow manufacturers to depict generic
stalls, which would be less expensive and faster to install,
Jeffery Schroeder, the FAA’s technical adviser for flight
simulation systems, told the pilots’ union forum today.  Top Cause  From 2001 through 2010, 1,756 people died in crashes
worldwide after pilots lost control, almost twice the next
highest category of cause, according to  Boeing . About half of
those accidents involved stalls, John Cox, a former airline
pilot and president of Washington-based Safety Operating
Systems, said in an interview.  Cox, who with Nemeth serves on a U.K. Royal Aeronautical
Society  committee  seeking solutions to these accidents, said
pilots need to see realistic portrayals of stalls in training to
know how to react. Simulators could recreate the surprise and
confusion pilots have faced in real accidents, he said.  From the time pilots learn to fly, they’re taught to
recover from a stall by pushing a plane’s nose down to increase
speed and air flow over the wings. The Air France pilots did the
opposite -- pulling up in a futile effort to gain altitude,
worsening the stall, the BEA found.  Wrong Reactions  The NTSB has found similar reactions by pilots in other
investigations, including its probe into the last fatal U.S.
airline accident, the February 2009 crash of a  Pinnacle Airlines
Corp. (PNCLQ)  Colgan Air turboprop near Buffalo, New York. The board
recommended as part of its investigation that simulators be
upgraded to accurately depict stalls.  The June 2009 Air France disaster, involving an  Airbus A330 
carrying 228 people, was triggered by a confused pilot’s
reaction to inaccurate speed readings, according to the BEA
report. The pilot on the Rio de Janeiro-to-Paris flight yanked
the jet’s nose up, climbing 3,000 feet in 65 seconds, according
to the BEA report.  The abrupt maneuver caused a stall and the plane’s stall-
warning system sounded an alarm, according to the report. It was
accompanied by ineffectual controls and buffeting, both classic
indications of a stall.  ‘What’s Happening?’  “Despite these persistent symptoms, the crew never
understood they were in a stall situation and therefore never
undertook any recovery maneuvers,” a  summary  of the BEA report
said.  Even as they plummeted at speeds greater than 100 miles per
hour (160.9 kilometers per hour), the pilots kept trying to pull
the nose up, according to the report.  Four seconds before the jet hit the ocean, the pilot who’d
begun the climb more than four minutes earlier voiced the
confusion in the cockpit.  “But what’s happening?” he said, according to the BEA’s
English translation of the cockpit  recording .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  