-- Airbus Confronts Delivery Challenge as Boeing Prevails With MAX
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-12T23:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/airbus-confronts-delivery-challenge-as-boeing-prevails-with-max.html
After years of piling on plane
orders, airlines are taking a break and demanding that Airbus
SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  deliver.  Sales of 282 Airbus and Boeing jets at the Farnborough air
show this week fell 36 percent from the 2011 expo in Paris,
underscoring the need to work off backlogs stretching almost to
the end of the decade. Carriers such as Emirates that had been
loading up on wide-bodies are now on the sidelines.  “We didn’t order any planes because we have ordered
enough,” Qatar Airways Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Akbar al- Baker said yesterday in an interview at the show near London,
where the carrier showed off one of the 30 Boeing 787
Dreamliners it booked in 2007.  Airbus and Boeing are rushing to boost production of
single-aisle jets and prepare for upgraded models -- Airbus’s
A320neo and Boeing’s 737 Max. They also are trying to prove they
can meet delivery targets for the long-range 787 and superjumbo
A380 after years of delays.  The 737 Max led the order book at the Farnborough show,
while Airbus’s A320neo was the star in Paris last year, as it
became the fastest-selling jet in aviation history.  “Everyone was spoiled by Paris, but people realized that
Farnborough would never be comparable to that event,” said
Rupinder Vig, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London . “With the
years of order backlog, the focus needs to move back to
execution, and frankly they shouldn’t be chasing orders right
now.”  A350 Setback  Airbus disclosed a fresh setback yesterday on its wide-body
A350, saying delivery of the wing was pushed back a month until
October as drilling in composite-material components proved more
difficult than anticipated. Meeting a 2012 goal for handing over
30 A380s will require doubling the first-half count of 10.  Boeing said last week on the eve of the show that first-
half shipments of the Dreamliner and the new 747-8 jumbo jet
totaled 24, scarcely a third of the combined full-year total of
70 to 85 the Chicago-based company has set as a target.  “They need to show that they can put the planes in
customer hands,” Richard Whittington, a Drexel Hamilton LLC
analyst in  New York , said in an interview. “It sounds like the
third quarter is going to be a very strong delivery quarter for
the 787. At that point we can start feeling a little bit
better.”  Boeing said it had 228 firm orders and 145 commitments at
the show, with a total list value of about $36 billion.
Airlines typically buy at a discount. All were single-aisle
planes, either the existing 737 or the Max model.  Bulking Up  Airbus reported 54 orders and 61 commitments, together
worth about $16.9 billion. New commitments totaled 29 for the
A320neo, less than a 10th of its haul in Paris.  The single-aisle A320 and 737 make up the bulk of the
global airline fleet, and the majority of each planemaker’s
backlog. Unfilled narrow-body orders at Toulouse, France-based
Airbus exceed 3,000, while Boeing’s count is almost 2,600.  Airbus is increasing A320 production toward a goal of 42 a
month this year, a level that Boeing is also seeking to attain
for its 737 assembly plant by the end of 2013.  “Orders are great, but the real greenbacks come with the
ultimate delivery of the aircraft,”  Michael Lewis , a Lazard
Capital Markets Ltd. analyst in McLean,  Virginia , said in a
phone interview. “They need to execute on deliveries and get
those planes out the door. Right now, it’s stretched too far.”  Boeing is still feeling the strain of more than three years
of delays delivering its Dreamliner, which didn’t enter
commercial service until 2011. The 845-plane backlog through
June had a value of $175.1 billion at list prices.  Lower Score  The planemaker’s shares have fallen 29 percent since the
day before the first Dreamliner delay, in October 2007, about
twice the decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Airbus
parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  is up 19 percent
in the period.  The industry’s smaller manufacturers face challenges
similar to those at Boeing and Airbus.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  risks having the first flight of its
CSeries jet slip past the late 2012 target amid struggles with
the plane’s flight controls, Bombardier Aerospace President  Guy Hachey  said before the show. The initial delivery is set for the
end of 2013 for a plane whose orders have mostly been in
handfuls, not the scores sometimes reaped by Airbus and Boeing.  Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. (7011) , buoyed by a commitment from
 SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  this week to buy 100 regional jets, has been
working to ease customers’ concern about  Japan ’s first passenger
jet after a one-year delay.  Booking Bulge  Airbus and Boeing’s booking bulge has strained the supply
chain. Maintaining suppliers’ strength is among the chief tasks
for the large planemakers, which are deploying “hundreds” of
employees to work with vendors, according to  Tom Enders , CEO of
EADS. The backlogs are so big that planemakers are struggling to
give new buyers a date when they could take delivery, Airbus CEO
Fabrice Bregier said.  Investors will need to adjust the way they assign value to
planemakers’ shares toward their receipt of payments for
aircraft deliveries, not based on order taking, said  Yair Reiner , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. based in New York.  Mounting evidence that the global economy is weakening
means the planemakers’ ability to increase deliveries will be
pivotal, Reiner said.  “There’s an appreciable slowdown in the airlines’ appetite
to put in orders for additional planes,” he said in a telephone
interview. “It looks now that the order rate is declining.
Historically, that has been a warning signal for the stock
because orders are a leading indicator of what deliveries
ultimately do and what the stock will do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in Farnborough,  England , at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Farnborough, England at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  