-- Airbus A350 Program Challenged as Wing Assembly Slips One Month
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-12T11:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/airbus-a350-program-challenged-as-wing-assembly-slips-one-month.html
Airbus SAS’s A350 assembly hit a
snag as the manufacturer grapples with the wing production,
causing a monthlong delay delivering the structure for a program
that Airbus cautioned has no margin to slip further.  The wing for the first flying A350 will arrive at Airbus’s
headquarters in Toulouse in  France  in October instead of
September, Chief Executive Officer Fabrice Bregier said today at
the Farnborough air show near  London . Bregier said he recently
inspected the wing factory in Broughton in the U.K., and that
the most critical phase of assembly “is behind us.”  “For the first prototype you need to be over-cautious,”
Bregier told journalists at the expo. “We will see how it
develops and then we will have more confidence on first flight.
I will never exclude a slight adaptation on the program.”  The A350 is Airbus’s attempt to gain a bigger slice of the
long-range airliner market, a segment now dominated by  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and its popular 777. Airbus was about three years late on
its last major program, the A380 double-decker jumbo, and
Bregier said the company has learned from that experience as
well as delays on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and has “no
intention” of repeating the same mistakes.  The main challenge on the A350 wings stems from drilling
holes needed to attach the component to the so-called center
wing box. Both parts are made of light-weight composite
materials instead aluminum, making the drilling process more
complex. The structure of the A350 is about 50 percent composite
materials, compared with 25 percent on the A380.  Training Workers  Airbus is spending more time familiarizing workers on the
assembly line with the new materials. Workers who drill holes
for rivets, even those with decades of experience, are spending
three weeks in training on how to put holes into composites,
which are harder and less forgiving than traditional metal.  The company is aiming for first flight of an A350 in the
middle of 2013, with first delivery of an A350-900 -- the mid-
sized variant -- to Qatar Airways Ltd. a year later. Five
aircraft will be involved in flight testing. The  Rolls-Royce Plc (RR/) 
Trent XWB engine powering the A350 is already flying on an A380
test superjumbo.  “The biggest lessons we can draw from the past is that we
need to move from one step to the other on these big programs
without rushing,” Bregier said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  