-- Najib to Repeal Law Curbing Free Speech Before Malaysia Poll
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-07-12T07:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/malaysia-plans-to-repeal-free-speech-law-before-next-elections.html
Malaysian leader Najib Razak plans
to repeal legislation that curbs free speech and has been used
against opposition politicians, the latest colonial-era law to
be scrapped or replaced before elections due by early next year.  The Sedition Act, enacted under British rule in 1948, will
be replaced with legislation aimed at preventing incitement of
religious or ethnic hatred, Najib said late yesterday.  “It’s encouraging,” Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at
 Kuala Lumpur ’s UCSI University, said by phone. “Primarily, it
has been used against opposition politicians. This is part of
Najib’s larger political transformation agenda. He’s trying to
regain momentum.”  Lim Guan Eng, leader of the opposition Democratic Action
Party, was jailed under the act in the 1990s after criticizing
the government’s handling of rape allegations against a former
chief minister. Karpal Singh, chairman of Lim’s party, is
currently being tried under the law after threatening to sue the
sultan of  Malaysia ’s Perak state.  “The Sedition Act represents a bygone era in our
country,” Najib said in an e-mailed statement. “The new
National Harmony Act will balance the right of freedom of
expression as enshrined in the constitution, while at the same
time ensuring that all races and religions are protected.”  This is the latest in a series of decades-old laws Najib
has said he’ll change as he seeks to boost his party’s
popularity in the face of a resurgent opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim . His National Front coalition is fighting to hold onto
power after five decades of unbroken rule, having won re-
election in 2008 by its narrowest margin since independence.  Security Act  The government earlier this year repealed the Internal
Security Act, first introduced in the 1960s to combat communist
insurgents, with new legislation curbing how long police can
hold suspects without trial. Najib has also revamped media laws
after promising to boost personal freedoms.  His changes to public assembly rules have proved more
controversial with the introduction of a ban on street protests.
About 50,000 people challenged this by holding an illegal
demonstration in Kuala Lumpur in April to campaign for cleaner
and fairer elections. Three opposition leaders, including Anwar,
have since been charged under the new law after allegedly
participating in the march.  “Reform will only be fulfilled if the Malaysian government
ensures the proposed National Harmony Act is consistent with
international human rights standards,”  Phil Robertson , deputy
Asia director at New York-based Human Rights Watch, said in an
e-mailed statement. “To date, Najib’s law reform efforts have
been mixed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  