-- Amazon Extinctions to Slow With Land Management, Scientist Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-13T09:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/amazon-extinctions-may-slow-with-land-management-scientist-says.html
The extinction of dozens of Amazon
species may be prevented in the next three decades by protecting
more forests and reusing cleared land, according to an article
in today’s issue of  Science .  About 1 percent of the region’s tree-dwelling animals were
driven to extinction as of 2008 and that figure may rise
dramatically as deforestation spreads in  Brazil ,  Robert Ewers , a
senior lecturer at Imperial College in  London  and the article’s
lead author, said in an interview.  Ewers evaluated the region by dividing it blocks of 2,500
square kilometers (965 square miles), and found that at the
current rate of deforestation, an average of nine species in
each block will be gone by 2050 and 16 more will be too close to
extinction to be saved. That may be slowed with improved land-
management policies, he said.  “Development has to happen, but development doesn’t have
to happen everywhere equally,” Ewers said. “What we can do is
maybe try and push to use land better. Instead of clearing land,
using it, and then abandoning it, maybe we can keep using that
same land.”  Extinction of a species often trails deforestation by
years, or even decades, he said. The study focused on the
extinction of vertebrate species, animals with backbones.  “In the south and the east of the Amazon we’ve already
lost a lot of species,” Ewers said. “Given the decisions that
are being made in Brazil, this is a really important time. You
start to see that the decisions you make today result in
different futures.”  President  Dilma Rousseff  on June 25 signed a law that
reduces the size of three national parks, three national forests
and one federally protected area to allow for building dams and
reservoir runoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  