-- AMC to Stream ‘Breaking Bad’ Premiere to Dish Customers
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-12T20:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/amc-to-stream-breaking-bad-premiere-to-dish-customers-1-.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  will stream over
the Internet the season premiere of “Breaking Bad” to
customers of pay-TV provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which dropped
the channel that carries the drama.  Dish subscribers can register online starting July 13 for
the show, which airs on July 15, AMC said today in an e-mailed
statement. Amid a contract dispute, Dish removed AMC’s channels
on June 30 and replaced popular shows such as “Mad Men” and
“The Walking Dead” with programming from HDNet.  “We want to give Dish customers an extra week to switch
providers so they can enjoy the rest of the season,” New York-
based AMC said in the statement.  AMC doesn’t have plans to air additional episodes of
“Breaking Bad” online for customers of Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, Marlea Willis, an AMC spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  The move underscores a series of fee standoffs between pay-
TV providers and program suppliers.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s 26 channels,
including Nickelodeon and MTV, went black for  DirecTV (DTV) 
subscribers earlier this week, reflecting an impasse in
negotiations between New York-based Viacom and El Segundo,
California-based DirecTV.  After DirecTV told its subscribers how to gain access to
Viacom’s shows online, Viacom responded by pulling from its
websites episodes of series such as “Jersey Shore” and “Teen
Mom.”  “Is this just another underhanded negotiating tactic, or
does this mean that Viacom will no longer offer its content free
online?” DirecTV said in a statement yesterday.  Dish shares fell 1.8 percent to $26.31 at the close in New
York. AMC shares rose 1.4 percent to $41.30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  