-- Americans in Poll Say Obama’s Health-Care Law Amounts to Tax
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-07-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/americans-in-poll-say-obama-s-health-care-law-amounts-to-tax.html
A majority of U.S. voters consider
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law to be a tax increase, leaving the
president to defend an election-year vow not to raise levies on
the middle class, according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  By a margin of 55 percent to 36 percent, respondents said
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act amounts to a tax
increase. Participants were less sure of what they thought about
the future of the law, saying 48 percent to 45 percent that the
U.S. Supreme Court was right to uphold it, while also saying 49
percent to 43 percent that Congress should repeal it.  Voters’ view of the law as a tax might pose a problem for
Obama as he takes on former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney 
in the November presidential election, said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute.  “Obama has worked mightily to avoid the ‘T’ word,” Brown
said in an e-mailed statement accompanying the poll, conducted
July 1-8. The main question is whether Republicans can convince
voters that the health-care law “breaks his promise not to
raise taxes on those who make less than $250,000,” Brown said.  Results released from the same poll yesterday found Obama
leading Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, 46 percent
to 43 percent, helped by a 2-1 advantage among single women.  Vote to Repeal  Romney and his fellow Republicans have been hammering Obama
on the tax issue since the Supreme Court ruling last month.
Yesterday, the Republican-controlled House voted once again to
repeal the health-care law; the Senate has no plans to take up
the measure and Obama has vowed to veto it.  Most respondents in the poll said the  Supreme Court 
decision won’t affect their vote; 27 percent said it would make
them less likely to vote for Obama and 12 percent said it would
make them more likely to support the president. Overall, 55
percent of voters said a candidate’s position on health-care
policy is either extremely or very important to them.  Americans are split, 48 percent to 47 percent, on whether
everyone should have to carry health insurance, the poll found.
Women support the mandate 50 percent to 45 percent; men oppose
it by the same margin.  Obama’s latest move on immigration fares better with
voters, who approve 55 percent to 39 percent of his decision to
stop the deportation of some young illegal immigrants.  Arizona Crackdown  Even so, voters say 61 percent to 34 percent that they want
a law in their state similar to one in  Arizona  that would
require police to check the immigration status of someone they
have stopped or arrested if they suspect the person is an
illegal immigrant. Obama’s administration challenged that law,
and the Supreme Court struck down much of it in June.  The House’s vote to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in
contempt because of his refusal to turn over some documents
related to the Fast and Furious gun operation drew support from
a subset of voters in the poll, 44 percent to 29 percent. A
subset asked a different question said 42 percent to 36 percent
that the vote was political rather than legitimate.  The survey of 2,722 registered voters has a margin of error
of plus or minus 1.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  