-- Amtrak Relying on U.S. Funding to Attract Bullet-Train Investors
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/amtrak-relying-on-u-s-funding-to-attract-bullet-train-investors.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad, is turning its sights from private investors
toward governments to fund the beginning of a $151 billion plan
for bullet trains between Northeast cities by 2040.  The Washington-based, taxpayer-supported railroad will need
“significant” government support to carry out its plan to
boost train capacity and increase speeds to 220 miles (354
kilometers) per hour between Washington and Boston,  Amtrak  Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Boardman said in an interview.  “We knew it was going to take a significant effort on the
part of government at some level or all levels,” Boardman said
yesterday. “We know for sure that needs to come sooner than a
public-private partnership that’s often talked about.”  Amtrak is trying to upgrade its infrastructure, some a
century old, on its busiest corridor and establish the first
U.S. rail service to be considered “high-speed” by
international standards.  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman
 John Mica , of  Florida , has been among Republicans critical of
public funding for high-speed rail, saying investors and
companies could develop it more quickly and for less money.  “The chairman believes the private sector could do these
types of projects much more effectively than the federal
government,” Justin Harclerode, a spokesman for Mica, said.  Amtrak last year invited proposals by investors and hired
KPMG LLP to help develop a business and financial plan to
identify funding sources.  Lowering Expectations  Tamping down expectations for private-sector funding is
prudent at this point, said Mortimer Downey, a former U.S.
deputy transportation secretary who’s now a senior adviser at
Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc., an infrastructure consulting firm
based in  New York .  “You don’t put a $150 billion plan out there and expect
instant funding,” he said in an interview. “There’s no free
money. The private sector isn’t coming and giving you a grant.
They are going to invest their dollars if they think there’s a
return.”  A $151 billion plan Amtrak released July 9 merges two
previous blueprints that proposed spending $118 billion over 25
years for a new high-speed corridor and $52 billion over 20
years to improve existing Northeast services, said Stephen Gardner, Amtrak vice president of Northeast Corridor
infrastructure and investment development.  Money Maker  The corridor is the only place Amtrak, which loses more
than $1 billion a year, gets enough revenue to cover its
operating costs. Northeast ridership may grow to 43.5 million
people annually with ticket revenue of $4.86 billion by 2040,
Amtrak said in the July 9 plan. That would be roughly four times
last year’s ridership of 10.9 million and about five times the
ticket revenue of $983.5 million.  Amtrak’s fastest train, the Acela, takes six hours to
travel between Washington and  Boston . Slower regional trains
that make more stops also operate on the route.  The other place in the U.S. where high-speed rail is
proposed is  California , where the Senate and Assembly last week
approved spending $4.75 billion from bonds to begin constructing
a $68 billion route to link  San Francisco  and Los Angeles. Those
moves allowed the state to claim $3.3 billion in promised U.S.
funds, out of $8 billion for high-speed rail from President
 Barack Obama ’s 2009 economic stimulus package.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood traveled to
 Sacramento  in May to nudge the California government along. The
project would make California, the most indebted U.S. state, the
only state working on a bullet train after Congress cut off 2012
funds for such projects.  California Rail  The first phase of the route will be a 130-mile stretch of
rail down California’s Central Valley, not connecting with  Los
Angeles  or San Francisco.  In 2008, 53 percent of California voters approved issuing
bonds for the rail project.  LaHood, speaking to reporters from a high-speed rail
conference in Philadelphia yesterday, called California’s move
“historic” and praised public investment in a rail project.  “The political will lies in California,” he said. “We
hope our friends in Congress will take their cues from what
we’ve seen come from California.”  The U.S. Transportation Department will decide “soon”
whether to help fund a privately owned high-speed rail project
linking southern California tourists and gamblers with  Las
Vegas , LaHood said.  Developers of the 190-mile Xpress West, formerly known as
DesertXpress, have asked the U.S. to provide loans to cover most
of its estimated cost of as much as $6.5 billion. Investors in
the project, which is backed by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, include Las Vegas casino developer Tony
Marnell, a Reid contributor.  “We’re evaluating their proposal, and we’ll be making some
judgments about that very soon,” LaHood said. “We have worked
with them on what we believe the costs will be and how those
costs will be borne and who will pay for them. We’re working our
way through their proposal and evaluating that and will be
making some announcements about that soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  