-- Anadarko to Hold Settlement Talks as Trial Delayed
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-12T19:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/anadarko-to-hold-settlement-talks-as-trial-delayed.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and its
Kerr-McGee unit will hold settlement talks while a trial over a
$25 billion lawsuit brought by the U.S. and Tronox Inc. is
adjourned for a week, according to court papers. Anadarko rose
as much as 4.3 percent.  The parties may also engage in mediation or other forms of
dispute resolution, and all settlement talks will be
confidential, according to a notice filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan , where the trial is being held
before Judge Allan Gropper.  “For the first time the court has now indicated publicly
that the parties are in settlement discussions,” said Thomas
Claps of Susquehanna International Group, an analyst who is
following the trial. A settlement would eliminate the
“litigation overhang” that comes with the risk of a judge or
jury deciding a high-stakes lawsuit, Claps said.  John Hueston , a lawyer for the U.S. and Tronox, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the filing.  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Anadarko, declined to comment.  Justice Department  The lawsuit was initially brought by Tronox against
Anadarko in 2009. It was taken over by the  Justice Department  on
behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency. The government
seeks to recover $25 billion to clean up 2,772 polluted sites
and compensate about 8,100 tort claimants who said they were
harmed by toxins.  Anadarko rose 2 percent to $68.00 at 2:27 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier reached
$69.42.  ‘We think there is around $5-6 billion in the stock price
for the liability, although we continue to think something less
will come out of a settlement,’’ RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst
 Scott Hanold  said in a research note today.  A trial began May 15, with Anadarko facing testimony from
more than 50 witnesses. The government seeks $15 billion in
assets allegedly transferred in 2005, plus $10 billion in
interest and appreciation, according to a lawyer involved in the
case.  Gropper had told parties to mediate the dispute last
November. By early June, with the trial under way, investors
discounted the company’s market value by $2 billion, which
implied they were pricing in a possible settlement or penalty of
about that amount, Jeffrey Campbell, an analyst for Pritchard
Capital Partners in New York, said at the time.  Anadarko’s Board  Witnesses who have testified include bankers, scientists
and a mayor who says Kerr-McGee’s toxins destroyed his town, as
well as  Luke Corbett, the Kerr-McGee chief executive officer
from 1997 to 2006 who now sits on Anadarko’s board.  The case tests whether money can be recovered from a
successor to a polluting company, even when a bankruptcy
ostensibly cleaned the slate.  According to the complaint, The Woodlands, Texas-based
Anadarko’s Kerr-McGee unit was part of a two-step transaction
that defrauded the EPA of money to clean 2,772 polluted sites.  After an internal reorganization started in 2001, Kerr-
McGee spun off its chemicals business and old environmental
liabilities as Tronox Inc. beginning in 2005. About three months
after the transaction was completed, Anadarko offered to buy
Kerr-McGee’s oil and gas assets for $18 billion.  Tronox Bankruptcy  Tronox filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and sued its former
parent, saying it was overburdened with billions of dollars in
environmental debts. The U.S., Tronox’s largest creditor on
behalf of the EPA, intervened, creating the current lawsuit.  Kerr-McGee hid many polluted properties, some of which were
referred to as “secret sites,” the U.S. said.  Anadarko said Kerr-McGee was reorganizing to separate the
chemical business from the oil and gas business and maximize
 shareholder value . “All relevant parties believed that both
businesses were healthy,” lawyers for Anadarko wrote in court
papers.  “The secret sites weren’t secret,” Thomas Lotterman, a
lawyer for Anadarko, told Gropper in a court hearing. “The
company’s own auditor said they weren’t an issue.”  David Zott, a lawyer for the U.S. and Tronox, said in
opening statements May 15 that evidence would show a handful of
Kerr-McGee executives tried to obscure the reason for the Tronox
spinoff. He cited evidence that in May 2001, Kerr-McGee’s chief
financial officer deleted a reference to the company’s
environmental issues from a presentation to the board on why it
should authorize a spinoff.  ‘Ultimate Endgame’  “All the way back in May 2001, they were thinking about
the ultimate endgame,” Zott told Gropper. He said nine lawyers
spent 86 days researching the issue of fraudulent conveyance --
the legal theory being used in the lawsuit to seek recovery of
environmental costs.  “A tall tale well told is still a tall tale,” Lotterman
said in his opening statement the same day. Lotterman said
evidence would show that the U.S. is trying to make everyday
business activities sound like a scheme to defraud the
government by weaving together select facts with the benefit of
hindsight.  Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said at an
energy conference on June 6 that the company isn’t opposed to a
settlement.  The plaintiffs run the risk of getting nothing if the judge
agrees with Anadarko and “may start to become a little more
reasonable and rational around what a settlement might look
like” as the case goes forward, Walker said then.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  