-- Ancient Feces Found in Cave Dispels First American Theory
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-07-12T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/ancient-feces-found-in-cave-dispels-first-american-theory.html
Ancient feces found in  Oregon  caves
are proof humans inhabited  North America  more than 1,000 years
earlier than previously thought, a discovery that may change
theories on how the continent was populated, researchers said.  The findings from  Oregon’s Paisley Caves  contained DNA and
were dated 12,300 B.C., according to a paper on the findings
published today in the journal Science. That evidence predates
the Clovis people and challenges the theory that they were the
first North Americans, said  Dennis Jenkins , a University of
Oregon archaeologist and the paper’s lead author.  Spearheads were also found in the newer excavation of the
caves, and researchers say those tools -- called Western Stemmed
projectile points - show that the caves’ inhabitants developed
independently of the Clovis. The tools, along with the DNA from
the coprolites, or feces, also suggest that the Clovis weren’t
the founding peoples of the Americas, researchers said.  “I believe that everything we’ve got indicates that we do
have pre-Clovis human coprolites in the Paisley caves,” Jenkins
said in a telephone interview. “It’s beyond reasonable doubt
that we have pre-Clovis DNA.”  Today’s paper describes a second analysis of Paisley Caves
findings, after initial results were disputed in 2008 by other
archaeologists. Those scientists challenged the results, saying
water could have carried newer DNA into older sediment and that
excavators might have contaminated evidence with their own DNA.  Paul Goldberg and Francesco Berna, both archaeologists from
 Boston University  who  contested  the original results, hadn’t
read the findings as of today and said they couldn’t comment on
the validity of the results.  Same Results  Jenkins and his group returned to the caves, gathered new
samples, tested them at several independent labs and checked
rodent pellets found nearby for human DNA contamination, which
would have suggested leaching. Though samples were handled bare-
handed last time, this time collectors wore full body suits. The
results remained similar.  Tools similar to those discovered in the Oregon caves have
been found elsewhere, though they were a development on Clovis
technology, said  Eske Willerslev , director of the Centre of
Excellence in GeoGenetics at the  University of Copenhagen  and an
author on the study. Using radiocarbon dating, the researchers
were now able to show that the Paisley spearheads are concurrent
with the oldest Clovis points, though slightly newer than the
oldest feces.  “It suggests that there was not one, but two, early
societies in America,” Willerslev said in a phone interview.
“Western stem has been known in America for a long time, but
everybody thought that it was much younger.”  Big Game  Based on their shape and sharpness, Jenkins said he
believes the points could have been used to hunt big game,
including mastodons and woolly mammoth. He said researchers
found elephant-family proteins on other stones in the caves that
he believes were used as tools.  The idea that Paisley Cave inhabitants developed separately
from the Clovis, whose oldest U.S. sites are in  Montana ,  South
Dakota  and  Florida , might support a theory of multiple
migrations into the Americas, Jenkins said.  The people might have been seafarers who followed kelp
’forests’ rich with marine life and surrounded by calm seas from
 Asia  to enter western North America, he said, while Clovis may
have migrated from a Siberian land bridge.  “It certainly implies, to me at least, that the coastal
migration theory should be taken very seriously,” he said.  Modern Resemblance  DNA analysis suggests that the people were Asian and
genetically resemble modern Native Americans, and further
analysis of more hard-to-extract core DNA may show what
contemporary people they are related to, Willerslev said.  Further feces analysis may have bearing on modern medicine,
he said. Bacteria that lived in the feces, or ’gut flora,’
provide clues to a person’s diet and state of health, he said.
That means analysis could show what a human’s gut flora would
look like in the absence of processed foods.  “It’s super important to people’s health,” he said. “It
would put out a base.”  The Paisley Cave findings are the oldest human remnants
discovered in the Americas, Willerslev said, though he said
scientists believe that a site with human artifacts in  Mount
Verde ,  Chile , comes from approximately the same date.  “I believe that we are going to find older sites, and I
say that because if we have people in the Paisley caves who seem
to be well adapted to their environment,” Jenkins said. “What
we find in the poop suggests that they knew their environment
very well and they had been in their area for some time.”  Evidence that people immigrated to North America by sea may
solve questions about the Chile settlement, Jenkins said.
Because Chile is so far South, scientists have questioned how
they could be the earliest found remains of a people believed to
have migrated from Siberia.  “It raises its stock, if you will, another notch at
least,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  