-- Manhattan Apartment Rents Increase the Most Since 2007
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-12T17:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/manhattan-apartment-rents-increase-the-most-since-2007.html
Manhattan apartment rents rose the
most in five years as would-be homeowners struggling to get
mortgages lingered in the leasing market, competing for space
with transplants and new college graduates.  The median monthly rent climbed 7.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier to $3,125, according to a report
today by appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential
Douglas Elliman Real Estate . It was the biggest jump since the
second quarter of 2007, when rents rose 11 percent. The median
is 4.3 percent below the peak of $3,265 in 2006, and poised to
surpass it, said  Jonathan Miller , president of Miller Samuel.  Stricter mortgage-lending standards and weak  consumer
confidence  are limiting home purchases, increasing competition
for rentals in the busiest period for leasing. Sales of
Manhattan co-ops and condominiums totaled 2,647 in the second
quarter, little changed from a year earlier, Miller Samuel and
Prudential said last week.  “The consumer is being squeezed because many don’t have
the option of getting out of the rental market,” Miller said.
“People who can’t qualify for a mortgage have no choice so
they’re stuck. That tips the balance and creates this rising
demand.”  Newly signed rental deals fell 11 percent in the quarter to
7,657 as more people stayed in their apartments. The  Miller
Samuel  and Prudential study doesn’t account for leases that were
renewed.  Lease Renewals  Tenants renewing two-year leases should expect price
increases of about 13 percent from June 2010, according to
brokerage MNS, which also released a rental-market  report  today.  “There’s nothing in play at the moment that suggests that
we’re going to see rents decline over the next year,” Miller
said.  The smallest apartments had the largest rent increases in
the quarter as tenant demand for cheaper options surged. The
median monthly price of a studio jumped 15 percent from a year
earlier to $2,395, while one-bedroom units climbed 8.5 percent
to $3,250. Two-bedroom rents rose 5 percent to $4,298, while
three-bedroom prices were unchanged at $5,295.  Christopher DosSantos had to increase his budget and change
his neighborhood of choice to land an apartment. DosSantos, a
law student at  Fordham University , and his friend Dean
Saccomanno, who’s studying dentistry at  New York University ,
sought a two-bedroom rental in  Greenwich Village  for no more
than $2,400 a month. They increased the limit to $3,000 after
seeing the “shoeboxes” available at the lower price, said
DosSantos, 23.  ‘Personal Space’  “We’re good friends, but it’s still important to have
enough personal space when you come back to the apartment,” he
said.  After another apartment-seeker beat them to a fourth-floor
walk-up in the East Village, the friends took their search
farther uptown, to East 26th Street near Gramercy Park. They
expect to sign a lease today to rent a third-floor unit in a
building with no elevator for $2,800 a month.  “That’s the blood, sweat and tears of the game,” said
 Corlie Ohl , a broker with Citi Habitats who helped DosSantos and
Saccomanno in their search. “If you like an apartment at all,
you have to move quickly, because if you don’t, you’re not going
to get it.”  Fewer Concessions  The jump in demand meant landlords were able to push price
increases while limiting tenant concessions. Six percent of new
lease agreements in June included deal sweeteners such as a
month’s free rent or payment of a broker fee, according to  Citi
Habitats , which also released a report on the Manhattan rental
market today. A year earlier, 11 percent of new deals entailed
such incentives.  Citi Habitats said rents averaged $3,437 for the quarter, a
5.2 percent increase from a year earlier, topping the previous
record of $3,394 set in May 2007. The vacancy rate was 0.97
percent, compared with 0.72 percent in the second quarter of
2011.  “The most important thing is to come prepared if you want
to rent in this market,” said  Gary Malin , president of the New
York-based brokerage. “Without all the necessary paperwork and
all the necessary funds to secure an apartment on the spot,
you’re putting yourself at a severe disadvantage.”  Farther East  When Graham Marvin spotted a $1,895-a-month, two-bedroom
walk-up on the Upper East Side, he applied immediately, armed
with paperwork showing that his parents would act as guarantors.
Marvin, 22, a recent graduate of NYU’s film school who works for
a company creating a show for the History Channel, still didn’t
get the place.  The rejection led him farther east -- away from the subway,
restaurants and bars -- to an “awkwardly shaped” unit on 82nd
Street near York Avenue that he and a friend agreed to rent for
$1,900. The second-floor apartment in a  building  without an
elevator requires a walk through one of the bedrooms to get to
the kitchen.  “It’s nice,” Marvin said. “It’s not quite as nice” as
the first apartment.  Across  Manhattan , rents at buildings with doormen started
at an average of $2,585 a month for studios and were as high as
$7,095 for three-bedroom units, Citi Habitats said. Studios in
buildings without elevators rented at an average of $1,973,
while one-bedrooms in those properties leased for an average of
$2,575.  The downtown neighborhoods of Soho and Tribeca commanded
the highest rents for almost every size apartment, with one-
bedrooms leasing for an average of $3,877, two-bedrooms for
$6,290 and three-bedrooms for $9,012, Citi Habitats said.
Studios in those downtown neighborhoods rented for an average of
$2,500 a month, a price topped only by Chelsea, where studios
rented for $2,553 in the quarter.  On the Upper West Side, average rents ranged from $1,980
for a studio to $6,339 for a three-bedroom apartment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  