-- Marriott Falls After Lowering Forecast for Hotels Abroad
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-12T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/marriott-falls-after-lowering-forecast-for-hotels-abroad.html
Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, fell the most in
almost eleven months in  New York  trading after lowering its
outlook for hotels abroad on weakening demand in  Asia  and the
Middle East.  The shares dropped 6.4 percent to $35.58 at the close, the
biggest decline since Aug. 18.  The hotelier, whose brands include Ritz-Carlton, said it
expects international revenue per available room to grow 5
percent to 7 percent this year, lower than its April forecast of
a 6 percent to 8 percent gain in all regions before currency
adjustments. The forecast for revpar, an industry measure of
occupancies and rates, was included with Bethesda, Maryland-
based Marriott’s second-quarter earnings statement, released
yesterday after the close of regular U.S. trading.  “It was a bit of a softer quarter for them,” Nikhil Bhalla, a senior lodging analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington,
 Virginia , said in a telephone interview after results were
released. “North American revpar was below the midpoint of
their guidance and international revpar guidance for the full
year is now 5 to 7 percent.”  Marriott said comparable revpar rose 6.5 percent at hotels
systemwide in  North America  in the second quarter. It had
forecast growth of 6 percent to 8 percent.  International revpar increases are being tempered by
“softer demand growth” in the  Middle East  and Asia,
particularly in the luxury segment, Marriott said.  ‘Slowing Economy’  “In  India  it’s the slowing economy, and in  China  you have
oversupply in some cities,” Bhalla said. “And, of course, not
to forget the problems Europe is facing. That’s not very good
for Starwood either because they have a lot of exposure
abroad.”  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the
luxury St. Regis and W brands, will report second-quarter
earnings on July 26. Its  shares  tumbled 5.3 percent to $48.66.  Marriott’s second-quarter net income climbed to $143
million, or 42 cents a share, from $135 million, or 37 cents, a
year earlier. The results matched the average estimate of 11
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Our business performed well in most markets around the
world,”  Arne Sorenson , Marriott’s president and chief executive
officer, said in yesterday’s statement. “In North America,
strengthening group business, more travel by our special
corporate customers, especially in the technology and consulting
industries, and the impact of modest supply growth, drove our
occupancy and room rates higher.”  Revenue Increase  Earnings met the company’s own forecast from April.
Marriott had projected earnings of 39 cents to 43 cents a share
for the quarter.  Revenue climbed to $2.78 billion from an adjusted $2.61
billion, which excludes results from the timeshare business that
Marriott spun off in November. Without the adjustment, revenue
fell 6.6 percent.  “With robust group bookings in North America, including
Washington, D.C., we expect strong revpar and room-rate growth
in the second half of the year,” Sorenson said.  Group revenue on the books is up 10 percent for the second
half of this year and 8 percent for 2013, according to Sorenson.
Marriott’s planning an increase of almost 10 percent in
corporate rates for hotel stays scheduled for next year, he
said.  Marriott expects third-quarter earnings of 39 cents to 41
cents a share and 2012 earnings of $1.65 to $1.75. That’s higher
than its April forecast of $1.58 to $1.69. Marriott’s full-year
estimate doesn’t include the impact of its planned $210 million
acquisition of  Gaylord Entertainment Co. (GET) ’s hotel brand and
management company, announced in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  