-- Asean Fails to Reach Accord on South China Sea Disputes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-13T02:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/asean-fails-to-reach-accord-on-south-china-sea-disputes.html
The  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  failed to reach consensus on handling disputes in the
South China Sea, reflecting a rift between China and the U.S.
over rules to keep peace in the trade lane.  Cambodia, which holds the group’s rotating chairmanship,
rejected a compromise on the wording of a joint communique among
the other nine members in  Phnom Penh , according to Sihasak Phuangketkeow,  Thailand ’s top foreign ministry bureaucrat. The
bloc’s inability to agree on a communique is unprecedented,
Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa said.  “This is strange territory for me,” he told reporters
yesterday after a week of meetings. “It’s very, very
disappointing that at this 11th hour Asean is not able to rally
around a certain common language on the  South China Sea . We’ve
gone through so many problems in the past, but we’ve never
failed to speak as one.”  The squabbling underscores growing unease among the
 Philippines  and  Vietnam  over China’s assertiveness in disputed
waters that may contain oil and gas reserves. China this week
rebuffed U.S. calls to quickly complete a code of conduct for
the seas as Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  warned more
clashes are likely without a regionwide deal.  “It’s a sign of Asean’s maturity that they are wrestling
with some very hard issues here,” Clinton told reporters
yesterday. “They are not ducking them. They are walking right
into them.”  Oil, Gas  The region is estimated to have as much as 30 billion
metric tons of oil and 16 trillion cubic meters of gas, which
would account for about one-third of  China ’s oil and gas
resources, according to China’s official Xinhua News Agency.
China had 2 billion tons of proven oil reserves and 99 trillion
cubic feet of natural gas reserves in 2010, according to BP Plc
estimates.  The Philippines wanted the meeting’s communique to mention
a two-month standoff with Chinese vessels over a disputed reef
known as Scarborough Shoal in the Philippines and Huangyan
Island in China. In the security meeting of 26 Asia-Pacific
nations and the European Union yesterday, Philippine Foreign
Secretary Albert del Rosario denounced “pressure, duplicity,
intimidation” from China and warned that tensions “could
further escalate into physical hostilities that no one wants.”  “The chair had a problem with mentioning Scarborough
Shoal,” he said in an interview afterward, referring to
 Cambodia . “We’re looking to report what’s factual, so we said
if we don’t report Scarborough Shoal, what are we talking about?
So he took a position and I took a position and we reached an
impasse.”  ‘Unfair Accusation’  Cambodian Foreign Ministry official Kao Kim Hourn rebuffed
criticism that his nation was under pressure from China, calling
it an “unfair accusation.”  “The process of discussions is still ongoing,” Kao Kim
Hourn, a spokesman for Cambodia during the meetings, told
reporters as most foreign ministers left the venue. “The moment
we go into specific issues, we have a hard time to secure the
consensus.”  China warned nations this week to avoid mentioning the
territorial spats during the Asean meetings and repeated calls
for joint development. Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying two days
ago said China would start talks with Asean on a legally binding
Code of Conduct in the South China Sea “when conditions are
ripe,” according to Xinhua.  Conduct Code  After the security meeting, Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang
Jiechi  urged the Philippines to avoid making trouble, Xinhua
reported. He reiterated control over the disputed reef and said
Chinese people were shocked and surprised when the Philippines
confronted its vessels, the report said, citing Yang.  Asean’s discord over the communique “could enhance the
prospects for reaching agreement” on a Code of Conduct because
China “is less likely to feel that all the Asean  member states 
are ganging up against it,”  Robert C. Beckman , director of the
Center for International Law at the  National University  of
 Singapore , wrote in an e-mail. Key issues will be whether Asean
can reach consensus “and remain united on those principles
during the negotiations with China,” he said.  Clinton downplayed the risk of conflict with one of the
U.S.’s biggest trading partners and stressed ways to cooperate
with China in the region. U.S.-China commerce totaled $503
billion in 2011, more than double the combined $194 billion
traded with  Indonesia , Thailand, the Philippines,  Malaysia ,
Vietnam and other Asean nations, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau.  U.S.-China Talks  The U.S. interest in the South China Sea is based on the
importance of freedom of navigation in the 1.2 million-square-
mile body of water that links the Pacific and Indian oceans,
Clinton said yesterday. China has denied its actions threaten
ships passing through the waters.  “We recognize that a zero-sum approach in the Asia-Pacific
will lead only to negative-sum results,” Clinton said, noting
that her meeting yesterday with Yang touched on science,
technology, public health and the environment. “So we are
committed to working with China within a framework that fosters
cooperation where interests align, and manages differences where
they don’t.”  Regional Solution  Vietnam and the Philippines, a U.S. ally, reject China’s
map of the waters as a basis for joint development and have
sought a regional solution to increase their bargaining power
with  Asia ’s biggest military spender. Clinton has urged the
countries to define their territory based on the UN Law of the
Sea, a move China has resisted because it may lead to a loss of
some waters it now claims.  Vietnam Oil & Gas Group (PVD) , known as PetroVietnam, last month
called for China National Offshore Oil Corp., the government-
owned parent of Cnooc Ltd., to cancel an invitation for foreign
companies to explore nine blocks that overlap with areas awarded
to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Moscow-based OAO Gazprom and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Co.  The differences represent a learning experience for Asean,
Secretary-General Surin Pitsuwan said in an interview yesterday.  “Asean operates on consensus and if one member holds back,
we can’t move,” he said. “We need to digest the experiences
and try to make sure we internalize, we understand and we walk
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Phnom Penh at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Phnom Penh at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  