-- Asian Stocks Fall Sixth Day Ahead of China Growth Report
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-07-12T08:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/asian-stocks-go-nowhere-before-boj-decision-china-gdp.html
Asian  stocks  fell for a sixth day as
Australia’s jobless rate increased and South  Korea  unexpectedly
cut  interest rates , underscoring concern that the global economy
is slowing. Hong Kong stocks slid ahead of a report from China
tomorrow expected to show the slowest expansion since the
financial crisis.  Asahi Glass Co. (5201)  led Japanese makers of the material lower
after cutting its operating profit forecast by almost a third.
Hyundai Motor Co. fell 3.1 percent as its workers threatened to
strike. Infosys Ltd., India’s second-biggest exporter of
software, slid 8.7 percent after cutting a sales forecast. China
Construction Bank Corp. paced declines among mainland lenders.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.6 percent to 114.73 as
of 5:35 p.m. in Tokyo, headed for its steepest drop since June
4, with more than five stocks declining for each that rose. The
gauge fell 9.6 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 29 through
yesterday, as Europe’s spreading debt crisis weighed on growth
and corporate earnings.  “The global economy is deteriorating faster than central
banks can ease policy,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a senior  fund
manager  in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $6.3 billion. “Your best bet is to hold on to cash right
now.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index are valued at 11.8 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 10.7 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  S&P 500  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5
percent today. The gauge closed little changed in New York
yesterday, erasing losses in the final hour of trading as
investors sifted through minutes of a Federal Reserve meeting
for hints of additional stimulus.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.5 percent today,
extending losses after the  Bank of Japan  altered its stimulus
program without adding extra money. The bank expanded its asset-
purchase fund to 45 trillion yen ($564 billion) from 40 trillion
yen, while paring a loan program by 5 trillion yen.  “The BOJ doesn’t want to do much quantitative easing, but
it’s going through the motions,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a fund
manager at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset Management Co., which
oversees 150 billion yen.  The Kospi Index declined 2.2 percent in Seoul even after
the  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut its key interest rate. Stocks
fell as workers at Hyundai Motor, one of the country’s biggest
companies, threatened to strike for the first time since 2008
unless wages are increased and hours are reduced.  Australia Jobs  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.7 percent,
reversing early gains, after a report showed the country’s
employers cut 27,000 workers in June.  The Hang Seng China Enterprise Index of mainland stocks
listed  Hong Kong  led declines among major Asian benchmarks,
sliding 2.2 percent. A report tomorrow is expected to show
China’s economic growth fell below 8 percent for the first time
since 2009, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped 2 percent.  China Construction Bank slid 3.7 percent to HK$4.75 in Hong
Kong, while  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest lender by market value, fell 2.4 percent to
HK$3.99.  Asahi Glass  lost 6.8 percent to 483 yen after cutting its
operating profit forecast for the year through December by 29
percent. Demand may drop amid economic slowdowns in Europe and
China, it said. Nippon Sheet Glass Co. retreated 3.9 percent to
74 yen.  Infosys slumped 8.7 percent to 2,255 rupees in Mumbai after
cutting its sales forecast and reporting first-quarter profit
that missed estimates. The stock had the  biggest drop  in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  