-- Stocks Fall on Growth Concern as Euro Drops; Bonds Rally
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-07-12T20:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/asian-stocks-fall-for-sixth-day-as-central-banks-meet-yen-gains.html
Global  stocks  slid for a seventh
day, the longest slump since November, amid concern a faltering
economic recovery will hurt corporate profits. The euro fell to
a two-year low, the yen and dollar gained and government bond
yields from Germany to South Korea fell to records.  The MSCI All-Country World Index lost 1 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5
percent, while rallies in Procter & Gamble Co. and Merck & Co.
limited the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s drop. German two-year
note yields fell to minus 0.042 percent and 10-year U.S.  yields 
were within four basis points of the lowest ever. The yen rose
against all 16 major peers and the dollar gained versus 13. Corn
and wheat led commodities up as a drought threatens U.S. crops.
Oil erased losses as the U.S. added sanctions against  Iran .  Bank of America Corp. strategists reduced  earnings
estimates  for  S&P 500  companies for this year and next, citing
Europe’s debt crisis and slowing economic growth in China.
Investors are bracing for what’s projected to be the first drop
in U.S. corporate profits in almost three years, while China’s
growth is forecast to fall below 8 percent for the first time
since 2009, according to the median estimate of economists in a
survey.  “There’s a worldwide slowdown,” Nick Sargen, chief
investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors in
Cincinnati, said in a phone interview. The firm oversees $40
billion. “Wall Street analysts have been reducing their second-
quarter earnings estimates as companies have guided them lower.
Profit growth, which has been a main driver for the market, will
be less supportive going forward.”  Losses Pared  The S&P 500 pared losses today after dropping as much as
1.2 percent to 1,325.41, dipping below its average price from
the past 50 days for a third straight day. The index closed at
1,334.76, compared with its 50-day moving average of 1,334.546,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Short term, the market got oversold,”  Michael James , a
managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities Inc.
in Los Angeles, said in a phone interview. “There is at least a
willingness of buyers to step in today given the weakness that
we’ve seen over the last several days. You have some potential
market-moving news tomorrow, with earnings from JPMorgan and
Wells Fargo.”  The S&P 500 has retreated almost 3 percent over the last
six days. Stocks fell today even after applications for U.S.
jobless benefits last week decreased by 26,000 to 350,000, the
fewest since March 2008, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists forecast 372,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The decrease reflected the
volatility of claims during the annual auto-plant retooling
period.  Import Prices  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. decreased more than
forecast in June as declining energy costs curbed inflation. The
2.7 percent plunge in the import-price index was the biggest
since December 2008 and followed a 1.2 percent drop in May,
Labor Department figures showed. Prices excluding fuel fell 0.3
percent, the most in almost two years.  Among the 10 main  industry groups  in the S&P 500,
technology and financial companies lost more than 1 percent for
the biggest declines.  Intel Corp ., Cisco Systems Inc. and
Microsoft Corp. dropped more than 2.2 percent to lead losses in
22 of 30 stocks in the Dow.  Supervalu Sinks  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  sank 49 percent after the third-largest U.S.
grocery chain said it will review strategic alternatives for the
business and suspended its dividend. Marriott International
Inc., the biggest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, dropped 6.4
percent after cutting its forecast for growth outside North
America.  Procter & Gamble and Merck rallied 3.8 percent and 4.1
percent respectively, helping the Dow recover from a drop of as
much as 112 points to close down 31.26 points at 12,573.27. P&G
climbed the most since 2009 after the Federal Trade Commission
cleared  William Ackman ’s hedge fund company to take a stake in
the maker of household products. Merck rallied to a four-year
high after reporting an osteoporosis drug worked well in a
trial.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. slipped 1.6 percent. Investors will
look for Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  to restore
confidence when the company releases second-quarter results
tomorrow, the first major  U.S. bank  to report. The bank may say
profit fell 40 percent to 76 cents a share, excluding accounting
adjustments, according to the average estimate from analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. JPMorgan shares have dropped 16 percent
since May 10, when the company disclosed a loss on credit
derivatives of at least $2 billion.  JPMorgan Puts  Bearish options on JPMorgan are the cheapest in two years
on speculation the shares already reflect the bank’s
multibillion-dollar trading loss. Puts protecting against a 10
percent drop in the New York-based lender cost 1.15 times more
than calls betting on a 10 percent gain, according to data on
30-day options, lowest so-called skew since January 2010.  Bank of America strategists reduced earnings forecasts for
S&P 500 companies by 1.4 percent for this year and next year.
Strategists Dan Suzuki, Savita Subramanian and Jill Carey now
project earnings of $102 per share for 2012 and $109 for 2013,
according to a note to clients today.  `Drift Lower'  “Although the bottom-up consensus forecasts have continued
to drift lower since last summer, they still appear too
optimistic in light of the ongoing European crisis, the looming
fiscal cliff and the slowdown in China,” the strategists wrote.
“The recent weakness in earnings revision and guidance trends
may be a sign that consensus expectations are in the early
stages of being reset lower.”  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project that earnings at S&P
500 companies decreased 1.8 percent in the second quarter, the
first drop since 2009, and will increase 7.2 percent for all of
2012. At this time last year, they predicted profit growth of 13
percent for 2012. Congress has yet to resolve the so-called
fiscal cliff, which represents more than $600 billion in higher
taxes and reductions in defense and other government programs in
2013 that will take place without action.  The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.4760 percent, approaching
the June 1 all-time low of 1.4387 percent.  The government’s sale of $13 billion in 30-year bonds today
was the second consecutive U.S. auction to attract a record low
yield. The long bonds were sold at a yield of 2.580 percent,
down from the previous record of 2.72 percent at a June 14 sale.
Yesterday’s 10-year note auction drew a yield of 1.459 percent.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., told CNBC that economic growth in the U.S. is
slowing even as the housing market shows signs of rebounding.  ‘Tempered Down’  “The general economy in the United States has been more or
less flat, and so the growth has tempered down,” he said today
in an interview with the television station from Sun Valley,
Idaho.  Buffett’s remarks contrast with his comment a year ago to
Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in Sun Valley that the economy
and jobs will “come back big time” when residential
construction recovers. U.S. unemployment has exceeded 8 percent
for more than three years. Economists on average predict the
 U.S. economy  will expand 2.1 percent in 2012, down from a
projection of 3.3 percent in February 2011.  Builders Rally  Shares of builders advanced, with Standard Pacific Corp.,
Lennar Corp. and KB Home climbing at least 3.6 percent to pace
an advance in 10 of 11 stocks in the S&P Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index.  The Federal Reserve yesterday signaled that a further
economic slowdown would bring growing support among policy
makers for additional steps to spur the three-year expansion. A
few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said the Fed
should ease policy to move the economy toward its targets for
full employment and stable prices, according to minutes of the
June 19-20 meeting released yesterday. Several others said more
action could be warranted if growth slows, risks intensified or
inflation seemed likely to fall “persistently” below their
goal.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.1 percent for its biggest
drop of the month. Temenos Group AG plunged 28 percent to a
three-year low after the Swiss maker of banking software cut its
revenue-growth forecast and said Chief Executive Officer Guy
Dubois will leave. Aegis Group Plc surged 45 percent as the U.K.
advertising company agreed to be bought by Japan’s Dentsu Inc.
in a 3.16 billion-pound ($4.9 billion) deal.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1.9 percent, its
biggest decline since May 23 The Kospi Index fell 2.2 percent
and the won weakened 1.1 percent versus the dollar after the
 Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut borrowing costs. Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  slid 2.2 percent and benchmark indexes fell
more than 1 percent in India, Hungary, the Czech Republic,
Taiwan and Thailand.  European Yields  The yield on Australia’s one-year note touched a record low
and rates South Korea’s debt due March 2017 slid to the lowest
level since Bloomberg started compiling Korean bond yields in
2000. Austrian and French five-year yields also slid to records.
Spanish 10-year yields increased six basis points to 6.64
percent after plunging 48 points in the previous two days after
European governments moved to quicken emergency loans to the
country’s banks.  The  European Central Bank  said overnight deposits of
financial institutions dropped to 324.9 billion euros, the
lowest level in almost seven months after policy makers said
last week they would no longer pay interest for the funds.  ’Risk Off’  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2199 and reached $1.2167,
the lowest since June 30, 2010. It weakened 0.9 percent against
the yen. The dollar lost 0.6 percent versus the yen, while
strengthening against 13 of 16 major peers.  “With the  currency market  in full risk off mode this
morning, lets be clear that this is a move driven by
deleveraging and not relative balance sheet expansion,”  Kathy Lien , managing director of foreign-exchange strategy at BK Asset
Management in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “With no
major economic data or news catalyst, investors had been
gradually swapping euros and other risky currencies for the  U.S.
dollar  and Japanese yen throughout the European trading
session.”  Commodities  Oil in New York rose 0.3 percent to $86.08 a barrel,
recovering from a drop of as much as 1.9 percent. The U.S. said
it will target Iran’s weapons proliferation networks and “front
companies” helping to evade international sanctions.  Natural gas rose 0.7 percent as forecasts for hotter-than-
normal weather in the U.S. Northeast signaled stronger demand
from  power plants . The fuel reversed a drop of as much as 4.7
percent triggered when U.S. government data showed stockpiles
expanded by 33 billion cubic feet to 3.135 trillion. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an expected increase of
27 billion cubic feet.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.4 percent as
12 of its 24 commodities advanced.  Corn climbed 4 percent to $7.3225 a bushel after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. raised their price forecasts
because of tighter supplies because of crop damage amid the
worst U.S. drought since 1988. Wheat rallied 2.5 percent and
soybeans climbed 0.4 percent.  Most of the U.S. Midwest will get less than 20 percent of
normal rain in the next five days, and temperatures will rise
above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius) in the four
days ending July 18, according to T-storm Weather LLC. As much
as 51 percent  Cocoa futures plunged 4.5 percent to lead losses in
commodities after European bean usage declined 18 percent to a
three-year low in the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  