-- Tata Consultancy Rises After Profit Exceeds Estimate
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-07-13T10:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/tata-consultancy-net-beats-estimates-on-orders-currency.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 India ’s largest software exporter, rose the most in two weeks
after profit beat estimates and the company reiterated its sales
will expand faster than industry average.  The shares rose 1.1 percent to 1,249.40 rupees at the close
of trading in Mumbai. Tata’s closest rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , which
yesterday cut its sales forecast for the year ending in March,
slumped for a second day.  Chief Executive Officer Natarajan Chandrasekaran said Tata
has a “pretty healthy” pipeline of deals after reporting a 38
percent increase in first-quarter  net income .  Accenture Plc (ACN)  also
reported profits that exceeded estimates as customers outsource
more work, a trend that prompted researcher  Gartner Inc. (IT)  to
raise its growth forecast for global information technology
spending earlier this month.  “TCS has been getting a lot of market share from its
customers’ vendor consolidation exercises,” said Ankita Somani,
an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in  Mumbai . “It is benefiting
from a push in emerging economies, like  Latin America .”  Profit in the three months ended in June totaled 32.8
billion rupees ($590 million), beating the estimate for 31.8
billion rupees. Revenue was 148.7 billion rupees, compared with
the 146.6 billion-rupee median of 46 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Order Outlook  “The deal pipeline is pretty healthy,” Chandrasekaran
said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today. “We also have a
very disciplined approach in terms of what we can take on and
what we can’t.”  Tata Consultancy will post sales growth higher than the
forecast made by National Association for Software & Services
Companies, Chandrasekaran said yesterday. The association has
 predicted  industrywide revenue growth of as much as 14 percent
in the year ending March 31.  The company won new contracts in the quarter from mobility,
data, cloud computing and social media services, Chandrasekaran
said at a press conference in Mumbai yesterday. The decline in
the rupee helped the company mitigate the impact of wage
increases, training and visa costs, he said.  The  Indian rupee  was  Asia ’s worst-performing currency
against the dollar in the three months ended June, with an 8.6
percent depreciation over the period.  Tata Consultancy draws the majority of its revenue in
dollars and euros from clients based in U.S. and  Europe . A
weakening in the rupee inflates the repatriated value of
overseas sales.  “The unprecedented volatility among major currencies and
the Indian rupee will continue to be a challenge in the short
term,” Chief Financial Officer S. Mahalingam said in a
statement. “We are taking the steps to mitigate any risks
arising from this scenario.”  Infosys Lags Estimates  Infosys, India’s second-largest software exporter, cut its
sales forecast yesterday after reporting first-quarter profit of
22.9 billion rupees, compared with the 24.2 billion-rupee median
of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the year ending in March may rise to at least
$7.34 billion, Infosys said in a statement yesterday, compared
with an April forecast of $7.55 billion. The company sees
“challenges” in the global economic situation and that’s
“resulting in slower IT spends by large corporations,” Chief
Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said in the statement.  Shares of Infosys fell 1.5 percent to 2,229.80 rupees in
Mumbai.  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and
back-office support to clients including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , added 29 clients during the quarter.  The company derived 53.3 percent of its revenue from
companies in  North America , 15.2 percent from the U.K., and 10.1
percent from continental Europe last year, according to its last
annual report.  Tata Consultancy added a net 4,962 employees during the
quarter for a total of 243,545, according to the statement.
Workers left the company at a rate of 12 percent in the quarter
ended June 30, down from 14.8 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  