-- Audi Allroad Braves Colorado Forest Blazes, Harley Hogs
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/audi-allroad-braves-colorado-forest-blazes-harley-hogs.html
If a carmaker named its latest
product “All Road,” it would have to be pretty darn confident it
can handle hills and dales, freeways and byways, snow and sleet.  Audi (NSU)  has chosen instead to call its latest all-wheel-drive
wagon the “allroad,” all one word with no capital letters. A
sign of modesty perhaps? Or maybe to imply that some types of
road need not apply.  I put the $50,170, Prestige-model hatchback to a multi-road
test, adding 800 miles to the odometer. (The base starts at
$40,495.) I picked the car up in Denver, Colorado, and dropped
it off in  Albuquerque , New Mexico several days later.  I passed through fiery expanses, crossed over mountain
passes and played tag with a biker gang.  When I dropped off the keys at the airport, the white car
was dirty and a bit musty smelling, but it left me with a great
impression.  The Allroad is basically a beefed-up wagon, like an
upmarket version of the $25,000  Subaru Outback . It seats five
and has 27-plus cubic feet of storage in the rear.  Compared to other European estate wagons like Audi’s own A4
Avant or the Mercedes-Benz E-Class Wagon, the Allroad gets
bigger tires, a loftier ride height and extra travel in the
suspension, plus steel skid plates underneath the body.  Rocky Roads  Still, this is not a hardcore 4X4, and it won’t be rumbling
over the sort of rocky roads that Land Rovers and Jeep Grand
Cherokees are designed to tread.  Instead it’s aimed at the type of “active lifestyle”
folks who are a bit more honest about their outdoor endeavors.
Rather than fording the  Rubicon Trail , you’ll likely see
Allroads dotting ski parking lots in  Colorado  and  Vermont .  This is the second generation of the Allroad, which was
first produced for a handful of years in the 2000s. Though not
hugely popular, the original is a cult classic among devotees.  The 2013 model is fronted by a jewelry-like, one-piece
front grill. The four-ring Audi logo hangs suspended over the
shiny vertical lattice.  Otherwise the body is sturdy and attractive, except for the
unpainted matte-black wheel arches, which are reminiscent of the
body cladding once favored by Pontiac. In all, it’s understated
but not wimpy.  Raging Fires  My route through Colorado and New Mexico took me westward
on I-70 until Grand Junction, where I planned to take secondary
roads over mountain passes and through the San Juan National
Forest. I was very aware that vast swathes of both Colorado and
 New Mexico  were beset with raging fires.  The day was bright and the sky clear as I drove through
 Vail  and reached the winding section through Glenwood Canyon, a
bit of magical engineering where the road hovers over the
Colorado River and passes through deep tunnels.  It gave me my first series of sinuous curves, and the
ability to test the linear power on the 2.0-liter, turbo engine.  The four-cylinder engine has only a modest 211 horsepower
and 258 pound-feet of torque. The wagon hardly explodes out of
the gate, but the torque comes on steadily and smoothly. I never
felt the lack of power, even on steep mountain grades in thin
air.  Biker Gang  I came upon a gang of a dozen or so  Harley Davidson (HOG)  bikers
fanned out in front of me. I pulled into the passing lane and
swept by. The lead biker revved his engine and tried to catch up
as I passed. We drove into a tunnel which rang with the sound of
the engines.  He kept up, briefly. The Allroad is no sports car, but
Audi’s all-wheel-drive system is one of the best in the
business. The car clings to your driving line with tenacity in
both wet and dry. The Hog disappeared in my rear-view mirror.  Green mountains gave way to brown, thirsty hills, faraway
vistas and 100-degree-plus temperatures. The countryside needed
rain.  And then, the fire. I could smell burning wood before I saw
it. As I entered a narrow canyon, I spied a pine tree ablaze,
high on a bluff. No sirens, no firemen. The canyon was choking
in smoke, yet the other cars didn’t even slow down, as if the
flames couldn’t touch them.  The canyon walls were high and sections of high-desert
vegetation were burning or scorched. It would have been
difficult for fire fighters to reach.  Dancing Flames  The countryside reminded me of the region of northern New
Mexico where I grew up, and it was both sad and scary to see
orange flames dance through it.  An hour or so later, I turned south at  Grand Junction  and
toward Montrose County, another region with dry conditions and
fire warnings. As I neared, I could see a dark haze spreading
over the mountains.  The car was equipped with the optional Audi Connect system,
which gets a wireless signal from T-Mobile enabling the car to
act as a Wi-Fi hotspot.  I pulled over and connected to my computer. According to
local news reports, the roads were open.  Few parts of the world are as beautiful as the mountains
around the towns of Ouray and Silverton. Even fewer offer roads
so twisty and fun.  So my spirits rose as I reached the foothills and I
realized the heavy haze was not from fire and smoke, but what
could it be?  I rolled down the windows and opened the panoramic sunroof
just as the rain began to fall.  The 2013 Audi Allroad at a Glance  Engine: 2.0-liter four-cylinder with 211 horsepower and 258  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 6.5 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 20 city, 27 highway.  Price as tested: $50,170.  Best features: Overall driving capability in a smart  package.  Worst feature: Those ugly wheel arches.  Target buyer: The adventurer who doesn’t want an SUV.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jaroslovsky on  tech  and Sutton on
 food .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 