-- Aussie Weakens After Drop in June Payrolls; Kiwi Slides
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-12T06:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/aussie-weakens-after-drop-in-june-payrolls-kiwi-slides.html
Australia’s dollar weakened and
bonds gained after a government report showed the nation’s
employers unexpectedly cut payrolls in June.  New Zealand’s currency slid after data showed the country’s
manufacturing industry expanded at a slower pace last month and
as Asian stocks fell for a sixth day. Demand for the so-called
Aussie and kiwi was limited before data tomorrow projected to
show  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in three years
during the second quarter, dimming the outlook for the South
Pacific nations’ exports.  “The jobs numbers were much weaker than expected,” said
 Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist in  Hong Kong  at Royal
Bank of  Canada . “That’s bearish for the Aussie dollar.”  Australia’s currency sank 0.8 percent to $1.0168 as of 4:04
p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  yesterday, when it
gained 0.6 percent, the biggest advance since June 29. It
declined 1.2 percent to 80.80 yen. The  New Zealand dollar 
dropped 0.6 percent to 79.15 U.S. cents and fetched 63.89 yen, 1
percent weaker than the close yesterday.  Australia’s bonds advanced, with the benchmark 10-year
yield falling 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 2.89
percent. It touched 2.88 percent, the lowest level since June 5.
The yield on the one-year note declined as much as 12 basis
points and touched a record low of 2.313 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares lost 1.5
percent.  The number of people employed in Australia fell by 27,000,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That compares with
the median estimate of no change in employment in a Bloomberg
News survey of 25 economists. The  jobless rate  rose to 5.2
percent from 5.1 percent.  N.Z. Manufacturing  The Performance of Manufacturing Index fell to 50.2 from a
revised 55.8 in May, Bank of New Zealand Ltd. and Business New
Zealand, a Wellington-based employer group, said today. A
reading of more than 50 indicates manufacturing is expanding.  China’s economy probably expanded 7.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from 8.1 percent in the prior
three months, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. That would be the slowest pace of growth
since the first three months of 2009.  “ China ’s slowdown is bad for the commodity-related
currencies,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in Tokyo at IG
Markets Securities Ltd.  Australia’s dollar will finish the third quarter at 99 U.S.
cents compared with an earlier projection of $1.01, and New
Zealand’s currency will decline to 79 U.S. cents over the same
period from an earlier forecast for 80 cents, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said in a note yesterday.  The Aussie and kiwi rose yesterday as minutes of the
 Federal Reserve ’s June meeting showed some policy makers thought
more monetary stimulus may be needed to spur U.S. growth.  “People were looking for signs that QE3 is coming and
people were slightly adding riskier currencies,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign-exchange dealer in Toronto, referring to bond purchases
known as quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  