-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Rise, Pare Weekly Drops on China GDP
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-13T06:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/aussie-and-kiwi-dollars-set-for-2nd-weekly-drop-before-china-gdp.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose, paring weekly losses, after a Chinese government
report showed the nation’s economy grew in the second quarter.  Gross domestic product in  China ,  Australia ’s biggest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export
destination, expanded 7.6 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. Demand for
the South Pacific currencies was also supported as Asian stocks
reversed earlier losses after China’s announcement.  The Chinese GDP “came out just below the market consensus,
which is a positive result,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “The growth
momentum is still slowing down, so I wouldn’t jump the gun just
yet. But we can probably see more of a short squeeze in the
Aussie in the near term.”  Australia’s currency rose 0.2 percent to $1.0163 at 3:55
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, paring this week’s decline to 0.5
percent. It added 0.2 percent to 80.58 yen, after weakening 1.7
percent yesterday, the sharpest drop since May 30. New Zealand’s
dollar gained 0.3 percent to 79.16 U.S. cents, having fallen 0.8
percent since July 6, and fetched 62.76 yen from 62.62.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rallied 0.5 percent
after falling as much as 0.2 percent.  The 7.6 percent growth in  China’s economy  compared with an
8.1 percent gain in the first quarter and the 7.7 percent median
forecast of economists. Separate reports showed industrial
production increased at a slower pace in June while retail sales
growth decelerated.  China Policy  The People’s Bank of China on July 5 announced the second
interest-rate cut in a month, adding to the first since 2008, to
support growth. Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to intensify fine-
tuning of policies as downward pressure on the economy remains
“relatively large,” according to a July 8 report by the
official Xinhua News Agency.  “We believe the second quarter to be the trough in Chinese
economic activity and therefore we ultimately think the
Australian dollar is likely to be in the process of finding a
bottom in the not too distant future,” said Gavin Stacey, the
Sydney-based chief rate strategist at Barclays Plc. “We’re
hoping to start to see the effects of the policy initiatives to
start to show up in the economic data.”  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond added two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.90 percent, after
earlier touching 2.84 percent, the least since June 5. The one-
year rate slid much as four basis points to an all-time low of
2.277 percent.  New Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, was little changed at 2.63
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  