-- Australian Housing Woes Unlikely to Abate Within Year, NAB Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-12T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/australian-housing-woes-unlikely-to-abate-within-year-nab-says.html
Australian  home prices  are expected
to fall 0.7 percent in the year to June 30, 2013, as concerns
about employment weigh on potential buyers, a  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey showed.  Home prices  across the country fell 2 percent in the three
months ended June 30, with the biggest declines in Victoria and
New South Wales states, the bank said in an e-mailed report
today. Prices will decline a further 1.5 percent by December,
before rising 1 percent by June 2014, the survey of about 300
real estate agents, developers, property owners and asset
managers, showed.  Home loan approvals  unexpectedly fell 1.2 percent in May
from April, as potential borrowers remained cautious amid
lingering global economic uncertainty, even after 125 basis
points of interest-rate cuts by the central bank since October
2011. Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet dropped
1.2 percent in June from May, the third straight month of
declines, as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis kept companies from hiring,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said this week.  Rents are forecast to rise by 2.2 percent across  Australia 
by June 2013, slower than the 2.9 percent increase expected
previously, according to the report.  A separate report showed sales of residential land rose 6.8
percent in the three months to March 31, an “encouraging”
improvement, according to a report by the Housing Industry
Association and researcher RP Data.  “However, the overall level of sales remains low in an
historical context,” HIA Senior Economist Andrew Harvey wrote
in the report. “The prolonged period of weak land sales doesn’t
provide any confidence that a recovery is on the near horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  