-- Australia Employers Cut Payrolls in June, Jobless Rate Rises
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-12T03:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/australian-employers-reduce-payrolls-in-june-jobless-rate-rises.html
Australian employers unexpectedly
reduced payrolls in June and the jobless rate rose, increasing
speculation of a fifth interest-rate cut by the central bank in
nine months as  Europe ’s clouded outlook restrains global growth.  The number of people employed fell by 27,000, led by a loss
of full-time jobs and almost erasing a revised 27,800 job gain
in May, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compares with the median estimate for no change in a Bloomberg
survey. The  jobless rate  rose for a second month, to 5.2 percent
from 5.1 percent.  The local currency dropped and the one-year bond yield fell
to a record low as traders priced in a 78 percent chance the
central would cut rates by a quarter-point next month. Today’s
report highlighted the geographic division in the nation’s two-
speed economy, with unemployment falling in the resource-rich
states of  Western Australia  and Queensland and worsening in the
financial and manufacturing centers of New South  Wales , Victoria
and South Australia.  “The stellar run of Australian data came to an end
today,” said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital
Markets Ltd. in Sydney.  The Australian dollar dropped to $1.0193 at 1:18 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0239 before the data. The so-called Aussie, the
world’s fifth-most traded currency, surged 5.2 percent in June.
The one-year bond yield sank to 2.332 percent.  Full-Time Jobs  The number of  full-time jobs  declined by 33,500 last month,
and part-time employment rose by 6,600, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the  labor force  in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65.2 percent in June
from a revised 65.4 percent a month earlier, it showed.  The data validate the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s decision
to reduce  interest rates  by a total of 75 basis points in May
and June to 3.5 percent. It cut by a total of 50 basis points in
November and December last year, citing a deteriorating global
economy.  Europe’s crisis is starting to affect China, Australia’s
biggest trading partner, and the central bank in Beijing has cut
rates twice in the past month. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week
that downward pressure on the economy is still “relatively
large” and the government will intensify fine-tuning of
policies, according to a report by the official Xinhua News
Agency.  China’s Slowdown  China’s gross domestic product probably climbed 7.7 percent
in the quarter through June from a year earlier, slowing from
8.1 percent in the previous period, according to a Bloomberg
News survey before the data is released tomorrow. That would be
the slowest pace since the three months ended March 31, 2009.  Today’s Australian data were released less than a week
after a report showed American employers added fewer workers to
payrolls than forecast in June and the jobless rate stayed at
8.2 percent as the economic outlook dimmed.  Australia’s jobs report showed unemployment in New South
Wales, the country’s most populous state, rose to 5.1 percent
from 5 percent, and climbed to 5.5 percent in Victoria and 6.4
percent in South Australia, two states reliant on manufacturing.
It fell to 3.5 percent in Western Australia and to 5.3 percent
from 5.7 percent in Queensland, states fueled by investment in
 iron ore , coal and natural gas.  Manufacturing Firings  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  have fired
workers in Australia this year, citing the strength of a
currency fueled by the mining investment bonanza, while banks
cut their payrolls as credit growth weakened.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest carrier, said May
21 it will cut 500 jobs and consolidate heavy maintenance in two
bases to pare costs as it contends with rising fuel prices and
losses on international routes.  QR National Ltd. (QRN) , Australia’s biggest haulage company, said
in June it expects more than 500 redundancies as part of a
restructuring.  Australia’s first-quarter gross domestic product advanced
1.3 percent from the previous three months, a government report
showed last month. Compared with a year earlier, the economy
expanded 4.3 percent, the fastest annual pace since the third
quarter of 2007, the report showed.  “By the standards of the world we continue to have a low
 unemployment rate ,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told reporters
today in Townsville, Queensland. Overseas leaders “would
literally do anything to have the same economic story and
statistics as Australia,” she said.  Dollar’s Strength  RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said today the Australian
dollar’s sustained strength has helped balance the nation’s
economic expansion, and it’s difficult to argue that its level
is unjustified.  “That’s been an important stabilizing influence in the
economy,” he told a forum of economists in Sydney today before
the jobs report. “The inflow of foreign capital into the  bond
market  has, at the margin, pushed up the currency a bit. But at
least where the currency is at the moment, I think it’s hard to
make a strong case that it’s fundamentally overvalued.”  The so-called Aussie has soared as demand for the country’s
iron ore and coal to fuel China and India’s urbanization sent
prices for the commodities soaring. The RBA has kept rates
higher than most other developed-world central banks to contain
inflation spurred by the export income, further adding to the
attractiveness of the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  