-- Bain Starts Raising Buyout Fund With $6 Billion Target
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bain-starts-raising-buyout-fund-with-6-billion-target.html
Bain Capital Partners LLC, the
Boston-based private-equity firm co-founded by U.S. presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , began raising a $6 billion fund,
according to an e-mail sent to prospective investors.  The firm will spend the next six months pitching investors
on Bain Capital Fund XI, and will seek to gather initial
commitments by next February, Bain said in the e-mail sent July
11, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. Alex
Stanton, a spokesman for Bain, declined to comment.  The firm, which Romney helped create in 1984, is pushing
ahead with its latest flagship fund even as the presidential
election brings scrutiny to the former Massachusetts governor’s
time at Bain, as well as the broader private-equity industry.
Bain this month finished raising a separate fund for investments
in  Asia .  Bain employees will contribute a minimum of 10 percent of
the fund’s capital, or $600 million, to the flagship pool,
according to the e-mail. The balance of the money will come from
investors, also known as limited partners, comprising a mix of
college endowments, foundations, wealthy families and public
pension plans.  In addition to the $6 billion in commitments, Bain will
offer investors the chance to put additional money into deals
requiring more than $400 million in equity, according to the e-
mail. Most of the fund’s investments are likely to require
equity commitments of $200 million to $500 million.  The firm’s prior fund, Bain Capital Fund X, gathered about
$10 billion in 2008.  Bain, which has invested in companies such as donut
purveyor  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  and Toys “R” Us Inc.,
gathered $2.3 billion for the latest Asia fund, including about
$300 million from Bain employees. Its previous Asia fund was $1
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  