-- Bank of Commonwealth Ex-CEO, Officials Charged With Fraud
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-12T17:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-12/bank-of-commonwealth-ex-ceo-officials-charged-with-fraud.html
The former chief executive officer
of  Virginia ’s Bank of the Commonwealth was among six people
indicted for an alleged fraud conspiracy involving a coverup of
the bank’s financial condition from 2008 to 2011.  Edward Woodard, 69, who ran the bank for more than three
decades, was charged in a 25-count indictment unsealed today in
federal court in Norfolk, Virginia. Three other former bank
executives and two borrowers were also charged.  “Bank insiders were unwilling to fully acknowledge the
deterioration in the bank’s loan portfolio,” according to the
indictment. “They were concerned that the bank’s declining
health would negatively impact investor and customer confidence,
and that capital erosion would affect the bank’s ability to
accept and renew brokered deposits.”  The executives concealed shortfalls by overdrawing demand-
deposit accounts to make loan payments and extending new loans
or additional principal on existing loans to cover payment
deficiencies, the U.S. charged in the 51-page indictment.  Prosecutors are seeking $71 million in criminal forfeiture.  Woodard is charged with conspiracy to commit bank fraud,
bank fraud, false entry in a bank record, unlawful participation
in a loan, false statements to a financial institution and
misapplication of bank funds. Each charge carries a maximum
penalty of 30 years in prison.  Government Cost  From 2008 until it closed in 2011, the Norfolk-based bank
lost almost $115 million. The bank’s failure will cost the U.S.,
through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., more than
$260 million, according to the indictment.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, Virginia, declined to comment on the indictment
pending a news conference later today.  Andrew Sacks, a lawyer for Woodard, said his client will
plead not guilty to the charges, which he called “absolutely
unfounded.” He said Woodard turned himself in to  law
enforcement  this morning and he expects that he’ll be released
on bond later today.  “Ed Woodard devoted a lifetime to being a professional
banker,” Sacks said in a telephone interview. “He has an
outstanding reputation. It’s incredible to believe he would
commit any type of fraud.”  The case is U.S. v. Woodard, 12-cr-00105, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 